Seeing how transition would not happen in a moment but rather over decades, the problem would kind of solve it self by simply diminishing the amount of meat we consume from actual livestock and trend more towards vat-grown meat. Slowly, steadily, vat-grown meat production ramps up and becomes more profitable and sustainable (and as people start to trust it more), however real meat will never stop being produced. It is just like we have artificial sweeteners and actual sugar. We have GMO foods and non-GMO foods. There is market for everything. Lets draw a parallel with our own world and how it is dealing with transitioning from fossil fuel to sustainable green energy. It is not happening over night - fossil fuel is still used very much but over time as more green-energy power plants are created less people will have a need for fossil fuels. In your scenario people would also slowly start to transition and as there are less customers for actual meat it would be produced less as farms start to fail due to not being profitable. Some farms would still function as high-end brands that deliver 'organic meat' if that thing is allowed in the world for those that prefer it to vat-grown stuff. But overall, decades in after vat-grown meat appears on the market it will simply push out the organic meat as farms go out of business or switch their factories to produce vat-grown instead of actual meat. Eventually an equilibrium will be reached on the market. Animals that were grown in those farms would not go extinct - cows, sheep, goat etc. still live in nature even though we grow them for consumption ourselves. Their numbers would probably dwindle but i doubt they would go extinct. Plus, animals are grown (and/or slaughtered) for reasons other than meat - production of milk (and from that other dairy products), skins, fertilizer, pets... As for controversy there will always be a camp of people that will prefer natural meat and will campaign against vat-grown stuff for the same reason people protest GMO foods today. There will be people that will protest meat eaters, just like vegans do today. There will be those that will complain about long-term health effects that we may not know. People will probably argue that vat-meat factories pollute the world more than natural farms and waste more energy. Naturally you will have politicians claiming that the industry is bad because it is taking away jobs from farmers, veterinarians, cattle growers and medicine makers that ensure cattle remains health. Just look at any industry that has pushed some other older technology out of the market and see the arguments that people used. 

They're not states they're colonies Your scenario is very close to that of the European powers colonising as much of the world as possible some 500-600ish years ago. The challenges are very similar as well, cargo and people move slowly between motherland and the colonies while information though limited can travel a lot faster. This is a space-age version of those exact same problems. The remote settlements won't be states, it's simply not practical, again look to European colonial history. The remote settlements will be "territories", "possessions" or colonies. (I'm not sure if there's any legal distinction between the different terms, be interested to find out). They may have some small influence on the politics of the motherland but they won't have equal status. The British electoral system is a good model for how things would almost certainly run. In that model, colonial citizens have the right to vote in the motherlands elections if they were resident in the motherland at the time the election was called. MOtherland citizens have the right to vote no matter where they're living at the time. An excellent example of how your scenarios would play out is the Coyote Series Written by Allen Steele, the original trilogy was a great read for me back-in-the-day. The first spin off novel, Spindrift, didn't have the same sort of epic vista as the first three so I left the series after that, but the first three are right up your alley. Communications If your FTL data channel is limited to, say, 24bps, what's to stop them opening up multiple channels ? If that's allowable then the obvious next step would be to bond hundreds of the 24bps channels into virtual channels with more bandwidth. Even restricted to 24bps the data link would be useful. Allowing for error correction and assuming its duplex, you'd get about 16bps data, or two ASCII characters per second. 120 characters per minute or about 15 words. Which isn't great, in the 19th century, human telegraph operators managed an average of 30 words pm and ticker-tape machines went up to about 70s word pm. In reality your throughput would be much better. It would be a digital not an analogue connection, it would be running 24/7 and data compression methods would help your throughput enormously. It would be limited to text only but you'd still get a respectable throughput. But the citizens won't see it like that, their experience will be much worse. Even though the actual data is travelling quickly the amount of data is limited, so the "telegraph office" in the colonies will have to impose a queuing system, and of course private citizens personal letters back home will have a lower priority than official comms. So from the citizens POV it still takes weeks to get even a short post-card length reply from home. I imagine that would cause some resentment. 

Easiest way to do this is to treat it like martial arts, which is the most relatable thing to magic in our own world. If you read Miamoto Musashis 'The Book of Five rings' where he explains his mastery of swordsmanship and how to perfect it yourself you will often find that he cannot explain a concept with certainty. Closest he can come to is a feeling, an instinct that becomes part of you after endless repetition. He tries to compare it to other subjects but often fails because he just cannot describe an internal, intuitive knowledge so he says "it is easy to show this but difficult to describe". In my opinion magic should be treated the same way. Something elusive, difficult to master and explain. Something that relies on repetition and intuition. Internal understanding. 

Based on the description of the conditions that these people live in I would say that there are several ways of sustaining a population on a floating island. 1) Agriculture on a massive scale is not possible due to lack of space but what if your floating landmasses have cave systems which could be used to grow mushrooms? Citizens of these floating cities would need to dig the cave, maintain it and grow mushrooms in a system similar to hydroponics. Mushrooms can grow easily but my family used to grow them on sacks of wood and sawdust. People living in your floating island could just stack these things for a rather large farm. 2) Are hanging gardens a possibility? They could perhaps grow fruits on a massive floating garden which hangs from the sides or bellow the island. A complicated system for harvesting will most likely be required but plants could grow "upside down". They would have access to plenty of sun and water from the air. Nitrogen supplies could be a bit problematic for the plants, but your citizens would need to get them somehow and apply them to the plant roots. 3) Hunting is an option, depending on what kind of wildlife inhabits their world. Are flying whales or any other large flying creature a thing in your world? If yes those floating ships could be used for hunting expeditions. They could hunt large flocks of birds with massive nets. 4) Raids on the ground or the ocean. I know you said going down to the ground is forbidden, but a man's gotta eat. Perhaps a blessing to a special cast of hunters could be given to venture on the ground to forage for supplies? Sending flying ships to hunt for fish would not violate those rules. Expeditions to tree-top farms? 5) Insect farms. Maggots will grow on rotting corpses and you mentioned zombies being a problem in the world. Kidnapping them, putting them down and using them for maggot fuel could perhaps provide some meager sustenance to your citizens. 6) Your floating population can easily get water from air by gathering morning dew and rainwater. They would, however, not have enough water for luxury and would most likely have terrible hygiene.