While an oxygen ball of gas isn't possible, an Oxygen rich atmosphere on a planet, through photosynthesis is possible. Earth for example. A hydrogen rich planet (Jupiter or Saturn) are also possible, as is a methane rich atmosphere (Titan). If two bodies like that were to collide, you probably would see an enormous flame by the oxygen and fuel combustion process. That said, the gravitational impact would generate far more energy than any chemical combustion. If you were to collide two planets with atmospheres that together could combust, I'm not sure it would make much difference than two planets combining with atmospheres that wouldn't combust. The impact is what would stand out. 

It could. It would depend what was discovered about the life. This would depend on a lot of things, but discovering life on other planets certainly could change our perception in a number scientific fields and perhaps more generally than that, could change people's perception overall. This is a very vague question though and not good for this board. I've heard it said that the moon landings and pictures of the Earth from space changed our overall perception of the Earth as one planet, not divided nations. I was to young during the moon landings to have that impression personally, so I don't know if that's a valid interpretation or not. Might depend on the individual. 

I think it's closer to the size of a golf-ball, but yes, that's true. But it's also impossible. There's no known way to do that. We probably don't even have the means to crush a single car to the size of a golf-ball or tennis-ball and if we did, it would just rebound once we removed the compression force. Matter is enormously difficult to crush anywhere close to that much. That's why it only happens in the core of large stars. That's the only place where there's enough pressure. 

The NEO Program has greatly increased the tracking of Near Earth Asteroids. Current estimates put the number of 1-km or greater asteroids at 981 +/- 19. Smaller asteroids, the number grow exponentially. Smaller asteroids are harder to see. According to this, 16,000 have been identified and there are thousands more. As pointed out in the other answer, Near Earth Asteroids are subject to gravitational perturbations and that makes predicting their location a couple thousand years ago quite difficult, especially if they make more than one close pass to Earth because orbital changes get amplified with each pass, the closer the pass, the greater the amplification of uncertainty. Tracking thousands of asteroids back nearly 2,000 years is an enormous task. 

While that's true, the "People used to think this was impossible" isn't a scientific approach for what might be true. We should determine what is possible and/or thought to be likely, based on physical evidence, not what wasn't understood 100 years ago. Your example is a good point on why it's important to keep an open mind about the unknown. You can still make theories based on evidence, and keep an open mind on the unknown. There's really no conflict between the two. 

No, the obliquity doesn't affect either of those, but the effect of obliquity can add to, or cancel out the effect of precession. 

You should consider how fast a comet at 40 AU would move past a star. The visible arc of a sun sized star at 100 light years is about the same as a 9 km object at 40 AU. Objects at 40 AU orbit at about 4.7 km/s, so that would be a 2 second eclipse, if perfectly lined up, and more often than not it would be partially lined up, for even less time. A 2 second shift in brightness might be too short to get a good measurement on. Related to your question, rogue planets are being surveyed by shading and/or by movement of the background star by gravitational lensing, but those partial shading or lensing require much larger, more massive objects and from our perspective, moving much slower across the sky. See Optical Gravitational Lensing Experiment or OGLE survey. The 2 seconds of shading that a 40 AU object would give you in your scenario (or, for example, a 20 seconds of shading from a 4,000 AU object) would be more difficult to accurately identify. Mercury, for example, takes 8 hours to travel a distance equivalent to the diameter of the sun. 8 hours of temporary eclipse offers much more easily track-able data, especially given that it repeats on regular intervals every orbit. 

OK, first, I know there's a variety of sizes and types of red dwarf stars and the universe is too young for any of them to have reached the end of their main sequence phase yet, so it's all theoretical and/or modeling. $URL$ But what is the theoretical size needed for a star to undergo the electron degeneracy process which turns a small star from at least Jupiter sized, usually bigger, into to earth sized super dense object, where, as I understand it, the electrons are squeezed off the nuclei - electron degeneracy. It would seem to me that a 7.5% solar mass star, which gradually burns hydrogen into helium but doesn't burn helium, might not have the mass to compact into a true white dwarf but might end it's life looking more like a brown dwarf / super Jupiter - well, talking appearance, not really, cause super Jupiter & Brown dwarfs are mostly hydrogen while and an end of life red dwarf should be mostly helium - which, in and of itself, might make the difference. It's just my curiosity whether all red dwarfs turn into white dwarfs at the end of their burning phase or is there a theoretical mass that's needed for that level of shrinkage to occur? Thanks. 

Probably. Relatively little is known about exoplanets because they're very hard to get a good look at, but there's no reason why a rocky world couldn't accumulate enough ices and/or gas to also resemble a gas giant. Now half rocky half gas giant (hydrogen/helium) might be rare. Half rocky half "ices" is very possible and those have likely already been observed. It helps to understand planet formation and elemental abundance. There's likely a size limit to rocky planets with thin atmospheres because mass tends to accumulate and retain atmosphere and with hydrogen and helium being the most abundant gases in the universe, once a planet gets massive enough, it should collect and retain hydrogen and helium and begin to resemble Jupiter or Saturn, even if it started out as a rocky world. Rocky worlds, need elements like Magnesium, Silicon, and Iron, often bound with oxygen. close to 90% of the mass of rocky worlds in our solar system comes from those 4 elements and 90% isn't a bad estimate for rocky exoplanets. Based on our solar-system: Iron makes up about 0.117%, Silicon 0.065% and and Magnesium 0.051%, for about .234% of the mass of the solarsystem. Oxygen bound to those elements, using Earth's composition as an estimate adds about another 50%, up to about 0.35%. Hydrogen and Helium make up about 97.6%, which leaves about 2% of the mass of the solar system in the form of ices and heavier gases, not hydrogen and helium. Those are primarily water, ammonia, CO2 and Methane, with smaller amounts of other gases/ices. These numbers are rough but good enough for an estimate. In our solarsystem there's about 6 times as much ice and heavier gases by mass than there is rocky material and there's close to 40 times as much hydrogen and helium as the other elements. Planets need to be quite large to hold hydrogen and helium. Jupiter and Saturn are the only planets in our solar-system that are hydrogen and helium abundant. Even the smaller gas giants, Uranus and Neptune have comparatively little hydrogen and helium. So there's probably no such thing as a small gas giant. Gas giants need to be large or they don't exist at all. (I should make a footnote that as a gas giant loses atmosphere, you can get a small gas giant, but that would be in a transition phase). I don't like the term "Ice giants", though it's often used to define Neptune and Pluto because they are primarily ices (water, methane, CO2, NH3), not primarily hydrogen/helium. I don't like calling them "ice giants" when they can also be hot, so I prefer the term Neptune like planets or Neptunes. Uranus (a Neptune type planet) is mostly made up of ices and heavier gases with an estimate of just 3%-10% hydrogen and helium. Estimates of about 70%-90% of ice/not hydrogen/helium gas and the remaining, about 7%-20% more dense material. That would be some other elements, perhaps some solidified carbon (diamonds), higher sulfur and lower Iron by percentage than Earth as well as some Earth like silicates. magnesium-oxides, Iron and Iron-oxides, though the high internal temperature might not leave much in the way of chemical bonds towards the center of the planet where temperatures reach 9,000 degrees C. Neptune is similar to Uranus but more massive and more dense. It's thought to have more water and perhaps a larger internal mantle, though like Uranus, the majority of it's mass is ices and heavy gases (not hydrogen/helium). Neptune and Uranus have hydrogen in the form of Methane, Ammonia and Water, but I'm counting that hydrogen as part of their "heavy gases/ices". They both have a comparatively low percentage of free hydrogen (3%-10%) making a clear distinction between Neptune like planets and gas giants like Jupiter and Saturn with which the majority of their mass is hydrogen. It helps to think of how planets form. Smaller planets have too little gravity to retain hydrogen and helium gas and solar-systems are mostly too warm for hydrogen to freeze, so planets are made up of solid material for the most part, either rocky or ices that clump and stick together during formation. When they have enough gravity, then they can begin to hold onto an atmosphere and further from the star makes this easier. The Moon Titan, as an example, is small to have an atmosphere, but it's quite far from the sun and largely made up of ices on it's surface, so as the ice on it's surface melts, it basically replenishes it's atmosphere. Titan is still out-gassing, and it losing atmosphere, but it loses atmosphere slowly enough that it retains an atmosphere, but in a sense, it's in a transition, where it's atmosphere is outgassed. When it runs low on surface ice that readily thaws, it should begin to resemble the icy moons of Jupiter. So, back to your original question. Many combinations are possible, some are not. Baby Jupiters (the mass of Neptune) are probably unlikely, though a gas giant close to it's star that's lost a lot of it's atmosphere could resemble a baby Jupiter, but like Titan, that would be transitional. Rocky Jupiters are unlikely because hydrogen outnumbers rocky material by over so much, over 200 to 1 in most of the milky-way. Now, some solarsystems are likely more "metalic" than others, so that ratio will have some variation, but it's once there's enough mass for a gas giant to form, hydrogen is likely to be the abundant element and Helium #2 and any rocky core would be dwarfed by the hydrogen and helium. A rocky Neptune however, no reason why not. A planet with 8 earth masses of Earth like material and 8 Earth masses of ices (and 5%-10% hydrogen) would basically be a rocky Neptune. It would likely be a little smaller and certainly denser, but not all that different in outward appearance. Water worlds is a common term that might qualify as a "rocky-neptune". We don't know exactly what they are made of, but density estimates suggest a high percentage of water (and presumably CO2, CH4, NH3), which is the majority of Uranus and Neptune. Here's a chart of exoplanets of less than 20 Earth masses. I suspect there's a considerable margin of error in these estimates, but it more or less agrees with the rocky-neptune argument. Planets with 2 or 3 grams per cc would be in that range. See chart: www.hpcf.upr.edu/~abel/phl/hec_plots/exoplanet_df.png Source. Baby Neptunes of just 1 or 2 Earth masses might be possible too, but they'd probably need to be quite cold and far from their star or they'd be in danger of losing their atmosphere. Iceworlds like Pluto can get quite small, but Pluto has very little atmosphere. Planets generally need to be fairly large to retain their atmosphere. If they are too cold, that atmosphere freezes. Titan, as I mentioned above, is in what could be called a slow transition where it's atmosphere comes from it's surface and it loses it slowly. Ceres, based on it's density, is an icy moon like object too, though it's lost nearly all it's surface ice, but it probably has a lot of water/"ices" below it's surface.