Kassam-type rockets (simplified version of Soviet Grad MLRS rocket) especially if you can also master real explosives for warhead (like dynamite). They already can be produced with access to very low-tech equipment and should be doable in middle age workshop. Would change warfare pretty quickly: no massive charge of cavalry, walls of no use, naval warfare would change fast, etc. 

1) As part of enforcing self-identity and the fact they belong to different groups: career criminals almost universally develop their own language, best known example to me is "fenya" -- made up language in Russian prisons. 2) The large area taken by each race -- sheer distance plus relatively slow means of travel even in case of lack of natural barriers helps to develop dialects and subsequently languages 3) the fact that different parts of one race's territory borders different cultures: this differential influence can speed up development of regional dialects and move the language farther from it's common ancestor 

Regular domiciles have 3 pipes: water, sewer, gas... and 2-3 wires: electrical and comms (phone and/or cable TV). For a skyscraper, the wires are simply more and bigger, and a superskyscraper won't have gas. All the adventure will be in fresh water In Earth gravity, a column of water 2 feet high weighs 1 pound per square inch. The bottom of that column will be at about 1 pound per square inch (PSI) of pressure. That's British PSI, so that should be a galactic unit, via the same mechanism that aliens speak English. So a column of water 100' high will generate 50 PSI of head. Now, your household plumbing is happy at around 35-70 PSI, and water towers provide that passively. The Burj Khalifa's top floor is 1918 feet, or about 1000 psi to push water up there. 2000 psi pipe is readily available (not cheap). How do you push water to the top of a 20,000 foot high Coruscant skyscraper? Not by developing 10,000 psi of pressure - any leak would become a waterknife that could slice through the structure of the building like a lightsaber. Instead you have reservoirs every 1000' up the building, and push from pool to pool - only 500 psi needed. Have distribution reservoirs every 70 feet or so, each reservoir serving the customers below the next reservoir, so everyone gets 35-70 psi passively. Sewer - don't let it fill up Pressure only develops if a pipe entirely fills. Usually a sewer pipe is just an air-filled chute, and does not fill up solid except at the very bottom, and only develops just enough pressure to move things along out the sewer lateral to the street. So a 20,000 foot tall sewer stack is not an engineering problem... unless city services have a problem. Then you do too. Oh. Pressurization. On Earth, a 20,000 foot skyscraper would have one serious problem. Much above 10,000 feet above sea level, people couldn't breathe. Realistically you would have to pressurize the upper floors (to about 8000' elevation, as jetliners do), or lease them to species who prefer those altitudes on this planet. The pressurization will play havoc on how the sewers operate. You'll probably need to have a mechanism at the end of each pressurization zone to deal with that, to prevent all the pressurization from blowing out the sewer pipe. Simply having their own pipe down to their pressurization altitude should suffice. 

Your best option still is, surprisingly, zeppelin, as long as you use helium as lifting gas. Choice of helium over hydrogen is obvious: it is non-flammable. As for gas escaping bullet punctures, it is, contrary to common perception, not a significant issue: the lifting vessel is NOT pressurized, so the pressure inside and outside of it is practically the same. This was proven during Cold War when Americans were sending balloons with spy tech over Eastern Germany, (e.g. Project Moby Dick) and using prevailing winds to collect them. To big surprise of Soviet pilots, intercepting them proved very difficult: gas was escaping them so slowly, that they usually were able to complete their journey, and huge difference in speed made intercepting them using fast jets very difficult. Zeppelins also used separate chambers in lifting vessel to minimize risk further. Bigger problem would be choice of engine: you would need to use internal combustion engine, as steam engine is just too heavy. 

Tax reasons, and liability shield. I've done taxes for a lot of doomsday cults. They never listen. The ones that succeed, do so because they work for their own cause, not the IRS. Remember Y2K? Wound up being a big nothingburger because the end-of-the-world cult insisted on a general partnership (which is to say refused to use any corporate structure at all). Aside from wasting money paying taxes at the 28-35% personal rates and being unable to take deductions, there were several lawsuits where every cult member was held personally liable with no limits - they lost their houses, which were built directly on the ley line intersections. Ugh! Basements full of carefully aligned crystals, all wrecked when the plaintiff prepared the houses for resale. A proper corporate structure could have delayed the creditors and IRS until after January 1, 2000, when it wouldn't have mattered. 

Realistically, you would use the same approach opposing sides used during Cold War: if you know orbits and time of satellites passing your location, you can plan accordingly, and hide only when satellite is overhead. Then you can dig yourself down, and you won't need to go too deep. 

What you likely need, is a world with iron ore not being abundant or not being within easy reach. There are several ways for this to happen: 1) very prehistoric civilization (more then several million years ago) depleted most easily recoverable iron ore deposits 2) due to peculiar geology, no young mountains on land, or the rest of land was recently (in geological terms) under shallow seas and to reach iron ore deposits you must go down more than a mile, etc. So if the only iron you can get is low quality bog iron, and even that is sparse you'll get the world you want without redesigning laws of physics. 

I don't think the biological environment of 2018 would be lethal to her, if she gets with normal preventive care (e.g. vaccines)... but unwanted government attention could result in a fate that's worse depending on how the government feels about time travel. Big problem: she's stateless. A lot of nations have nationalized or single-payer healthcare, which means a person who's not in the system, or who has never had any of these vaccines, will be very, very unusual, and will raise a lot of questions by a lot of people. They would really dig into how she could possibly have been missed by the health system, out of a loving desire to stop others from being missed,vand to justify the cost (to the government) of the full regimen. That would only raise even more questions, which would escalate and come to notice of officials less interested in her welfare. Stateless means is an illegal alien in every country in the world, and a citizen in none. It would be a challenge to establish a nationality for her. Each of these ideas requires her looks fit the story. Might be hard for an Irish woman. 

As you novel is set in near future, I would guess they would refrain from controversial physical isolation, as modern drugs could achieve the goal of controlling unpredictable behaviour so much better. This would be promoted as "treatment", and, if potential for damaging behaviour considered high, he would have become ward of the state, and be assigned visiting "caregiver" whose responsibility includes ensuring he takes drugs and does periodic visits to psychiatrist for regular assessment and providing authorities with observations and recommendation as to further actions. So to achieve his goal of staying free your protagonist would have to use his deducing abilities to play cat-and-mouse with both caregiver and doctor. Or, if by some miracle his condition was not discovered yet, he might want to play this game with AIs of facebook-like social networks that in your society likely will be tasked to identify "risky" behaviours and flag at-risk individuals. I would not worry too much about handling suspicious neighbours, as today you can avoid in-person contacts almost completely. 

The door just won’t open If you've ever reopened a refrigerator right after you closed it, you know a tiny pressure differential makes a big difference on opening a door. Like the fridge, pulling a door toward you against a lower pressure outside will be simply impossible. That direction is easy. How about the other direction? If you've ever done rope/cable/chain rigging with couplings, you know that it's quite hard to unlook a line that is under load. Most couplings either require that you unload them entirely and slack the lines (like a carabiner), or the mechanism binds very hard so as to make it impracticable without "taking a wrench to it". Apply the same design principles to a door under pressure. Include an over-center mechanism or other arrangement. And then tune the length of levers and the ratio of gearing so it's very hard to open against atmo; consider this "good UI design". Of course you must also help people distinguish between atmo on the other side of that door vs the door binding from damage. That is easy since atmo is bouncy and binding is not.