I clean my stuff with Simple Green. Rinse. Simple Green. Rinse until clean. I wouldn't use WD-40 if I were you though. I am not sure about the chemistry behind it but it is not a degreaser and there are plenty of other better options out there. Don't use grease either. Use a light oil. And remove the excess. I keep an old toothbrush around to brush in all of the oil to make sure I have all the little pieces coated then wipe off any excess. Anything dripping or about to form drips is excess. With grease and excess oil comes accumulation of dirt which is abrasive. By not using grease with is sticky and wiping excess oil you are effectively limiting the abrasives that stick to your chain. I am not super sure of what you mean by 'Dry Lube' I think you mean either a Teflon based lube or lube that is meant for dry conditions. I have used Teflon-based stuff before and it was a pink, waxy mess. That could just be the brand though. All the bike shops around me use Tri-Flo. Thats what I use. I have a small bottle that has lasted for years. 

You could probably rent a Wacker ( yes, that is the real name ) at a local construction equipment rental store. It is a tool that ground construction workers use. It is basically a really heavy steel plate that an engine sits on. The engine vibrates the whole machine and the weight and the vibration compact the ground very tightly. You'd have to work in layers. Don't expect to compact the whole mound all at once. That is not the way it works. The giant rollers on freeway construction sites do the same thing. 

Police patrol bikes are essentially mountain bikes with street tires. I have almost 30 of them that I maintain... For years, I've been using the Continental "town & country" tire on our bikes. They have proven to be durable, have low rolling resistance, and also considerable flat resistance. One thing to avoid is any tread design with tiny cuts or "sipes. These look good but will pick up all manner of road debris (especially glass chunks) and then slowly work them right through the body of the tire. According to most, actual tire width is not particularly important. The contact patch (that's actually in contact with the pavement) is remarkably similar regardless of tire width. Inflation pressure is more to the point. 

Some pro racers have successfully campaigned full-suspension bikes. However, pro racers have big budgets and team mechanics to keep everything ship-shape. A good rear shock absorber can cost more than an entry-level bike... For most off-road riders, they are simply not necessary; let your legs be the suspension. 

Kind of depends what you're looking for. For classic, straight top-tube roadsters, a good starting point is "standover height". You should be able to straddle the top tube with your feet flat on the ground. Unfortunately, this is not how bikes are normally measured; "frame height" is measured from the center of the bottom bracket to the top of the seat tube. Go to a bike shop and look around. Straddle a few bikes and have the friendly shop folks help you get an approximate size. Then go looking for used.... Warning... If you are not an experienced cyclist who knows what to look for then buying used can be fraught with problems.... Also, bear in mind that that straight-top-tube roadster is increasingly a rarity; many manufacturers use a variety of sloping top tubes now which defy measuring in the old-fashioned way. 

There is and I have done it with the same setup. I am a diver by trade and I experimented with the same setup. I used a SCUBA bottle and set the regulators with my calibration equipment. I got it to work but it the only value I got from it was knowing that it could be done. The N₂ was expensive, at least compared to air. The SCUBA regulators were expensive and they needed to be precisely set. Calibration is usually not accurate to 1PSI, which you would need. I also didn't want to haul the whole heavy potentially dangerous HP gas setup around with me. I dove with He on several occasions. That is even more of a hassle. The whole system would leak no matter what. It was because the Helium molecules are so small they can pass through cracks of pipe fittings no matter how tight the fittings were. 

I up voted John P's answer. In addition I would split trafic and get a the front of the outer most lane. I would make eye contact with the driver of the car behind me, too. It'll take seconds to get across that intersection and in CA you can split lanes to get in front. 

I have left all of my navigation needs to my iPhone5. I like the 'one-device' scenario. For my longer distance stuff I am starting to get into cue sheets. I think mapmyride.com has them available when you make a map. Cue sheets have distance and name of next turn but also how long until the turn. My iPhone does all of that so I don't know how much you want to fiddle with on the bike ride. A mounted smart phone with scrolling cue sheets is easier to read than a map. 

Note that though impractical for most uses, the speed figures for streamliner and other highly-aerodynamic designs are far greater than anything obtainable from a "normal" bike. The faster you go, the more air you're pushing. The ultimate bike speeds are obtainable through "motor pacing", wherein the cyclist rides in the aerodynamic "bubble" behind a fast vehicle like a truck or a locomotive. These bikes are so high-geared as to be unrideable at lower speeds, and they are decidedly not light... Does illustrate the importance of air resistance. 

Hehe- I'm a fossil who still uses downtube friction shifters on my 1972-vintage Euro roadster... But I do admit that as I get even yet older the allure of those nifty "brifters" is there.. Once learned, they are easy to use, forgiving of adjustment, and accommodate a wide variety of gear clusters with no problems. I took my originally 5-speed rear end up to an 8-speed with no change at all to the shifters. As noted, indexed shifting does have it's problems as well.... I see many kids here at the university with multi-speed mountain bikes who get off and push the bike up hills, or struggling with a way-too-high gear. I have stopped a few and asked why, and the answer is usually..."It's too hard." or more likely, "It shifted OK when I got it, but now it doesn't work." Kind of sad. A well-adjusted gear-train is a joy to use, gears effortlessly leaping from cog to cog. Usually, after an initial adjustment after new-cable stretch, shifters will stay in adjustment for a long time. I'm surprised that riders who are not maintenance-prone don't use the hub-shifters more. 

Sometimes when I set out on a ride I will get the absolute worst foot pain. It is like a cramp in my arches on both feet. I am wondering where exactly the center of the pedal should fall in relation to my foot. 

I have been using them for years and have not had a puncture flat with them. I live in an area that gets these tiny little thorns, kind of like rose bush thorns, in the gutters. I used to get a flat every two weeks from one of those thorns. Now, I never get them. Totally worth the price. 

I had a similar long-range trip. I was a member of a local bike group and asked them if they, as a part of our membership, owned and lent bike luggage to members. They said they didn't have any but that it was a good idea. Maybe other bike clubs around your town might have luggage that you could rent. You might want to try bike shops and see if they have any shipping boxes. I get boxes from my LBS to ship eBay parts. Have you explored shipping it to yourself or to your hotel or a friend? There is something scary about shipping a super expensive bike in a soft bag. My advice would be not to do it. I don't think bubble wrap would help. I imagine a suit case sitting on spokes and it makes me cringe. 

I was going to say that a 'cross bike or tourer might be a good option. (though considerably more expensive than the typical hybrid) Both can easily be equipped with rather gnarly tires which should take just about anything you can throw at them. The problem with upright-position hybrid or "fitness" or "comfort" bikes is that they are not particularly efficient. 10-20 miles a day is not "serious" mileage, but still turning in that distance constantly with essentially all your weight on your....Fundamental bits can be a strain... Such bikes are intended for more casual use. 

Well maintained, there is no reason a bike can't essentially last forever. We have perfectly rideable bikes from the dawn of cycling; High-wheelers and such that are still in excellent mechanical shape. Most everything on a bike can be replaced save for the frame; even parts that are so obsolescent as to be unobtainable can be reproduced if you want to spend enough money; bikes are not overly complex machines. I am currently riding a vintage 1972 Cilo/Swiss roadster. Brakes and shifters and such are all original, Shimano 600 and Wienemann. The Wheels have been replaced, the bottom bracket rebuilt, etc. However the frame is in excellent shape and there's no reason the bike shouldn't last another 50 years... I won't... In most cases, with cheaper bikes that receive little maintenance, it simply becomes financially unfeasible to repair them. 

I like the find-a-brand-you-like-and-stick-with-that idea. If the store let you try them on then they let someone else try them on, too. Remember, chamois' are not padding. They are for moisture management. A proper saddle and fit is for comfort. I have several brands of bibs and I only use one. My riding buddies are the same way but with their own brand. Hopefully, you won't find that your brand is the expensive one. I like Castelli. I am also moving towards a thinner chamois. I have had issues with all the added bulk in my crotch and a thinner chamois fits better. I have heard others say the same thing. 

More likely you punctured the tube while installing it. You have to be careful to not pinch the new tube between the rim and the tire. Also take care not to puncture the new tube with your tire levers. When changing a tire I'll inflate it the tube about 50% and then peel the tire around to make sure the tube is not pinched. Then I deflate and the reinflate to recommended pressure. I use plenty of lube on the bead too. That can be water or better but grosser, spit. 

A lot of bike shops will give you a few if you ask and buy something else on your way out. You They are soft aluminum and are a dime a dozen. You could bite them on or you can use pliers. Just twist your cable strands back in place and then crimp away. 

It's unusual to break your tires loose on pavement, but it happens all the time on mountain bikes. Much of the hill-climbing technique off-road is keeping enough weight over the rear wheel to prevent spinning, and enough over the front wheel to prevent wheelies and lack of steering. If this is happening on pavement, I suspect you're standing and perhaps leaning pretty far forward? This, coupled with insufficient tire pressure (and low gears) might cause a lack of traction. Normally, when climbing steep hills in the standing position, you'd want to shift "up" a couple of gears. 

Did you not count the ones you removed? That's basic... Also, be sure to take a couple of the old ones to the shop so that they can match the size; most are standard but some bikes have odd-ball sizes. And be sure to buy new bearings; they are cheap and most authorities recommend that old ones not be re-used. 

Really deep dents or cracks are a cause for concern, but not little dimples and such. Also, the "work hardening" of aluminum is considerably less than industry types would make out....I've worked on numbers of aluminum frames that are at least 20 years old with no sign whatever of any structural problems. Kind of depends what you're doing. The average roadster isn't subject to much in the way of severe shocks; not so with a mountain bike being used to bounce off boulders and do 10-foot vertical drops. 

I never carry anything special on Centuries. I carry water and Clif bars but I carry that stuff anyway. The one thing I do differently is eat and drink more. It sounds like you have plenty of stops at good intervals. Make sure to eat a lot at each one of those whether you're hungry or not. I wouldn't take any clothes. You'll be fine. We wear clothes all day and we're fine. I certainly wouldn't take anything that I haven't been training with previously. Don't run a race with new shoes. Or whatever the bike equivalent is. This is me. If I were in this ride and there was help and food stations set up, I wouldn't take any of my own. I wouldn't want the encumbermant of self-help products. Plus, it would be pretty cool to go on a long ride without that stuff. Let the volunteers do what they do. Let them feed you, let them fix your tires, let them carry out the trash. They want to do it. You hardly never get help on the road so take advantage of it. 

I've used a cable crimp. It looked terrible but it prevent the cable from unravelling before I got to the bike shop to discover that a bike shop will usually give you those end caps if you buy something else from the store. The shops have them in the thousands and they probably paid about $3 for them.