Here you can find a list of some minor match-fixing incidents in football most of which don't really meet the requirements of the edited question. 

But, why people do believe in this phenomenon despite poor statistical evidences? Well, perhaps, because when the tied teams are equal they choose "defend away, win at home" strategy, and mainly because of the away goals rule. Probably, the general reasoning, as Patrick Kluivert stated, is that: 

Is there any limit that a (football) team can spend in one transfer window? If a team wants to participate in the UEFA competitions, then yes, there is, and this limit is regulated by UEFA Financial Fair Play Regulations. It started in 2011 and in short, it requires the teams that have qualified for UEFA competitions to prove that: 

As you can see from La Liga website, there are no cup matches in March. And generally, cup matches never clash with La Liga matches, and the only instance when La Liga games are rescheduled due to clashes with other tournaments is in December if a La Liga team plays in Club World Cup, in which neither Barcelona nor Athletic Club participate this season. The dates you booked your stay are completely safe, cause even if the match will be rescheduled it may only be played on Saturday instead of Sunday, as Barcelona and Real Madrid play their matches only during weekends due to TV rights agreement. 

In order to reduce the effects of the UEFA seeding system allocating the "better" teams as the second leg home team, the UEFA club coefficients were taken into account in calculations of the probability of the second leg home team winning the tie. The results were as follows: 

But again, the main difference is that in the UK, people use "manager" and in the rest of Europe, people prefer "(head) coach". Here are the demonstrative examples from official websites of some biggest clubs: 

Therefore, the referee was correct in Law to caution the player, regardless of the sequence of actions (i.e. it doesn't matter whether the hand-to-ball or the goal happened first) because a goal was still scored. 

The umpire calls and signals dead ball. It does not count as a ball in the over, as provided by Law 17, The over saying 

He is interested in their ambitious plans for the future and wants to support major competition victories. 

Since there was no game between the tied teams, these criteria have no information to make a decision with. The teams remain tied. 

Neither - the broadcaster does. The commentators watch the broadcast themselves so that they are accurately describing what the audience will see, and can explain why something has happened when the camera or microphones didn't pick up all of it. 

A decent umpire would exclude walking into outfield or towards the mound from being part of an effort to touch the next base. You could have started directly to the base itself and made more ground that way, so clearly this is not part of trying to reach the next base. If it is argued that this ploy was an effort to reach the next base, but the reason for moving towards the mound/pitcher is to reduce the ability of the pitcher to get the ball to first baseman and thereby prevent the pickoff, if the ball hits the runner they are out under rule 6.01(a)(10), because the runner 

The regulations give a list of 12 criteria applied in descending order. They are summarised here for brevity purposes, see the full text for details. 

in which pulling the shirt is included. As for why any given instance of shirt-pulling or other apparent foul is not penalised, there are many possible reasons: 

There are definitely not as many match-fixing scandals in football as conspiracy theorists might have expected. Especially on such a high level, which your original question suggested. One of the most popular match-fixing scandals that happened recently was Italian Calciopoli scandal, where many Serie A clubs were accused of rigging games by selecting favorable referees, during 2004/05 and 2005/06 seasons. As a result: 

In Spanish La Liga there's a rule ⁽¹⁾ ⁽²⁾ ⁽³⁾ which states that each club can have up to 3 non-EU players (players from African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States are excluded from that rule). Currently, 3 spots are reserved for Philippe Coutinho, Paulinho and Yerry Mina (Other originally non-EU players, namely Messi worked more than 5 years in Spain and acquired Spanish citizenship; Suarez has Italian citizenship through his wife). Now, if Arthur joins the club, someone has to either leave or gain European citizenship. There are rumors that Coutinho will apply for Portuguese citizenship through his wife to free up one space. 

Herbert Chapman is believed to be the inventor of counter-attacking style of play. From his Wikipedia article, citing Studd, Stephen (1998) - Herbert Chapman, Football Emperor: A Study in the Origins of Modern Soccer: 

So, receiving a second caution in the same match is one of the 7 main reasons to be sent off but not the only reason. There's no mention in the Laws of the Game, that a player can't be shown direct red card after being already cautioned by a yellow card. This situation is also implied in the FIFA Disciplinary Code; Article 17. Caution: 

ǂ *Video has a very poor quality, and player's team information label is wrong, i.e Levante instead of Numancia, probably because they have similar outfits. 

The long answer is that the term "manager" is frequently used in the UK to distinguish between a "normal coach" and a "a coach who also has responsibilities of a sporting director (director of football)" - a "manager". In continental Europe, however, the terms "(head) coach" or "trainer" are more prevalent, and in addition, many clubs have explicit sporting director positions. The exact difference can be best understood by reading Mauricio Pochettino's explanation: 

Having done 37 marathons I can say some are definitely nicer than others. Rating them is an impossible task. I do recommend NYC at least once. I have guided disabled athletes 4 times now at NYC (run it 5 times myself) and doing it as a guide is a very different perspective and an amazing experience. (Thus I can say I have run across the Verezanno Narrows bridge with 40,000 other people, and as a group of 50 people on the early start for disabled athletes. Both ways are awesome!) For example Salt Lake City is in July, starts on a mountain top at 5:30AM (start was 55F, finish was 110F) and has tons of downhill, however most of it is outside the city in the mountains and was beautiful. Chicago is still easy to get into, and is a great big city marathon. There is something unique about 40,000 people starting with you. (I have done NYC 9 times, and Chicago once). Cincinnati is a smaller race, but has great crowd support and a very bizarre pig theme that is probably taken a smidgen too far. Often the race directors try to get the course through interesting areas. In St Louis they run through the Budweiser factory which is sort of clever. On the other hand, Mississauga marathon, a city outside Toronto is pretty boring, and I have done it twice, but would probably not do it again. Not much in terms of sights. As is London, Ontario (Forest City marathon, also done it twice, so I clearly ignore my own advice). Atlanta was nice but nothing special. I have a friend who did all seven continents and she greatly enjoyed all of them. If you can get to the point where a marathon is 'fun', then you are most of the way there. There are so many races all over the world, pretty much every weekend, that you can travel where ever you like to do a race. 

A standard pool table is 5 feet by 10 feet, leaving 1.5 feet at each side of it, if installed in your room. The average person would struggle to walk around your table, let alone play on it. There are smaller sizes of table, but given the standard cue of 4 to 5 feet and the need for at least half that distance in making a stroke from the cushion, you would barely get 1 foot of playing surface across. Suffice it to say, you do not have enough space for playing pool. 

The rules/laws and regulations you'll be playing under. This gives you a sense of the structure behind the game, and for example, why it's being kicked in from there instead of here, or why that player got a card when this one isn't, and an idea of what you can or can't do, when and where.Full rules/laws can usually be found on official international governing body websites, with national and local changes often on their respective association websites. Basic skills. How to move in possession, how to pass, how to receive, how to shoot, how to dispossess opponents, how to block shots. Basic tactics. These can vary by code and by team structure, but some universals include switching play, counter attack, offside trap, set-play positioning and motive. 

Other rulings (notably also including the crease, rule 78-b disallowing attackers from entering the crease prior to the puck and 57-a the definition of a goal being scored) are based on the principle of "any bit in counts as in". For the former, any part of a skate or stick being inside the crease means the player is in the crease, even if the majority is outside. For the latter, any part of the puck remaining on or above the line means a goal has not yet been scored, and is therefore still in play. This would mean that any part of the puck being on or above the crease (either the red border or the blue interior) will result in the puck being considered inside the crease, even if the majority is outside of the crease. For practical purposes, unless it is very clear that some part of the puck was inside the crease at the moment the violation of a rule began, officials may err on the side of caution, and decline to give a penalty shot under this rule. 

Like Unsliced said, race the way you train. However, I was discussing a race with a friend who had a combo heart rate/GPS unit, and in Detroit, the marathon goes over the bridge to Canada then back to the US via a mile long tunnel, and the fact her GPS was off really unsettled her. She had become so dependent on the tools/toys that she got seriously rattled. Thus my advice would be use it, but be flexible enough to adjust to any issues. Besides you can identify at least two major zones with an HRM. 60% is the point at which you can start to hear yourself breathing. 85% is the point at which you can no longer hold a conversation. 

The main trick in efficient swimming is to learn to swim downhill. You want to 'Press the Buoy' which is push your chest (full of air) down, and use it as leverage to get your legs higher. You sort of eventually end up swimming downhill a bit. Another trick is to tuck your chin into your chest, imagining you are pulling your neck and spine far enough to tug your legs up. (Its just a trick to teach you to lean forward and press the buoy, but the image works). If you try to feel yourself pulling your legs up by your chin it can be effective. Basically these are approaches to being more efficient. 

The Olympic (or International) distance triathlon is 1500m swim, 40K bike, 10K run. Yet when run as the qualifier or at the Olympics, this is draft legal. Where as all tris of that distance I have ever raced (since I will never be fast enough to qualify) are not draft legal. Why the difference? 

For short course triathlon as you suggest it is not worth worrying this much about shoes. Either use pedals with clips and straps (cages if you will) and ride in your running shoes, or else switch shoes in transition. For your runners, they sell stretchy laces so you can slip the shoes on, no need to retie the laces. This will minimize transition time. Running shoes that are properly fit to you are way more important than anything else. You can ride a bike in sneakers or in road shoes, but you cannot run in improper shoes for very long. 

The ITF Pro Circuit regulations (currently 2018 version, but effectively the same) include a code of conduct beginning on page 95. Viviani's action violates part I, Abuse of balls in Article IV On-Site Offences as it clearly constitutes 

To remove spin from the ball, you have to give it exactly the same amount of spin in the exact opposite direction. This can be achieved by several means, such as stroke direction, speed, and of course, angle. The particular combination of those factors needed depends on the spin itself, and angle will always play a part; it may not be possible to always eliminate a need for speed however. 

AIBA is the body responsible for regulations, so they give us more detail on how the system works. From their website, the relevant rules document (warning: PDF file) states in rule 3, 

This term is not known to a group of cricket enthusiasts and fans, and a Google search using various parameters relating to cricket wicketkeepers and overthrows did not find any results with the phrase. I conclude that this term specifically for an overthrow by the wicketkeeper is not common in the world and probably limited to a small region or regions. 

These bets are pooled giving us a total of #100. The board takes their bit, say 10%, leaving #90 in the pool to be paid out. Now consider what happens for each result. 

According to UEFA themselves, at December 6, 2017 this is indeed the greatest number of goals scored in a campaign, and is therefore the greatest number of goals scored in the group stage, by a single club. 

If advantage is played for a DOGSO offence, and a goal is scored as a result, then a goal has not been denied to the advantaged team. Therefore, the player is not sent off for DOGSO (given a red card) but instead cautioned (given a yellow card) for unsporting behaviour. This is precisely in line with the guidance in IFAB Law 12 for this specific case: