I wouldn't go so far as to say that wikipedia can answer the question completely, but it's not a bad start. The meaning of Spirit (Geist) is complicated and a matter of contested interpretation, but I will just explain to some extent what happens with spirit in Phenomenology of Spirit (or Mind), hereafter PhG. To summarize very quickly, the PhG is a story about knowledge and consciousnesses. The story begins in the preface with naive realism that asserts "what I see in front of me is real" under the heading "SENSE CERTAINTY." The story then advances through problems with different accounts of knowledge, i.e. how we know things as "CONSCIOUSNESS" of objects. It then turns to topic of the self that is able to know under "SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS." From there, it discovers "REASON" which has to do with the process of thinking itself. Then thinking itself rotates back into the world as the activity of thinkers under "SPIRIT" which is the self that understands and realizes it is spirit and takes specific form as "RELIGION" and finally "ABSOLUTE KNOWING." Thus, we could say at one level Spirit is a section in the Phenomenology. But the real answer is more complicated. This is because (giving away the ending) it turns out that the agent of knowing all along has been Spirit -- even before it knew it was conscious, self-conscious, reason or spirit. Largely, this is a journey of increasing self-awareness. Spirit is thus the active element in consciousness. In the section called "RELIGION", Hegel will argue that the death and resurrection of Jesus and the reception of the Holy Spirit is the recognition in history that we are the divine Spirit that is consciousness engaged in the task of knowing itself. For Hegel, Jesus is a man who realizes he is God, who dies, and then is "resurrected" as Spirit's self-consciousness in all men that they are Spirit -- meaning they are the conscious part of the universe that makes what surrounds us a "universe" (as a concept for us) and gives things meaning). For Hegel, this turns out to be necessitated. You can understand this necessity either as a contingent necessity built into the nature of consciousness or as an absolute necessity built into the inevitability of everything that happens in the world. I would tend towards the latter as an interpretation of Hegel's own view. It's mentioned in one of the answers above, but Spirit is ultimately panentheist or pantheist insofar as it turns out that God is Spirit and we are Spirit and all we do is Spirit. But this is because the objects, etc., we know and perceive are already being imbued with Spirit through our acting and perceiving. Im not sure if that's helpful for you, but it's a brief sketch of what happens in PhG as it relates to Spirit. What about "world Spirit"? Well, it turns out World Spirit is the recognition that consciousness is ultimately non-individual. The cultural backgrounds, etc., in which we think make it so that the agency of understanding is not localized but rather occurs within societies and cultures as their agency. For Hegel, this also includes their destiny. World Spirit is the necessity of the unity of rational consciousness that Hegel believed happens inevitably (whether this is contingent or necessary inevitability is a matter of debate). 

I'll try to provide a partial answer as I do think this is an interesting question about philosophy. Reasons Philosophy is Hard to Understand First, I would say that you might be losing something in describing the works of philosophers as "opinions". On a certain trivial level, they are opinions, but on this trivial level so is C The Programming Language, the weather forecast, and the dictionary. Presumably, you mean something more negative -- i.e., that philosophy is composed of mere opinions about which people can just choose to disagree. And on a larger scale, that's probably got some validity. But on the smaller scale, good philosophers produce relatively coherent systems that make internal sense. Second, the task of understanding philosophy is somewhat like understanding the spec for a programming language, there are going to be some points of obscurity inspired by what we don't understand in what the author is saying. I remember when I was 12 or so that I didn't understand the programming concept array, and even when I read about it, I had trouble fathoming what they were. It didn't help that the language I started with was GW-BASIC. My point here is that for some things, we might not know the terms because we're unfamiliar with the terms people use to solve and speak about a particular problem in philosophy (and because this is philosophy, the terms are often idiolectic). Third, a lot of philosophy refers to obscured events in history or in language. Using contemporary examples, the word "copy" has for me largely changed meanings to mean CCing in an e-mail. Phrases like LOL, IMO, FTW, and others have appeared in our language, and will either eventually become completely acceptable or become obscure enough that future generations wouldn't understand them if they read them. Hegel, for instance, cares a lot about plays that we haven't heard of. The sort of history everyone in Aristotle's time knew is something you would need a specialist to decipher now. Some of the difficulty in understanding philosophy comes from this. Fourth, some of the philosophers are bad authors -- or at least bad authors by the standards of our times. Contemporary philosophy aims to be clear and concise, but philosophy around the era of Kant aimed to be complex. Medieval Christian philosophy is a giant system built around answers to a set of questions first answered by Bernard Magnus -- it'd be nearly impossible to understand why Henry of Ghent is bothering to word something the way he is without a basic grasp of that. Reasons People care to bother trying The most trivial reason is that it's considered at many schools part of a university-level education, either to familiarize people with the great "canonical" thinkers of the past or to teach analytic skills related either to reading hard texts or logic. More substantively, we still bother reading (some of ) these authors, because they developed interesting systems that have insights for contemporary problems, or at least raise arguments that still pose challenges. I'll give two famous philosophers that have few true contemporary followers: Plato and Descartes. But people responding to them and coming in their wake do have contemporary followers: Aristotle, Hume, Kant, Hegel, Mill. It helps to understand the thought of the former to make sense of what the latter are responding to and to understand the problems they took seriously. So for instance, there are many contemporary ethicists with a generally Kantian persuasion in their approach. Which means they need to address the problems that Kant faced and explain how their view overcomes them. Part of that task is deciphering Kant's prose. (In answer to why Kant, there's two pieces of that puzzle: (1) it may partially be luck that his is the view of a group of similar ones that people baptized into the canon but (2) he offers one of the more promising approaches to a universal non-arbitrary approach to morality that doesn't center on God (or at least not directly)). A third reason is that some of the people who post questions are as you suggest, not the brightest or most diligent in their efforts. Some of them cannot write nearly as clearly in English as you or I. We get probably a question each week on the difference between validity and soundness -- which is basically about definitions. To wit, you could have found lots of explanations by googling "why study philosophy" ($URL$ $URL$ / $URL$ / $URL$ ) but instead you asked here. Some of our askers ask great questions though which demonstrate a solid grasp of the subject matter in question and point to obscure issues. Or people ask questions that want comparisons or integrations of philosophical texts that are hard to access. The untrained eye cannot decipher a paragraph of Hegel (old German style of authorship, obscure method, references to history we don't study any more), but I can think of at least one user here outside of myself who can. 

Maybe to reword that, a dog eats, an unthinking human person encounters objects in the world and puts them in categories, and a thinking human person thinks about his categories and the contours of his thinking. (Here's another version appearing in Hegel's Lectures on Proofs for the Existence of God see esp. p. 276 -- in this version, the move is to recognize that the contingency of things is bound together by the necessity brought by Spirit [self and thought]). Thus, for Hegel, there's a deep connection between social life and the self. To understand this, we need to merge the account above with an interesting section in Encyclopedia Logic (also in the longer logic) entitled "The Object," which looks at how the sorts of objects we encounter in the world and how we encounter them. Hegel believes these objects can really be divided into three categories: physical objects, chemical objects, and social objects (things split into these categories based in part on the sort of rules through which we understand them). Physical objects follow physics. Chemical objects the rules of chemistry (as Hegel understood them). Social objects follow social rules. And in each of these, it's not to just something out there but rather something we contribute to the objectification of. To give an example, I can consider water as either a physical object (pressure drill?) or chemical object (solvent?) or social object (holy water? Ganges river? sign of purity? sign of peace?). Social objects, for instance, marriage do not have a physical thing to point to (in the absence of children) that constitutes the marriage, but marriages exist. 

As worded, I'm not sure if this is a great question, but there's a good deal of very recent literature on the precise question you seem to be raising. Worded at it's simplest, the question is 1. Assume there's a God 2. Assume this God is "omniscient" 3. Assume "free will" means that individuals can make choices that are not wholly determined by prior influence. Then the question becomes does "omniscience" refute the possibility of free will? At least among different groups of Christians, there's four ways that I'm aware of in which people resolves this debate (There's a somewhat older volume from IVP called Four Views on Divine Foreknowledge): 

The style of classical Chinese texts does not lend themselves to the same sort of classroom experience. It's a pain in the butt having to explain some of the most important passages in Chinese philosophy and it's hard to see how to do so in a way that can enable students who cannot read Chinese and have not studied the tradition to do the same. Conversely, it's not that hard to get someone able to argue with something Plato says. (Modern philosophy is even easier for us to digest in the West). The primary corpus of analytic philosophy centers on issues that are only tangentially present in Chinese philosophical discourse (unless we mean the part of contemporary Chinese philosophical discourse focused on these analytic questions). Daoism vs. hermits doesn't have much to do with contemporary philosophy of mind. Classical approaches to philosophy of language questions wind up being pretty difficult to make approachable. Most Western philosophers do not know enough Chinese philosophy to competently teach it and their training has not set them up for that. They would need to learn background concepts not present in the primary texts and teach through those -- but philosophers tend to prefer going straight to the meat of an argument, so they will probably not put the effort into learning this material. 

I have sufficient expertise to know the risks involved X. X is not risky X is prohibited by policy Therefore the policy against X is unsound 

The word "morality" is used in several distinct ways in philosophical literature. One feature of this is time period of authorship. The English word "morality" is a cognate of the Latin word moralis which Cicero used to translate the Greek ethikos. Thus, on a certain level, the pair should have the same meaning. Sometimes, this does occur. There are other cognate terms as well, mores and ethos refer to the practices of a particular culture or people. In Hegel, the terms Moralität and Sittlichkeit refer to the goal of a universal morality (potentially identified with Kant) and the values that grow out of a particular people. Moralität commits the sin of being unmediated insofar as it creates an ought outside of the domain of Spirit. (see here). For Hegel, the key image is Antigone -- with the challenge of the requirements of the state as set against the Sitten of the family. For Hegel, the solution is a morality that is also ethics. Contemporary philosophers do not necessarily follow Hegel. In much contemporary work, "moral philosophy" is an equivalent to "ethics" which is understood to be the discipline in which we study questions of action and right or wrong (sometimes called "axiology" but this is a word I see little written in actual philosophy papers). Whence "morality"? Morality also seems to take on a popular meaning as the morality of society. Thus, the link to Christian in some uses. But in all honesty, I think this is kind of boogeyman usage, where we need a whipping boy to distinguish genuinely thought through moral philosophy from common practice. An implicit claim in the use of the word "morality" is linked to the Hegelian usage above in that the term "morality" often implies a universal viewpoint whereas "ethics" does not carry this implication. For instance, Roger Ames would write Confucian Role Ethics rather than Confucian Role Morality. Similarly, we call it professional ethics rather than professional morality. But we have the text Prospects for a Common Morality. Thus, I would say in contemporary philosophy that "ethics" is generally a safer word choice than "morality." 

I think you're criss-crossing some distinct notions here. First, there are moral senses of terms like "rape" and "assault." Moreover, there are legal senses. Finally, there are psychological senses* of these terms. The legal sense of rape is (historically) as follows: 

I think why you're not seeing the problem is in what you're eliding with "superior Being". The (traditional) "problem of evil" only arises if we describe a being that is omniscient, omnipotent, and good. (See $URL$ -- added due to Swami's comment) Without omnipotence, this being would not necessarily be capable of effecting what it wants in the world -- thus making evil possible. Without omniscience, this being cannot know whether it's actions will prevent evil or not. Without being good (and probably infinitely good), this being has no motive to prevent all evil. The traditional definition of God in Christian theology is omnipotent, omniscient, and perfectly good. What you are suggesting as an answer is usually called the "free will defense" or "free will theodicy". It states much as you do that the source of evil is in the wills of the creatures God has created as free. But this does not get God completely off the hook. Given the three perfections, it seems at least conceivably possible that God could create a world where no evil occurs and this at the very least seems better than a world with evil, and there's plenty of corners of the world where free will doesn't seem to outweigh this good (holocausts, grotesque sex crimes, atrocities), and where such free will seems to be curtailable. Or to put it another way, a God with perfect foreknowledge, power, and goodness creates free beings who then commit these atrocities. If you drop any of the three, this seems hypothetically possible. With all three, then free will seems kind of flimsy for precisely the reason that it's one thing if you back your car into a child accidentally and kill them and its another altogether to knowingly back your car into a child even though you didn't see them at that immediate moment. The challenge for classical theism is to explain how God creating is good when God creates with at a minimum full knowledge of the evil that will be in the world and the maximal set of powers and foresight to minimize evil.