Of course it's okay to ask. Working in an office, I see at least 3 emails a week from somebody who has emailed our sales address asking if there are any jobs available. Even worse than this, we sometimes get a website enquiry asking the same thing. Speaking personally, it puts me off. If someone cannot be bothered to phone up and ask for the name / email address of the person in charge of hiring, then it immediately gives the impression that they are a lazy person. Probably a broad generalisation but that's how it feels. Pick up the phone, explain that you have applied for a job and would like to know the name of the person in charge of hiring. Simple as that. If you can get an email address (you may have pre-interview questions after all) then all the better. 

This does seem to be a common theme in retail. I worked in it last year and we were expected to stay unpaid after closing until the store was tidy and ready to open the next morning. While to management, this probably means that you're motivated to get the work done quickly so they can leave but in reality, it destroys morale and the quality of the tidy was poor because the people were thinking "why should I do this? I'm not being paid for it." The question does arise as to what your salary actually is. If it's minimum wage then the extra 30 minutes unpaid means that for the total hours you're working, you're earning less than minimum wage and your employer is breaking the law. As for what you can do about it, you can mention it to your boss but your response is likely to be that none of the other employees have a problem with it and your card will be marked. You could also mention it to the other employees who will sympathise but probably are used to it and have a "yeah but what are you gonna do about it" attitude. Basically, your options are to find another job, try to get put on a different shift or keep quiet and suck it up. 

Them: We really need this done by Tuesday for a meeting, is there any way we can speed things up? You: Unfortunately none of the tasks ahead of yours have a note suggesting that more important tasks can jump ahead of them. Would you like me to add a note to your task saying that more important tasks that come up later can jump ahead of yours? Them: Bigwig is going to be very disappointed if this isn't done in time, I'd hate to see you let go. You: Me too! That would slow everyone's tasks down even more. Hey, if you have pull with Bigwig, maybe you could suggest that they hire a few more people for my department, or you could offer one of your existing job openings to my department, that would surely make things go faster! Essentially you remind them that you, too, have limited resources, and that the process is fair. The fairness and inflexibility protects them, and if they need this done faster, get them to help increase your resources. 

I find in these situations it's beneficial to go to the extreme in being professional in all interactions. This is a job. Everything you do there should relate to the job, and if it's unclear then ask for clarification. Document everything. Every interaction, every email, every meeting. Send meeting notes, even if it's a hallway conversation, and include all affected parties. If the meeting appears to be an interpersonal meeting, CC someone from HR, your supervisor/boss, and perhaps a third party if previous meetings similar to this one have identified the need for an objective observer. Make sure they understand your job role as you understand it, and that they have opportunity to notify you of new responsibilities if they feel you aren't meeting their standards. Do not, under any circumstances, attempt to explain your diet or medical needs any further. They have no valid business reason to know unless they are planning meetings involving food that require your attendance. In such cases inform HR of your dietary requirements, labeling requirements, and when asked tell your boss or co-workers to discuss dietary needs for all involved in the meeting with HR. HR should be a clearing house of such information, and need never reveal who has what requirements, simply providing necessary information so that the company doesn't become liable for injuring its workers. The rest of the question, however, is largely an interpersonal one, and might be better suited for the Interpersonal Skills Stack Exchange briefly, though, I suggest you maintain a high degree of separation between personal and work information, and design boundaries that prevent this problem from continuing. When a co-worker provides information attempting to influence your personal medical decisions, a simple reply should make sure they understand you have no need of their help or continued interest. 

Your manager is just that. He's not your friend and he'd be used to this kind of thing, especially if a round of lay-offs have been announced. On that front, ask him for a meeting. Make it official in writing with a specific date and time. He knows about the cost cutting and you're simply asking what is a valid question as to whether you should polish up your CV. It's not that you're looking for a new job, you're asking him if you should be. For your second question on taking a pay cut, only you can decide this. If you can afford to live on less money and you want to stay there then absolutely you can offer. Whether they'll accept is an entirely different matter. 

Your manager has said no so the answer is no. It's as simple as that. The reason he's (probably) doing it is that with so many people streaming films, the internet speed becomes too slow for anyone using the internet for work related things (ie, those earning the company money) cannot work. At my workplace we are allowed to surf the internet at lunch times but streaming is forbidden. 

They wanted to see how you react under pressure and on your feet. You don't say what the job is but I imagine it's probably something where you're speaking with members of the public and believe me, they will ask you very random questions. I once attended an interview for a well known toy store and everyone there was given a random toy and told to sell it. Some people just sat in their chair and basically read off the box, some others stood up and pretended they were on one of those television shopping channels and the rest (me included) did somewhere in the middle. Not one person who stayed sitting and reading got the job. 

This is the line that grabs me. The company needs your skills to help them with a need right now. It’s not right for you but it is right for the business and, at the end of the day, that’s what’s important to them. 

Why does it feel almost fraudulent that I'm given so much authority to direct literally millions of dollars of funding/day and to set the technical run way for the next decade at least? 

Whenever I ask people more senior that me for feedback I can't seem to probe anything useful out of them, usually I get a response of "all good, just keep doing what you're doing" even when I've formally booked in time for feedback, and at best I'll get small (at least in my opinion) bits of feedback like "I've noticed you've been arriving late to lots of meetings? Perhaps work on that. Actually, no I remember now, I sent you as my delegate to X working group and your doing Y workshops with so maybe you just need to make your calendar more public?" Given that my calendar is public I don't actually see any benefit to this sort of advice. I almost get the feeling that even if senior leaders had anything to provide re: feedback they might be hesitant because it would probably be related to high level management activities which they are intimate with and that's presumably not where I would currently be most valuable to them. The only way I'm keeping myself technically sharp and staying ahead of hard skills is by doing very similar stuff in my own time as a hobby, but I feel that the difference between learning technical skills and developing an ability to create meaningful business results with those technical capabilities are two very very different things and it not exactly easy to try and help myself with the business results thing. Any advice on how to overcome every now and then feeling vastly overwhelmed by the scale of my responsibilities compared to where people my age usually are, or on how to tackle the "get real feedback that actually helps me develop" problem would be much appreciated. clarifications I wasn't particularly clear about what my job actually is, technically I'm billed out as a 'senior management consultant' to a company that charges me internally as a 'technical team lead', to a project where I'm officiallly a business analyst for some reason. In reality the role I'm on isn't a programming/developer role so much as it's an integration architecture role. The purpose of this project is to try and simplify integration with legacy systems and I'm stunned at how simple it needs to be for java/node devs to not complain about doing it, and conversely I'm regularly surprised by how incredibly unaware our backed teams are that the world has changed so, yes they will need to expose IMS endpoints to an entire subnet because we could have an interface sitting on any of hundreds of servers so they will need not implement security controls a little higher up the stack than firewall burns. I'd say that my teams goal is more than just building a platform and writing some code. I had a 95% working prototype knocked up in 2 dad when we started this thing. Really what we are trying to do is convince a whole lot of 'new-wave latest tech' developers that there are technical constraints in the real world and sometimes you need to actually get on a whiteboard and do some design before you just start pulling node packages that you think will pretty much build this stuff fr you, and at the same time were trying to bring a lot of our legacy providers (internal and external) up to the point where we can have conversations with them where the are not going to dig their heals in because we need to bump tps by 5req/s because we know what they are running despite their attempts to obfuscate it and we know that they can handle the load. This conveniently brings me to my second clarification about the "18 hour day" thing. Those weren't 18 hours grinding out code, they were 18 hours of workshops and meetings with the occasional break to go and build components to get us closer to building a universal integration platform to replace the current legacy ESBs (yes, that's a plural)