Whoever those "we" may refer to, they certainly do not include Christians. The God that Christians believe in is the Subsistent or Absolute Being: one, absolutely simple, absolutely infinite in every perfection, spiritual, eternal and immutable. That's hardly an "anthropomorphic" conception. 

God brought and sustains into being everything which exists outside Him, i.e. the entire universe and any other universes He might have created. (To note, the multiverse hypothesis, even though it is not science because it is unfalsifiable, is not strictly incompatible with Christianity.) 

The act of 'measuring', limiting or slowing down is something that the philosopher Gilles Deleuze has written about quite extensively. He seems to have inherited this particular concept from Leibniz, who is in some ways the inventor of the limit (which, as you correctly note, is the ground for the possiblity of measurement), and who also wrote quite a bit on the subject. It also takes on a Kantian aspect in Deleuze (like most of his concepts), whose Critique of Pure Reason (in particular the chapter 'Transcendental Aesthetic') can also be seen as a meditation on the idea of measurement (for Kant, space [and therefore measurement] is no longer a relation [e.g. between bodies] as it is in Leibniz, but the form of appearances itself). According to Deleuze, measuring (although its not a term he uses himself, nor does it appear to have any significance in English translations of his work) is the defining gesture of science and scientific thought, and is related to the primary functives of science (functives are the things which a scientific function is made of, and functions are the objects of science): 

A consequence of this redefinition will be that the vacuum permeability or magnetic constant mu_0 will no longer be exactly 4 x pi x 10^(-7) H/m. So, the actual case is that a physical constant will no longer be trascendental. References [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

Jesus Christ, according to Christianity, is the Son of God Who assumed a created, finite, human nature. Before and after assuming that human nature, the Son of God Is eternally the same and only Subsistent Being as God the Father Is. So the Incarnation has nothing to do with anthropomorphism. 

In other words, Churchland would say you are wrong in claiming that mental states are 'useful'. He points out that there are many limitations and flaws to the theory, that from a scientific perspective render it not very useful. Churchland calls this approach 'functionalism', and compares it to those who argued that Alchemy was a useful abstraction and not an ontological theory, and so it shouldn't be replaced by chemistry. He summarizes: 

No, because it is inconsistent with the conclusively established finding that the expansion of the universe has been accelerating during the second half of its history [2] [3]. Taking into account this finding, anyone postulating a cyclic cosmology must necessarily also postulate: 

Yes, the Son of God could also assume an instance of the nature of another rational species living on another planet. Which, for a Christian, is an argument for the unlikelihood of the existence of such species, on grounds of economy of Incarnations (and of Passions, if the members of that species have sinned). 

Your point about the usefulness of 'higher level' descriptions is one addresed by Paul Churchland very early on in the history of Eliminative Materialism, and constitutes a position known as functionalism, the origins of which probably lie with Wilfrid Sellars: 

The quotes are taken from this paper: Elimanitve Materialism and the Propositional Attitudes By Paul Churchland. I recommend reading that for a more satisfying answer to your question. To answer the question directly, you ask: 

"Discover" in both flavors of Platonism and "build" in fictionalism is just the same activity viewed in different perspectives. Everyone agrees that mathematicians can develop only those self-consistent formal systems that can exist, and in that sense they may be said to "discover" them. However, for an atheist those formal systems existed nowhere in any way before being "discovered", and therefore they are strictly "built" by mathematicians. Further, both Platonism and fictionalism can be "plenitudinous" [1], meaning that all self-consistent formal systems are on an equal standing, so that 

Eliminativism (in particular, Eliminative materialsm) proposes that the theory of 'mental states' ('folk psychology', hereafter FP) is a theory. This is part of a wider position known as Theory-theory, as @Era points out. Moreover, it states that this theory is false and should be completely replaced (by neuroscience or something similar). Churchland describes the belief in mental states as follows: 

Leaving aside the issue of the definition of 'philosophical logic', I think that the most famous book about it is the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus of Wittgenstein. A touch-stone for Analytic philosophers and other kinds of pony-tailed pedants. 

Either postulate can be described with just two words: fanciful thinking. Answering now the rest of your questions: 

I interpret that the intended question, when accurately stated, is "how has He chosen ONLY the earth", because otherwise it does not make sense. Thus understood, the question is equivalent to "Why did God create so many billions of galaxies if He was going to create life in only one planet of one galaxy?" This can be answered on a strictly scientific basis, encompassing the fields of biology, astrophysics and relativistic cosmology. From biology we know that life requires a certain concentration of heavy chemical elements. From astrophysics we know that present heavy chemical elements were produced by past supernovae and neutron star mergers. From the previous two points, the appearance of a planet with a chemical composition which is suitable for the development of life requires that the time elapsed from Big Bang be greater than some minimum value, since Big Bang Nucleosynthesis produced only hydrogen, helium and lithium. From astrophysics we know that both ultra high energy (> 10^18 eV) cosmic rays and gamma ray bursts have extra-galactic origin. Therefore, a higher large scale matter density, since it means closer distances between galaxies, would imply a higher incidence on Earth of these highly dangerous particles and radiation. Thus, the good of living beings requires that, at the time of their appearance, large scale matter density should not be higher than some maximum value, which we can safely take to be the current value. From the Friedmann equations of relativistic cosmology, assuming a closed (i.e. finite) universe with cosmological constant whose expansion starts to accelerate at t=ta, we derive the following inequality, where Rho_m(t) is the combined density of dark and baryonic matter and a(t) the scale factor: Rho_m(ta) a(ta)^2 > c^2 / (4 pi G) In general, at any time, if large scale matter density cannot be higher than a certain value, then the scale factor cannot be lower than a certain value. If we add the requirement that the scale factor at time t_life when intelligent beings live is 1,78 the scale factor at time ta when the expansion started to accelerate, so as to enable those intelligent beings to conclusively discard cyclic cosmologies when they become scientifically and technologically advanced [4] [5], we eventually derive this inequality: a(t_life) > 1.18 a(to) sqrt[-Wk(to)] Where a(to) and Wk(to) are the current actual scale factor and curvature density parameter. Thus, for Wk(to) = -0.001 (Planck 2013): a(t_life) > a(to) / 27 And for Wk(to) = -0.0001, the smaller magnitude which can in principle be observationally distinguished from zero (Planck 2015): a(t_life) > a(to) / 85 So, you cannot even in principle say if the universe is actually more than 85 times larger than the minimum size it must have so that: 

You describe with dazzling precision the exact difference between the two positions. And so you ask a further question (I take it to be the real question): Isn't this a word game?. I suppose that it is, in the same way that the statements "the Earth is round" and "the Earth is flat" differ only as part of a mere 'word-game', if that refers simply to the fact that 'round' and 'flat' are words. 

It is not just that "it seems", it is indeed the case that Russell's Paradox starts with something logically invalid in the first place, namely a logically inconsistent universe, as seen after (3). An alternative way to perceive it is by noting that Russell's Paradox is plainly incompatible with the axioms of a logically self-consistent universe. A logically self-consistent one-tidy-and-respectful-barber universe is based on these two axioms: