I'd be surprised if HR were the ones evaluating a person's competence for the job based on their institution. Actually, I'd be surprised if HR were the ones evaluating a candidate's technical expertise period, but I've heard of stranger things. The long and short of it is, while attending a prestigious college can definitely help propel one's name and/or standing amongst other qualified candidates, that's about all it's going to do. The main factor of whether or not someone actually gets the interview nod is if they actually fit the requirements of the job. The prestigious college may get one a few extra looks during the interview process, and it may also set some predispositions about how they're meant to perform as well, but the main qualifier for whether or not they're competent and capable to perform isn't going to lie in the college alone. As an example, I worked with, then for, a person that didn't have a Bachelors in Computer Science, whereas I do. Irrespective of that, this person was brilliant at their job. They opened my mind to a lot of programming techniques and practices that I most certainly didn't know, and this developer has my absolute trust and respect. There's someone else that I'm familiar with that didn't fare so well in the IT industry, and they've got a few graduate degrees to show that they went through the paces. They're brilliant, but they lean very heavily on pre-baked solutions from frameworks and other places, and are not ones to go out and attempt to remedy a need that the framework simply can't provide for them. 

What are the advantages and disadvantages in inviting and accepting all people in your LinkedIn profile? Obviously the advantage is that you'd have a larger circle and you'd be easier to find for employers, but am I missing out on a disadvantage here? 

Number 4 is the safest, however, I think I'd be spending more time as an unemployed man, and I want to minimize that as much as possible. What option would be best in terms of employer convenience and minimal unemployment time? 

I'm currently looking for a job, but due to extensive and exigent family matters, I've not really had the time or focus on requests by hiring managers, or really follow up on leads. Worse, I don't know when it will be resolved enough to allow me to focus again on the job hunt. I've talked to the recruiters that have been working with me in what I'd describe as cryptic terms - analogous to, "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and haven't managed to look at this yet," or "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and unfortunately have to withdraw from the interviewing process at this time," and for the most part it seems like they're amicable to the situation. However, I really don't want to make this seem like I'm slacking off; I'm genuinely dealing with family matters which require my near-constant attention. I don't want to burn bridges or miss out, as these recruiters have opportunities I have a genuine interest in. To that effect, I'd like to inform them of what's going on so that they have in their minds when I'd be reasonably available. However, I'm not sure how much sharing would be necessary or professional. What degree of specificity should I be stating when I say, "I have an exigent family matter"? Is simply mentioning it enough, or should I look to go deeper? 

I was wondering if some recruiters would see it as negative, thinking I might not be focused or committed to my permanent job if I had a freelance project on the side. Obviously, more showable work experience is an advantage, but I'm wondering if I'm overlooking some disadvantages in listing concurrent freelance projects. 

These outbursts are damaging the work environment and may emotionally affect the other employees. The work productivity is most probably affected, and as HR, it is your job to take action to keep your employees at their best possible shape to work productively for the company. You said you talked with him and I think that's great, but if it's still continuing, you have to devise other methods. Maybe he needs a short break from work to calm himself, or some other thing you can think of to improve his situation. But I believe action must be done, and it must be done fast. P.S. Take my advice with a grain of salt as I am no expert in these types of things. :) 

What you want to demonstrate is that you did billable work. What this means to me is several different things: 

You can't just think of John's working relationship, you also have to consider the rest of the team's morale when working with John. Here are some sure-fire red flags for me: 

Everyone's going to run into quirks or issues when working with another person. The fact that John decided to call these issues out in public is unprofessional and erodes morale outright. 

Here's my situation : I currently am in a contractual job and my contract will end on September. From the time of this posting, I would only be available 2.5 months from now. I am already seeing good job postings that I want to apply to, but I'm worrying that it might be too early that when I do get to the offer stage, it might be awkward to tell the employer that I'll only be available by the 1st week of October. Questions : 

You claim that this is a very low evaluation, but you don't explicitly state if you've been punished or otherwise demoted because of it. Without any tangible effect from these evaluations, there's no way for you to know how to improve, or what's keeping you from getting 90% or above. Talk directly with your evaluator and ask specific questions about your performance. Do not make this out like you want to know why you're getting marked lower than you expect; instead, steer the conversation towards tips and direct suggestions on how you can improve as a professional. Think "professional development" instead of "evaluation". I wouldn't recommend writing a letter or contacting anyone else on the matter, since it could result in more direct and unfavorable reviews in the future. 

I am a contractor and my current contract ends on May 29. I have been in this position for a total of 3 contracts (including the current one), in contract lengths of 3 months, 3 months, and 6 months, respectively. I am fairly sure that they will offer me an extension after this contract as I am the only one in this job position, and if I leave, they will have to find someone new to replace me. According to my contract, I have to give a two-week notice period, however, I believe that is not enough to both find, hire and train someone new. Given that, I would like to give a bigger notice period to my company, preferably 1 month. How should I approach my manager about this, and would it be 'polite' to do so? 

From an engineer's perspective who may be interviewing you...how am I meant to evaluate your skill or see how you solve problems if you refuse to do so in my presence? Let's not mince words here. I suck at interviews. I was unemployed for about five months because my interviewing was so terrible (from my perspective; I know I'm a brilliant developer but interpersonal communication has always been a weakness of mine). But that didn't mean I didn't do any coding exercises; quite the opposite. I made sure that I met their coding exercise requests, and showcased what I had learned from past experience (including clear documentation of code, READMEs, unit tests, etc). I wanted them to know what they were getting from hiring me; a diligent worker who regarded themselves as a professional and expert, and one who understands what it means to architect the solution, test it, and deliver it in a way that makes sense to everyone. By you refusing or failing to do that, you miss the opportunity to really put yourself out there as a stand-out candidate. I've not heard of many professional institutions hiring someone without asking them some kind of coding exercise. Let's face it - as a developer, you're going to be paid a lot of money to solve problems, and if you don't showcase how you solve (or at least approach) problems, you're not showing me that you're worth what I'm willing to pay, or more. 

Given this, I personally think I could reduce the "unemployment" gap if I started applying early. However, given my vacation schedule, I wouldn't be able to attend interviews in that time period. These are the options I can see right now : 

Additional info : They know I already have signed a contract as I've told them, but they said they still want to go for an interview. 

The situation : I'm the contracted web developer for my company (which isn't an IT company). They are using a legacy framework that almost nobody knows, has a very small community, and the general reviews on it are just plain bad. (makes me actually wonder why they picked it in the first place) In short, people with this skill are very few, and I'm the only one in this company with this job description. My contract ends soon and the company has offered me an extension. I was hoping to ask for a raise, stating several reasons, but on the back of my head, the main reason is because I know my company needs me and if they don't get me hired, their website won't be maintained. The question : Is the situation where one specific person knows that the company needs this specific person a reason worthy enough of a raise?