No. In fact, they mean quite the opposite. Infinitely elastic, means the elasticity is infinity. Perfectly Inelastic means not elastic, i.e. the elasticity is 0. Ineslastic means the elasticity is very low, so between 0 and 1. This means there is "underreaction" (less than proportional). So if something is infinitely elastic there will be an extremely large reaction. If something is perfectly inelastic there will be no reaction. If something is inelastic, there will be very little reaction. Let's take the example of price elasticity for an ordinary good where price increases cause demand to fall. A good with a very close substitute would have a large price elasticity. If it's infinite: At a given price there will be a given demand. As soon as we increase the price even marginally the demand will fall to 0. A good with no substitute and especially addictive goods usually have a price elasticity of (close to) 0 typically. There is the same demand at all prices. Assume an individual who always must smoke a pack of cigarettes a day. If we increase the price of cigarettes and if his elasticity is 0, then he will continue to purchase one pack a day. Even if we double the price or more, there will be no reaction (in this case reduction). 

Deflation (even if small) is broadly considered worse that moderate inflation. This is because deflation is very difficult to fight. If consumers expect prices to fall (because of deflation) they will wait before consuming and push consumption into the future. This fall in current demand reduces prices again, which increases deflation. The cycle then keeps going on, which is a phenomenon known as the deflationary spiral. One reason deflation is bad is for the same reasons inflation is bad (e.g. menu costs). On top of that, deflation is an issue because it increases real wages, which increases costs of firms, which can have negative effects on employment. Japan has tried to fight deflation unsuccessfully for some time for example, leading to what is called "Japan's lost decade". So once you get a little deflation it may persist for a long time. Policymakers are potentially scared, that if they are always at 0 inflation that a small shock could push them into deflation, which is very bad. So having small, positive inflation is a buffer against deflation. Many countries have estimated or continue to estimate inflation using a Laspeyres index. It is well known, that such an index has an upward bias, i.e. overestimates inflation. Let's say we want to have 0 inflation. If the Laspeyres index says we have 0 inflation, we probably have negative inflation, which is also not optimal. So measurement error provides a case for positive inflation numbers. Inflation provides government revenue through what is called "inflation tax". Further, most governments are in debt and holders of debt profit from inflation. 

If they expected the peg to break then it is clear that the franc would gain in value. Since the currency has been held artifically cheap by the central bank, i.e. would have gained value if the central bank had not intervened, then the moment the central bank stops intervening (abandons the peg) the currency will appreciate. Why would it have gone up otherwise, i.e. what are the factors driving exchange rates? We call these "fundamentals". Basically exchange rates are determined by supply and demand for a currency, just like for anything else. So basically anything influencing supply and demand for currencies would be cause for a change in exchange rates. Further expectations of changes in fundamentals cause them as well. These include the trade balance (typically governs the long run behavior of exchange rates in reality) and the difference between domestic and foreign interest rates (typically govern the short run behavior in reality). Now one might ask, why did they expect the peg to be abandoned? That depends on the specifics about Switzerland. I'm not an expert there, so I'm sorry if I cannot give a very concrete answer. However pegs are typically unstable and usually abandoned eventually. This is because the longer the central bank keeps a currency at the "wrong" price, the more pressure from the market there is to correct it which means the central bank must fight harder and harder to keep it and eventually gives up or decides its not worth it anymore. 

The regions should have similar business cycles. As mentioned, if the countries tend to experiene similar shocks, then they will require the same monetary policy. In that case there is no reason for them to have different currencies! Openness of the economy (Mckinnon). This can be divided in two parts: 

You are unfortunately mistaken. DSGE models are at the heart of monetary policy and the most widely used class of models in this field. To work in monetary there is no real way around learning DSGE. A very good book to get started. is Walsh (2010) "Monetary Theory and Policy". I can also recommend Gali's book ("Monetary Policy, Inflation, and the Business Cycle", 2008), but he skips a lot of steps. These will give you a very good introduction to DSGE. The mother of all books on monetary policy is "Interest and Prices: Foundations of a Theory of Monetary Policy" by Woodford, but can be hard to read at times. I would start with Walsh. Note that there are small, medium and large scale models. You can pretty much forget about large scale ones. I recommend starting to study small scale models. The small scale model should boil down to three equations and much of the intuition for it can even be understood from old keynesian type models such as IS-LM and AS-AD. You should also be familiar with basic Solow-Growth models. 

Normal and inferior goods: These refer to marshallian demand changes when income changes. This is by definition the Income Effect in the Slutsky decomposition. 

Suppose the government introduces a simultaneous tax and subsidy on a consumption good, which is produced under perfect competition. If the tax and the subsidy are equal, then there will be no distortion, but also no tax revenue. Similarly, a policy combining taxes and subsidies on a good can only raise revenue if it reduces the equilibrium amount of the good, i.e. if it introduces distortion. In other words, there is no possibility to raise tax revenue through taxes and subsidies on consumption (no lump sum taxes) without distorting the market. What were the (first) papers to analyze this problem? Could someone provide a reference for such a result? I would prefer an academic paper with such an analysis to lecture slides. As a bonus, any exception to this line of argument would also be interesting. I remember reading somewhere that combining taxes and subsidies used to be a real policy proposal in order to have taxation without distortion until a paper came along showing that such a policy cannot raise revenue. Unfortunately, I can't remember where I read that. 

After you get 265 you should take out -10 from Net Foreign Factor Income. This is in there implicity through disposable income etc, but was not produced in the country. Since you want domestic production you must take that out. 

Consider an investor who splits up his portfolio into stocks and bonds according to some ratio that considers all things that need to be considered. These include returns etc. Assume the portfolio is "correct" i.e. in equilibrium. Through the GDP revision, stocks become more attractive compared to bonds for the individual investor, so each individual investor has to adjust his ratios and increase the nr. of stocks, which means he has to sell bonds. The individual investor does not expect his action to actually influence government bond yields as he is small compared to the market. If all investors do this, then we get the result mentioned in the link. Further dividends are not the only reason stocks have value. Many companies don't pay out dividends, because the shareholders then have to pay tax on them, but rather re-invest the profits which increases the stock value, which can then be sold. Also its not clear that the government bond interest rate is the relevant interest rate for discounting for these investors (the effect you are referring to). 

It's hard to say. Presumably you think have some fixed (unobservable) omitted variables, which is why you ran fixed effects (FE) / first differences. So I see one of two things going on here: 

Economic variables can be "real" or "nominal". So when policymaker discus influencing the economy, they look at implications of influencing these economic variables. An example of a nominal variable is the price level influenced by money supply. Money is directly created by the government and can take on any value per se and is not "real. E.g. if we multiply all prices and bank notes by 10 nothing in the economy changes. Real variables are for example output, productivity etc. However it turns out that these nominal variables can influence the real ones. Increasing the money supply can increase output (at least temporarily). This is also easy to implement, so monetary policy is often used to fight a recession. Note that lowering the interest rate and icnreasing the money supply are two sides of the same coin and both part of monetary policy. An alternative to monetary policy (based on nominal variables) would be "real" economic reforms. One form of "real" policy is a "structural reform". In this case you would try to increase output by changing something in the real side of the economy. For example lowering (wage) costs through changes to labor protection laws. Fiscal policy (government spending or tax cuts) is another form of "real" policy, however it is not a structural break. To fully understand structural reforms we must introduce the concept of output potential. This is the output that would normally occur in absence of disturbances. It only depends on the underlying structure of the economy. These are factors such as costs (e.g. ease of doing business), labor market flexibility and other things that influence output in general in "real" terms. The economy generally comes back to that level and fluctuates around it in the medium run. (Note this level may be growing over time, e.g. by 1-2% each year). However, sometimes it happens that our economy is operating below its "natural" potential. In this case we can employ monetary and fiscal policy to get back to that natural level. We can also push the economy beyond the natural level, but we will eventually come back, so this is not a good idea since the side effect that brings is typically more inflation. If the crisis is cause because we are simply below potential, we do not need structural reforms. However if we are in a crisis because the potential or "natural" output has risen, then we need "structural reforms". An often cited recent example is the Greek crisis where Greece's wage rate increased a lot over time making its exports too expensive, meaning the economy did not have its past potential to export anymore. In this case many economists suggested "structural" reforms (law changes) that would lead to lower wages. Monetary and Fiscal policy are often used to correct short-term problems or deviations from output potential. Structural reforms are supposed to change the (medium to long term) output potential itself. The type of policy best suited often depends on the type of crisis at hand and its underlying causes.