After both types of exercise your resting blood pressure will be lower. However, if you already deal with high blood pressure you need to get it under control before you do anything anaerobic (like any type of strength training). In short, if your BP is already high, doing the dips will make it peak while you are exercising. As your answer hinted at, you have to make sure your diet is in order so you can be in a good place to get your exercise in. It also might be a good idea to talk to your doctor about the types of exercise they would recommend. You might be best served by sticking with purely aerobic exercise. My mother-in-law deals with high blood pressure and vertigo, and she enjoys Jazzercise safely. When she has an episode she will back off the exercise until she can get everything back under control. 

If you are running a beginner program like Starting Strength, StrongLifts, or AFP, you will eventually hit a wall where it feels you are going backwards. That's normal, and the programs all have ways of dealing with it to squeak out a few more quick gains. After that, you will need a program that moves a bit slower and is more flexible. More importantly, it allows you to do more things. Also, if you are fresh into the beginner program, you will have a lot more nervous energy that you can burn off--but if it starts interfering with your strength portion, you might have to taper. Evaluate your program and goals Take stock of what you are doing, what you want to do, and what is missing. We all have goals. They can be aesthetic like wanting to get big and ripped, or they can be more easily measured like I want to bench my body weight 5 times. If you are getting stronger, but running out of breath going up stairs, you may want to consider conditioning work. 

It's good that you know about how many calories are necessary to maintain your weight. StrongLifts and Starting Strength have the same basic principles behind the program: 

The bottom line is that there are only guidelines, and even those guidelines can change depending on what your goal is. Sport performance is trained differently than general exercise, which has different emphasis than bodybuilding. Each sport has different demands, so you can't apply advice for a powerlifter to a soccer player (or footballer if you are from outside the USA). 

You help muscle growth all over your body by using heavy compound lifts. The two exercises that provide the biggest bang for your buck are full depth squats (to parallel) and deadlifts. These exercises target: 

I think what's missing in the discussion area is a bit more context. Taking all sets to failure would include the barbell sets. Taking your barbell sets to failure is not part of starting strength. Why take body weight exercises to failure? Body weight exercises don't cause near the stress on your body as the barbell work. Essentially, you can recover from them with more than enough time before you do them again. This approach increases the hypertrophy response and lets you get in some body image type training without spoiling the Starting Strength program. Defining Failure It's my personal belief that what Rippetoe intended was what Wendler calls AMRAP (As Many Reps As Possible). AMRAP sets are until form starts breaking down, or you only have one more rep left in the tank. If you were to run that by Rippetoe, I'm sure he'd say something like "sounds good to me". He might have some wise cracks to throw in as well, but bottom line is that is in the spirit of what he wrote. Bodybuilders who train to failure truly train a muscle group until it fails to produce any more force. The thought process is that it causes a greater hypertrophy response, although I'm not aware whether that has been proven scientifically or not. This level of training is definitely far beyond what Rippetoe intended. It can take over a week for those muscles to be recover and do that grueling work again. This is also definitely not what you want when you are training for performance as opposed to aesthetics. Should I Train Pull Ups to Failure? This is where you take a look at all the training work you are doing as a whole. If you are a climber, then the climbing work is a part of your overall program. If you already do pull-ups 3-4x per week, and you have decent volume (10-15 reps overall per session) then there is no reason to do additional pull ups over what you are already doing. I do think that if you can hit 15 reps in a set, you do need to be adding some weight to make it more challenging. Just don't get in the thought process that you have to keep increasing weight all the time. As a climber I would work on adding weight until you have 10 lbs over the max amount of gear you are going to take as you climb. Then just keep adding reps. The idea behind those changes are that you stay stronger than you need for the climb, and you build your endurance so you can keep doing what you need for the climb. 

The most common type of back pain I suffer from with the deadlifts is back pump. Usually it goes from uncomfortable to very mild a few hours later, and by the next day it is fine. The important thing is that when you feel it coming on while you are training, don't push yourself. If you are doing reps to failure, save at least 2 reps in the tank on that set. If you are experiencing the serious pain due to a full muscle spasm, take a look at your form. Even with rounded back lifting (atlas stones), the lumbar region (lower back) must be kept rigid for a healthy and happy back. The thoracic region (upper back) can round a little bit if necessary--just be sure to lock out properly. As to the impact injury, just like weightlifting you have to condition your hands to hit hard things. Knuckle pushups are a good way to toughen the bones in your hands to handle impacts better. If it happens again, and you haven't broken anything, continue to train even though you may be limited by your grip strength. Although, you may consider spending time with a heavy bag instead. 

You have several options available to you, but it does seem like you want to really slow down your deadlift. Outright trying to maintain it may be more problematic, but if you are deadlifting more than once a week it's time to look at only deadlifting once a week. When recovery is a problem, it's time to ask yourself some goal orienting questions: 

Focus on Aesthetics This would be your bodybuilders. The "ideal" body has your muscles in certain ratios to each other so that you achieve a balanced physique. There's a couple distinctions between building muscle for strength and looks: 

The squat walkouts do a couple things for you. They let you get used to a heavy bar on your back, which helps strengthen your core. You aren't trying to do a negative (just the lowering motion), but it lets you know you can put much heavier weights on your back without injury. The lockouts function similarly, but they also help you finish the lift confidently. What is most important, and I can't stress this enough, is to make sure you aren't rounding the lumbar area. On deadlifts, a bit of rounding in the thoracic area (upper back) is OK, and a good number of the strongest power lifters (100% RAW, IPF, and other federations) have some rounding there. The lumbar region (lower back) is where the biggest risk of injury is. As long as you concentrate on locking the lower lumbar, and hinge at the hips, you will avoid any injury. Lastly, just don't get ahead of yourself. I didn't get to that 200kg squat overnight, and I made the mistake a few times of trying to increase faster than I was able. While I avoided injury, I did push myself into a state of fatigue more than once that required me to slow down my rate of increase. 

I've found this video very helpful from Mark Rippetoe when I was getting started: $URL$ (not sure about how do embed video in the answer, or even if it's possible) Mark Rippetoe is more heavily bent on low bar squats, while I prefer high bar squats. However, his troubleshooting tips are very valuable either way. The quick troubleshooting list is: 

On one of my lifts, I have the same mental issues. I have this lingering doubt in my mind that this is the session I'm going to stall on. Yet, I push out the reps and keep going. It's that process of overcoming the doubt 5lb at a time that helps me keep pushing. I want to see how far I can go without stalling. I know how many reps I need to do, so I do it. Now, when you are lifting on your own, you simply can't push yourself as much as when you have someone there to push you. Part of the problem is that when you have someone else as a spotter you have a safety you don't have on your own. My suggestion would be this: 

If your training stimulus is mild, the inflammation induced by the training is well within the body's normal means of recovery. Additionally, if you have a healthy diet you'll receive all the Creatine, Omega 3s, Glutamine, and ALC your body needs to function properly. However, if you are pushing yourself as an athlete training for their sport does your needs for these items can outpace your ability to eat the food that contains them. By this I mean you are exercising several times a week at high intensities for the purpose of getting better, stronger, and faster at your chosen sport. I am not talking about Zumba or Yoga classes (while they are challenging disciplines, they don't have the same recovery requirements as someone training as part of a basketball team). 

Since your stated goal is to handle more weight on deadlifts, you want to make sure you train your supportive grip. I will point out that if you are using mixed grip, your pronated hand (palm facing away) will always be weaker than your suppinated hand (palm facing you). That said, to pull more you can't drop the barbell. Grip Training Strategy: 

Super-sets do allow you to condense your time in the gym, which is why they are a very effective way of doing your assistance work. Due to the fatigue component, they do have a greater training stimulus than if you performed the same weight and reps individually. Also, due to the fatigue component, they can interfere with the primary lift. It's best to save them until after your primary work, or use them as conditioning tools. 

The up side is that you are getting plenty of rest between workouts, so your muscles will have more than enough time to recover. When you can add another workout during the week consistently do it. No more than 3 per week. 

Since your focus is on muscle, I would have an A and B workout that you focus on and just trade them off the 3 days a week you train. Basically, on week 1 you would go ABA and on week 2 you would go BAB. What I'm about to outline is just a general beginner routine: Workout A: full body, chest and arm emphasis 

All weightlifting shoes have one thing in common: an incompressible sole. The more inexpensive shoes use a hard plastic, and the more expensive shoes use wood. At one point in time there were power lifting shoes that had a flat sole. I haven't been able to find any of these lately, and almost all have a heel. Whether a heel helps or not depends on the lift, as well as how much of a heel. For example: 

So to properly track your diet, make sure you are having one bowel movement a day, and track the following along with your weight: 

Recommendations Take a little weight off the bar, and focus on the start and end positions. Also try to activate your upper back to help on these lifts. 

There's a limit to hours in the day, and attention span while training. Increasing intensity when you are comfortable with the sets and reps you are doing is one way to get more out of your exercise in the same amount of time. It's also a good way to challenge yourself. You don't have to increase every time you work out. In fact it's fine to keep using the same weight for 6 weeks straight and just add reps week by week. It's a strategy that I use myself. At the end of 6 weeks, you'll be more than comfortable with that weight so it's time to increase. Recommendation for Home Purchase Get yourself equipment that can grow with you. Either buy an adjustable dumbbell, or buy a dumbbell handle that you can add weight to. Make sure you know were to buy additional plates. I personally have a fully equipped home gym, with Olympic plates and an Olympic barbell. When I purchased dumbbell handles I opted for handles made for Olympic plates. That ensured I could buy more weight any time I wanted from just about any source. A pair of dumbbell handles and the plates that go with it may vary in price depending on where you live and how many options are near you. It will still be a lot less expensive than buying a number of fixed dumbbells.