A "snake" draft is a draft in which the team with the first overall pick gets the last pick of the second round, then goes first in the third round and last in the fourth, etc. It narrows the advantage of going first since you get that advantage in only half of rounds and receiving a partially-offsetting disadvantage in the even numbered-rounds. It is common in fantasy sports and seems to work well there, although most fantasy leagues start the season with everyone on equal footing in personnel terms (everyone has zero players) unlike in real professional sports where teams that did well in the previous season will likely have stronger rosters than those that did poorly. 

Michael Jordan's flu game is one of his most famous performances as a basketball player. Yet I remember that at the time there was some question about how sick he really was: had he been acting some to mislead his opponents? Has any information come out since that gives further indication of how ill or well he really was? 

There is no rule about that the pitch has to maintain some aspect. in fact a field can be 90m X 45m or 90m X 89m, but the last one would be a very strange field. 

Well.. Any answer here could be a little subjetive about this. I would start saying that even if you understand the game, that doesn't mean that your body will do what your head wants to do. The other factor is practice. When you are a young boy, your body learns movements a lot better that when you are growing. that's why players usually are young people. It's very hard to learn how to move your body while you are growing up. The best you can do at this point, is do a lot of drills on passing, movements and shots. You will not learn in the course of a game, at least not without help. The other thing you need is a coach (any type, even a friend that do the things in a right way), it can help you pointing out flaws he see, or at least showing you how to do particular things. But even if you do all that things, there is a chance that your play never gets better. There are a lot of cases where coach where not great players, and great players are horrible coach (just see maradona coaching). also, besides 5 a side soccer can make you go attacking and defending, start playing only one position until you get a better aproach on it. 

Based on this year's schedule it seems that an NFL team's bye can come anywhere from the 4th week of the season to the 12th. Is there either conventional wisdom or statistical study of which weeks are most advantageous? I would think that a week 4 bye would be a bad deal: few players are going to be so banged up at that point that the week of makes a big different for them. 

People often talk about penalty kicks in soccer/football as if they were a guessing game, where the keeper tries to guess to what part of goal the the penalty-taker is going to kick the ball before the ball is even struck. Economists have studied it as a game theory problem, like a slightly more complex version of rock/paper/scissors that plays out on a human scale. But of course there must be some skill in it. How frequently can a professional goalkeeper save penalties taken by, say, a typical teenager who plays on a varsity team at his high school (or whatever the non-American equivalent is)? What if we flip the roles around: how would a professional penalty-taker fare against a non-professional goalkeeper? 

Maybe golf when you play foursome or fourball?? they are not playing all at the same time, but that's because how the field is made. At least they are all playing one after another, and in groups. They all are playing against each other. 

The goal is totally valid, and I really doubt he will face any disciplinary charges. The play was stopped by the referee because a player was lying on the field after a challenge. To restart the match, the ref has to drop a ball (law 8 - dropped ball) to restart the match. Usually there is no rule about who will keep the ball, but implicit rules usually make the team that not have the ball, to give it to the opposite team, sending it out, or kicking it far in the other team field. The ball was in fact kicked far to the opposite field, but Adriano run for it and made a goal. He just violated a gentleman convention. 

It's impossible for all the teams in a division to have losing records in their divisional games--every time someone loses a game, someone else in the division wins it. But the home team could win every game, and everyone would be 3-3 in divisional play. But as far as I can tell there's no reason why the teams in this unhappy division couldn't lose all ten of their other games. Is this true--is it mathematically possible for a three win team to go to the playoffs? Naturally, this question is motivated by the fact that there's serious talk of a six win team representing the NFC South. 

However, one might wonder if this was really the decision process followed by the officiating crew at the time. ALSO: see this PFT Commenter humor piece suggesting Peyton Manning should have been suspended for excessive celebration after play stopped for several minutes to celebrate Manning breaking Brett Favre's record for career touchdown passes. 

Usually what is call a friendly match is a game outside a tournament. Like in many other sports, this kind of game is usually used as a test for both team. Usually in this kind of game, although all the rule book is used, sometimes there are a relax in some rules, like quantity of substitutes, and many times both team plays in a relaxed way, and the refeere usually don´t show as many yellow and red cards. Some games, like the ones that are the last one for a player, includes several more relaxed rules, like the player playing for both team, or an unlimited number of replacement players. The last one are usually not call friendly match, are better know as tribute match. 

According to this on line newspaper (that has his corresponding real version), the record is holded by a team with 7 penalties (but it doesn't said in how many matches). But it has info about this team, Talleres de cordoba, who in 1952 has 6 penalties in 5 consecutives matches. 

Soccer (or "football", if you prefer) generally does not get a large television audience in the United States. However, the World Cup may be an exception (it certainly is among the people I talk to). Plus, the U.S.'s has a large population and, more importantly, the world's highest GDP. Presumably the value of advertisements is roughly proportional to the population, holding other factors constant. Lastly, with the Cup being in Brazil this year the games are on at a reasonable time for most Americans. 

So what's different? Do we just know better these days? Or was pitching not as hard on the pitcher's arm long ago? 

In which countries did broadcasting rights for the World Cup sell for the most? If possible, let's include all media (TV, streaming internet, radio) and all languages (so in the U.S. this would include Univision buying the Spanish-language rights). The thing that got me started thinking about this was the question of whether the rights are highly valuable in the U.S. Specifically, I was thinking: 

The best drills for kids are the basic one. Since the kids doesn't resolve good on tactic and strategy (almost all of them), is better to let them do what the football is about: passing and kicking. run with the ball using cones and kicking is by far one of the easiest and more accurate drill for kids. Passing to a fellow player and kicking also is a good drill, both for kicking and also for make a feel of team player. Some kids will kick better than other, then you can focus on different types of kicks and ball control for them. And play.. play a lot, the kids are there for playing :) 

Football is a game with a constant flow of play. There are no technical stops, unless a foul is commited or the ball get out of bounds. So what type of statistics can you look for?? the number of times a defender take a throw out?? the number of tackles he makes??? There are a lot of things that happens on the pitch that can't be counted. Imagine a play between a big team (brasil, argentina, spain) and a very little one (faroe island). On a normal day, it will be a huge difference to the big ones. So a central defender can be lucky to have 1 or 2 tackles and maybe 1 or 2 headers.. So statistics are uselles in this case. Imagine the opposite.. The small team defender statistics can be huge. He can have maybe 20 tackles, 25 headers out of their box, and his team still lost 6-0... so How's better on that case?? There are a lot of others things that can happen on the pitch. Maybe the defender never touch the ball, but he cover a player of the other team all the game, and prevented the attacker to even touch a ball. His statistics are still poor, but his play was perfect. Imagine another player. His statistics are poor enough to make you think he is a bad player, but when paired with another one, he plays perfect, covering the holes and making the other player look better. Football is a team game, and some times, teams performs a lot better that players. Football is a tactical game, and a lot of things that happens on the pitch can't be measured. 

It was once not unheard for pitchers to pitch both games of a doubleheader, even to throw back-to-back complete games: 

There have been several papers published on this topic, which don't always agree. Check out Ten Do It Better, Do They? which concludes that "that the impact of a red card depends on the minute of the expulsion and does not have an impact at all if given at the end of the first half or later" though red cards do increase the number of goals scored. Estimating the Effect of the Red Card in Soccer says, 

Here's a short clip showing Suárez apparently trying to bite his own Liverpool teammate, who was celebrating after a goal. When did this happen? Do we know any additional context that would explain what Suárez was doing and why he was trying to do it? 

Remember, it's a game you love playing. It's shouldn't be giving you negative energy The more you practice, the better you will be, at whatever you're practicing. The less frustrated you will be. There's only you to blame (not shoes, racket, shuttle or opponent) Try using a personal (funny) word in order to express your frustration, in stead of yelling/cursing. 

If you do the above (with or without holding the shuttle), then you're safe !! PS: I've just tried hitting a shuttle by holding it: that's merely impossible, without smashing your fingers..... 

In my younger years, when I still played football, I got rid of the dirt underneath my football shoes by smashing them against one of the goal posts. I remember the sound to have a high pitch. What kind of material are the goal posts made of, used at the FIFA World Cup 2014? 

The problem with your second scenary is not the pass per se.. is the position of player C. if player C is behind the ball, there is no problem if the pass go foward or backward, since the ball in that case is the line that mark offside position. 

They are no more rules, only the FIFA ones. I was searching, but only find links in spanish about it. But all is way back to 2006, when there was a big change in the laws of the game and in the interpretation. Before that, you couldn't touch the goalie inside the goal box. Now, you can, if you don't commit any other type of foul in the same play, and you can't do it with excesive force. The problem with clamping the ball, if that you are impeding your adversary from playing it, since any movement he make would be a dangerous move to yourself. All I could find, was old newspaper news, in which some referees tell about it, but couldn't find a better source. this, this and this All in spanish, sorry!