Generally, a more controlled and precise technique should reduce undesired knee scraping and banging... But I find that the ability to achieve this precision is, at least to some degree, dependent on your strength reserves, and decreases during a session. Often, several hours into a climbing session I find myself making bigger and less precise moves, and often these end up with scraping or banging of a limb on the wall or some hold. That's usually my cue to pack it up and call it a day. As far as knee protection goes, any soft, full-sleeve, fabric style knee padding should work well for most impacts you would normally experience while climbing. But only you know how hard you're hitting the wall and the holds, so really, the best advice I can give you is to go and try out a bunch in the store, and see how much protection they provide. I think the soft (and therefore flexible) pads would be the best place to start. Perhaps volleyball style knee pads would work well? 

Mountaineering ice axes serve a few simple functions: self-arrest, belay, and T-anchor. (And occasionally cutting steps, but hopefully by the time you're doing that, you will already know what you like.) For belay and T-anchors, any length of axe is fine. For self-arrest, however, there are some factors you could consider: 

you are also exposed to mechanical and thermal danger such as shrapnel debris due to explosive impacts and fires. 

It takes me about 40 minutes to pack for an overnight or longer trip, and this includes making and packing sandwiches for breakfast and lunch. The biggest advantage is that I know exactly what I need, where it is, and how to place it in the pack. This is mainly the result of going on hikes nearly every weekend year-round, and learning what I use and don't use, and what I find that I'm missing in certain situations. A lot of gear never leaves the pack unless it needs replenishing or for routine maintenance (I check and refill all of my different kits about once a month, unless I use them. This also allows me to adjust them for a more localized climate window.) Biggest factors in my packing time: 

I am by no means an authority on lightning in any way. With that said, however, I have had my share of getting caught climbing in a thunderstorm, and have since tried to do some reading on the subject. The biggest hurdle to surmount here is that most lightning safety advice revolves around seeking shelter, which is often not a viable option midway up a multipitch route. Here are some points worth considering: 

Looks like you'll need Newmatic crampons. The Charmoz GTX has a heel bail but no toe bail, which means you will need a strap over the toe. Many crampons today come with a choice of configuration between a step-in or toe-strap, and most step-ins can be refitted with a toe-strap after the fact as well. The actual type and model of crampon recommended varies with the intended activity (and budget), however. So all else being equal, anything with a toe strap will work. 

Often times you can take a photo of the bird and the ID tag if you are able. With fishery tags anyway you can usually search the tag number and you'll get a list of potentials to contact. 

Ice water will not kill any fish quickly. Some fish even live in ice or icy water. A tropical fish may go into shock, but it won't die right for a long time. I think people may believe the fish is dead because the body has stiffened, but that's just a function of the cold and doesn't indicate a dead fish. The fastest way to kill a fish would really be to behead it, but that assumes you are cleaning it immediately, but it can also make filleting a little more difficult. An alternative is to pour distilled grain alcohol over the fish's gills. That will also kill it quickly as well. The best way my opinion is to cut the gills out at the bottom of the gill covers. This bleeds the fish out, helping it to die and also has the benefit of improving the fish for eating. Because they are cold blooded a fish will live a long time, even if it can't be resuscitated. So all you can do is the best you can. Place a folded wet towel over the fish's head so it's in the darkness and it will calm down significantly. Anecdotally, it may help the fish as much as it helps you. 

Honestly you are better off bringing some other form of starch, such as hard tack or saltines or something similar. Take a bite of cracker, and take a sip of water and chew. Rice and rice water, when kept at unsafe temperature develops a toxin that is used by doctors and pharmacists to induce vommitting such as when someone eats something they shouldn't have. This isn't classical food poisoning, but in the wilderness this can be a cause of serious dehydration and I don't recommend it, ESPECIALLY, since your goal is to reduce the amount of water you need to bring with you. You will be putting yourself in a very dangerous position. 

Start at the edge and work your way out. The ice will usually be thinnest where the water flows INTO to pond or lake, and will be thickest close to the tail. That's because the ice is being pushed that way. Take samples as you work your way out onto the ice to continue to measure the thickness. 

I would say no, because according to records, the strait is not even considered navigable except during short periods of slack tide. Does that mean a person couldn't survive? No certainly not, but I wouldn't bet my own life to try. 

In the civilized world you wash your hands regularly, and food handlers should so and additionally wear gloves so if they carry any pathogen, it's not transmitted to the food. We don't have that luxury during outdoorsman activities such as hiking, but we do have two tools we can use to limit exposure. Carry and use hand sanitizer. Use it before and after greeting someone, and before and after touching anything along the trail. Do not let anyone else handle your food. If you are camping or hiking in a group, and you have an assigned cook (whether permanent or a different cook each meal) that person should if able wash their hands thoroughly, if not they should use hand sanitizer and wear gloves. If you touch ANYTHING other than food with the gloves, you discard them and put on a new pair. After the meal, everyone should thoroughly wash their own dishes before packing them up. After you don all your gear to begin hiking again, sanitize your hands so you don't wipe your eyes with contaminated hands. 

US Fisheries and Wildlife (with black and grizzly bears) suggests that bear spray is statistically more effective. A 2008 study by Smith et al included two polar bear encounters where the bears were successfully deterred with bear spray. However, in polar bear country you have other considerations, as the Nunavut visitor information says 

Some references NOLS Backcountry Lightning Risk Management - 2010 10 Lightning Tips for Climbers - by Stewart Green Storms and Lightning - guidedolomiti.com As stated above, I am no authority on the subject, and welcome any criticism, corrections, and addenda to this post Illustration of the voltage difference your multiple points of contact with the ground offer the ground current (page 3 of the NOLS link): 

lightning is likely to strike the highest, sharpest point from there on, it will travel on the surface in all directions. Sharper edges will therefore pose the highest risk (the magnitude dissipates faster over flat surfaces and the current quickly loses energy and can no longer "jump" through the air) therefore, ridges, buttresses, and crack systems are the next most dangerous place to be near, and you should seek to get away from them standing under roofs, arches, or cave entrances increases the likelihood the current will pass through you if it jumps from the roof to the ground, so stay away from them wet rope is an excellent conductor and can cover a large area, increasing your risk of electrocution from an impact, you should seek to spool it up as soon as possible. Also consider this when rappelling,. a nearby strike may involve a concussive force, so it's important to remain secured to prevent a fatal fall recall: the rock will be conducting, so you should seek to minimize the surface area of the the shape formed by all points of contact between your body and the ground or wall (see page 3 in the NOLS article for an explanation of minimizing the potential difference your body offers to the "circuit") metal and electronics are not likely to attract lightning strikes (unless pointy and protruding), but they will definitely lead to heat burns, so you should seek to remove them from your body (carabiners, cell phones, etc.). thunder storms are more common in the summer months in the afternoons however, mountains have their own weather systems, so you should always be aware of your local weather the entire time you're out there. 

My hard shell and puffy down shell both have hoods, but they are the only layers of mine that do. I rarely wear the down shell while in motion, unless it's extremely cold (below -15C), which basically just leaves the waterproof hard shell. To adjust for warmth in the gap between 0 and -15C I just use a toque and a scarf, and vary the type, thickness, and warmth depending on the activity and conditions. When you're camping in the cold, though, and you're no longer moving around to generate enough body heat, a down hood is a wonderful thing to have (plus the added weight of a down hood to a jacket is pretty much negligible). tl/dr You want a hood for your rain shell, but can use a toque and a scarf to regulate insulation around your head and neck without requiring a hood in your other layers, although it's pretty nice to have a hood on your puffy jacket when you're just sitting around in extreme cold. 

$URL$ The cup gives you a 3D target to help you focus during instinct training. A flat piece of paper just doesn't excite the subconscious as much as a physical object does. 

I am really surprised I haven't seen this answer yet, so I'll go ahead and toss this one in the mix. Cow lips are a very common and durable crab bait...especially if you do a lot of crabbing. If you keep them in brine, you can use them for a whole season and will continuously attract the crabs. This is especially attractive to crabbers who use trot lines. 

We could get really complicated with this. But basically, magnetic north is a mostly fixed place on the surface of the earth. It's actually moving, but very slowly. Sometimes the map you have may have two compass circles on it. One inside the other. The inner circle identifies magnetic north, and the outer circle identified true north. In addition, the map may also note the mean magnetic declination for the map. That being, for this drawn map you can consider magnetic north to deviate from true north by X number of degrees. If your map does not have this, then you can do something else at night. Hang a piece of string with a weight at the end, and find the North Star. I will go ahead and assume everyone here knows how to use the big and little dippers to find Polaris (aka the North Star). Site the North Star through this string. Draw a line (or use a straight edge if you have one) from the plumb string on the ground so that it points to the star. Now put your compass down on this line so that N lines up with the North Star. Mark your compass on the spot where the needle is pointing. Now so long as you don't travel very far if you use your compass to find north, you can look for either one. If the needle is pointing at the N symbol on your compass then your compass is pointing to mag north. If you make the needle point at the mark you made, then N is pointing to true north. 

I have heard of aspects of sails and keels, and it seems that taller skinnier sails and keels have this higher aspect ratio. What is it and what does it do for your sailing? 

So after all is said and done, I called a sand blaster, but they wanted too much money to blast my small hull. Like $1000. I could buy my own equipment to do the job for that price, but I didn't want to spend the money either way. My neighbor told me he had a blaster I could use, and when I looked at it, it was just another pressure washer. Well he said this one is a lot stronger. Anyway, I used his pressure washer and holy cow what a difference. His pressure washer blasted the paint right off. There are still some spots, but to be honest, it really did the job. What he leant me was a generac 3100 psi 3 GPM gas powered unit. It worked great and only took a few hours to strip the paint off the whole hull. Now all I need is to let it dry out so I can shop vac up the debris from my driveway. I just thought in case anyone wanted or needed to know that a powerful enough pressure washer does the trick. Bear in mind that it can and will strip the barrier coat and dig into the fiberglass if the spot is weakened, but considering I am looking to repair and restore this hull, that's just fine by me, if it comes off then I want it to come off so I can lay new glass and epoxy up and make it stronger.