Since I plan to use it snowboarding, dangling straps can be a hazard, particularly when getting off the lift etc. I'm looking for an idea for how to hide them. I think it would be ideal if they came out of pockets with zippers so they can be tucked inside the pack when not utilized. If not, do you think they sell packs that have that feature? 

I am a whitewater kayaker and my GF, who does not kayak, sometimes accompanies me on river trips. She loves the outdoors and is never bored when I am boating (besides driving my vehicle from the putin to the takeout, AKA "shuttle bunny") but she has mentioned that she wouldn't mind to do some trout fishing. While the water level needs for kayakers (higher flows) are different than for fishermen (lower flows), some of the rivers I paddle are dam released, IOW, the basic flow is low and then the dam releases, injecting a necessary flow for kayaking for a few hours, then it is low again. So it could work out that she could fish on the same river where I am boating or find another stream with (stocked) trout nearby. My question is, what is the basic setup for trout fishing with a spinning rod (which would be more basic than fly fishing)? What size of rod is optimal. Our rivers/creeks are mostly smaller (e.g. 30-100 ft across, 300-1400 CFS) with some rapids and some swimming/fishing holes in between and lots of trees around (which makes fly fishing less practical). What kind of bait and test lines? Other equipment? 

A kayaker and snowboarder here. You don't want to use a ski helmet when you go whitewater kayaking -- they usually have padding that is somewhat water resistant but not designed to endure constantly wet conditions, which your kayaking helmet is exposed to even if you manage to remain right side up and not roll much or, worse yet, swim -- because of the exposure to waves and splash. If you absolutely must have only one helmet, I would go with a kayaking helmet, something like Sweet protection. But many kayaking helmets come without ear coverage, which leaves your ears exposed to the cold. Some (like creeking helmets) often cover ears. Long story short, best to have separate helmets. 

Actively participating in a couple of adventure (AKA extreme) sports, I have had my share of accidents/carnage/trauma. Anyone who participates in such pastimes knows that we're all in between accidents and they are part of the game. We all know that severe bodily injuries can require assistance from others to get to the front country or a safe location, which may include a rescue squad dispatch if your buddies are not there or unable to assist. That scenario is not the subject of this question. What interests me is what happens when the bodily injury (if any) does not prevent further motion and getting to safety BUT the post traumatic stress does. Let's call it a mild form of PTSD. In my 8 years of whitewater kayaking, I (as well as anyone else who's done it that long pretty much) have had my share of ugly carnage, swims, and close calls that, if not beating your body, causes your mind to become shaken and so freaked out to the point of walking off the river (hasn't happened to me but I've seen it in other people). In a recent snowboarding accident, I fell on my rear end, which sent reverberations up my spine to my head and the rest of the day I was getting quasi hallucinations (I swear I wasn't drunk or drugged) that I almost couldn't tell if I was dreaming or not, it was creepy. I am curious to learn about the psychology of outdoor trauma and how to overcome mental hurdles (loss of confidence in proceeding) caused by it. Someone told me that when trauma occurs, your blood sugar level drops, causing a feeling of weakness and loss of confidence, therefore it is advisable to carry a candy bar to compensate for it. What are some techniques in overcoming the mental implications of adventure sports trauma so that you can at least get yourself to safety? They can really finish the handicapping job that the bodily injury (if any) left off. 

I was wondering if it is safe to put snow in water filtration and then just wait until it melts down if the temperature is right. Of course, carefully picked, clean looking snow. 

I know that the leather part (if any) of ski gloves should be treated with some grease such as Hestra Balm or Sno Seal. But should the cloth (non-leather) part of the glove (again, if any), like most modern gloves have, be treated with something to prevent moisture/cold penetration? 

I am preparing to make a purchase of all-terrain touring XC skis (sidecut 83-62-70 mm), with which I will use SNS XA boots and bindings. I know that the rule of thumb for regular XC skis is to go to about 110% of your height for the length of the skis. However, these are more similar to what downhill skis used to look back in the 80s than the regular (competition) XC skis and are meant to be able to handle rougher terrain. I used to alpine downhill ski similar skis before I started snowboarding about 20 years ago. I always preferred my skis to be slightly on the shorter side for more maneuverability. I am about 6'2" (185 cm) and I have an inkling towards 175 cm touring skis. Considering that I plan to do a little bit of all kinds of touring (trail and BC) with these skis, should I actually try to go with a little longer (185 or 195 cm)? 

I just got this backpack but noticed that the waistband can't be concealed when not being used. It is the one with a large buckle in the bottom of the picture below. 

I am 6'2" (185 cm) tall, 200 lbs (~ 90 kg). I am in the market for backcountry touring skis and have my mind set on Madshus Eon. I have demoed similar skis in the past and really liked the wider ski with an actual steel edge to facilitate downhill while not being too wide (like some XC skis) so they are not too slow. Essentially, I am looking for a ski that does a little bit of everything but is not too good at any single aspect. I prefer going off trail than being on trail but I like both and I like climbing hills and going backcountry. Someone mentioned that, under such conditions, I should look for skis that are shorter than 185. I am looking for advice. 

I am a whitewater kayaker and I often show people down rivers I'm familiar with on their first time down. I take special joy in doing so and consider it community service. The only compensation is maybe a few cold ones at the end of the day, of course optional. However, is there any legal liability to me as a non-profit guide in case of injury or worse? How about if the person is a minor? Should I always refuse a minor without an explicit parental permission? Doesn't happen very often but every once in a while a high school looking kid in the parking lot is asking for someone to paddle with. 

I am getting ready for a Colorado snowboarding trip in a couple of weeks... YAAAY !! I have been all over the country and I generally like CO resorts best (Keystone and A-Basin being my favorite), however, one thing I liked better at Heavenly was tree riding, which was absolutely phenomenal. There were multiple wooded trails and rather nice and steep, just the way I like. I suppose one thing that made that possible in the Sierras is that the trees were bigger and somewhat more spread apart for that reason than regular evergreens in the Rockies. I will be mostly around Summit Co. resorts, including the two above mentioned, also Copper, Winter Park etc. I was looking for ideas on which of the ski areas in the general vicinity and up to an hour away have a good variety of legal (so not off bounds) tree skiing/riding. CLARIFICATION: What I mean by is skiing/riding through forested areas, trees presenting an obstacle to dodge 

My inlaws have about 40 wooded acres in the Mid Atlantic region. They are nice woods but the amount of dead wood on the ground is astounding. For the most part it makes walking through similar to a jungle. You're just trampling on dead branches and trunks EVERYWHERE. They bought it several years ago and it's evident no one has been clearing it quite possibly for decades. I would like to make the woods a little more walkable because I use them for hunting and would also like to blaze a trail for ATVs, bikes or just walking. At the same time, I am a whitewater kayaker also and a tree in the water can be deadly for kayakers -- which doesn't mean it doesn't serve a purpose in the ecosystem. Fish love dead trees in the water as they feed on it. When you remove a log from a river, you make it safer for humans but you do harm other species in the ecosystem. That makes me wonder whether there are any downsides to removing dead trees from the woods. Yes, it makes it cleaner and prettier -- but does it upset or imbalance the ecosystem?