thank you for reading this. my mother was born in a very large family. there were 10 girls, and 7 boys. There have always been feuds among the girls. Every holiday season was a mine field of whom was speaking to whom. Now they are older, but the feuds continue. My mother is now 85, her sister (who is my god-mother and whom I love very much) is near to 90. Currently my mother and god-mother are no longer speaking. I am "forced" not to have contact with my god-mother out of deference to my mother. There are others whom I cannot see for the same reason. I love all of them and suffer their absence. I know they will someday die (as will I), I would like to enjoy the remaining years. is there a way to see light in this darkness ? Is there something I can do ? thank you for your help, I am humbled by your collective generosity towards the struggles of strangers. 

there is a beautiful answer here: Should I do what I don't want to do? by @AndreiVolkov I agree with @mle answer above, it helped me tremendously to have space for my own thoughts, away from some people in my life. however, in my case, simply avoiding them without resolving it (at least within myself, if not with the person in question), led to echoes elsewhere in my life. (as described in Andrei's message) it has been much better not having them around, but there is pain if you don't get rid of the residual within yourself too. be gentle with yourself... 

the biggest problem is that the fish species for which there is a caviar market are becoming extinct because they cannot reproduce. Many countries are trying to ban the import of the eggs to protect the species. there are many fish for which the eggs are sold, for this question there are two categories: 1) the eggs are harvested from inside the mother fish. She is pulled out of the water, then to retrieve the eggs her body is sliced from tail to mouth to access the eggs, usually on the boat, often while she is still alive. The eggs may have been fertilized inside her (depending on species). 2) the fish lays the eggs, which are fertilized (either inside her or in the water), and then they are harvested. either way there is death. 

in answer to the answer from Yeshe Tenley, the question of force. thank you for pointing to it. When I say I was "forced" I mean that I was pressured when I tried to not do this. I tried initially to ignore my mother's desire to have me on her side/team in the feud and I ignored it. When she became more aggressive and threatened me, I ignored it and continued to see my god-mother. My mother's response was to slander my god-mother and to cost her relationships with her other siblings and other members of the family. Several people whom my god-mother supported in the darkest days of their lives (through cancer treatments, the loss of children, and many other troubles) were told lies by my mother and believed them. This was done to punish me. My mother knew she could not take anything from me she had not already taken, but she knew it would hurt me if she hurt others. The "force" came from this, it was extortion/blackmail. The only thing I could do is see neither of them for many years. I have a sense that the time to resolve this is now, otherwise mortality will close the doors. I am unsure there is a solution. 

I am trying to understand karma, I have and continue to read about intention and letting go. I am struggling with something. Could you help me ? A) If I acted (unwisely, unkindly, causing suffering), not knowing that what I was doing was wrong, and never realizing it to be wrong, I believe this is neutral. B) If I acted (unwisely, unkindly, causing suffering), while knowing that what I was doing was wrong, and continued to understand it to be wrong, I believe this is bad. C) If I acted (unwisely, unkindly, causing suffering), while knowing that what I was doing was wrong, and then saw that the act resulted in something good, I believe this is bad. D) If I acted (unwisely, unkindly, causing suffering), not knowing that what I was doing was wrong, and later realized it to be wrong, I believe this is neutral. If (now that I understand) I harbor guilt and attach to this guilt I am doing bad. Here I am asked to forgive myself and move on. If I continue to wallow in the guilt then I am doing more bad. (assuming I am correct on A-C) the problem I have with D is likely based in the faith of my birth (catholic), where I was made to believe that guilt is really like a payment and the worst the act the longer you need to pay for it (like a monetary value) by continuing to hurt yourself with guilty feelings. in Buddhism, if attaching to guilt is bad, then how long do you need to feel it ? do you just move on as soon as you realize it was wrong ? If the suffering impacted someone else do they have a "say" in how long you cause yourself suffering (if not literally, then in some kind of moral equivalence that you calculate yourself ?) thank you for sharing your insight. 

Erm. Attachment is human. It's what we do. Sometimes it's instinct. Sometimes it's learned. It doesn't mean someone is stupid. Maybe a better way to say it is that too much attachment can nudge people into doing the wrong things. 

As a (roughly) beginner practitioner, who has had a share of problems as well, I feel I can contribute. Mostly, my answer would fall in line with Andrei. Presuming this is accurate, this sounds like someone who has some large internal stress, and is possibly using "enlightenment" as a defense for his actions, rather than letting actions spring from some wisdom. This person sounds like they need to talk to someone, but is also pushing everyone away. But I answer instead of comment to give you perhaps a beginners perspective. To speak to your questions in order: 

Having never been on the verge of enlightenment I can't say for sure what it's like. Most of what I hear relates to peacefulness, and this does not sound anything like peace. 

Nope. It would first mean you have to not be attached to the idea of them being who you want them to be. Seeking enlightenment isn't a way to fix everyone else. It might be a way to fix yourself, but even that's an attachment. Before anything else, and especially at my level, it's about being aware of yourself, and all the little impulses that experience has built inside you, and letting go of those. Only starting from that foundation would that depth of awareness spread outward, to your surroundings and other people. If it doesn't start that way, your conceptions, your intent, your attachments, are still in the way, and they will be all you see. I hope this was helpful. 

I feel most lost in this question, so maybe the better experts can say. But I would say fear is a strong motivator into doing the wrong things. And I would also say avoiding attachment purely to avoid fear or avoid that wrong thing is also the wrong thing; that's just translation into a fear of fear. I would say understanding and letting go of fear is way more important than letting go of people. 

Another erm. I'm a bit of a hermit. I do have a strong detest for malls, and more for the endless advertising that comes with them, or occasionally shoveled into my mailbox. I think I just reject the materialism of it. Doesn't mean that I would just stay home if there was an opportunity to meet a friend. Doesn't mean I wouldn't go to a cinema if I thought there was a good story to see, or something to learn. My impulse, or detest, is actually attachment, a desire that the world isn't the way I want it to be. That shouldn't lead me to reject the world, I'm in it, aren't I? If I want (and yes, there's that word again) more of what I'd like to see in the world, I should start putting some of it out there. That's the difference, as I see it, between wrong actions and right actions. It's more complicated than that, but I'm rambling, and I think I've said it close enough. 

It can. Some kinds of love aren't as deep as we imagine them to be. Some things we call love are actually just selfish little habits. I would call those things attachments, the first that should go, or at least thought about so they can be understood. Letting go would be very different than pushing away. People I hold close I cannot imagine pushing away. I can imagine stepping back, looking at how I treat them, what I might be doing that's harmful or selfish, like clinging to what I like or want from that bond. That does not sound like what you are talking about though.