To transport someone from one world (which I'm assuming means "planet" since you asked for non-magical means) to another, there are basically two options: spaceships and portals/teleportation. So I guess it depends on the technology level of your modern world. If it is high enough that spaceships are common enough for them to be a viable means of transport (as in <hopefully> our world in 10-20 years), then that is likely the best method. If spaceships don't exist, are only uncrewed, are used solely by government entities, etc. (similar to our present-day world), you'll probably have to go with portals or teleportation of some sort. There are two types of portals: scientific ones (wormholes) and magical ones. Unfortunately, wormholes require an even higher technology level than spaceships, and are therefore probably infeasible. Magical portals have practically zero constraints, because they're magic. The same goes for teleportation: scientifically sound teleportation is (as far as we know) impossible, but you can do almost whatever you want with magical teleportation. There are other options that could work non-magically, depending on your setting. For example, if your worlds are orbiting each other very closely (i.e. closer than Earth's geostationary orbit) and are tidally locked to each other, a space elevator could suffice, and would likely be possible with present-day technology. That's about it, unfortunately. There are plenty of overtly magical options, but not much that could work without magic. 

Very small. We have only applied serious resources to research in neural nets and quantum computing since the 80's. Assume some hefty developments in those areas, and a building the size of a large shopping mall might house the equipment for storing a planetary population. This makes the reasonable assumption that there would be similar geometric progressions to Moore's law in those technologies. $URL$ A great example of this is that discrete parts were used to emulate neurons in the 80's to wire up neural nets that had no more than a cockroaches nervous system. Today you can buy for $4000 a credit card board that has 4096 neurons. $URL$ 

Imagine that there exists a background magnetic field across the galaxy. A result of traveling through a very large volume of space in a very short time via FTL drive; (whether warp drive or jump drive) Is an enormous electromagnetic potential is developed across the ships hull. If arriving to close to a star the ejected hydrogen nuclei or solar wind creates a conductive path for electrical discharge. And suddenly you have performed electrical discharge machining to drill a huge hole in the hull of the ship because you arrived too close to a star before bleeding off the electromagnetic potential acquired during travel. This idea also gives you some story bylines for finding shipwrecks just inside a solar system. 

Of course, if a time traveler goes back to prehistoric times and changes something, either on purpose or accidentally (à la A Sound of Thunder), nobody can do anything about it, and depending on the details of your scenario, the base might get erased from existence. Equally of course, most of this is invalid if the TPA won't use time travel themselves. EDIT: As @JoshKing so kindly pointed out, this is very similar if not identical to Poul Anderson's Time Patrol. This probably makes the above more likely to be valid but less interesting in any case. 

If the TPA is so vehemently opposed to time travel that they aren't willing to even do it themselves to keep others from doing it, I believe it's impossible without some way of intercepting time travelers in $t$ before they go back in time. If they can look forward in $t$, and depending on the details of your scenario, this may be possible. However, if they are willing to go back in time themselves ("for the greater good"), and there is no such thing as the butterfly effect, and time criminals are altering time in order to change historic events, there's a simple solution: the TPA can place a secret base of operations in prehistoric times. This way, they can periodically send agents (or look forward in $t$, again, if that is possible) to check the historical timeline for meddling, similar to @DJClayworth's answer. However, now when time is meddled with, the TPA don't have to worry about their base being erased from existence, because the base's $t$ is before the alteration's $t$, and they can merely intercept the offending time traveler when in $t$ they arrive and detain them (probably permanently, so that no one can reveal their secret). There's plenty of opportunity for interesting plot complications with this: 

So here is my questions, what can tactics can I use to make this prison ? To narrow it down, Here is some precise question : 

Memory loses are something I would look into. The pathway may be able to transport cells, but can it transport the key to the complex activities running in our brain at all time ? Worse, I don't see how you would be able to test that on other beings than humans. They can't describe what they feel they have forgotten, sure you can teach a mice something and see if he has forget it afterwards, but will he really forgot that particular thing ? 

I've seen an anime ages ago talking about quite a similar topic, this case, in the case of long space explorations missions. First thing they did was to modify the human genome, yup, good old homo sapiens is not satisfying in terms of needs, we needed something more economical. They looked at what they would have plenty in space. Light and radiations. So it was decided, humans will now do photosynthesis. Humans became able to do a reasonable level of photosynthesis, they still needed a meal here and there, but it was in the scale of one every week. So boom, you have already divided your needs for food supplies by about 14. Now, for you remaining food needs, you should look into insects. Yep, these bad boys are darn healthy and provide lots of proteins, they are also way more efficient in terms of needs. Grind them into powder and add your bioengineered vitamins and you are ready to go. 

I would suggest (in agreement with earlier posts) that all of the technologies you list are indeed possible with the given restrictions. I also think it is unlikely. If there is a set of religious ideas that constrain thought against certain metals then investigating the metallurgical ideas into making a pressure vessel (needed for steam engine) is likely to be either outside a typical researchers worldview at best, considered heresy at worst. This would mean that metallurgical advances wold be mostly by accident and take a lot longer. 

I would set the portal on Jupiter and add the requirement that extracted atmosphere be subjected to fractional distillation. That would allow taking the gases needed in the ratios desired to actually perform terraforming. 

I don't see why not. We have historical records of cows and horses being used as the basis for a barter economy. It also has some amusing possibilities for a get rich scheme where someone discovers growth hormones....... 

In any colonization, development, and trade scenario there will likely be some version of local "unobtanium". We have plenty of iron but not enough tin, manganese, indium and vanadium to make certain alloys. Certain families of symbiotic bacteria die off easily because the bright line spectra of the local star has one or two more bright lines than good old terra. So fertilizers AND pro-biotics are necessary to grow crops. Or maybe there is no local conditions suitable for growing coffee or cocoa. (Would anybody really live there? I wouldn't without coffee/chocolate imports!) And as long as you are world building, it is pretty easy to imagine if someone thought underwriting colonization cost was worthwhile, then this place also probably has something unique worth shipping out as its own trade goods. Freight companies hate deadheading. (a term for paying the cost of fuel to carry an empty cargohauler.) 

Note: What is written below this may or may not be valid anymore. See the comments. According to Wikipedia, the gravitational binding energy of the sun is $6.87\times10^{41}$ Joules, which means that anything impacting the sun would need to possess at least this much kinetic energy in order to cause the sun to explode successfully. Applying the equation$$E_k = \frac{mc^2}{\sqrt{1-(\frac{v}{c})^2}}-mc^2$$from here gives that, assuming that the object is traveling at exactly $99.9999\%$ of light speed, its mass would have to be over $1.08\times10^{22}$ kg to succeed. This is approximately the mass of Pluto. I would imagine you were intending a somewhat smaller object, although this mass might suffice if you're using a neutronium projectile. Increasing the velocity decreases the required mass, although the velocities involved end up being extremely high. For an object weighing (for example) $5$ metric tons, such as a very large space probe, its velocity would have to be $$99.99999999999999999999999999999999999999998\%$$ of the speed of light to blow up the sun. This is possibly impractically high, and the energies of the individual particles approach and in some cases exceed the Planck energy, beyond which physics as we know it breaks down. Eventually, the body would likely form a black hole upon collision with the Sun or even earlier, placing an ultimate lower limit on the size of the impactor that is beyond my knowledge of physics to calculate. In conclusion, your foreign body will either have to be unimaginably large or unimaginably fast to successfully blow up the sun. 

If you have fusion, then you can pretty safely assume a couple of requisite technical capabilities. First you have superconductors to generate the high gauss fields to contain a plasma, and second you have magnetic containment "bottles" for said plasma. This puts you in the ballpark of having the means to store anti matter. Since you have a 100% conversion of matter to energy when hydrogen meets anti hydrogen, the only obstacle to solve for a ridiculously high gravimetric energy density is how to get the increase the density of stored anti matter. Strictly on a speculation basis, I would propose the following solution: Your FTL drives operate continuously in one of two modes. Travel mode generates a displacement used to move the ship. This mode requires a great deal of power. Storage mode also generates a displacement field that is merely used to make a heavily curved spatial area such that the inside is a lot larger than the outside. A much smaller high gauss field can then store a large quantity of antimatter made by accelerators fed from other fusion drives. A big magnetic bottle in a small space, as it were. So the ship makes an FTL transit and changes FTL drive to storage mode. The drop in power requirements allow for diverting power to linear accelerators. Antimatter production commences. Magnetic confinement is established to hold the antimatter contents inside the cubic antimatter box that internally is a hypercube. This should allow you to run up the metric prefixes a bit as you should be able to hit exa, zetta or yotta joule scales on storage easily. However the whole idea is predicated on the notion that if an FTL drive can "warp" space so that FTL travel is possible; that it should also be possible to make the same effect on a much smaller field and with lower power requirements so that a large scale anti matter battery is feasible. 

Keep our little mages in the prison Keep our little mages secure (Need a way to deal with fights between inmates) Allow our little mages to have a degree of freedom similar to the one of a regular prison. Make money using our little mages (Enough to be self sufficient would be awesome) Keep in a reasonable amount of little mages (150 ?) 

In my world, Magic and Wizards are rare. (About 1 % of the population produce magic energy) Sometimes, you stumble upon bad wizards who keeps using their awesome skills to bother people, by setting them on fire or making them fly at high speed. Those guys need to be punished but how are we going to keep them in ? Even better, how are we going to put them to good use ? My goal is to create some kind of prison that allow us to : 

Size and Use Missiles are for fast moving targets, like fighters, or light freighters. They are small enough to fit on a fighter and are typically homing missiles, with good capacity to make spontaneous turns and "drifts" in space. Torpedoes, in the contrary are much bigger and much stronger, they are built to damage capital ships and space stations. They have are fired at a longer distance and have less control over themselves. They can be mounted on bombers class ship, gunships and other "siege" spaceship. 

If you imagine that we eventually succeed at a unified field theory, then we may be able to manipulate gravity as easily as we manipulate electromagnetism and electron flow. That hand waving argument would allow for pretty much any gravitational field strength and direction you desire within limits of energy supply and ability to afford the required equipment. 

Radio, TV and microwave radar were all developed and implemented with vacuum tubes before transistors. So we would definitely have these things. Eliminating semiconductors would remove a very powerful economic driving force from electronics development: Moore's Law $URL$ Gordon Moore was a physical chemist who was working as a process engineer. His paper pointed out that it was possible to "build" transistors on a wafer that were half as wide. This translates into four times as many transistors in a square area. He also said that this kind of process improvement could be repeated with a doubling every two years. He later amended this to 36 months. But the fact remains that there has never been any previous endeavor in human history where there was an equivalent 50 year stretch of performance improvement. There is no possible way that physical effects like vacuum tubes could deliver the lowered costs and improved performance that cooking from the quantum mechanical solid state physics cookbook did. So likely, we would still be in many respects, about as technically saavy as we were at the close of the Korean War. And doubtless no internet, as there would not have been the developments that made DARPA net transition to ARPA net and then the internet without solid state.