Rare and precious experiences maybe, but outside of novelty of experience or self-identity construction, why would people value these so highly in most cases? 

It's a stretch, but it's not totally crazy to think that an animal could produce a light pattern of rapidly shifting colors that could trigger a very specific sort of seizure which presents as immobility. That could also be turned on and off at will, as the pattern of lights and colors would need to actually be happening to have any effect. 

Given the overwhelming similarity of most day-to-day experiences (unless you've got some wild social/experiential setup), the passive accumulation of experience likely wouldn't be worth much. Especially if qualia cannot be destroyed, inflation should quickly drive the relative value of most individual qualia to virtually nothing. Most people will be poor by dint of the commonness of their life experience. 

The company apparently has unlimited resources, but are there any constraints on them at all? If not, there would seem to be a lot of options. Deployable nets? Electric current, like electric eels? Mesmerizing color patterns, like cuttlefish? Baiting the whales with a chemical or physical lure but moving faster than they can catch, leading them into whale pens? Superheated or explosive chemical discharge, like bombardier beetles? Concussive blasts based on water pressure, like pistol shrimp? A paralytic or deadly toxin? A toxoplasmosis-like infection that makes whales attracted to capture areas? 

There's no real reason that a long day-night cycle would make it difficult for life to exist or evolve. Consider: there are animals that live in deep caves and deep oceans for whom there is no day-night cycle of any kind. But even for regular surface-dwelling life the major issue (to my mind) would be related to temperature. This could be a problem with things like frigid temperatures at night and reliable water sources evaporating during the day or baking soil. These have a lot of ordinary meteorological solutions-- I've experienced plenty of warm nights and cool days, and it's always possible that life can only develop in a narrow climatic region of your planet (even if life forms migrate elsewhere later on). You could also have an atmosphere conducive to heavy cloud cover, mitigating the sunlight substantially, as long as there is enough gravity/atmosphere/ozone (or equivalents) to keep water from escaping into space. Or there could be geographic regions that provide for a reliable amount of shade during the long days, like a fortuitously positioned valley among mountains such that there is always significant shade cover. And water itself could be stored in huge, deep oceans large enough to withstand evaporation processes during the day or in underground aquifers (where even if the temperature were high enough to evaporate the water it would quickly condense again). 

Your suggestion about a cylindrical container is an interesting one. A cylinder will not be stable on reentry without some help, but I think spinning the capsule could be enough. Get it spinning fast enough and you'll start to get some lift. You can then use this as a means of controlling the landing zone (no left/right control but you should be able to get up/down control) by varying the rate of spin. The two ends of the capsule come off to allow the parachutes to do their work, and the parachutes should be mounted on bearings so that the cables don't get tangled up when the chute deploys. Just make sure that you make the capsule strong because the aero forces over such a large area could be an issue. 

If we're being completely logical, this soldier would be much more useful off the battlefield where he can turn any sort of motion into electrical energy by turning a turbine - wind, waves, enemy airplanes overhead, anything that moves gets turned into free electricity. Or he could use the energy to transport things. He could probably get things to orbit much more cheaply than is currently possible - just store enough energy to get up there and then ride the rocket all the way up. He doesn't even need a return capsule, he can just jump off the rocket and manipulate his own kinetic energy to fall back to Earth nice and slowly. Who cares about radiation? He can just recharge his powers by absorbing the energy of the charged particles around him. But seeing as you want this to be an interesting story, and not one about battlefield logistics, he could make an incredibly good air-defense system. Depending on the range of this ability he could literally stop aircraft and missiles in their tracks, letting them fall harmlessly wherever he wishes. 

Absent it's supernatural qualities, I'd be pretty skeptical that something like this is literally possible. But as as science fiction element, there are plenty of examples of creatures that live in space. I wouldn't worry about plausibility, as you're likely past that right from the start. Ancient and unimaginably excellent design will do the trick, but will defy your efforts to explain the organism in much detail. And with its supernatural qualities you can just assert pretty much whatever properties you want, in which case plausibility is a non-issue. 

If people are essentially trading experiences, would one person care about having the experience itself (a lot would be essentially duplicates, at least in any meaningful way. How many bowls of soup would a person want a record of eating?)? In at least some cases the experience would be rare and interesting, but the vast majority would be minor variations on common experiences. Because of this it seems clear that there would be no fixed value to a quale. In this case supply and demand forces would be odd, because an original core experience would be much more valuable than a common one, and the validation mechanisms shouldn't be able to enforce a common value of any individual quale. Would some people try to monopolize experiences of a given type, and sell them at exorbitant prices? Would there be a thriving rental market? Do people lose qualia in a transaction, in exchange for something new? If so, how would peoples' identities handle the constant shifting of remembered experiences? Would they cling to their own subjective ones, regardless of market value (like remembering the birth of your child, or an intimate moment with a loved one)? Would people work in exchange for customizing their remembered experiences, essentially valuing the person they want to be vastly more than the "balance" of qualia in their accounts? And, importantly, if the qualia are intrinsically valuable, how does the market react to inflation? Can my subjective experience of a quale on Tuesday be traded to you on Wednseday, generating a new "echo" quale of your experience of my experience? What would the value relative to the original be like? Could it be more valuable, if something about my own experience is different, adding to the original experience? Can people assess the quality of a quale before completing a transaction? If not, what opportunities for fraud and deception exist, and what mechanisms exist for protecting against them? As time passes, even rare qualia will be more or less duplicated, diluting their value. I imagine there would be a major drive in society to mint original qualia, riding ahead of a wave of ever-inflating and ever-less-valuable existing qualia and their derivatives. How easily can meaningfully novel qualia be produced, and how much ability does the average person have to produce them? Relating the value of qualia to physical goods or services also seems hard. How many experiences, and of what type, would a farmer be willing to trade for a discrete, physical potato? If the amount of meaningfully distinct experiences is relatively fixed, at what point does a farmer have enough experiences to not be willing to engage in further transactions in exchange for production of physical food? If the qualia are simply tokens of exchange, you retain the issues of varying quale value but don't have to deal with the identity crises. It becomes essentially a fiat currency, but one that would probably experience ever-increasing devaluation. As tokens, you can hand-wave away a lot of implementation details (why do we use qualia? Well, if you want to buy something, that's what you have to spend. The rationale isn't so important when you need to buy groceries). In thinking about these questions, a couple of your goals for the currency seem to be shaky to me. I'm not convinced that qualia can be: 

JBH has a very nice answer, and I have to admit, I mainly wrote this answer because it seemed like a nice programming puzzle. My method: I modeled the likelihood of a woman getting pregnant after a chart I found online here. I did my best to then translate those numbers into a function of months of age since 18 years old. I ended up subtracting the $age_{in\ months}/8100$ from a starting chance of $20\%$ each month. That got me close enough to be happy. I then created a system where each person is put into a group, one of , or . If there were enough people available, I create pods out of the free men and women groups, with priority going to the youngest people available. Each month, the women in a pod have a chance of becoming pregnant determined by their age, beginning 20 months after their last conception. If a women dies, she is removed from the pod, if a man dies, the pod is dissolved and the women revert to the group. When a child is born, they are added to the group. Children born have a $51\%$ chance of being male and $49\%$ chance of being female. The time is ticked each month and statistics about the group are displayed. These are the statistics for the years you request: 

So it's a fairly universal constant, which, (assuming current theory holds) would translate to any civilization advanced enough to discover it. It's value is $1.616×10^{-35}\ meters$. Rather conveniently, there are $5.854×10^{50}\ plank\ lengths$ in a light year, so you could quite easily make up your own unit defined as $10^{50}\ plank\ lengths$ and have a similarly sized unit that's detached from any non-universal measurement of time. The problem with this answer is that it uses our (relatively arbitrary) base 10 system. I recommend switching to a base 2 system, which gives us $~2^{169}\ plank\ lengths$ in a light year. This you can round to whatever you see fit. I would recommend going for either 128 or 256, as both are powers of two. After this, naming depends on what you want to make your "standard length". In SI it's the meter, which is $~2^{34}\ plank\ lengths$. From there scale up with SI prefixes until you reach your stand-in for the light-year. 

Key Question: How are these subsistence-farming, blacksmithing humans producing/finding these batteries? Why is it that the androids can't or prefer not to produce or find the batteries themselves? Answer to question as posed: Infinite ways. There really isn't a limit on how this might work. Addiction and reward systems, as outlined by Renan, could do it. But to make the servitude really invisible I think the best tool is going to be control of historical information. Time is on the side of the immortal machines, and so minor changes over time can really add up. Human society could be manipulated via introduction of new cultural or social standards in which service to the machines is highly valued, and people self-organize to be of as much use as possible. The humans' religion might be an especially handy tool for this. If the machines control information, they could provide "help" in the humans pursuing something that they know humans will never achieve (maybe it's impossible but humans don't have the knowledge to be aware of that, for example) in exchange for service. If the humans don't have a good way to record historical information over time, they might never know how little progress they've made over countless generations. If informational manipulation doesn't work for you, the machines could monopolize some necessary resource, like water, via ordinary acquisition or subversion (like draining away all potable water into a supply the machines exclusively can access, or poisoning the sources humans can easily reach) and then effectively enslave the humans through trade. Which method might they choose, and why? With so many options, answering the question of why the androids would bother to rely on the human population at all for access to batteries will help narrow down which specific methods might best fit their situation. 

I'm not sure such an economy would work. To the extent that it might, that's probably going to be about social structure and values, not economics. I realize that may not be the most worldbuilding-esque answer, but as I see it your fundamental issue is that you've designed a system to be internally consistent (I assume, I'm not sure I understand the technical details fully) without much thought dedicated to how that system would interact with the actual world, or the people that would use it. Hence your question. So let's abstract away the technical details, at least to rough out how the economy might function. The process of producing qualia seems to only validate that they underlying experience actually happened (no fakes, at least by the standards of subjective experience), but otherwise doesn't establish any real market features of the currency. The overwhelmingly key question to be answered seems to me to be: 

Human Powered Aircraft have been a thing for a while. Using a lever to provide the power is maybe not the best solution, just because putting out that kind of power for an extended period is a job better left to the legs, and it leaves no free hands for, say, piloting the aircraft. Assuming that your pilots are strong enough to keep this in the air with their arms, then they're going to need a way to steer. Maybe they can do this with their legs? In any case - human powered aircraft are definitely possible, and without any extra information you can say that this design could work. It doesn't sound like the best possible solution though. 

Don't forget you have to store the video after it's collected! This is actually one of the hardest parts. Video files are quite large, and with many cameras they're going to pile up fast. You're going to need a secure place to store these video files that can be quickly scaled to fit the needs of your police/military force. This is much more difficult than you might imagine. If you need to store the footage securely, then the most secure option that still allows quick retrieval is in a server on a local intranet. Depending on how many cameras you're talking about you'll need to shovel lots of data, fast. So you're likely looking at a cluster. Clusters are expensive, and take expensive people to maintain. Also you'll have to encrypt all of these drives or the people who maintain it are going to be able to pull a drive and walk home with it. This isn't feasible for most (the US military could certainly do so, but local police forces could not), so you might want to look at something like Amazon Web Services. They will do all the maintenance for you, but then you have to worry about it not being stored in-house, and that it has a direct internet connection. If you're not using the files often, it might be worth it to store it all on magnetic tapes and lock it up in a warehouse. There won't be immediate access, but it's secure and cheaper than a cluster.