I apologize if this sounds a little rude, but the question does not really make much sense. There is no possibility to "avoid cures", for many reasons. One being that the drug development pipeline takes too long and is too inefficient to let it go when finally a good product is obtained (see graph). Most of the research funding comes from Government agencies, not pharmaceutical companies. The basic research to find the mechanisms of disease and thus allowing the developing of new drugs are done in Universities/Research Institutes. Big pharma companies may run (usually in cooperation with universities) large-scale chemical compounds testing and fund some pre-clinical studies and the clinical trials (again, usually in collaboration with universities/hospitals). It is plausible that a company may delay the release of a new drug to maximize the revenue of an older generation drug, but it is impossible for them to block the research in other places. So, if they have a magic cure, they will try to sell it as fast as they can. If not, the drug may be found by some other company or even may be published by an academic institution, preventing the use of any patent. 

Scope: My answer comprises sources that support efficacy for the Heimlich Maneuver to alleviate choking, and sources that show a lack of evidence for a comparison with other methods. I consider only the risks and benefits in healthy individuals between the ages of 1 and 65 of the maneuver for Foreign Body Airway Obstruction (FBAO). I interpret 'most appropriate' as 'the method with highest patient survival rate'. Out of scope: Drowning (which is not choking, and even Heimlich has retracted support there), infants, the elderly, the sick, Heimlich's son hating him, Heimlich's personal flaws and support of controversial AIDS cures. 

There exists a far better explanation and it requires no such (wholesale) speculation: the cats treated by veterinarians are not representative of cats who fall out of buildings. There is a high likelihood of a blatant selection bias: cats who fell but were uninjured were not admitted to this study; cats who fell, were injured, and survived had good chances of entering the study; and cats who wound up as bloody smears on the sidewalk would never have appeared. This alone casts doubt on all general conclusions about "high-rise syndrome" based on this study (and comparable subsequent ones). Further evidence in support of this explanation is the authors' observation en passant that 

(source: J Oral Rehabil. 2001 Aug;28(8):766-72) The idea that carbonated water harms teeth may be based on the fact that dissolving carbon dioxide in water results in some carbonic acid. However, this did not result significant enamel decay. 

Unless the esophagus is fully blocked Raising the arms will therefore increase oxygen uptake in healthy people, which may make you feel like you are not choking anymore. Note though that raising the arms is not an appropriate method to help a person who is actually choking. Unless the person is able to breathe adequately the Heimlich maneuver should be performed if coughing does not solve the problem. [warning, anecdotal] My tennis trainer always told us to put our arms up and breathe in when panting after a demanding exercise. During Yoga and other 'breathing exercises' the arms are usually also repositioned to either limit or maximize lung volume. 

The literature on this goes back to the original Whitney & Mehlhaff paper, which studied "the traumatic injuries sustained by any animal falling from a substantial height.” Whitney, Wayne O., Cheryl J. Mehlhaff, High-rise Syndrome in Cats, JAVMA, Vol. 191, No.11, PP. 1309-1403, 12/1/87. This study documents injuries and outcomes in 132 cats that had fallen two or more stories and were taken to the authors (New York City veterinarians) for treatment. Its main objective is to explain why and how most of these cats survived and to describe the nature of their injuries. The authors were surprised at one observation and speculated as to its reason: 

There are many claims around about clothes made of linen being useful in warmer climates. Usually it includes explanations such as a better transportation for sweat so it can evaporate more easily, or that it allows for wind to pass through. I'm wondering about the claim that skin temperature is reduced by over 3°C... 

Source: Asian J Sports Med. Sep 2012; 3(3): 185–192. Therefore, it seems fair to assume a positive effect on IgA levels from morning sex. Based on the study by Hejazi and Hosseini, I'd advise the 'short drill' version to avoid an inadvertent negative effect stemming from endurance exercise. 

Afterward Depending on your mood, you may find it either amusing or disheartening that pure speculation can quickly enter textbooks as received fact. A popular and well-respected physics textbook (Halliday, Resnick, and Walker, Fundamentals of Physics, 7th Edition, Part I, p. 123. J. Wiley & Sons, 2005) not only incorporates the Whitney & Mehlhaff explanation wholesale, it amplifies it and makes it more plausible by adding details that nobody could possibly have observed: 

These would have the greatest chances of survival among the general cat population. Older cats who fell generally didn't make it to the vets' office. Given the obvious physical relationship between height of fall and shock of impact, we can therefore predict that the cats in this study who fell more than a few stories were the lucky ones, not the typical ones. Thus, there is no valid way to draw conclusions from trends seen in this study to any actual phenomenon. Both this and a subsequent study report 90% survival. This, of course, is the survival rate among the cats who did not die before reaching the vet. (Kapatkin, Amy S., David T. Matthiesen, Feline High-Rise Syndrome, Compendium for Continuing Education, Vol. 13, No. 9, pp. 1389-1403, 9/91.) What should we conclude from this? Only that if you can get your injured cat alive to the vet within a couple of hours after its fall, it will have excellent chances of living due to the vet's skills in emergency diagnosis and treatment. The only conclusion about high-rise syndrome that can be supported by this evidence is that cats who survive the veterinarian's treatment could have fallen from practically any height. The other conclusions that people have drawn--the "parachute" or "flying squirrel" theories, that cats will survive falls from any height, etc.--are not supported by this study (nor by any followup studies I had been able to locate in 2006 when I investigated this matter). 

Their claim notes the source as "Census Bureau data by the Journal of Blacks in higher education", which I couldn't find a more specific resource for. Are these statements otherwise verified? I can imagine African immigrants having the highest immigration demands of any group, but the statements still seem counter-intuitive considering funding issues for academia in large parts of Africa. 

The Benefits Informally, many people have been reported to have survived after having been administered the Heimlich maneuver. Some people reportedly still breathing after the technique include Ronald Reagan, Elizabeth Taylor and Goldie Hawn. Usually, these reports describe people choking on solid food items. Apart from the study below, I have found no non other scientific sources that showed statistics (other than Heimlich's own reports).