No, these did not start out as monoteistic religions and grew more gods, rather the idea in some religions that all gods are aspects of the same god has been something that grew out of the polytheistic religion. Polyteistic religions in turn have grown out of a sort of "base-religion" which is an anthropomorphic view of nature, where everything is or has a spirit. See for example: $URL$ and $URL$ 

At least some of these people are Jewish as Malik ibn Anas, a contemporary of Ibn Ishaq, calls him a liar exactly because of that reason. So Ibn Ishaq's story includes the Jewish side of the event, and hence is the Jewish record. The revisionist argument are based on several arguments. One argument is that Malik ibn Anas calls Ibn Ishaq a liar because he also listened to the Jews accounts, another argument is that the authority Ibn Hajar denounces Ibn Ishaq's account as an "odd tale". Neither of those arguments hold up at all. That something written seems "odd" to somebody over a thousand years ago is not a reliable historical method. Other arguments are that it would somehow be impossible to kill 400-900 people, which is a pretty absurd claim as mass killings of many more people than that has happened later in history. Obviously we can never know for sure exactly what happened, as all we have are witness statements in various states of second hand transmission, but there seems to be very little reason to doubt that the massacre did happen. 

I would claim that it is highly unlikely that the description of the events are truthful. According to an description of the meeting from the website of the President of Finland (which was Ahtisaari in 1999, when this meeting happened), there is at least one part of that description that was true: This was not a negotiation. The meeting was to present the NATO/Russian proposition. The negotiations were between NATO and Russia, and Ahtisaari was brought in as a third part in those negotiation as he had proven to be a good mediator earlier. NATO explicitly did not want to negotiate with Milosevic. But that's not of course what the text really is about. That Milosevic obviously didn't have a chance once NATO decided to stop the war was pretty obvious. He of course had no chance to win a war against NATO. This was probably obvious to him as well. The purpose of the text is to claim that Ahtisaari (and therefore NATO) threatened to kill half a million Serbs if Milosevic didn't agree to the proposition. The question then is if Ahtisaari really made those claims, and really made a sweeping gesture on the table, indicating that NATO would flatten Belgrade? Of course, only the people in that room really knows, and at least two of them are already dead. But what is clear is that after that meeting, Milosevic needs to convince everyone else that agreeing to the proposition is the right thing to do, and since the proposition includes Serbian withdrawal from Kosovo, that will be a very hard pill to swallow. Would that pill be easier to swallow if they had no option? Is it easier to accept if the alternative is half a million dead? Well, of course. But would NATO really carpet bomb and flatten Belgrade? Of course not. They already knew from long before that bombing civilians isn't seen with kind eyes, and was in the bombing of Yugoslavia aiming at military and strategic targets, although of course there were civilian casualties. But a mass destruction of Belgrade would have not have been accepted by people, media or politicians in the west. And I don't think Milosevic was stupid enough to believe it would be accepted. So I don't think Ahtisaari made any such threats, because it would have made him seem like a fool. It's most likely that this is Milosevic excuse for agreeing to a proposal he knew he didn't have much choice than to agree to. The quotes about Ahtisaari making a sweeping gesture over a table comes from Ljubisa Ristic. Then a politician, now it seems like he is a movie director. I think we can ascribe the creative license to him. :-) 

The nearest modern equivalent to what the Holy Roman Empire was is a federation. It consisted of a large set (up to 1.800) semi-independent areas. When elected, the Holy Roman Empire would not gain complete control over these areas, instead these areas all had their own rule or administration which was generally inherited. 

The tag is a part of HTML forms, which first appeared in the Mosaic browser in April 1993. It was standardized in HTML2 in November 1995. 

Since this during a morning levée I assume it's a negligé cap. The purpose of this is to cover the head (which was typically shaved) when you did not have a wig. 

All the other regions invaded during 1939-1940 was annexed into the USSR in one way or another. All the regions invaded during 1939-1940 had earlier been Russian, and this includes Finland. This is probably one primary reason for the annexation of these regions; the Soviet leadership simply viewed these territories as rightly belonging to them. Molotov during a visit in Berlin in 1940 was asked by Hitler how they planned to settle "The Finnish question" and answered that they planned to do it the same way as they had with the Baltic states. 

The effects of the Cuban revolution has been wholly negative. Not only was it immediately highly negative for the economy, as any civil war is, the planned economy instigated by the communist government in Cuba has, as all planned economy, stifled the Cuban economy and doomed the country to poverty. During the early 20th century Cuba was a prosperous country. In the graph below we can see that Cuba post war is richer than for example Italy. It was poorer than UK, France and Sweden, but richer than Spain and Portugal, to give you an idea. Basically, the country was as rich as an average European country, and one of the five most developed countries in the region. But while the European countries quickly got their economy back on track, and in Italy's case from 1947 begins a steady economic climb for several decades, Cubas economy gets a big drop when the revolution starts in 1953, and another in the end of the revolution. Civil war is never good for the economy. But what is significant is that after the revolution, Cuban economy does not recuperate. It doesn't start growing until the 70's. This is in a large part because of increased trade with the Soviet Union, who buy things from Cuba at an inflated price, in an effort to make Cuba a socialist success story. In 1990, when USSR collapses, so does Cuban economy, which falls back into it's pre-revolution levels. Cuban economy has then slowly gotten better, apparently in part because small private companies are now allowed to operate, so the heavy crush of the planned economy has been loosened. Despite this Cuba today is by all accounts a poor country, with a GDP per capita around the same level as China, a country that in 1960 had only 10% of Cubas GDP, and as late as 1993 had only half of Cubas GDP. Although you of course can claim that these later economic problems are not an effect of the revolution, but of the economic policies of Castro, I think this is actually what is asked for. Some blame can also fall on the US embargo, but again that embargo is an effect of Castro policies (namely the expropriation of foreign companies by the Castro government), so that is again an effect of the Revolution. 

This is correct. The Old East Slavic language spoken in Kievan Rus is seen as the source of Belorussian, Ukrainian and Russian, and the split between Russian and what is now called Ruthenian came first, and Ruthenian later split into Belorussian and Ukrainian. 

The last point is always a last resort of communist planners when the socialist theories fail to work in reality, and that seems to have been the case here too under Stalin. But in this case the relative liberalism also continued as a part of the liberal anti-Stalinist reaction following Stalin's death. This is why we see the growth slowing down and finally stagnating completely under Brezjnev. It is also worth remembering that high growth is easier when you start from a low position. See for example at China's development after they embraced capitalism. 

France was in 1792 attacked by a coalition of states, that included several Italian states. Although the Papal States and Republic of Venice was not amongst them, Naples and Sicily was. This put the Papal States as well as Venice in the middle of the war between Austria and France, since Venice was located between France and Austria and the Papal States blocked the way to southern Italy, and they therefore got dragged into the conflict, a conflict they didn't have the armies and resources to handle (which is probably why they were neutral in the first place). The peace with Austria resulted in the end of the Republic of Venice, and the Papal States had to concede a significant chunk of land, as Napoleon created a French client state called the Cisalpine Republic, to a large extent as a "buffer" against Austria. I think your mistake is in believing this antagonized the Catholic Church and religious people. The Papal States are not the catholic church, they are rather the personal property of the Pope himself. I think it was generally recognized that an attack on the popes earthly holdings was not a religious issue. Two years later the French army marched into Rome, declaring a Roman Republic and demanding that Pius VI renunciate his temporal powers. This he refused, so he was arrested, which reasonably can not have been popular. However, it was turned into a propaganda victory, as the pope died in France, and Bonaparte could throw a lavish burial party to show his religious credentials. In 1801 Napoleon also signed the Concordat of 1801, which restored the Catholic Church as a state church of France. So he didn't anger the Church, he in fact pampered to it. He later came into conflict with Pius VII as well, but that's not what this question is about. And note that the Vatican wasn't attacked at all, for the simple reason that Vatican City didn't exist then, as it was created in 1929. 

Before Gutenberg the only practical way to print text in Europe was through wood block printing. You would have to carve one whole page in wood, and print from that. This was slow and error prone, and as a result it wasn't really done much. So when it comes to the difference in economy, what we need to compare Gutenbergs printing with, is handwritten manuscripts. And the prices for books dropped with c:a 80% in the 50 years that follows Gutenbergs invention. Before 1450, a book seems to have cost around 2000 day wages. After 1450 most of the recorded prices are below 800 day wages, meaning that printing had a quick impact on book prices. After 1500 prices seem to be below 300 day wages. I don't know how much the Chinese and Korean printing techniques lowered prices, but considering that the techniques never really seem to have taken off the answer is probably "not enough". This is indeed likely to be to a large extent because of the script. Sources: 

Such policy will soon end up with the execution of anyone that opposes the leadership or threatens the positions of the leadership. Examples of this happening was the executions of Danton, for being too moderate, and Hébert, because he criticized Robespierre of being to moderate. This of course leads to a situation where almost everyone wants to get rid of you. You can in that situation only remain in power if you have the full support of the military. After Robespierre was arrested, troops of the Paris commune did march up in order to liberate him, and he returned to Hotel de Ville with the troops. But during the night they all deserted as they knew troops under the command of co-conspirator Barras was coming. What this shows is that is that Robespierre no longer commanded all of the army himself, at least one commander had turned on him. And even the troops Robespierre could order out didn't support him; they followed orders, but had no interest in defending Robespierre or his revolution. With no military support he had no power, and was arrested and executed. 

As comparison, here is a page with pictures of some German warship gun turrets. There is absolutely no doubt that the turret in the picture is a US type turret. 

There therefore was no voters to betray, and he also did not betray his supporters or Leninist ideals. What he did was simply to fail. Instead of succeeding in his aim to bring democracy to the Soviet Union, his steps towards democracy instead led the Soviet Union to collapse. To his credit though, this has led to democracy in Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, so his efforts wasn't a complete failure. Q2: Is the sources for the text reliable? No. Felix Goldberg in his answer explains well why it isn't reliable. In fact the claimed sources generally don't seem to exist. Also in one case it's claimed to be a speech, in another an interview, which casts further doubt on the text. There is today a publication in Slovakia called "Usvit" but it's doubtful it existed in 1999, and if it did it's a one-man show by a local fringe politician. It seems highly unlikely that this guy had secured an interview with Gorbachev. The text is variously claimed to be from the American University in Turkey. That University does not exist. There is an American University in Cyprus, though. However, the text is otherwise claimed to be from an interview in Ankara. The only reference I can find to Gorbachev and Ankara is from a 1997 publication in Turkish. The source is not reliable. Q3: Did Gorbachev say that his intention was to destroy Communism? No. I can't find any reliable sources on Gorbachev himself saying that he wanted to destroy communism. The text in this question seems to be the only case, and as we have seen, these texts are not reliable. During the cold war, the word "communism" was generally associated with socialist dictatorships, while the word "socialism" was wider and included those who wanted both socialism and democracy. With that usage of the word it could therefore be claimed that he indeed wanted to destroy communism, as he wanted to make the USSR democratic. But he himself seems not to have made such a claim. Q4: Is the text authentic? No. Most of the things in the interview seem rather unremarkable. Gorbachev claims to want a social democracy, something he has said otherwise. He said even before the fall of USSR that he wanted a more open market. There is no mention of a conspiracy at all, that seems to be Anixx own invention. In fact, the only remarkable statement is "The purpose of my life was the destruction of communism, unbearable dictatorship over the people". Nowhere else do we find Gorbachev claiming that he wanted to destroy communism. We do however find him saying that he wanted democracy. As such this quote is probably an intentional distortion of what he said. He most likely said that he wanted to destroy the unbearable dictatorship over the people. So whoever decided to wrote the original article was probably a dedicated anti-democratic communist, and decided to change the headline to something more controversial. Therefore, at a minimum we can conclude that the article as a whole isn't reliable, and that the claim that he wanted to destroy communism probably is falsified. As the sources seem to made up, and also Gorbachev's visit to Turkey seems made up, it's likely that the whole text is made up. But it's probably largely made up from things he actually have said in other interviews and in his 1995 autobiography. The claim that he wanted to destroy communism is however most likely completely invented.