I like to use specific examples to try to convey my thoughts clearly. So, using "marriage" as an example, I find it has at least 4 "best" definitions: 1)personal, 2)group, 3)culture, and 4)legal. Obviously, which one is best, depends on who is doing the definition. I have my own definition of marriage, and I ignore the other definitions, except the legal definition (because I have to conform to it). A group of people might get together and agree on a definition that is acceptable to all in the group. The culture of an area might dictate the definition for most of the individuals living in the given culture. But ultimately, the legal definition, will be the one that prevails (until it is legally changed). 

The answer is very obvious, they were different philosophers! One philosopher could believe in an "eternal universe," and a different philosopher could believe in "gods creators." 

There was no confusion. It derives from the influence from the Old Testament Law - "an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth." Although this was modified by the New Testament, "if someone slaps your left cheek, put your right cheek", and "love your enemy," it has taken time for some of this attitude to get into our judicial system. Complying with the New Testament "mandate" requires the abolishing of capital punishment, but because a part of society feels it is a violence deterrent, it is retained. If we are interested in teaching our children that capital punishment is wrong, we as individuals, need to be satisfied with life imprisonment as the maximum "punishment." 

But we usually consider two persons only and name his/her behavior. When there are more than two persons and when the reference also changes, the name of his/her behavior also changes. You may try to name the 2nd person's behavior more precisely without considering the 1st person and considering the 1st person. Are they the same? [This test is applicable also to the two questions given above.] 

$URL$ If the aforementioned is difficult to digest, the following mantra would be useful in our daily life. Isavasyam idam sarvam yat kim ca jagatyam jagat 

In philosophical sense, what do you mean by the term--'to prove'? Since your question is about 'existence', 'real' and 'proving', I think the analysis must go too deep. Here the proving is about existence we cannot treat this as an ordinary question.In any way you should know what the real problem is. I don't know whether you would agree this: The existence can never be a nonexistence. It needs nobody's proof. 

Try to know more about the 5 sheaths from different websites. Just for an example: $URL$ You will understand that mind is not necessary for realizing (not for proving) that existence. Try to understand why the author in the link call 'it' existence and consciousness for salutation/praying as a specially selected word. 

Your attitude, is of paramount importance if you want to avoid the "negative" effects of "sharing your achievements" (or anything else). You will never go wrong with an attitude of humility, even to the point of giving the credit for your achievement to somebody else! You should avoid "coming across" as a conceited person, or one that feels superior to others, because of the achievements. But, most of all, avoid false humility! 

First of all (in the general case), there are "things" that "come to existence" (emerge) without a creator, and there are others that do require a creator. Typically, things that are made by nature and/or random processes do not require a "sentient creator" whereas, tools, buildings, ships, etc., do. Focusing in the specific case of our Universe, I submit as a possible explanation, that just like there are "spontaneous" emissions of particles from radioactive materials, our Universe "came about" from a spontaneous perturbation of highly unstable energy field, in a 4-dimensional space volume. The wave created by the perturbation caused a 3-dimensional "surface" (in 4-dimensional space), which is our Universe. No "sentient being" required for this. 

If Kant, had made that statement, I am sure you would have no problem answering your question. Since Nietzsche is more "current," the obvious answer is, future philosophers. Those philosophers coming after, or starting with, him! 

If a person believes that this world is one family and live accordingly without hurting his fellow beings following 'Dharma', his principles are right; no matter whether he is a fanatical ruler or not. [Please note: The base is, 'This world is one family'. If you don't like the word 'Dharma', you may replace it by 'the eternal law of the cosmos, inherent in the very nature of things'.] 

You need not used the term -- 'deeper level'. You can simply use--'to know our real nature'. Or to realize the divinity in ourselves. It is for reaching the highest level that we can attain with our human body. Thus our life's purpose will be fulfilled...not for finding (our life's purpose). 

A clear-cut answer to this question is impossible. People will have different aims in their lives. If one can't achieve it in his life they will be in despair. So, live in the same way as others live is not a good answer and is impossible. You would be compelled to expand the range of basic necessities if you ask yourself some questions like this: What should he use to travel long distances? Where should he get money? Is traveling in a vehicle a basic necessity? How should he treat himself if he is well? How, if it is a serious disease? What happens other family members are not happy with what you have saved for the family? So the person should lead a saint's life. Then he would get things freely. Don't forget, he must have sound health also till his death. Otherwise he must have great endurance. Actually your question is the commonest problem many people face. But most people are not quite sure about it clearly. If there were a good answer that suits for all, most people would have followed it. It may be one of the reasons for the the emergence of some religions. Many religions suggest different ways for this, but everybody can't practice correctly what it suggests. Some religions suggest different ways according to people's character. But without understanding the religion correctly jumping from one to another is not a good tendency. Trying to reach the topmost level with the first leap may lead to a fall. When one can't do according to his character his mind become restless. I mean, most people are compelled to do unsuited jobs. This part should also be rectified. Hobbies play an important role here. Some people might be able to train their mind to be calm. Such persons must have some potentialities. But it will take time..sometimes very long time. So an immediate action also is not possible for acquiring this ability. There are different religions and meditation centers, yoga centers etc for helping people. Contentment is to the mind. So importance to be given is to the mind. "An idle mind is the devil's workshop." Some people can do some activities continuously without boring. It depends on the vasanas of the people. So, one should find out such activities and indulge in it. It may be some kind of charity work/service to the poor etc. Haven't you heard the quote of Swami Vivekananda, "They alone live, who live for others." If the activities are according to the vasanas, the mind will not disturb you. In short, whatever you do should be helpful to your mind also. You might have heard about kings and millionaires who renounced everything they had just for calmness and contentment in life. 

Yes, it contradicts itself because, if "all things are possible," then it is possible for nothing to be possible, thereby contradicting itself! 

I see a mayor problem with your question(s). It appears that you do not realize that there are at least two types/levels of "consciousness" (three if you believe in a "supreme" being). They are: 1 - Individual 2 - Group 3 - Transcendent/universal So, obviously, there are three answers to your main question. 1 - The individual's consciousness ceases to exist, when the individual dies. 2 - The group's consciousness ceases to exist, when all the group's members die (or are no longer a group). 3 - The transcendent consciousness never ceases to exist, as it does not depend on any individual or group. This makes it clear that for an individual's consciousness to continue to exist, after death, is to somehow become part of the transcendent (supreme being's) consciousness! 

The fallacy in your logic is your assumed implication, namely that if a "unicorn does not exist => a unicorn does not a have horn." Actually, a unicorn that does not exist can have any number (one, more than one, or no) horns! It's up to your imagination. 

Hilbert's response was to introduce formalism in an attempt to bypass Russell's paradox. Gödel took up Hilbert's monumental programme by attempting to see whether one could prove the consistency and completeness of a formal axiomatic system for mathematical analysis. Of course, he discovered that neither was possible. What Gödel first discovered was that mathematical truth cannot in principle be confined to a formal system - i.e., truth is not reducible to proof; syntax cannot supplant semantics; intuition cannot be dispensed with in mathematics, indeed, even in arithmetic. This was first metaphorical nail in the logical positivist coffin. The second nail in the coffin of logical positivism came when Gödel demonstrated that if a given system of axioms for arithmetic were in fact consistent, then it could not be proved consistent by the system itself. In other words, only an inconsistent formal system can prove its own consistency. The logical positivists did not go down without a fight. By all accounts, Hilbert's first response to Gödel's results was anger followed by denial. He became the first, but by no means the last, to propose an anti-Gödel principle; an ad hoc principle to be appended to formal mathematics simply to block the application of Gödel's theorems. Gödel was apparently genuinely irritated by this. Hilbert's idea was to append a new rule of deductive inference that would allow for the employment of infinitely many premises. Gödel was quick to point out that this would violate the very idea of a formal system. The cure would kill the patient. Few of the logical positivists, or philosophers in general, appear to have initially fully understood Gödel's results - the exception being von Neumann. Gödel simply stopped responding to Zermelo's frequent letters. Carnap too, the first to hear Gödel's result, appears to have failed to comprehend its implications for some time. Gödel famously rubbished Wittgenstein's criticisms as trivial. And a host of others. So although it is unclear whether Gödel initially opposed logical positivism, it is clear that his results spelt its demise and that he well understood it. 

The ontological argument does not disprove the Christian God. By definition, the "perfect" God already has all possible attributes. Whether He decides to become (split into) 3 or more "entities" does not make Him any more or any less "perfect." So, perfection and trinity can coexist with no effect on each other. 

I believe the answer is a "guarded/qualified" yes. If 2/3, or more, of the owners of a given area want to separate from a larger area, and have not been coerced to do so, they have the right to do so. What gives them this right? They are the owners of the area. 

The basis rests on at least two factors: 1) accumulated knowledge and 2) observation. Through accumulated knowledge, it has been determined that our chromosomes (humans) are 99.9% the same. Though observation, we see that we have two hands, two feet, two eyes, one heart, etc., etc,. The conclusion that humans are very similar (at least physically), is inescapable! With regards to uniqueness, all it takes is one thing different, among thousands (millions) of same things. This means "things" can be very similar, and yet, unique! No, not all living organisms have souls/consciousness. Some "particular" requirements must be met. 

Even thieves show interest in truth; but in very low-level truths (or facts) only. Can't we treat the browsing on the Internet as another aspect of people's interest in the Truth. These low-level truths are only 'twigs of truth'. Some people try to find its 'branches'. Scientists try to find its 'trunk' and philosophers its 'roots'. If your statement is about the interest in living an honest life, one can find so many low-level reasons for it. (Eg: Science puts forward many alternatives to overcome the problems they face in their life. So, the development of science and the people's faith in its findings lost many people's interest in the truth.) The vasanas and milieus compel them to stay away from the truth. (It is easy to live in a dishonest way than in an honest way.) Most people don't know that this human life is precious. If they have a great vision or a great goal in their life, they will certainly pursue it. Though people have different beliefs about posthumous life, even some people who strongly believe in it are interested in some activities only. But what they think as good activities as a part of their beliefs may not be so when viewing from another point. I mean, this beliefs are not enough for making interest in the Truth. Even heaven and hell are also bound by time, space, and causality. But when they try to know themselves and are aware of the cycle of birth and death they will never lose interest in the Truth. Conventional truths sometimes create bondages, but the Ultimate Truth doesn't. You may get good examples from your life-experience (for the first part). Actually the reverse statement is more correct--'He who realized the Ultimate Truth is liberated from all bondages including the endless cycle of birth and death.' 

Anything that is computable algorithmically can be modelled as counting. That is a lot of mathematics. The general idea of counting was formalized mathematically using sets called ordinal numbers. Most (if not all) mathematical objects can be modelled as sets, and we know that any well-ordered set is isomorphic (equivalent) to an ordinal number. (Here, well-ordered means "has a least element" - i.e., there's a place to start counting.) Therefore, if you wish to lose sight of counting you need to be dealing with sets which are not well-ordered. So far we have excluded mathematics which is computable and that which can be modelled as a well-ordered set. There are no doubt further restrictions, but that's all that come to mind now. If you belong to a school that insists that all mathematics be computable, then I guess you have excluded everything. EDIT There are a number of comments on other answers that show some confusion about the nature of counting. One particular confusion concerns a well known mathematical conjecture called the Continuum Hypothesis. As I mentioned in my original answer (above), Cantor formalized the concept of counting by defining the ordinal numbers. The Continuum Hypothesis asks, what is the cardinality of the continuum. All cardinalities are defined as certain types of ordinal numbers. The cardinality of the continuum is given by the cardinality of the well-ordered set [0,1] ( = the set of real numbers between 0 and 1). So the continuum hypothesis is absolutely about counting. Is asks how many ordinals do I need to count in order to count the cardinality of the continuum. Another confusion appears to be the assertion that a model says nothing about the nature of that which it is modelling. Plainly, anything that can be modelled as counting is mathematically isomorphic (equivalent) to counting. There is not getting around it.