Space guns might be these crystal critters' best option. Unsurprisingly this answer contains a decent amount of handwaving, primarily on whether on not there exists a growable crystal strong enough to contain immense pressure and how crystals can collect and pressurize some needed gases. But if we're talking about a crystal's space program, I assume a good amount of handwaving is allowed. 

If paper and pens still exist in this world, then physical invoices can be used as transaction records during the blackout. An invoice is a document that records all info related to a transaction, such as the agreed price, the items sold, and when the payment needs to be made. Today, both electronic and physical invoices are used for transaction where payments are not immediate(source: I develop transaction software), such as large-scale purchases of bulk goods. They are typically issued by the seller to the buyer, so many businesses would already be familiar with generating invoices. So, all that is needed to temporarily replace the electronic economy is a steady supply of paper and pens. The seller would write the goods being sold, the amounts, the prices, etc., and the buyer and seller would both sign/somehow mark the invoice in order to authenticate it. Two copies, one for the buyer and one for the seller, would likely be made. When the electronic systems come back online, these invoices would be used to ensure that the proper money transfers are made. 

Basically you need to shut down inmune system in order to perform any kind of transplant. Most tissues in mammals are quite similar, to the point that laboratory rats are good experimental subjects for many things that later will be used in humans. For example, the growing of a human ear inside a rat: 

Maybe your issue here is more a problem of weight and availability instead of a problem of health. A way to protect health would be a cyst around each zone with metal, so that might not be a problem. About the weight. Let's imagine we select iron (poor choice because it rusts, but just as an example). Iron density is close to 7800 kg/m3. So a plate of 5mm of iron (enough for your purpose) of 1 m3 would have a weight of 39.4 kg. Human skin has 2 m2 of surface, so you would need almost 80 kg of iron or its equivalent to cover the body. Other metals can be used, but the weight might be similar. Maybe your creature can keep those 80 kg extra. But here is the main issue: ¿From where that creature is going to absorb that amount of metal? ¿How that metal is going to form a crystal in absence of high temperature? After all, a plate of metal requires high temperature to be formed. Otherwise it would be only a bunch of separated atoms. Hence, what you need is a polymer or a compound instead of a pure metal. Something that can be synthetized at lower temperatures; natural examples are spider silk, tooth enamel, silk or lignin. 

The remains would mummify, petrify, erode, and eventually become just another mineral layer. Where water is available the organic remains will dissolve and be replaced with inorganic minerals to form fossils, and if no water is available the remains will desiccate and be preserved as mummies. 

Vesta Composition: These meteorites are believed to be debris ejected from Vesta as a result of an ancient collision. Presuming they are from Vesta, we have a good idea of what the crust of Vesta is made of. The surface seems to be mostly basalt and other igneous rocks, which means it is quite boring but also quite uniform and solid. Vesta Geology: Because of the above rocks(and other observations), it is thought that Vesta formed much like the terrestrial planets, and has a solid and cool core/mantle, and a crust that is 10km thick. This means that the surface of Vesta should be stable, solid, and have plenty of room to bore into. 

There wasn't much specification regarding the timeline or location, so the below are just the general process that will occur over a long period of time. Mummification: In particularly dry areas like deserts or mountain peaks, the remains would mummify, much like this creepy fellow. Even with regular decomposition mummification can still occur naturally, so without scavengers and bacteria getting in the way much of the life in dry areas would desiccate and mummify. Petrifaction: In areas with water, the remains would petrify. Water would leak into the pores of tissue and bone, and minerals within that water will precipitate out and saturate the remains, resulting in a combination of organic and inorganic remains. This process is called permineralization, and is the reason we have dinosaur fossils. Without bacteria, the soft tissue remains would also go through this process and become fossilized. Over time, much of the organic remains would slowly be dissolved by water and replaced by minerals, in the uncreatively named process of replacement. Unless the fossilized remains reach a dry area, they will eventually lose all of their organic components and be no different from oddly shaped rocks. Erosion into Mineral Layers: As explained above, the organic material in the remains will slowly dissolve and be washed away by water(and probably other chemicals). The dissolved bones, shells, beaks, and corals of the trillions of dead will pile to form layers of limestone, rainforests will turn into vast swaths of coal, fossils and mummies would be formed in amounts to put previous extinction events to shame, and the swarms of dead ocean critters won't even get to become oil without bacteria. If given enough time, even the petrified and mummified remains will erode like an other rock, leaving little evidence of life except layers and veins of organic minerals. 

Energy. The amount of energy to convert mass to energy (twice) is huge, remember the formula E=mc2. This means that transfer a 10 tons of mass means 10^20 [J], which is insane. Information. You are not transfering energy, you're transfering information, data related to how mass should be built. A human body has 7*10^27 atoms, while a terabyte are only 10^12 bytes. So the data transfer assuming a single "wire" will need so much time that the system would be useless to transfer more than few molecules. 

It would be plausible for communication only in absence of verbal language and (maybe) facial expressions. Since humans have language and no-verbal communication (posture, tone, volume of voice, facial expression), there is no need of another communication system. Facial expression in your case is not needed, because bio-luminescence develops in darkness. It would be plausible for attraction. But this kind of solution for attraction usually happens only in enviroments with abundant resources (darkness isn't a place with abundant resources), where a species can waste effort for attraction. That is why birds in jungles are more colorful than birds in tundra. 

Real Coypus are a menace: Here is the 2016-2017 report on Louisiana's coypu(also called a nutria) harvest, which is designed to keep their numbers in check. For the 2016-2017 season in just Louisiana, more than 200,000 coypus were culled, a million dollars was allocated to pay the hunters, and it is estimated that nearly 6000 acres of coastline was damaged by the local coypu population. And this is before their genes were messed with. Your super coypus are worse: Essentially, the super coypus will eat the world into the apocalypse. Your super coypus just escaped from some rural homes, and reach a nearby river. They start eating, and they start breeding. A normal coypu weighs about about 6kg. If your coypu monstrosities are dog-sized, let's say they weight about 30kg. If they ate 25% of its body weight daily like a normal coypu, then each one of these things is eating 7.5kg of veggies every day. Presumably, your genetics lab also made nutrient pellets that hid their true hunger from the public. A normal coypu can give birth to 1-13 offspring every 130 days, and you said your rodents were designed to breed faster than normal. Pretty soon, the super coypu escapee population has outgrown the local wetlands. The plantlife around their rivers is depleted, but luckily for them the rivers they inhabit lead right into nearby crop fields. They begin eating massive amounts of crops and are able to breed and spread faster than ever before. As more super coypus escape around the world and eat their way through farmland, the fear of food shortages grip the world. With governments focused on controlling a panicked populace, attempts to cull their numbers fail. There's too many to capture individually. Burning and poisoning crop fields to save the food supply is a poor long term strategy. Eventually, these fuzzy rodent-locusts deplete the environment to the point where their population collapses and they cease to be a major problem. Unfortunately, humanity ran out of food long before the super coypus did. 

Another problem would be the ramification of new nerves inside the new tissue. So maybe you need to relax the constraint of nerve growing in order to get a limb useful after few time. Also is present the problem of body temperature, this constraint demands that you must use organs of animals that require the same temperature. In the case of limbs it doesn't matter, but a liver needs a precise temperature. Some hormones might not be the same, either by structure or concentration. Summary, most differences are not quite difficult to solve, but the inmune system will always reject foreign tissue, but if you relax the inmune system your Frankenstein will probably die quite fast due to any infection. 

Probably the subject would be already dead by a fungal infection. In case the subject is still alive: 

A volcano eruption might add enough dust to cover the view of the stars and rings. It will also reduce the sunlight if the dust eclipses the sun. The dust does not need to cover the whole sky, because the winds might move the dust to cover only the view to the rings. 

I assumed along with your Hygromagnetic Handwavium-Phlebotium(TM) you had some patent-pending SuperRock-Handwavium to make this thing not collapse in on itself and to plug any cracks into the Earth's mantle. So, my best ideas for your questions: Overall, this canyon would be a mostly dark scar on the landscape with extreme weather near the bottom but few effects on the rest of the world, a normal ecosystem near the top and underwater but with nothing living in the middle. -How would the canyon look from space: If the sides are very steep, then it would look like the Grand Canyon, except more than twice as wide as the Grand Canyon's widest point. If the sides were more sloped, then it might look more like some of the canyons in the Himalayas. However, the biggest difference in appearance is that this thing would be dark trench in the landscape. At ~30km deep, sunlight would touch the bottom of the canyon rarely. The Grand Canyon is less than 2km deep, and even at that depth the parts along the river get a good amount of shade. Sunlight definitely will reach the bottom for at least part of the day, however much of it will only get a brief glimpse of sunlight reflecting tens of kilometers up the side of the canyon. -What would be the climate inside of it: Temperature throughout the canyon is tricky. As altitude increases temperature decreases because there is less air to hold the heat(snowy mountaintops), so it makes sense that temperature would be high in the canyon since the air pressure is higher. This gives a rough estimate of 6.5c per km of altitude change, however the lack of sunlight can negate much of that. So, depending on the amount of sun the canyon will have areas that are boiling hot and areas that are freezing cold. According to calculations that use too many letters, pressure at 30km below sea level would be about 15 atmospheres, where 1 atmosphere is sea level, if it was a comfortable 15 degrees Celsius. Pressure can get closer to 25atm in the colder parts, or 7atm in the hot parts. This will cause extremely chaotic storms where these pressure differences meet. -Effect on world climate: Thankfully, probably small. Wind from the Great Canyon Storms will definitely blow out of the canyon, but most of the churning atmosphere will be contained down below. A 60km wide, 30km deep, 500km long canyon would be 900,000km of air missing from the atmosphere, however the pressure will mean that even more than that would fall into the canyon. The exact amount can probably be calculated, however the pressure differences from depth and temperature results in an equation beyond me, so let's assume this canyon sucks in 5-10 million cubic kilometers of air as a very, very rough guess. There is roughly 4 billion cubic kilometers of air, so this trench will bring the edge of space closer to the earth but thankfully air pressure at sea level will remain basically the same. -Canyon Critters: 0-3km down: Much the same as the Grand Canyon. Birds, adventurous goats, and very adventurous people, as well as hardy trees, bushes, moss, etc. 3km-5km: In areas that are warm enough to ease the atmosphere pressure, but shady enough to not cause the critters to boil, will likely also look like the Grand Canyon. 5km-'sea level': Extremely high pressures, extreme temperatures, extreme storms... nothing but hardy bacteria until the bottom. Underwater: Plenty of life. I'd imagine the sea would look much like the bottom of the actual oceans: tough critters huddled around hydrothermal vents. Since the bottom of this canyon will be like 5 feet from the Earth's mantle, I'd assume these vents will be plentiful. Water is really hard to compress and air is light, so the pressure here is likely less than what it actually is at the real bottom of the ocean. 

Low chances due to tectonics, because the crust that is lost by the movement of tectonic plates usually is the crust that is below the sea. The surface that covers continents might move or go up due tectonics, but almost never disappear. The worst case would be that the remnats are buried in a mountain like the Tibet or the Alps, but never below the sea. Yes by other force of nature. Like any other fossil, the remnants of your civilization might be convered by sediments and later on turn into stone or leave their mark in the stone. 

You might have that effect with tectonics, just before when two continents separated by a sea meet each other. For example when Indian plate hit Euroasian plate. That crush started to create the Himalayas. When the continents met the mountains stated to elevate and the sea between both plates started to dry (Tethys ocean). So for a short while probably a deep valley was created between both continents, an later on the Himalayas grew bigger and the valley between both continents was gone. But in the meantime, you had a valley between both continents. Another possibility is the East Africa Drift, where former mountains are separating, creating several valleys between them, valleys that later were filled with lakes. 

The above could be a dictionary or a grocery list, there is no difference to you. The Zoblings are going to have the same problem we had when trying to understand the Egyptian hieroglyphics. We were only able to understand these hieroglyphs when we found the Rosetta Stone, since we then had a reference for what the symbols mean, not just what set of symbols they had. It's not even enough to hear the humans speak, since the Zoblings will have no way to understand how any letter is pronounced and thus can't match spoken words to the written words. Unless the Zoblings can get a human to give examples to words in the dictionary or find some translation of a few words into the Zobling's language, they won't be able to decipher the meaning of what the weird symbols in the dictionary are. However, if the end goal is just proving that the Zoblings are intelligent, then they have better options: mimicking humans sounds/actions to show they understand human are doing something, coordinating themselves to perform some patterns like tapping their feet a certain number of times over and over again until the humans pay attention, etc. 

Under the assumption of no data loss during the transfer (due to any object in the transfer medium). Your system still has two problems. 

Napoleonic wars were the continuation of the French revolution. Therefore, these wars were between the old and new order. All monarchs saw France as a potential danger to them, in the same way as Russian revolution was a danger to other countries during the XX century. So I think the best parallel is indeed the Russian revolution. The Soviet Union didn't try to expand its influence beyond their frontiers and that helped them to survive, even though they were isolated. While Napoleon, by extending his influence beyond France doomed the revolution. Because no prolongued peace was possible, only ceasefires thanks to his military talent. He was a virus that other monarchs must destroy in order to preserve themselves. By 1812 no step back was possible. If any it would have been only another truce. He must defeat completely all other monarchs in order to preserve his empire. 

Astrological readings. Astrology describe a moment of time with planet positions and the relation between them. For example, a moment of time can be described as follow: Mars in Aries, Mercury in Libra... conjuntion between Jupiter and Mars and Saturn in opposition to the Moon. Each combination might be unique. Neptune for example needs 165 years to make one orbit, so this kind of calendar can be used for a long period of time. 

Given that you can recognize that these symbols have meaning to the Egyptians, can you learn to at least write in it without the aid on an Egyptian? 

It seems like you're trying to bend the rules on causality, or rather you're trying to blend two points that have no common cause into one. Paraphrasing the definition of causality: an effect cannot occur from a cause not in it's past light cone, and cannot cause an effect outside it's future light cone. A light cone is essentially the cone of all possible paths that a photon can take through spacetime. In other words, a light cone represents all possible effects that a cause can have, because the effect cannot reach outside of the cone without traveling faster than the photon/faster than light. I don't have enough physics doctorates to go into the math on why what you want is physically possible or impossible. However, I can roughly describe what would need to be possible for what you want to happen: Imagine you are looking at the light cone of an event coming toward you, i.e. you are looking at the base of the cone which looks like a circle. If the event that made that cone could have produced a different effect, i.e. created a different universe, and was also coming at you, then the two cones would look like a Venn diagram. The common parts of each universe are in the overlapping center of the two cones and are already 'blended' because they came from the same event. The edges, however, are the differences between the two universes and are what you want to blend together in your weird non-causality world. Therefore, the sci-fi alien hand-waving-the-non-fun physics explanation for blending two universes is simply blending two non-overlapping light cones into one, thus bending the rules of causality. Essentially, things just need to happen without any event causing them to happen.