No. Trembling hand perfection would be an additional consideration. Consider this case: Two agents engage in a two stage game. In stage one, player one selects Rock, Paper or Scissors. In stage two, player two selects Rock, Paper or Scissors. They receive payouts depending on whether or not they match. They both have identical payout matrices. Payoffs (Match, Unmatched) 

In a mixed strategy nash equillibrium consider player one. He can choose any mixed strategy such that p(Rock)+p(Paper)+p(Scissors)=1 and they would all be equally rational. Since even if he chooses scissors, a rational player two would match him. However, taking into account trembling hand perfection, the subset of strategies where p(Scissors)=0 dominate the previous strategy set. This is the case because we are concerned that player two has a chance of making a mistake if we choose scissors and not matching us. Therefore, mixed strategy and trembling hand mixed strategy give us different sets of strategies which fulfill our Nash equilibrium criteria. 

because official government published inflation statistics are just as artificial as the fiat currency value they intend to measure. according to those statistics, "a loaf of bread" has gone up in price dramatically in the last 100 years. but realistically, i think it would have cost hundreds of dollars to get a loaf of bread of the same quality and consistency as cobblestone bakery's "million dollar white bread" way back in 1916. that simple everyday example doesn't even begin to account for the price of important stuff like pharmaceutical grade penicillin. it is unfortunate that people use the word "real" to refer to inflation-adjusted numbers, as if they are somehow more realistic. life is getting better due almost exclusively to technological advancement. that advancement makes everyone richer. arguably, it has been more useful to centralized systems (e.g. governments and large corporations) in the past few thousand years. however, i for one am hopeful that the next few hundred years will be characterized by more decentralizing technology (e.g. the internet, bitcoin, etc.) that will be more beneficial to the "common man". 

As an answer let me offer a paradox that goes in your direction and is related to automation and the future of jobs: 

Pierre Dubois, Rachel Griffith, and Aviv Nevo have a nice and well-executed AER paper where they argue that differences in obesity rates across countries can be due to differences in food consumption patterns. For instance, obesity rates are the highest in the United States at 30.0% (as you mentioned), compared to 14.5% in France and 23.6% in the United Kingdom. Cutler, Glaeser, and Shapiro (2003) suggest that the decrease in the price of calories has increased caloric intake and contributed to the increase in obesity. So a policy that implies a change in price of calories may reduce obesity. However, Pierre Dubois, Rachel Griffith, and Aviv Nevo find that 

A good starting point is to look at the World Development Indicators (WDI) of the World Bank. You may compare Bangladesh and India's economy over hundred indicators. For instance, you will find that the percentage of the population living below the national poverty lines was around 31.5% in Bangladesh (in 2010) versus 21.9% in India (in 2011). The 2014 annual report documents that the unemployment rate was quite low in both countries between 2008 and 2012, around 4-5%. 

I have quarterly data for real GDP from 1981-2015. I also have quarterly chained-dollar real GDP from 61-2012. I need to have them converted into one series. I've looked up several different formulas but most of them require a price index. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks. 

Regardless of period if we know the cost 100%, it is simply cost. If there is a degree of uncertainty on what the cost will be (such as in the future) we regard it as expected cost. Regarding your question specifically about how the cost of a project can change in a future period, this falls under an area of study known as cost-benefit analysis. Your specific example is a topic within that domain known as irreversibility. If we are uncertain if the project is needed(such as in the case of building a dam for a potential flood), this does not affect the expected cost. Instead it affects the expected benefits. Regardless of whether or not the dam is needed, we have still expended the funds. Our uncertainty is in fact, changes our expected benefit. It is important to note that no matter what side of the equation we handle this on (benefits or costs), the expected value will have the same result. When making these kind of evaluations we calculate their expected value(expected benefits-expected cost) and then adjust for irreversibility. 

Banks and the finance industry have an essential function of allocating capital to productive uses, intermediating between savers and investors, and managing risk. However, banking deregulation, beginning in the 1970s (and not "centuries ago" as claimed by Varoufakis), has moved this industry toward rent-seeking activities. So, since then, bankers do not lend money from savings accounts deposits. This is "the legend". They offer financial services. They are engaged in lending by trading bonds and securities. They are engaged in futures markets (central financial exchanges where standardized futures contracts are traded - see wikipedia). By the way, deregulation has been a very lucrative change because finance has become more profitable relative the rest of the economy. Philippon and Reshef show convincingly in a QJE paper that salaries in the financial sector have skyrocketed. 

A variable he used for the demand curve shifter was the price of substitute goods, such as cottonseed, while a variable he used for the supply curve shifter was yield per acre, which can be thought of as primarily determined by the weather. However, IVs may have potential pitfalls: an instrument that is correlated with the error term, or weakly correlated with the endogenous variable, or not every observation's behavior is affected by the instrument. To overcome omitted variables bias, instruments are sometimes derived from natural experiments. Recent years have seen a resurgence in the use of instrumental variables in this way — that is, to exploit situations where the forces of nature or government policy have conspired to produce an environment somewhat akin to a randomized experiment. This answer is based on Instrumental Variables and the Search for Identification: From Supply and Demand to Natural Experiments by Joshua D. Angrist and Alan B. Krueger. 

you have to understand the difference between wholesale and retail. when you buy a tv, about half the price covers the wholesale cost of the tv to the retailer, and the other half covers the retailer's overhead (e.g. employee wages, building lease, utilities, debt service, shareholder profit). the law of supply and demand applies to both sides of that equation, but you seem to only look at the wholesale demand. yes, on black friday, customers demand a lot of products, but they demand very little retail service. they tolerate crowded stores, long lines, distant travel and terrible hours (one day a year!). you can see the same principle in retail where larger packages are cheaper per unit (e.g. the 2-pack is almost half the price of the 10-pack). from a wholesale perspective, the more you buy the higher demand. but from a retail perspective, the more you buy per package or per visit the lower your demand for retail service. wholesale demand will drive up prices only slowly. you can't build, tool and staff a factory for one day and then tear it down the next (yet....). so, higher demand only drives up wholesale prices if it lasts for months or years. so, on black friday, wholesale prices are generally stable, but the retail margins drop precipitously. if a retailer were to maintain normal margins on black friday, they would be lucky to get normal volume and just barely break even. however, if a retailer cuts their margins in half on black friday, they are likely to more than double their normal volume and more than make up for the margin in volume. it is worth noting that high-volume/low-price retailers have a hard time staying open all year. if a retailer were black-friday-busy on some random tuesday in february, many customers would simply find somewhere else to shop. for example, many consumers avoid walmart, despite the low prices, because of the long lines. that said, other people do frequent walmart. there are in fact retailers like "weekends only" that claim to offer lower prices specifically afforded by their reduced retail service (not open during the middle of the week). 

Regarding your second question: Is inequality increasing consistently around the world? Or is it decreasing in some places? The short answer: on average the income inequality is increasing around the world. Income inequality in OECD countries is at its highest level for the past half century. The average income of the richest 10% of the population is about nine times that of the poorest 10% across the OECD, up from seven times 25 years ago. Source OECD. In emerging economies, such as China and India, a sustained period of strong economic growth has helped lift millions of people out of absolute poverty. But the benefits of growth have not been evenly distributed and high levels of income inequality have risen further. Source OECD. The long answer: A good reference to answer this question is the The World Top Incomes Database by Facundo Alvaredo, Tony Atkinson, Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez. You can plot different variables on inequality for different countries and years. You can also select, retrieve and download the data.