Agriculture-level, plus some rudimentary telescopes, should be enough. If you create massive tulip fields, I mean. 

My answer uses some sci-fi elements to it, with some handwavy tech. It may not be what you're looking for. 

"Feudal" is a really modern word for the government system that was used on times of old. Feudal is not a model of government, per se, but instead is an umbrella term for several similar government systems. This means that your people could use whatever rule for inheritance you would like them to use. A relatively common rule was one of blood - once you die, the title you have must go to one of your blood relatives. The exception was regarding female spouses - once a woman married a duke, a baron, or any noble higher-ranked than her, she would get the same title as him. The reverse was not true. A man that marries a higher-ranked female stays with his lower title, even if she eventually dies. Her offspring or family would then inherit the title, then. Of course, this is really dependent on how your culture works. When we are dealing with Medieval ages, we are not talking about absolute laws as we understand them today. Almost everything was based on traditions and customs, and those rules changed all the time and changed fast. In the end, anything that you devise for your kingdom goes. Just keep clear why someone is getting a title (be it because of a bloodline, a favor for the king, a marriage, or even self-proclamation or outright murder), and you'll be fine! 

No Poison at all. You don't need to poison him. You need to make him believe he was poisoned. Give him a real poison, and let him suffer the first effects. After that, apply the antidote in a visible form (injection is best), and let him know that this will stop the toxin from working for a while. Which is a lie, but he doesn't need to know that. After that, give him poisoned food, and let he feel once more the effects of the poison before applying the antidote. Do this a few times until he believes that he was poisoned in that manner. Once he believes he is poisoned with your special poison, do the offer for work. If he accepts, you start providing him a stronger dose of the 'antidote', which will hold the effects of the poison at bay for a longer time - a day, a week, you choose. At this point, you just brainwashed him into working for you, and don't need the poison anymore - just making him believe he is poisoned will be enough. 

If we're talking about humans, you don't need much. Modern, globalized culture as we see today is kinda new. Back then being from a different clan or tribe would be enough to get yourself shunned from society, even if you had the same skin color or general appearance of the people you're trying to mingle into. But if you were different, chances are you would end up having a really, really bad time. Just check all the fuss we still have because of stupid things like skin color. Just give your races some sort of different skin or hair color, or maybe even some sort of different type of hair. Make then "Blues vs Oranges", or "Curly Hairs vs Balds". Those types of differences shall be enough to explode a society if their leaders are fanatical enough. If you don't want to make the difference on your societies being "flavor", use their country of origin as a basis. Civilization A always lived on the country, while Civilization B is a newcomer and grabbed a slice of land for themselves. So, you have a conflict over land that, given enough time, would evolve to racism. 

I hold my breath for a second, looking to the endless, calm waves below. The sound of the raging wind was almost entirely deafened by that vast blue expanse that rolled over all the way past the horizon, fusing itself with the sky on the distance. There wasn't land to go for if we missed the target. Or was it a perfect landing, or it was death. Checking my gear one last time, I did what I did before several other times. The thing I was trained to do and the thing I lived to do. It wasn't only my military duty, nor the needs of my people that gave my legs the motivation they needed to disobey my instincts every single time I jumped. It wasn't my captain yelling orders nearby, or the loyalty to my comrades. All of those things mattered, of course, but not there. Not now. They were irrelevant. The only thing that mattered was how much I loved to fly. I pushed myself forward, jumping with all my strength out of the launching board. My arms folded to the sides of my body, holding on the metal rings near my hips with a iron grasp. I twisted my body midair, using my legs and my spine to direct myself to the enemy ship several feet down below. An easy target, I told myself. I knew it was a lie, but it was a lie that I needed right now. When my downward speed was good enough, I pushed my arms forward, bringing the rings with me, breaking the fragile glass seals that held my glider in its closed form. I heard the leather unfurling and the several small bronze cogs turning fast as my arms moved into position. A satisfying click made itself audible when the wooden segments that made the attack side of my glider locked themselves in position. I felt the small bump in my movement as the steering tail unfurled itself behind me, giving me the control I would need in my descent. I pushed my right leg forward, pulling a set of ropes that made my tail twist to the side. That movement was mirrored by my left arm, retracting the wing attached to it somewhat and enabling me to enter into a wide spiral, changing my downwards movement into a dash forward. I was approaching my target fast. I could see the individual enemy soldiers running around on deck, shooting towards me and the rest of the small swarm of the Crown's Wings. It was in vain - we were too fast for their clumsy firearms and lousy aim. I could already discern the white of their eyes. It was time. I pulled my arms back. Hard. An audible pop of wood breaking later, and my glider was unfurling itself once more - the leather of the wings unfolded itself a couple times, changing its original wedge shape into a more open, wider and longer form, opening itself behind me as a long blue cloak with my team's sigil emblazoned over it. It them jumped upwards, pushed away from my body by the wind. Strong silk ropes made sure it remained attached to my boarding harness, giving me limited but enough mobility for the final landing. My right hand went for my cutlass, while my left one held tight on the unlocking switch in the middle of my chest. I held my breath. As I got closer, still going fast forward, I raised my leg somewhat, making sure to kick one of the enemy soldiers right into the temple before releasing my gliding suit. It kept moving away, right into the sea, its job done and its task finished with perfection. With my cutlass in my hand, I turned myself to find my comrades landing beside me, already ready for battle. A few of us were grinning in anticipation, with our hearts already pumping hard and our minds lusting for blood. The blue below would mean death for anyone that fell from the ship, sure. But We were the Crown's Wings. We were death from the sky. 

Well, my time to chime in. As a RPG-writer, I've stumbled with how would my mermaids culture and architecture look for humans. Well, unless your mermaids and your humans are isolated, some things will follow, but the more important one is: Mermaids won't live in deep waters As a human-sized fish-mammal hybrid, mermaids are not adapted to living in deep water conditions. They will probably live around beaches, and maybe a bit off the coast, but never on deep, empty ocean. The human body that makes their upper torso doesn't support deep-sea living for long without heavy equipment, and evolution can only take you so far as adaptation goes without making them look like whales or sea-lions. The sea can be really cold, so they will need shallower, warmer waters to thrive. Also, in literature, at least, mermaids go with some frequency to the surface to interact with the surface in a way or another. Don't think of them like the mermaids from the Disney movies or as friends of Aquaman. They are likely to spend a lot of time on land trading, gathering stuff from the beaches, getting sun-baths, luring sailors to eat them alive... mermaid stuff. They are half-human, and they can breath air. They will probably love the warm sun on their skin, the taste of fresh coconuts, or some freshly-cut palmito with their fish. They will love to look to the sky at full moon, and will probably love to sing in the beach, around a fire. You can't sing really well underwater. I believe that mermaids would start more tribal than humans, at first, like Amazonian or African tribes that develop a bit away from the main bodies of civilization. They will probably be more carnivorous than anything else, since fish is a way better source of fundamental nutrients for mammals of their size than kelp - I imagine their diet being similar to those of dolphins. Since building stuff underwater is hard, mermaids will probably be stuck with living in caves or some rudimentary rock-houses for a while. That's it, until they see what land-dwellers built. At the moment the mermaid scouts bring the notice of the majestic human cities near the coast, I believe mermaids will take a great deal of interest on those strange, two-legged creatures and the stuff they build. Their leaders will want those majestic buildings, too, and will, sooner or later, do what humans do best - imitate them. They will try to simulate what they see on the coast, with their vision on how should things work on their culture. They will probably build hybrid constructions on relatively shallow water, with some parts over and some parts under water. However, this type of building needs materials that are really hard to get underwater, so they will probably need to buy them from land-dwellers. To make that work, your mermaids will need some economical advantage over humans - something that only they can get, it's expensive, and that humans really want. That way, they can buy the materials and hire the work they need to build their coastal palaces, which will be built using granite and similar materials, and adorned with gold and gemstones. Mermaids like some bling, too. Those buildings will probably be made to be used by mermaids, with some capabilities for humans to cross. There is no good to have a sublime palace if you can't show it off to the other people. Mermaids will probably love wide open spaces, with tons of glass panes for light to shine in, probably emulating how the sun shines through the water. If they do have multi-store buildings over-water, they will use columns of water which connect pools in different floors to go up and down. Those columns could be partially sealed off to prevent water spill, and some crafty use of wind-powered water pumps will make sure the water stays on level everywhere. The use of hybrid buildings will make a lot of things that are harder underwater way easier. Medical care, for example. If blood spills on land, it goes down to the ground and stays there. If it spills underwater, it goes everywhere, mixing with water and making things really messy. Metalworking and leather working simply don't happen underwater, and so your mermaids will want some surface area to work with those the same way humans do. Also, electricity and water can go messy really fast, so they will probably be way more wary of electrical power than humans are. If they adopt it, it probably will be restricted to the surface areas of their dwellings, and will not, for obvious reasons, extend to their underwater areas except on some really, really controlled settings for essential stuff - mostly illumination and heating. So, in essence, instead of deep-water cities, they will probably build coastal, resort-like cities adapted both for them and for humans, which they will probably be contacting often. Their cities will probably be build from the beach towards the sea, and will extend for a while until the water gets too deep to build or too cold to live in. As a side-note, don't be afraid to build a less-advanced culture for your mermaids. Their problems and environments are different, and so will be their development. Think of how Hawaii was before the arrival of the foreign people, and how it is now. Seems as a good way to go with your mermaids, I think. Most important of all, don't let their fish-tails be something restrictive. On the contrary, use them to boost their capabilities, and let them roam the land and the sea in ways that we humans can only dream of. Don't shackle them to the bottom of the ocean. Their voices deserve to be heard, their songs deserve to be listened, and their belies deserve to be full of sailor-meat! 

Can we go crazy? Let's go crazy. I like to go crazy. You can solve this using a parallel 4D dimensional plane interlocked with our 3D universe. Let's look to a misterious friend of ours, Gravity, for some references. I'll be using the layman terms that I use for my daughters. Let's use a 2D universe and do some weird Unicode Art. You have two orbs. Orb A and Orb B. They have some empty space between then. A ●- - - - - - - - - - - - - ●B Now, those orbs have mass, they would immediately interact with each other. Gravity would make each one of them pull the other closer. This... A ●►►►►►-◄◄◄◄◄●B Will become this, given enough time: . - - - - - - - - A●●B - - - - - - - - - -. However, Gravity doesn't disappear. The forces are still pulling those two together, and thus you still have the same fields "flowing". They're just centered now. ►►►►►A●●B◄◄◄◄◄ So, for observer, you have a "inwards only" force going on, here, directed to the "center" of our system. In our 2D universe, now you have "two forces" - one pulling left, the other one pulling right. If you swap this around to create some sort of anti-gravity for this 2D universe... ◄◄◄◄◄A●●B►►►►► AND make it so that you only have the one "orb", at the center.... ◄◄◄◄◄ ● ►►►►► You have a single field "pointing" outwards from the center of your universe. Now, if we suppose that you have an otherwise regular universe like ours, but: 

The limit of those and how they affect the capabilities of interbreeding are up to you. Really, you don't need to limit yourself to real-life DNA mechanics - it's a fantasy world anyway. Just keep consistent, and you're good to go. Your readers will pay way less attention to those details than you think if your world is self-consistent in general. 

Those 3 "not-assumptions" make my humans much more malleable, and thus I can do whatever I like with them. A few examples. 

You need no bulky male. You need some dragon-riding girls! What I see is a world with far more equality between the sexes. While on non-dragon riding countries the major advantage of the troops is the raw muscle power of the regular army man, the dragon-riding people would experience something new - the people best suited to ride those giant beasts are actually women. This won't change architecture much, but it will probably put the ladies on a more important scenario - depending on how long this dragon-riding thing is going on, your would could even be a matriarchy, ruled by the ones that can handle the most powerful weapons of war. I don't see any of this changing the aesthetics of anything, however. Architecture is (mostly) gender-neutral, and if it would change to something different, it would be something more dragon-themed to reflect the iconic beasts of this people. What is "manly" wouldn't change. What would change is how important being "manly" is to this people. Probably they wouldn't see "being manly" as something even related to gender, anymore. Since there are guys and girls on the army, the standard gender roles are throw by the window and people just stop caring what you do anymore. This is more-or-less what's happening on the world today - with the help of technology, we are each year less dependent on the natural raw power of the males and females, once trapped on less muscle-intense jobs, are now basically everywhere, even in the army. The reflect of this is that people are more and more less concerned to fit stereotypes and more concerned in being happy. So, the way to go is equality between sexes, if not a bit of favouritism to females.