This means that the effects of a USA vs EU airbag is quite different. The US airbags will save the life of an unbelted adult, but can cause injuries in the process, especially to children. 

In this Nature Genetics paper, Gene-culture coevolution between cattle milk protein genes and human lactase genes Nature Genetics 35, 311 - 313 (2003), the variants in Cattle milk proteins and Human lactase persistence genes were analysed. (Lactase persistence means that adults can keep digesting lactose, while normally the lactase gene switches off after childhood, giving rise to lactose intolerance.) They found that: 

He wanted to sell more Australian-made cars, but the clear implication there is that Japanese cars could be found in RSL parking lots in the 60s. Roger Pulver's article for Japan times may have been the source for Abbott's statement there: 

Probably the most famous example of political interference in science is, of course, Lysenkoism in Soviet Russia, described in Martin Gardner's Fads and Fallacies in the Name of Science [copied by hand, blame me for any typos]: 

In 2005 the Joint Science Academies, a group of 11 national scientific societies, including the US National Academy of Sciences, stated that: 

As noted above, I have never managed to damage any electronics with static (as far as I know — static damage is invisible and hard to distinguish from just random equipment failure), with or without a vacuum cleaner. I have also been unable to locate any verifiable reports of someone damaging their computer through static from a vacuum cleaner — alas, it just doesn't seem to be something that people would write up and publish. Thus, for now, I'll have to state that I cannot offer a positive answer to this part of your question. 

Yes, in chemistry labs Cyanide dissolved in DMSO is referred to as "Liquid Death". As this in depth explanation states: 

This medical article has an excellent summary of the benefits and dangers of airbag use in the EU and USA. 

Given that Dundee voted Yes to independence and their representative claims there was no impropriety with the counting, I find it implausible that the vote there was rigged in favour of voting No! I don't know where the first image you have is from though. 

Studies that have ever been published or scrutinised outside razor companies seem to be rather difficult to come by. The best I could find was Measurement of beard hair removal efficacy using image analysis, a study conducted by researchers at Gillette (kudos to Solveig_A on Reddit for fetching the full-text for me). Now, a warning: this study's primary focus was not actually about comparing two razors, but on techniques for finding statistically significant results even for marginal effects were to conduct such a study. That can make reading it a bit obtuse (I shall not get into why they might be motivated to conduct such a study...). The first two experiments compare different types of shaving foam using a twin blade and a single-blade razor, respectively. They do not include results in such a way as to make direct comparison possible. However, the third experiment compared a single-blade and a twin-blade razor (Gillette's Trac I and Trac II razors, respectively) with the same type of shaving foam. According to their data, the twin-bladed razor was 1.6% more effective than the single-bladed razor, but that they could not reject the null hypothesis (that they were equally effective) at the α=0.05 significance level. In short, this does not represent compelling evidence that a razor with two blades is more effective than a razor with one blade, which does not bode well for the claim that five blades are more effective than three. Cecil Adams, writing for The Straight Dope, cites studies by Consumers' Research magazine which consistently failed to find a benefit for twin blades, whilst noting that the single-bladed razors tended to last for more shaves than twin-bladed razors. 

So it seems the risks depend on which type of airbag you have. In the USA the risks seem to outweigh the benefits for children, but not adults: 

So 1 million deaths per year from coal air pollution. Nuclear power provides ~6% of the worlds energy, and so over 20 years over a million lives will be saved. This seems to make the claim in the original paper seem feasible. Other forms of energy are also compared for total deaths per TwH: 

This blog post has a detailed analysis of the deaths from various forms of energy. It would seem to agree with the result of a large number of deaths saved from the use of nuclear energy. For just air pollution it says: 

I regularly clean my computers with an ordinary floor vacuum, and have never experienced any static damage. However, that may well be because I've known about this risk for a long time, and have always taken a couple of simple precautions to avoid it: 

Yes, vacuum cleaners can indeed build up a noticeable static charge. The amount of charge buildup can vary depending on several factors, such as the type of vacuum cleaner used, the amount and type of dust present, and, as with any static buildup, ambient air humidity. The main source of this static buildup appears to be from dust particles striking the walls of the plastic inlet nozzle / tube, picking up a charge (and leaving an opposite charge on the nozzle) through the triboelectric effect. Thus, the charge accumulates not only on the body of the vacuum cleaner, but also on the nozzle and the hose. In fact, this can be quite easily observed by vacuuming the floor in dry weather: some dust tends to cling to the top side of the nozzle, and can be quite resistant to attempts to remove it. 

And sorted by rate. You can download my spreadsheet. Having done so, I find that "Melanomas of the Skin" is well down the list. It varies year-by-year, but 9th is most common and the highest it gets it 7th in 2005 and 2007. 

A 1994 meta-analysis of 35 studies found that mental practise was effective, but not as good as physical practise: 

(not a comprehensive list, that was just from a couple tables that were convenient to skim) Getting accurate numbers on this question is necessarily difficult - someone's exposure to secondhand smoke over a lifetime is a lot more variable than active smoking, even moreso when we're talking about low-level exposures rather than, say, someone married to a smoker. And low exposures are always going to be more difficult to separate from the controls - that's the nature of a dose-response curve. However, it certainly seems that low exposures to secondhand smoke have been shown to have adverse impacts. 

There wasn't initially a problem with the Oxygen being released as the quantity of Iron on earth reacted with the Oxygen forming Fe2+ and Fe3+ compounds first. Only once all the available Iron had reacted with Oxygen did the Oxygen start building up in the atmosphere, but the rate of Oxygen production from all the Cyanobacteria on the planet by that stage was rather large. There evidence for this is oxidised Iron compounds appearing sometime after the evolution of cyanobacteria, and pre-dating the free oxygen in the atmosphere which is given in the article you linked to. If you want to do a rough estimate, this paper claims 25 Giga tons of carbon from CO2 are fixed each year. This is 2.1e+12 moles of Carbon, which should then liberate the same number of moles of O2. The atmosphere contains 5.1480×1018 kg , of which Oxygen makes up 21% by volume, or 23% by weight. So 1.6e+20 moles of Oxygen. The ratio then means that it would take approximately 7,600,000 years for the current rate of production of Oxygen to take the atmosphere from 0% Oxygen to the current 21% Oxygen. This is consistent with the ~50 million years proposed for the timing from Oxygen starting to build up in the atmosphere to the Great Oxygenation Event 

For interest, Ljungqvist (2009) plotted a number of paleoclimate proxies for a number of different regions. Remember, many of these will only include data up to about 1950 or so. In many of these records, current temperatures are lower than during their medieval warm peak. However, the exact time of that peak varies - which probably helps to explain why many locations contain a MWP and yet it is less pronounced in larger scale hemispheral or global records. 

McKitrick here simply confuses correlation with causation: he immediately leaps to a conclusion that being associated with the WWF causes IPCC authorships, completely ignoring the possibility that, for example, being a top expert in the field would increase your chances of being an attractive recruit to both the IPCC and WWF. 

Use a conductive nozzle on the vacuum. Most household vacuum cleaners come with one or two metal pipe segments between the flexible tube and the fancy nozzle assembly, so you can just remove the nozzle but leave at least one conductive pipe segment on the tube. Keep the nozzle grounded to the computer chassis while vacuuming it. This ensures that the vacuum nozzle remains at the same electric potential as the computer equipment, thus preventing any static discharge between them. You can get fancy and tape a piece of electric wire to the vacuum pipe, with the other end screwed to the computer chassis, or you can wrap one of those anti-static wrist straps around the pipe twice. The simplest way to ground the nozzle, however, is just to ground it through your own body: just hold the (conductive) nozzle in your bare hand, while making sure that your body is grounded to the chassis e.g. through one of those wrist straps, or simply by touching a metal part of the chassis with your other hand.