what is the opposite of my consciousness? Instead of going into definitions of term "opposite" let us cast an intuitive glance on the origin of any opposite, that is, not-this. This question is much related to another, recent one, where in an answer I expressed a view that in order an opposition to A to emerge, A must first (partly) disidentify with itself, and that consciousness is the (only) activity within the world which initiates - and guarantees - the disidentification. How does it happen? Consciousness is intentional, i.e. it always is directed onto something. When I perceive a tree, consciousness automatically self-appoints not to be the tree. The tree is pushed away from "immanence" into "transcendence" and becomes object. Objects are always "over there" and because of that any judgement/knowledge about them will ever remain questionable and self-alienated. Note that object exists before subject comes to exist. At first, there is anonymous consciousness vs its object. The object is "opposite" (split off into transcendence) to the consciousness which isn't yet me. But at the same time as it rejects (to be) the tree, consciousness chooses instead to be some specific possibility on the tree theme. (And that is how meaning of this-tree-in-this-world arises.). The choice is spontaneous and free. And it is apodictically true intuition. On the other hand, it is important to note that an intuition of a possibility is an intuition of something really lacking (like Venus having no arms), - so the consciousness is the chosen possibility but by mode of non-being. It means there is no object here, and the possibility (about the tree there) appears the no-object-posing consciousness on oneself. Thus, we have immediate, pre-reflective self-consciousness in the form of a sketch (a project) of Being of world allowing that particular tree, or meaning, that taste of the tree. That project (which is primeval me) is true and wanting, while tree itself is problematic and waste. That is how the opposition is coloured asymmetrically at its becoming. "Later", as cognition (cogito) starts, consciousness reflects onto its activity, posing what it is doing as objects. My thoughts on the tree - they start to flow, as it now felt, and they feel like being seen or supervised on from a side, as if there are some witness or controller intimately close by. This is the point where we become aware of the primeval other (so notice that other man is thus initially not an object to us, he is a "sideway stare" going along with reflection, - we can't be soliptic). And only in the last step of this evolution of reflection - there emerges Ego, or subject. This "I" is just another object, like that tree in the beginning, only that it appears in the end thanks to reflection. But like any object ego is alienated into transcendence. Neither we can truly believe our ego, nor can we be it, ourselves, by mode of identity, like that table is that table. I'm yet another opposite of my consciousness. 

Possibility realization is in the future (possibility brings in future by temporalizing me), but that future is "around me", it is here already with me in its final perfect sense - but is in pure inaccessibility. From this point of view, 

There is a hierarchy of possibilities. Provided that my choice of the fundamental possibility was free (and it always is so) my choice of subordinate actions are less free because these actions are implied by the fundamental project: it demands them. When I'm running cross-country I make certain body movements and breath controls which are "natural" to do as long as I'm engaged in the undertaking the run to the finish (and probably good run). I'm still free to amplify or decrease the pace of legs or to breath deeper or shallower, but free only to the extent that will help to run, because in the current actuality I've chosen my body to serve the aim to get to the finish at my best. While I'm monitoring/controlling by muscles/breath by my consciousness I do not reflect on my possibility to seize the movements as long as I'm engaged in the project to race to. I only am considering ways or subordinate possibilities how to optimize the movements to reach that aim. In order for me to reduce the steps and turn away and kneel on the ground I have to redirect my self suddenly to another basic aim instead (for example "I'm too old, I want to be a retired sportsman doing easy jogging with my dog every morning" [that thought convoluted first, just intuition, a pin prick]). That re-decision is spontaneous and free, but it (its meaning) logically calls me to stop now and to lie on the grass, and these particular actions won't be free actually - like my treads/breath control weren't also two seconds ago. They are - like those were - free only within the project - and now the project "retired old sportsman" - and they are bendable by me as long as they serve it within its framework. For many people, profound discussions on "free will" are projects of discourse or arguing where hands movements are implied or even necessary because they serve something (for example, to facilitate self-convincing property of the words spoken out or to show the audience that the topic is so ample, etc.). In doing these gestures they may pay some attention how to do them best, but they aren't currently free to stop doing them until they spontaneously (freely) drop out from the mood "doing discourse". Note that I didn't speak of free will. I understand "will" in the narrow sense of reflective thought "I did it by myself" or "I must decide to do it". That thought is necessary for some people to feel their freedom, but not for others, who are equally free. Freedom is pre-reflective spontaneousness; people are free, not that they all have will. 

Nothing(ness) definitionally is being not Being. It therefore not is, ontologically. It is just that "not", the refusal to be this or that concrete X. Sartre often characterizes for-itself and its activity (choosing, i.e. running from a fact towards a possibility) as "being by mode of non-being". Nothingness should not be understood as something which is absent here still potentially is present somewhere else (real or imaginary - no matter). Nothing is what is nowhere. Or, rather, it is here as the pure negation/attenuation of any state of identity in "i is X"; that bold "is" is what gets negated. Nothingness emerge (due to human Consciousness making choices) as holes bored through on the body of Being, to attenuate self-identity of things. Because, for a thing (phenomenon) to have any sense/meaning it must be weakened in its sameness with what it is - for the sake of tying with some chosen possibility. For example, a red ball appears meaningfully "red" to us because its redness is being rejected in exchange of some potentiality in the red quality of the ball. Venus de Milo "has no arms" to us meaningfully only because it could have arms, i.e. be what it is not; however, that "could have arms" is firstly not another state or being, it is the possibility which exists by mode of nothing because it does not change the Venus de Milo to another identity, it just attenuates its present identity by loosening. Only due to that attenuation (negation) of the statue's being without arms it can appear meaningfully as having no arms. There is nothing (no anything) that separates the Venus as it appears from its identity of Venus armless, yet it is not equal to it. Simultaneously, there is that same nothing that separates it from the possibility of armness, yet having arms is not any guaranteed, even not under consideration. (Nothingness does separates by no miles or millimeters, and it does link by no bridges or molecules.) Consciousness opens things as phenomena (appearances). That is, it acts as negation and brings nothingness to things. It attenuates a thing's being what it is, due to which the thing can appear what it is. To appear means to be X with potentialities, while being is just to be X - the state of closed and dense identity where no meaning could arise and even the statement "i is X" can't linger as intelligible. Sartre's concept of Nothing/Negation is sharply dialectic, it owes to Hegel. 

Addition. Note that for Sartre, my death cannot be my possibility (for Heidegger, it can and is). My death is a destiny which is always on the side of worlds contingencies and not my freedom; we - for ourselves - are devoid of destiny because we are free, and when sometimes we look at ourselves as at somebody having destiny that means we are seeing currently ourselves as others, or even as things, i.e. living objects which are amenable to outer contingencies. Freedom is amenable only to inner spontaneousness (while in specific conditions, though). Although it is possible to suppose own death, this is not real expectation but rather an apprehension like that the train will arrive late or an icicle will hit my head - the butt in my possibilities, and not my possibilities themselves. So, it is easy to imagine, lying on the sofa, "my death is possible" or "my death will be possible", given that - what I've said in the body of the answer - both events already happened and, to add, happened not with very me. (Dying process can really be my possibility, but dying is a mode of living or life project yet.)