Finally, the current "thinking" for fore/aft position cleat position is to have the pedal axle between your first and fifth metatarsal, that is, just behind the "ball of your foot (which is the first metatarsal). This keeps your calves muscles more neutral (requiring them to work less), reducing fatigue and oxygen consumption. The calve muscles primarily play a postural role in cycling rather than generating any substantial power. If you are looking to generate more power, you should look into getting muscle recruitment from other muscle groups such as your glutes. 

I personally prefer playing with a shorter reach bar and stack height before going to a shorter stem. Depending on how much drop you currently have on your road bar, a higher stack may be all that is required. If it you currently have a large amount of drop on the road bike, riding a bike with more stack - less drop on the handle bars - will require more reach to feel comfortable (otherwise you end up feeling cramped). You can draw an imaginary arc by holding your arms constant and pivoting on hips to see how much reach gain you may want for a more upright position. At some point of course if the stack is too high (ridiculously high) you will again want a shorter reach. Again this is personal preference, but a higher stack also makes sense on a cyclocross bikes (and training bikes). The bike is more manageable on rough terrain and easier to mount/dismount with a bit more stack. It is interesting that so many cross bikes being sold now are so slammed (in terms of frame stack), I suspect this is so they can "look right" when being marketed as a cross-over bike for those that want a winter or training road bike and not necessarily a cyclocross only bike. 

Figure 3. Difference in speed between a climbing and aero bike for a 60 kg rider and a bicycle weight difference of 1 kg. Bike Calculator was used for the calculations. Finally, I believe psychology also plays a huge role. If a bike feels better to ride you will often perform better on it because of psychological like effects. In fact there is more and more emerging evidence that perception plays a huge role in realized fatigue and therefore performance in endurance sports (see Fatigue Induced by Physical and Mental Exertion Increases Perception of Effort and Impairs Subsequent Endurance Performance). If the bike doesn't "feel" good, you have to concentrate more and this can negatively impact performance. This could go either way in terms of aero vs climbing bike. 

There is plenty of discussions on the internet about larger volume tires actually being faster than narrower tires. For example, a recent Cycling Tips pod cast has a good discussion. However, real world experience will likely be the opposite due to the tire construction used on the majority of tires available in the market place. Tire construction Unfortunately, tire construction is a confounding factor when discussing performance of large volume tires. Most larger volume tires on the market use heavier casings and thicker tread, as they intended use case is "heavy duty". Add in some puncture resistance strips (standard on most large volume tires currently in the market) and you get a very thick and stiff tire. A stiff tire will have higher rolling resistance compared to a more supple tire due to a a process called hysteresis, where the energy required to flex the tire slows you down and higher suspension losses (which has also been termed impedance). Suspension losses vary by road surface and can be quite high on rougher surfaces. Here a stiffer tire response more slowly to road imperfection (i.e., flexes to accommodate the imperfection), which in turn vibrates the rider. The vibrating soft tissue "consumes" energy (actually it converts forward momentum into heat due to internal friction within the body). BQ showed this in an extreme context, where very rough surfaces more than doubled the amount of effort required. All things being equal, a larger volume tire will also be heavier than a narrower tire. Add in heavy duty construction found on most high volume tires, and you end up with a much heavier tire. This results in a large weight penalty which can noticeably affect acceleration, furthering the feel of the tire being slower. Because most high volume tires on the market have stiff heavy duty construction, these tires will typically have much higher rolling resistance than more narrow tires, which, on average, tend to be more performance focused, featuring more supple construction and lighter weights. Light Supple High Volume Tires An exception to this generalization is light supple high volume tires, which are currently quite hard to find. These tires will also have low hysteresis and very low suspension losses as the supple construction means the flex easily and the large volume means you can run them at a lower pressure, there by greatly reducing suspension losses. On most real world road surfaces (especially open chip seal or gravel roads), these type of tires will be faster, than a narrower tire of similar construction due to the large difference in suspension losses. These typically will not have puncture protection, further adding to the suppleness. Lack of puncture protection is less of an issue in large volume supple tires, because the force placed on encountered objects by the tire is reduced due to the fact the tires flex easily and the tires are run at a lower pressure. This means the regular tire rubber is typically strong enough to resist the object and an extra puncture strip is not required. Finally, a light suppler large volume tire will still be heavier than an narrower tire so there is an acceleration penalty. That said, this penalty is much smaller than with the "heavy duty" large volume tires and for most everyday riding it will be hard to notice. It is therefore a bit of a non issue relative to the gains in comfort and higher sustained speed due to reduced suspension losses. The real problem is getting your hands on light, supple, large volume tires. Only a few brands currently exist, with pretty much all of them are being manufactured by Panaracer. 

Wiping off excess oil with a rag is good, but there will still be extra oil hidden inside the links in-between the roller and bushings. This is what comes to the surface once you start riding. You can try spinning the drive train a bit (to bring this oil up) before wiping down a second time. Typically, you will need to wipe the chain off again even after a short ride. Personally, I prefer a thicker oil, so that after second or third wipe to get the chain really clean I don't touch it again for a couple hundred km. A lighter oil needs to be applied sooner, meaning less time running clean. Also, when you spray with water it typically takes longer than an hour to dry the water inside the links. As such, when you are adding oil it may not penetrate as well due to water being in the system. This could further contribute to the dirty mess you are seeing. Using solvents on the chain too early also removes the factory lube (typically a type of wax), which reduces chain longevity. In terms or real world use I measured a 30% reduction in chain life if you strip the factory lube out early. As the chain gets older, less factory lube remains and cleaning with a solvent becomes a non-issue.