and see if the measurements are appropriate for you, for a given size. The two most important ones are typically (effective) top tube length and standover height. 

Not really, just be careful. For example, you don't want the derailleur to hit the door or something when getting it in or out. You also don't really want to stack things on top of the bike, especially if you have no wheel in (e.g. at the fork). That being said, getting a bike in and out of a vehicle can be inconvenient, plus, it can get your car dirty. Racks are nice for this, but its much easier to steal a bike off a rack than it is to steal one from inside a car. 

People tour on everything -- bso's , specialized touring bikes, mountain bikes, etc. Find something that works for you and is within your budget. Unless you have a decent amount of experience with touring, I wouldn't worry about something that does 3000 km tours without breaking a sweat. You need a lot of planning to do something like that, which will affect what you carry (e.g. are you camping, staying in hotels, etc.), and you need that information and experience to choose the right bike for you. For reference, a standard touring bike (like the Trek 520) is 13 kg in disc form for a 57 cm. Note that the weight isn't that big of a deal; how it handles long rides carrying loads and how tough it is (e.g. are the wheels going to break in a little pot hole) is far more important. 

A 70s Peugeot sold outside France probably used 27" wheels, not 700c wheels (though aside from the Velo Orange wheelset, you're probably going to have trouble finding 27" wheels and will have to try 700c wheels + a brake that fits it [an extra 4 mm adjustment is needed]). The bigger issue is finding a wheel set which has hub spacing that fits this frame - likely 120mm in the back and possibly 96 mm in the front (or finding someone who is willing to cold set the frame+fork). 

I'd give the bar ends a try. They give you a hand position or two more depending on model, and they're relatively inexpensive. Plus, I've never had slippage with my Ergon GP3's -- the clamp mechanism is excellent. With new bars, you have to make sure that the clamp diameter of the stem matches the bar's clamp diameter, and the grip area diameter matches the shifter + brake clamps. There are some that 23.8mm (mostly used for road bars) and others with 22.2 mm (mostly used for flat bars) for the grip area. As for bullhorns being bare metal, you wrap them in bar tape, just like drop bars for the road. I'd also play with other adjustments on the bike, such as saddle position, bar height and stuff (an adjustable stem or quill stem if you have one makes this easy). You may be riding in a bad position or something which is causing the discomfort. 

You probably can't fit a bigger front chainring on that bike due to the front derailleur and chain issues. They do make 11 toothed 7 speed cassettes which you can install (but I doubt you'll gain anything from it due to the second point I want to make on cadence), which will give you a bit higher gearing but the spacing between the cogs (i.e. the number of teeth) will be worse. Note that a higher gear ratio isn't always advisable, since you need to remain in control of the bike at speed as well (there isn't really engine braking, like there is on a car, in a derailleur system). Also, if you're commuting, you don't want to be going so fast that you get drenched in sweat when you get to your destination, so speed isn't everything. However, chances are you need to increase your cadence: $URL$ says that at a 60 rpm cadence, you should be doing 19-20 mph in the 48t front, 12t back combo, which should be enough (the 700cx37 tires aren't on his calculator, but 35 and 38 are close enough). Your cadence might change if you're in an improper riding position (e.g. seat too high/low or weird handlebar positions). EDIT: The tire size on this bike should be 700c x 42. But the point still stands (the speeds should be slightly higher at the given cadence, since increasing the tire size also increases the gearing). You should also make sure your bike is tuned up (you may feel sluggish if your hubs are due for a repacking or your brakes are dragging on the rims or your tire pressure is too low, for example). If your cadence is already sufficiently high for some reason, time to get a road bike then (which will probably be lighter and more aerodynamic and have higher gearing (both at the bottom and top end)). Note that there will be a geometry change, even if you go with a flat bar road bike, probably, so if you choose to go this route, make sure to get fit. What you've got is a pretty heavy (~30 lbs, which is fine for its intended purpose) and cheap hybrid which is designed to be a commuter - it isn't really worth pumping money into it to improve it, but only to fix the things which are broken and add things useful for commuting, such as lights or switching to slick tires (which you presumably already have). 

It looks like Campagnolo did make an 8 speed freewheel, but it seems like there isn't a good source for old freewheels or compatible cog spacing ones. There are plenty of Shimano-compatible freewheels in 8 speed that are easy to find (made by sunrace among others), so this is likely what you're going to end up with. So, for the rest of the answer, I'll assume the freewheel is Shimano compatible. The same things would hold if you had a cassette. In order to adapt the Campagnolo shifters+derailleur to work with the freewheel, you'll need to throw a JTek Shiftmate 1 into the mix. Or, if you're only getting the Campagnolo shifters and using a Shimano derailleur (<= 10 speed road, <9 speed mountain), you can use a JTek Shiftmate 4. For full details on all configurations supported by JTek Shiftmates see this link. 

You may want to look at bike forums with sections like "athenas or clydesdales" -- these are typically heavier riders (clydesdales are generally men over 220 lbs, athenas are women over 165 lbs). Example is this one. If you're upgrading components, they may have specific recommendations which may be useful. 

You have a tiny change in gearing, which you can calculate by measuring the outer diameter and plugging it into a calculator like this one -- the larger size will give you higher gearing (i.e. for a given cadence (# of times you turn the pedal per time unit), you'll go faster). You can use this calculator to calculate the difference in speed for a given cadence and gear combination and compare across the two tire sizes. As for width, its a bit narrow for the rim, but you can technically get any 700c tire onto any rim. Running a too narrow tire though increases risks of pinch flats/rim damage. Running too wide a tire increases sidewall/rim failure risk, plus sloppy handling. That being said, this isn't an egregious violation, so you're probably fine. Make sure your frame+fork clear this bigger tire size with an appropriate margin (depending on your preferences, this could be 3-5 mm as the minimum distance between the tire and the fork/frame). As for tube sizes, you can violate the marked sizes by a few sizes. A tube is a balloon -- you're just inflating the balloon a bit more than it was designed for, so it will be fine. If you go a lot more (say a 23c tube in a 5 inch tire), you'll have problems. You can probably put your existing tube in the new tire and have it work fine. As for tire pressure, the thing written on the sidewall is an ad-hoc number (drawn jointly by the legal and marketing departments). Most people should be running a significantly lower pressure than what is marked for a properly inflated tire -- the tire deflects a bit, but has good rolling resistance and hazard+shock absorption properties. Even if you're ~250 lbs with bike+yourself, you're not going to need 100 PSI on a 700x28. And if you're getting near the max pressure, chances are you need to move to a bigger tire size anyway. Finally, the real answer: If you swap between 25 and 28 and set the tire pressures appropriately, most people (esp. non-racers) will not notice a difference in performance. The 28 will be a bit more comfortable since its running at a lower pressure. For a 50 x 11, at 80 rpm, you're looking at 28.5 (25c) vs 28.9 mph (28c). For a 50 x 23 at 80 rpm, you're looking at 13.6 mph vs 13.8 mph. In any case, unless you're spinning out on top gear, you're not going to notice.