Looks pretty typical for a non-WAAS GPS. Height measurement is somewhat erratic for non-WAAS (or WAAS in RAIM failure mode) GPS devices. 

Graphite is best, but is preventative. Once it starts to jam up, you're not going to have much luck getting the graphite in there. LPS Greaseless lubricant works well once you're at that point. Avoid silicone lubes, they make a gooey sticky mess out of locks! 

As others have mentioned, there's ways to do it. I'd just recommend not doing it. I have more pressure loss problems with my Presta bikes than I do the Schrader equipped ones. Strikes me as a downgrade rather than an upgrade. The only advantage I find to the Presta is the size, which will let you run narrower wheels/tires. 

There are lots of different field tests approaches. I've been using the Carmichael one (two 9-minute full out TTs with a cooldown between them). 

Well, the simple answer is that aerobars aren't very helpful unless you are riding at reasonable speed (say, >18MPH or so), but most people who ride at that speed would prefer to ride in a paceline, which gives more benefit than aerobars. Aerobars are unsafe in pacelines because riders cannot maneuver as well as being on the drop bars. 

The short answer is "no", there are no charts or tables that can tell you this directly. There is a lot of variability that determines how hard a person can work out for a specific amount of time - a few of the factors include: 

Large dogs don't seem to be much of a problem, they usually don't seem to care about me when I'm cycling. It's the little yippy dogs that like to chase. They're pretty easy to outrun, so I just go ahead and do that. They tend to give up real quick. Large dogs I've always just slowed down to a walking pace and they've always lost interest at that point. The plan has been to dismount and keep the bike between myself and them to fend them off while hopefully waiting for an owner to appear. The plan of last resort is my handgun. Unfortunately due to the laws in the area that I cycle, spray strong enough to affect animals (such as bear spray) and tasers are not legal (considered "weapons" of a type that there is no license available to carry them). If you choose to carry anything, be sure to check your local laws, you may be surprised at what's prohibited! 

You might consider working on your cadence range; if you are able to spin up to 120-130 RPM, you will have a larger range and won't need to shift as often. One-legged drills and pure cadence drills can work well for this. 

For a given person at a given point in time, it is possible to determine what you are asking experimentally; for example, a runner can, over time, figure out their speed for different time periods. 

You don't mention where you get your calories burn/hour rate, but 800 cal/hour is a very fast ride. 800 cal/hour would be around 220 watts, and that's a lot for 6 hours. When you are riding, some of your energy is coming from carbohydrate metabolism, and some is coming from fat metabolism. The ratio between the two depends upon how hard you are riding, your personal fitness level, what kind of training you have done, and your genetics. If you are riding at your limit, you are burning a lot of carbs, if you are just spinning along, you aren't burning that many. On a 6-hour ride, a decent guess at your ratio is something like 75% fat / 25% carbs. You don't have to try to replace the fat when you ride since we all have stored fat, so you merely need to replace the carbs. If you were burning 800 cal/hour, that would mean that you would need to replace around 200 calories of carbs/hour. You don't need sugar to replace carbohydrates; any simple or complex carb will work, assuming that you tolerate it well. What somebody can tolerate depends a lot on their genetics and effort level; if you are riding hard, you might have to try a few things to find something that works. 

I double bag them (with heavy plastic bags) and then stick them in my supposedly (but not very) waterproof backpack. As long as I don't go swimming like that, they stay dry. :-) 

A common problem. I ran into 180lb weight limits on both wheels AND pedals when putting together my last bike. That seems to be the typical number, so those of us that are bigger than that need to be careful and just expect more frequent failures. Seems like everything bike related is designed for short skinny people. :-) 

I doubt you will find a way to do this; it would require a shoe with a pretty deep sole to recess the cleats into (that's what SPDs do). Note that the SPD-SLs are pretty similar to the Looks but much more walkable. 

Tubular tires are very common in cyclecross; their construction and the way they mount to the rim make it possible to run a lower tire pressure. 

Since it's on the inside of your thighs, it's a good bet that our seat is too wide, or not properly adjusted. A chamois crème will help, but I think the saddle change is a better idea. 

I've got the Pro3s and I average a flat about every 100 miles. They're not cheap either. After I finish off my current supply of them, I'll be trying something a bit more puncture resistant... 

I always carry good walking shoes with me. If the bike fails on me for any reason, I can walk it the rest of the way. 

It's something that should be experienced. Go grab an old school beater bike (like my old MTB that weighs 35lbs), ride it for awhile. Then, stop by a bike shope and see if they'll let you test drive a nice lightweight bike (usually on the order of 16-20lbs). You'll be astonished at how much more FUN it is to ride the light bike due to the responsiveness (handling, accel, braking)! 

RideWithGps.com does exactly what you want; you can plot a route ahead of time and it will show you the elevation profile. 

You can work on a pedal stroke that applies pressure for a larger portion of the rotation of the pedals. That will reduce the peak force that is causing the wheel to lift. 

I've run Rubino Pros for a few years. They aren't the lightest or fastest tire around, but they last very well and are pretty flat proof for my area (Seattle). 

There likely isn't much difference in performance. Some people do find that SPD cleats lead to "hot spots" (painful spots) on the balls of the feet; that's why I went to SPD-SLs. You might find a difference in platform height; IIRC the height of the SPD cleats + pedals is shorter than the SPD-SL. You'd want to adjust your seat height to deal with that. 

I've not had any luck consistently finding used parts online. For used commuter/entry-level stuff the best source I've found is local garage sales. For used nicer stuff try your local racing clubs. They tend to discard nice stuff, for cheap, on a regular basis as they always need the latest greatest to go the fastest. Surprisingly the local touring bike clubs have not been a great source as those people seem to hold onto stuff forever. :-) 

That depends... I usually carry inflaters AND a pump. I've had problems with both. The CO2 cartridges aren't too crazy expensive, but my most recent flat I used 2 of them and still ended up finishing with the pump. It's really easy to blow the CO2 out without getting it in the tire, and if that happens, you'd better have another cartridge to try, or a pump on standby for backup. The inflaters seem like a good idea and worked fine at home, but in practice when stuck on the side of the road, I'm unimpressed. The small handpumps I've also found difficult to work with. They just don't latch on as well as a regular pump. I'm still looking for a good reliable solution (which I need 'cause I get a LOT of flats).