I have a cheap Walmart mountain bike and my 2nd lowest gear is also exactly 1:1 (24/24). Why would you avoid a gear that is very useful? I am setting up my bike so it has multiple underdrive gears instead of just 1 so I can better control my speed and cadence in low bike speed situations. Having just 1 low gear is not as good as having several. If all goes well with my conversion, I should have 3 underdrive gears. So my answer is no a 1:1 gear should not be avoided since many bikes already use it even cheap $100 bikes like mine. So the logic is if a cheap bike can handle the stress, pretty much any bike should. Also I will be going much lower than 1:1. My goal is 0.59 lowest gear ratio (20/34) so I should be more worried than you, however, I would say avoid a 0.5:1 ratio because that is both a very low gear and an exact submultiple of a direct 1:1 ratio so that is one reason I am not going below a 0.59:1 target lowest gear. 

There is a front-end trike conversion system called the Newton that has been used for tandems. I have no direct experience with it. There are a number of rear-end trike conversion systems that are all similar in design: the Trykit and Longstaff. I know that Longstaff has built tandem trikes from the ground up, although I don't know if their conversion kit is suitable for tandems. You may note that these companies are all in the UK. Triking is much more established there. 

A great deal of engineering has gone into making shifting smooth and predictable. Up until ~1984, shifting was done by feel and sound: the shift lever moved continuously through its range, and you moved it until it caught the adjacent gear. Different brands had different actions, and you had to develop some technique. In 1984, Shimano rolled out "indexed shifting" (there had been previous attempts, but this time it really took). Here, the shift lever clicked into specific positions; the spacing between gears on the freewheel was standardized (before, the spacing varied within a freewheel); the shift cable was pre-stretched so the action wouldn't change; and so on. There was a lot of skepticism that indexed shifting would stay reliable in the long run, but it did, and took over. Since then, there have been additional refinements. Individual gears on a cassette have "ramps" that help lift the chain from smaller gears. Gears are aligned relative to each other to ensure good uptake. Chainrings have pins to help lift as well. 

I am trying to better understand how a rear derailleur (RD) works. I can understand how the RD moves inward and outward but suppose someone changes several of their cogs on the cassette. Let's just concentrate on the 3 largest cogs for this question. Let's suppose they were originally 36, 32, and 29. Next suppose the person wanted to change those to 38, 32, and 28. So we just increased the gaps by 2 teeth and 1 tooth respectively. So my question is now how does the RD "know" that the adjacent cogs to the 32 (which remained unchanged) now has wider tooth gaps and how does it handle it? A more general question is how does the RD "know" how much bigger or smaller the neighboring cog is? What I am getting at is the RD doesn't have any programming in it to tell it the gaps so how does it handle it? Somewhat of a related variant of this question is does the RD always expect the neighboring cogs to have the same pattern of less or more teeth going inboard or outboard, thus giving us the familiar cone shaped (sloped) cassettes or freewheels? What would happen if someone made a custom cassette and had a break in that pattern such as 36, 32, 29, 30... What would do RD do when it encountered a disruption in the normal pattern when it got to the 30 tooth cog? How would the RD "know" which cogs were getting larger and which are getting smaller or do they do something to the cogs themselves to assist with this? What if someone wanted to repeat a cog such as 38, 34, 29, 29... would that work? 

I was able to find one study that comes close to addressing this: Age Does Not Affect the Material Properties of Expanded Polystyrene Liners in Field-Used Bicycle Helmets. You'd need to pay to read the whole thing, but the abstract and title are clear enough. It's not clear from the abstract whether the helmets tested had been exposed to UV or not. According to the Bicycle Helmet Safety Institute, UV exposure is not a big concern because helmets are treated with UV inhibitors, and unless there's visible signs of cracking, talk of replacing helmets on a regular schedule is marketing hype. The EPS foam makes up the bulk of the helmet, of course, but it's not the only part, and if the shell, pads, or straps are damaged or degraded, that might be a reason to replace it. 

I toured in pretty warm weather (some mornings were in the 50s (°F)) with two sets of on-bike clothes, two sets of off-bike clothes, a jacket, a pair of tights, and a smartwool long undershirt. I left the raingear at home and got lucky. My off-bike clothes were the lightest I could find—thin T-shirts, convertible trousers made of synthetics. For shoes, I had my cleats, a minimal pair of sneakers, and a pair of flipflops, which were nice to have along. For cleaning, I'd rinse out whatever on-bike clothes I wore that day and wring them dry in a towel. Whenever I stayed with a Warm Showers host (speaking of which, get hooked up with Warm Showers), they'd let me use their washer and dryer. 

Yes. Some type of freewheel or freehub manual lockup should do the trick. It would also be cool if you could pedal backwards to apply power forwards, thus using muscles in a different way. 

Here is what I have for a progressive 3x9 setup using all 3 chainrings and all 9 cogs but using only 3 cogs per chainring. chainrings (20,30,40) cogs : (36,28,22,25,20,16,18,15,12) Ratios would then be: 

I had an idea. Why not space gears on a bike the same as musical notes? For example, in music, if you start on a certain note (let's say C3), you need to go up 12 more half steps (notes) to get to C4, an octave above C3. The frequency of C4 vs. C3 is exactly double. The notes are spaced with intervals of 2 ^ (1/12) which is about 1.06. So for a 12 speed bike, you would have 12 closely spaced gears which you could shift individually if you need close ratio or in pairs if you want more normal 12% spacing. When you run thru all those gears you could then flick a doubler gear (maybe located in the bottom bracket) that then doubles all the ratios and then you repeat all of those 12 gears again in order. There would also be a doubler gear in the hub. So for example, in the low mode, you can have gears 0.50 to 0.94 Engage one doubler (either one) and you get 1.00 to 1.92, engage both doublers and you get 2.00 to 3.84. Notice there is no overlap in the gears. you will basically have a progressive 36 speed with the option to shift 2 gears at a time (skipping gears) if you want 12% between gears and thus making it a progressive 18 speed. More likely is you would pick a range (low, med, or high) and use it as a close ratio 12 speed. You could even use it as a super wide range (4:1) 3 speed. Just pick a middle cog for example with the halving gear enabled, spin that out then disable it, thus doubling your gear. After spinning that out actuate the doubler gear and you can go fast. You can control the overall range by changing the single front sprocket. For example, 36T could start you out at 0.50 in the low gear but maxes out at 3.84. If you prefer taller you could run a 45T so you start out at 0.625:1 and top out at 5.00:1. (135 gear inches on a 27" diameter tire). Also since the gear changes between the 3 ranges are from one end of the shifter (12) to the other (1), you can just twist the shifter quickly, eliminating the need for a precision shift like in a 3x9 progressive shift attempt where you have to "bounce" between chainrings and cogs. So here is my 1st attempt at getting close to 6% between gears using cogs: 36, 34, 32, 30, 29, 27, 25, 24, 23, 21, 20, 19. I know for me, I would spend a lot of time in the middle range (1.00 to 1.92) and would love to have the close ratios for when I get a headwind. What sometimes happens is I would shift from a 16T cog to an 18T but what I really needed is a 17T. Well my new gearing system would handle that cuz you can shift from a 32T to 34T which is same as going from 16T to 17T as far as gear ratio. So is this a good enough idea for someone to build this bike? What would be the drawbacks of it? Might the efficiency go down significantly with the triple gear setup or should it be ok? Note that on motorcycles, only about 85% of the power of the engine makes it to the rear wheel so I would think if a bike is 85% or better that is acceptable with 90+% being a target. Correction: one will be a halving gear and the other would be a doubling gear. With both disabled (bypassed), the bike would be in the midrange gears (1.00 to 1.92 for example). Front sprocket would be size 36T to get midrange to start out at 1.00 (36/36) but of course roadies can adjust larger such as 45T and mountain bikers can adjust lower such as 32T or even 30T. Extreme hill climbers that want a 7.5" gear (27" diameter tires) would need a 0.278:1 low gear which can be had by replacing the 36T front sprocket with a 20T. Even with that ultra low first gear, shifting to the highest gear would give about 60 gear inches which is good enough for cruising around. 

The general idea of "lever drive," or a reciprocating pedal motion instead of a rotary pedal motion precedes even the invention of the modern diamond-frame bicycle--consider the Special Star from 1886. More recently, there was the Facet Biocam, the Alenax, and the Wall Walker. Within the world of reciprocating drivetrains, the String Bike is interesting in its use of materials (dyneema to transmit power) and the ability to vary mechanical advantage on the lever arm (although the Alenax was able to achieve this simply using hub gears). But check out what Jobst Brandt had to say about the Alenax. His basic point is that you're converting reciprocating motion to rotary motion, which is mechanically less efficient. I haven't been able to find any studies of the biomechanics of lever-drive bikes. 

This comes down to aerodynamics, reliability, and cost. A wheel with many lightweight spokes will be reliable and remain relatively rideable even if one spoke breaks. But all those spokes are like an eggbeater in the wind: not aerodynamic. So wheels like this are mostly used by heavier riders or in touring, where durability trumps speed. A wheel with fewer spokes puts more load on each of those spokes, and can't tolerate any of them breaking. Also, both to make up for the lower spoke count and because the whole point of reducing spoke count is to improve aerodynamics, these wheels usually have deep-section rims with a teardrop cross-section. These increase the wheel's strength (at the cost of weight), and improve its aerodynamics by replacing what would be the fastest-moving parts of the spokes (at the tips) with solid aerodynamically-shaped rim. A trispoke or disc wheel is the next logical step. These are much more expensive to fabricate, and discs especially are problematic in crosswinds. They also tend to be heavy, making them inappropriate for some kinds of racing, but not so much triathlons, which are about steady effort. Bladed spokes are marginally more aerodynamic than round spokes. At the very high end, there are some wheels that use fettucini-like strips of carbon fiber in place of steel spokes—these may cost as much as a very nice bike themselves. 

I was wondering instead of a long cage rear dearailleur (RD), what would happen if 2 rear short cage RDs were used instead? I realize the 2nd one might cause some mounting issues but assuming there was a proper bracket to hold it in place, could they somehow be synchronized to pad out or take up similar amounts of chain but about half each so they don't need to angle as much as a single? For example, if the same cable passed to both of them but there were calibrated to shift one rear cog each laterally, but individually would only take up or pad out enough chain for half a shift, so that combined they would make a complete shift but with half the travel/deflection or whatever the proper term is when it moves. If they were both identical RDs (with same spring tension), would they automatically share the chain takeup/padout equally (half each) or would the system be biased more towards one than the other? I am not suggesting this is a good thing to try. I am just asking if it is possible and what problems may occur as a result and if it would actually work. 

I would be concerned. The bottom bracket is the most heavily stressed part of any bike, and carbon has a catastrophic failure mode--that is, you don't get any warning. One minute it seems fine, the next minute, you've got carbon-fiber shrapnel. As a first measure, I might clean it up as best as I can, take some pictures, and send them to the manufacturer or the manufacturer's area rep to get their feedback. 

The crank you point to would probably fit on your bottom bracket, but might result in a bad chainline. There are two things to consider when replacing your cranks: the interface between the cranks and the bottom bracket, and the distance from the centerline. Your old Suntour cranks and the Shimano you link to both use a JIS square taper. So the interface is fine. However, your old cranks are designed to be installed on a 122-mm bottom-bracket spindle (and I'll assume that's what you've got), while the Shimano you link to is designed for a 113-mm spindle. You would be going from a triple to a double, which would make up for some of the difference, but I think the Shimano would wind up riding a few mm farther outboard than it's intended. If you could find replacement chainrings that fit your cranks, that would be an easier and cheaper option, but large chainrings for mountain-bike cranks are apparently impossible to find. And I'm not sure what the BCD measurement is on your Suntour cranks. 

I say it is both possible and practical. If someone really wants the crawler gear then this is a way to get it without having to resort to other methods such as a double gear reduction (chainring and cogs being only 1 reduction then adding some other one). If someone ever tries this then please report back. I would love to have a bike with this isolated very low gear so then I could just use reasonable size cogs and chainrings. 

I was thinking it would be cool to have a bike where the crank arms can be adjusted automatically "on the fly", depending on load. If that is not so safe then maybe a manual adjustment that the rider could make from a control mounted on the handlebars while riding. For example, when extra torque is needed, the crank arms could be extended to maybe 180mm. When cruising along on flat pavement on a windless day (or with wind at the riders back), shorter crank arms might be desirable to save on excessive leg motion. Having adjustable crank arm lengths might actually extended the effective gear range even wider. For example, suppose the crank arm length adjustment is between 180mm and 140mm and is currently set in the mid portion of 160mm. The rider then attempts to ride up one of those spiral walkways that are part of a pedestrian bridge over a roadway. If the lowest gear has already been selected but more hill climbing torque is needed, extending the crank arms from 160mm to 180mm should help. Even if 180mm is excessively long for the rider, it is only temporary until they crest the hill, then they can be reset back to 160mm. I think that would be another fun thing to play with on a bike. So my question is would this be beneficial to a rider and if so, why don't I see these available? Has anyone attempted to make this, either homemade or available to the general public? From an Engineering viewpoint, can it be done? If so, how? 

I appreciate all the responses. In this case, cable tension seemed good, and actuation seemed responsive. The derailleur seemed pretty clean but I degunked it just to be on the safe side. What seems to have fixed the problem is rotating the derailleur on the seat tube--it's a clamp-on mount, not a braze-on mount. I wound up adjusting the rotation by few degrees clockwise (looking down from above). I'm at a loss to explain how it got rotated out of position in the first place. I don't see any signs that it was. It may be that the cage got slightly bent in transport at some point, and rotating it is compensating for the damage but not fixing it. Hard to say because the cage sideplates are not flat or parallel. In any case, front shifting is working fine now. No overshifting. The front mech does require attentive trimming. 

I have a wiper motor from some car or van that has a shaft on it. When I apply 12 volts to it, with no load on it, it seems to spin at about 125 RPMs. I vaguely remember that when I load it, it can draw up to about 10 amps (10A). I suspect it can output maybe 100 watts of power or so. It also has 3 mounting holes. I suspect someone mechanically inclined could perhaps connect this with 1:1 ratio to the crank/chainring assembly. The 125 RPMs would likely drop under load but under low load it should maintain close to that I would think. It would be fun to try it with some type of freewheel mechanism or centrifugal clutch so when the motor is turned off, it would not load the cranks. Since the rotational speed mimics a normal cadence (probably will drop to 60 to 100 RPMs under load), it can possibly be used to run a multispeed bike and if the rider pedals too, they would help each other out (like 100 watt motor plus 100 watt rider = 200 watts total). So has anyone ever tried this and do you think it could work and if you think so, do you think it would work well? What about pitfalls? UPDATE: I tried the motor with a 12V battery and a short crescent wrench and I was able to hold the wrench still but there was a fair amount of tug on it, meaning it might be ok as a helper motor but not strong enough to move the bike on its own. It would be interesting to see if after getting the bike going say 10 MPH, if this motor would at maintain that speed or at least help the bike to coast down longer. Also since it spins at about 125 RPMs, it can be geared down even more such as thru a 16T drive sprocket and a 20T driven sprocket which is a a 4:5 reduction so then about 100 RPMs, giving it more torque. I think if this motor spun at half the speed, it would be harder for me to hold that wrench still. Maybe some other wiper motors spin slower like 60-100 RPMs. Thank you.