Existentialism and epicureanism have at least one thing in common: they are both dealing with lived philosophy rather than mere speculation. Epicureanism asks how we can live with the most joy and the least suffering--very Buddhist in some ways. Living in harmony with the inherent structure of the universe is what brings about the serenity and peace that ground happiness; living in opposition to the 'laws' of that universe bring about suffering. Pain, though inevitable, can be alleviated through right living or through our attitude toward the inevitable. It's not surprising that much of the history of medicine grew from the Epicureans. Existentialism also looks at how one may best live but with an emphasis on authenticity, which may mean accepting a meaningless cosmos and, therefore, a meaningless life except insofar as one creates meaning by his or her contribution to life. We cannot escape the actuality of the factors that constitute the present moment, like Sisyphus pushing his rock in Camus mythic analysis. But even knowing that all of our lives lead to a meaningless end gives us freedom and integrity. Such integrity can create a fulness from which we derive satisfaction. So, though in some ways similar, the two world views have fundamental differences: particularly in epicureanism's apriori acceptance of an ordered world and existentialism's denial that we can ever know the ordered world or even whether there is an order and meaning whatsoever. I hope that helps. Bob Sauerbrey 

You might really like the works of Gerald May, especially "The Awakened Heart," "Addiction and Grace," and "Wisdom of Wilderness." May was a practicing psychiatrist for a number of years but had questions that the scientific method would not penetrate for him, so he studied spirituality. He later joined the staff of Shalem Institute which teaches spiritual direction, among other things. He's much in line with Frankl's fundamental thought, but he does expand into other areas than Frank's 'big 3.' I have found reading May a help in opening up my own search. Bob 

In 2006 Conway and Kochen proposed The Free Will Theorem and in 2009 offered an emended variant, details, ref and links are to be found in the wikipedia article. Ever Since there has been a lively debate - a few hundred citation of the seminal papers are given by Scholargoogle. A few days ago Kochen posted a new paper , and a year ago in St.Hist.Philosophy of Modern Physics appeared a paper On the notion of Free will in the Free Will Theorem by Landsman . In 2009 C&K wrote: 

It is an irony of history that Aristotle's First Philosophy came to be seen as coming last and was dubbed Meta-physics; for Descartes it is still the First and its answers determine the rest. And first of all are the questions about what exists. So in the Discourse part IV Descartes wrote: 

I am currently reading Ian Hacking’s Why is there Philosophy of Mathematics at all, and it is mostly about the contemporary dabate platonism/ nominalism, so I would recommend it as a good place to look for an answer to this question. A crude copy-paste is given below. Hacking asserts that it is Paul Bernays who introduced the modern idea of 'platonism' and further he writes about the different brands of platonism, noting (p228): 

Zizek seems to be reiterating a criticism made against the adoption of mostly subjective attitudes. Here the historical source of the polemic seems to point back to Sartre's existentialism and an early comment made by Lacan in 1946. Sartre's elaborated views are difficult to sumarise and when he attempted to present them to a large public most often a kind a caricature replaced them. As he sought to present a Kantian self sustaining morality without external support and constraints, sincerity (as opposed to bad faith) and dedication became central for it. A popular exposition was given in his lecture L'existentialisme est un humanisme in 1945 and published the following year). In 1946 Lacan published a Propos sur la causalite psychique which pointed to an obvious weakness in Sartre's position: a madman is sincere and dedicated in his existence. Lacan's text begins with mentioning that 

I'm having a hard time reading many of the Objectivist responses, because they seems to be based on a completely mistaken understanding of the differences between Aristotle and what could be broadly termed "idealist" philosophy. First, to say that "Perception is reality" in Kantian terms does not in the least mean that the reality human beings perceive doesn't run by regular and objectively quantifiable laws; nor does it mean that reality is different for every human being. Objectivists might remember from the Critique of Pure Reason that Kant proposes as the root of his philosophy that the human mind has certain inbuilt categories that determine perception and make it the same for every human being: time, space, and causality. So this talk of "the Matrix" and "bending spoons" is really just dishonest subterfuge. Aristotle and Kant wouldn't disagree that every human mind perceives the same reality. What they disagree on is whether that reality has an existence independent of the human mind. Aristotle posits that it does; Kant that it doesn't. Aristotle believes that the being and predictable behavior of perceived objects is a result of an independently existing nature, which exists through a substantial form. Kant believes that the being and predictable behavior of perceived objects comes from an inbuilt mental conditioning of an unknowable outside Thing-in-itself through the categories of time, space, and causality. The Kantian position is a little counter-intuitive, but a loose understanding of it can be gained by imagining every human being as having a built in virtual reality system that transforms all material data from the outside world into something completely different; and since the program for every one of those virtual reality systems is the same, each human being perceives the same "empirical" reality. (The difference between this analogy and Kant's actual position, of course, is that Kant left the question open as to whether perceived, "empirical" reality matches or is different from the independently existing reality of Thing-in-itself). In fact, it's Aristotle's philosophy that leaves the way open for things not explainable by normal "scientific" reasoning, and Kant's that closes the door. This is because Aristotle believed that beings exist through having a certain nature, while Kant believed that that beings, or at least beings in perceived reality, exist through a kind of pre-determined conditioning. Thus, in Aristotle's system, there could very conceivably be beings whose nature has a power beyond the human to effect results by means beyond human understanding; and in fact Aristotle thought the natural world could not be fully explained except by positing such beings, which he called "separated substances." In Kant's system, on the other hand, what human beings can perceive is limited by the human mind's pre-determined conditions; which conditions, having certain severe limits, produce a perceived reality completely predictable and regular to which no exception can ever exist. The perceived reality can always be quantified by mathematics, and thus the empirical world is entirely explainable by scientific measures. There can be no extraordinary occurences, no "miracles", no "bending spoons." So it seems like Aristotle is rather a peculiar ally for Rand and the Objectivist. Kant would seem much more in line with their so-called epistemology. I think it's reasons like this that have led to Rand's philosophy being dismissed by academics. Rand didn't understand philosophy, and consequently Objectivism is based not on real premises and arguments but on a whole host of misunderstandings and half-truths about what other philosophers actually thought. So Objectivism isn't really a philosophy. It's internally self-contradictory - if anything, it can be best called a political ideology. For the record, I'm an Aristotelian. 

One should note that Descartes had no qualms about admitting "degrees of reality" and, as most of his contemporaries, thought 'the real' to be somehow superior to 'the possible'. (Leibniz said that god gives reality to the best of possible worlds.) It was only after the discovery of non-Euclidean geometries that people came to accept 'the real' as a particular case of 'the possible'. Eschewing ontology early in the XX.c. was called "ifthenism" 

Anarchists are defined by their stance towards society, so a good way to approach anarchist ideology is to acquire some understanding of society - what it is, how it 'works', what are power, property, rights, etc. Specific areas as ecology or information are seen to be more restricted cases. In the study of society economics and politics take too much for granted, so I think the best approach is through cultural anthropology: societies in which the uncle takes care of his sister's children, not the father, or societies in which gifts and prestige are more valuable than property and other 'strange' ways of behaving have been documented. David Graeber's work is a really good place to begin: Toward an Anthropological Theory of Value: The False Coin of Our Own Dreams (2001) оr Fragments of an Anarchist Anthropology (2004) readily come to mind here. 

Schopenhauer was at war with Hegel and, after his death (1831), with anybody who did not consider him to be the most important living philosopher. The 'bad writers' are the Hegelians which were sufficiently numerous as to be seen as forming at least two factions: Young Hegelians and older ones, but also situated on the 'Left' or the 'Right'. Rather directly he targets them by mentioning their journal Halleschen Jahrbücher für deutsche Wissenschaft und Kunst (Halle’schen), later Deutsche Jahrbücher which appeared from 1838-43. Most of the contributors' names are forgotten (one would have to look up if Marx or Engels are among them). As Schopenhauer did not suffer from modesty he mention as deplorable writers also Fichte, who was from an earlier generation, and Schelling, who was his contemporary. It is seen that Schopenhauer's rhetoric launches at least three accusations: (1)nothing to say, (2) obscurity, (3) despicable motivation (money and/or fame). Morphing them one into another leaves no escape for any target.