Companies hiring employees with work visas probably understand how important it is for you to maintain employment of any kind in their company. I don't think you have a lot to worry about when looking for other jobs. Be upfront that you are leaving because you prefer the job they're offering over the one you have. It's a pretty good reason to leave a job. If you're asked why you took this job in the first place, your explanation in this post is pretty valid in my opinion. It's not like you're making the rules of work visas and staying in a foreign land (hate the game and not the player). Your bigger problem will be disappointing your current employer. It's possible they recognize this isn't your ideal situation, but they hired you to get someone qualified even if that means getting someone over-qualified. Try to give ample notice. Explain that you understand they're not in a position to offer the kind of work you really want, so you don't hold that against them. The impact this will have on them is probably proportional to how honest you were during the hiring process. Maybe they didn't ask enough or the right questions. That's not your fault. 

You cannot discriminate in your hiring and firing for religious beliefs but also, you must be willing to allow your employees to practice their religion. This may require you to alter the work environment to accommodate those beliefs. Since that is a requirement, I don't see how you can ask potential job candidates to refrain from disclosing their beliefs. 

It's pair-programming and not one person does everything programming. Let go of the keyboard and mouse. Stop sitting right in front of the monitor. If you're logged in with your account, logout. Alternate every 30-90 minutes. She needs to take her turn. If that means sleeping the whole time, not much you can do about that. You may want to pose the question to her, "If someone asks me what part you did, what would you expect me to say?" You may want to suggest a partner rotation if possible. That's typical and you'll learn more. 

You've never been a team lead, so these feelings are normal especially if you don't know what the job requires. Be confident that you are able to learn new things and are sincere in wanting to do a good job. 

The boss should be loading tasks on the manager and not individual members of the team. I don't know where you get the idea that explicitly means the manager should do all of them. I guess if he told the manager to fire someone and then asked another team member to do it, that should be considered the manager's job. I don't see how you expect the manager to do all this other work and then manage the team. Maybe he doesn't know how to manage, but that's a different issue. I want my manager to delegate tasks, so he's available when I need him. A manager should be spending the entire day making sure everyone is doing their job. This involves workload, having available resources (including time), and that everyone understands the connection between what they do and how the company makes money. Ultimately it leads to evaluating your performance and compensating everyone accordingly. Talk to your boss. Ask what you're suppose to do when you're given too much work. 

Sorry, if this doesn't exactly answer that question, but to me, this is a moot point. You certainly shouldn't argue this point to your boss unless you want to use it as a basis for a raise. Otherwise, you're just getting on his bad side for nothing. I agree 

There are no guarantees in this life, but as a client, I would not wait for you to tell me after-the-fact, that you've added another 30 hours and expect me to automatically pay. You can only learn from the experience: 

This depends on the quality of your school's program. You should have investigated where and how graduates of your program are being placed in jobs. Some companies have a stong relationship with local programs and try to get their top students. Is there a reason you can't do both? Nothing wrong with showing extra initiative to work at a particular company. 

Try to make the person feel more part of the team. This can be a real challenge with people you don't respect their work ethic. The label "senior" can come with a lot of baggage and inconsistencies in the corporate and social structures: age, interests, life-style, topics of discussion, as well as, tasks deemed "beneath" a person of this stature. Social Events This could be lunch or an after-hours drink. Be mindful that someone who is senior may not want to go clubbing. Once in a while, pick something they'll like. The natural tendency is to get away from them and talk behind their back. Never works. Share Accomplishments It's not always the formalized task log or Scrum standups and retrospectives, but when everyone is talking shop. Make sure this person is included. Ask about something they've done. Maybe they have experience with a technology no one else on the team has used-what it was like back in the day. Ask for Help Give your brain a rest. Don't even start working on something you know is going to be stressful. If this person sees himself as some sort of authority, they'll fall right into this one. Of course you may have to put up with some posturing and bragging, but that may be better than being stuck with all the work. Or just ask to do some other dependent task. Some people just don't take the initiative. It's not always a sign that they don't care and are lazy. We have to get over wanting them to want to do it. Most people when they are surrounded by like-minded people who accept them, will start behaving like everyone else. Humans are naturally social; some more than others. You can't just stand there watching a bunch of people shoveling manure and call yourself a gardener. If you don't feel the need to chip in, find another hobby. Persevere Get feedback from someone outside of your group and ask if they think this person fits in. Maybe find out what he thinks of the rest of you. Don't stop after a few attempts or if this person seems to be really put off by the invitations. It will get better before it gets worse. Think about trying to get a stray dog to eat out of your hand. The first try could be painful. 

No one cares about your little pet-peeves and customers especially don't. Your problems are your own, so don't even think about mentioning this. If you focus too much on this, you run the risk of saying something rude to the client. Sorry, but you have to get over it. That's why it's called customer service and not customer I'll help you if it's convenient. 

Try not to beat yourself up too much over this. Meetings should be kept short and to the point for this very reason, but are the most abused time-suck in the corporate world. I try to triage my workload based on the level of concentration and creativity involved, how much time is required releative to when it is due. If I know the meetings are just too draining, plan on getting some of the easy tasks out of the way: catch up on email, return phone calls, etc. When possible, block off uninterupted time for the more complex tasks. Any interuption can set you back anywhere from 15-30 minutes. There's pretty good research to support this. 

Start interviewing at other companies so you can get a feel for the going rate and get some practice negotiating. If you really want this job and a good salary, don't make it your first. If you don't get the salary you want, ask why. Ask what you can do to get to that level. Unfortunately, they may just say you have to wait x number of years. 

Negotiations usually involve some give and take. By giving you this perk, the employer may be in a position to ask you for something extra. The key would be to identify what is important to your employer in this area and make an offer. 

Being there over a year may not be enough with this company to be recognized has have a high enough level of authority. You may need to be more patient. 

Non-technical managers tend to want solutions delivered to them with confidence. There is a communication gap in these cases. An engineer is not going to say "I'm sure I can do it." if he really thinks he's 90% certain. Most managers would show confidence at 75% or less. They don't live in a world of absolutes. Is your job to come up with suggestions or make decisions? There is a big difference. If you are in a room with other qualified people, they shouldn't need you to "sell" them on your idea or for you to take a leadership role. Among technical peers, a good idea should stand on its own without any strong persuasion. Do you find yourself giving ideas to people who just don't get it? 

Different parts of the world have different time lines on what is acceptable for giving notice etc. During the interview process, you should identify: 

Send them information from your government: US Government on citizens working for foreign company If they have no one in their company who can figure this out, there's not much you can do. What is really happening to you, is they're just coming up with arbitrary reasons to limit what they're offering. Things like "company policy, this is the way we've always done it, salary averages, ..." are just ways for the individual negotiating your salary to leverage their institution. They'll tell you it is out of their control. This is what negotiating is all about. All you have to say is, "I'm not going to leave my job and take a pay cut." Remind them you have to pay taxes. If they still don't get it, decline the job or take a pay cut. As always, there are ways around their rules. What if you start at only a 10% increase to your monthly salary, but get reevaluated for an increase after 3 months? Are there are perks you want? Other countries often give more time for holidays than others. This could be an advantage. You have to think a little more divergently and not let them control the conversation. You must be willing to decline an offer. 

Hiring decisions are not based on just one factor. A Github profile can benefit developers who have little employment experience, certification or education. It can also help if you're looking to change the type of programming you do (e.g. Switch from web to mobile.). If a candidate included their GitHub contribution as part of their CV, I would: 

It is a shame that in modern business people can't be direct about what their expectations are for hiring people. You can't expect honest answers to dishonest questions. If a company thinks having a master's degree is so important, you tell candidates they are expected to not only be accepted into a program by a certain time, be on their way to having a degree by a certain time, and what the consequences are for not getting a degree. This could be anything from lack of advancement, bonus or being let go. On the other hand, if a company thinks it is a waste, they may want to provide the training you need to advance in the company, so they don't want people who are going to leave after a year or so to pursue a degree full-time.