This isn't to say I agree or disagree; I find it helpful to understand that focusing on the demand side cannot help if we have a supply shock. To my knowledge, the best preparation for a supply shock, like the California Drought leading to food prices quadrupling (ONLY in theory), would be to have a supply surplus saved or ready in case of such events. 

You're asking questions in a very disorganized manner, which will prevent most people from attempting to answer you. Also, there's an emotional feel to your question - you sound upset that people are avoiding taxes. This is economics and in economics we often discuss how people behave in the market, whether we like it or not. For instance, socialism, emotionally sounds wonderful, yet anyone who's studied the Soviet Union knows it didn't work ... at all. Will people avoid taxes? Yes. Do the rich? Yes. Do the poor? Yes. I worked at a bank for a while and we were required to report when we saw suspicious behavior of customers and I can tell you about the number of times I reported to my manager Americans who collected disability or unemployment while also working for people in cash - they were getting free money from the government, but working for people in cash and not reporting the cash (blatant fraud, which taxpayers funded). For instance, this video, which many think is an embellishment, was not uncommon at all. For some direct answers: Bartering is one of the best ways to avoid taxes (as is negotiation) because if the bartering is more financially beneficial than the ease of taxes, a person may barter instead of paying income that was taxed. Anyone, of any class, can barter. To prevent bartering, an economic system wants the tax system to be arranged in a way that would make bartering more costly than just paying taxes. Charity scams will be favored by the rich, and no the IRS can't audit every charity, even if it's a multi million dollar charity. It can only audit some and hope that deters the others; also, some charities, like the Susan G. Komen foundation, might not be audited because the IRS would fear something else, like being accused of sexism, so billionaires would probably choose politically correct charities, knowing they could get the media on their side and the IRS wouldn't touch them (if billionaires were to go this route). Getting free stuff? Any class can do this; this is really negotiation. Most international people, who live or visit the US, negotiate and it makes sense. Yes, the IRS loses money, but at the end of the day, it's the rational economic decision. Also, things like cryptocurrencies (speculation) are ways the rich avoid taxes, as well as buying assets privately held in other countries (see the Chinese bureaucrats as examples). The rich have many more ways to avoid taxes than the poor and middle class, though the other two income categories can avoid taxes as well. Economically, a simple and fair tax system is the best way to prevent all of this. No one wants to avoid something they perceive as easy and fair. What you're seeing is that some don't think this about the U.S. system, whether any of us in particular agree or disagree. 

Very interesting question, I'll try to summarize some aspects and I probably won't be exhaustive ! Venezuela has long been a country relying on oil (95% of their exports). Certain experts have estimated that Venezuela holds just shy of 25% of worldwide oil reserves, but the oil extracted in Venezuela is very heavy and hard to refine and then sell to other countries, which makes it more expensive than oil coming for example from Saudi Arabia. When prices boomed, the former President Hugo Chávez, who died in 2013, used oil exports to quadruple the foreign debt. He also led a some nationalisations. The main factor for Venezuela's current crisis is therefore the counter-shock on oil prices which lowered exports. This quote comes from an FT article 

I was wondering if anyone had an idea about the first author to have mathematically computed an isoquant or at least the first occurrence of a drawn isoquant ? My best guess would be F. Edgeworth in Mathematical Psychics: An Essay on the Application of Mathematics to the Moral Sciences (1881) but I really doubt it ! 

I agree with @BBKing, just to put it here as an answer: if we go back to your two definitions you can find quiet easily some counter examples. Let's take a firm, which uses a machine as capital. Let's assume also that this machine can only be used by one man at a time. Do you think this machine is a non-excludable / non-rival good ? 

I agree that this question is too broad, but here's a perspective: much of the criticism of modern capitalism is from people who've been in the system. What about people who haven't been in the system, like in Vietnam or China, where they haven't been under capitalism in the past? Do they tell us what we're missing out on? One study I've seen all over: 

You may be seeing the same thing that I'm seeing (on social media), and I've added the links below as evidence of this, more often than not, they don't define what they mean (in this case, they do - for instance, you'll see "the smart money is moving against the USD" etc). This term is very common on social media stock discussions. StockTwit example Tumblr post The way that I understand is that these are individuals who have a commercial interest in a position. For instance, if the price of oil goes through the roof and a company has a lot to gain from that, they may take a hedge out against the position, in case of a fall, especially if the price goes to an extreme and they know it can't be sustained (you'll see a massive short movement). This is true with currencies as well (ie: an export driven business must watch exchange rates). It should be of note that they aren't always the "smart" move and they generally are early to the party, as you can see with their bets against oil (very early, and notice how quickly they cut some of the shorts as prices plummeted). The key is to watch their positions; they will generally be short, but when they make a strong short position, that could spell that something will happen. I do not think that this is an economic term; more of a trading term. 

One of the direct consequences of that is that the country is relying on its dollar reserves to pay its imported goods. The country's foreign reserves are already withering at 12-year lows. Venezuela has even paid Switzerland with gold! But the problem is that on the land the demand was still the same and the supply could not follow, which led to a massive inflation. Inflation will surge to 720 percent in 2016 from 275 percent last year, according to a note published by the IMF. The huge outstanding debt is also worrying investors.Creditors are now demanding a high premium for their trust in that promise. The yield on Venezeula’s dollar bond that matures in 2020 is 37% (an investment mainly made by hedge fund). This is the more financial aspect of the question: it's hard or costly for Venezuela to get financial help from investors right now. For this aspects, I encourage you to take a look at this article by The Economist: 

You have to differenciate the debt that is already existing from the one that is going to be issued: whenever the US Treasury issue a bond lets say a 10% coupon 10yrs... for a 100USD. It's still going to pay 10USD to the holders during the 10yrs. When you see the yield going up or down it's usually on the secondary market. I say usually because sometimes the government issues bond with a floating rate which can be impacted by a rate increase. As for the new debt that is going to be issued you are right to say that this going to be more costly !