The same article cites some comments from van Gaal where he says that he had left Cillessen in the dark about his decision of changing keepers if the game looks like it's going to the penalties. Such a decision is risky, might look really stupid if it doesnt pan out as planned and unfortunately might leave players jaded even if it does pan out as planned. 

I was checking up on some squash rules and realised that I have never really grasped the difference between stroke and let in squash. Especially if there is no dedicated ref, how do you go about deciding these? Here's an interesting video, where three events: let, stroke and no-let happen during some match, but they looked pretty much the same to me. Could someone explain why the calls are made in that way? 

The general rule in sliding tackles is whether or not you get to the ball first before making any contact with the attacking player. As a defender your responsibility is to make sure you are going after the ball, and as an attacker you make sure that you play the ball and not the defender.. In the case above Lucas Digne gets to the ball first and executes a textbook sliding tackle. A. Valencia tries to get to the ball, before the tackle and presumably wants to step on the ball to stop and avoid the tackle. Unfortunately for him, he's a bit too late (and too fast to stop so suddenly) so his step lands on Digne's foot. The reason it's a direct red, and that he doesn't even complain is due to the fact that he's going into contest for the ball with his studs "high". The judgement here by the ref is that Valencia, at the time of the tackle did not have full possession of the ball and it was a contest for the ball by two players. In that scenario, if you go in to the contest with your studs it's dangerous play (with high chance of injury for the other player) and penalized with a red. See Nigel de Jong's infamous move last World Cup. 

In addition to the very accurate answer by @Max I would like to note a couple of thoughts on why a player might want to choose to be a reserve player in a top team or a starter in a smaller club, given those two options: First of all as Max also pointed out, there is usually some squad rotation in most top tier clubs. This is mainly due to competing in many different lanes (league, Europe, national league cup...) and this would put a physical burden on players that play a game every third day. Also there is the somewhat stochastic risk of injury, so unless you really need your stars on the pitch, it might be smarter (in case of an upcoming tough match) to keep them in the bench and not risk an injury. The take home message being, there usually isn't a startup that plays every game and all the other being "just-in-case" players. Another prospect is the players age, ambition and career goals. Top teams can usually pay much more for their reserves than what smaller teams can afford to pay to their starting players. They would also get significant squad bonuses if the top team in question wins a competition. This would be very lucrative for a player who has been around for some years and career-wise stalled or on the decline. A much younger and relatively unknown player on the other hand would most likely prefer to play in a smaller club to get more playing time (thus experience) and also try and prove himself as a talent, so that he might one day be a starter for a better team. Finally there is the factor of loyalty, some players are "born and grown" in a club and choose not to leave the club, and the city, for better contracts or more playing time. That's a matter of personal principles, and I for one, respect that a lot even though it's not a very professional behavior. Hope this gives some more insight on the subject. 

To my knowledge Italy is the only country that permits transactions where a club can purchase "half" of a player's contract from another club. I find this very peculiar and unpractical. First off, how do you figure out for which club the player plays? Second, why would you want to buy/sell "half" of a player? The only way I can make sense of it, is if a bigger club wants to have the option of buying a promising player in the future, so they buy 50% of the contract in advance (presumably for a lower sum) to possibly buy the other half later on and make some money as such. But then again why would a smaller club want to accept a much lower fee and a complicated contract for a promising player? 

Assuming you will have 20 kids in total, you can divide them in teams of 5 and assign them to one basket/half court per team (If the numbers vary just modify the numbers so that teams are as even as possible) If the kids are not too unfamiliar with ball sports, and if you have the possibility put some cones in triangular path like: // in one lane, or two lanes parallel to one another. Instruct the kids to dribble following the path you have designed and pass to a teammate on particular occasions (for instance when their running paths come close to one another), and as they come close enough to the basket the player with the ball attempts a shot/layup, where the one who passed the ball last is responsible for getting the rebound and passing the ball back to the other teammates waiting to start their drill. If kids are too unfamiliar with basketball or don't really get what they are supposed to do, you can change the rules accordingly to make it suit the group. One alternative is to make teams interact with one another and create some competition feeling, for instance if the player who's taking the shot misses, the other team gets the chance to take the rebound and "score a conversion". After a certain amount of time passes, you can blend the teams, or get the teams who won their respective "matches" meet one another. I am fully aware that what I suggest is more of a real training drill than a playground game, but hey if you manage to spark a passion for sports in the kids it's only for the better, right? :) 

Last night after having seen the Super Bowl I ended up watching Top Ten Trick Plays in NFL on youtube. Some of the tricks that are mentioned in there made it clear that I was not fully informed on the rules of the game, particularly regarding the passing aspect. So here are the questions: 

The only reference in Laws of the Game, to what you are asking is the following bit regarding the additional time: 

I remember a glorious Istanbul derby (GS-FB) in 2008-2009 season that ended 0-0 but with 4 reds and 4 yellows, but I cannot go as far to claim that it's the most red cards shown in the league history. It's perhaps worth mentioning that just the year before that the same teams tallied 4 reds and 11 yellows in a cup game. According to The Guardian, the most red cards in English Leagues is 5, that occurred twice the same year both in the second division, if I understand it right. 

What's the conversion rate of penalties in football vs. ice-hockey? I realise that it would be different/dependent on the league but any two major leagues of comparable level would be interesting. For example; NHL vs Premier League/La Liga.. 

The idea behind financial fair play is, as you say, to prevent rich owners dumping in their money into a club, and "purchase" success. Examples of such being Chelsea, Man City and more recently PSG. One could count FC "Red Bull" Salzburg among those, even though that club have not been on the international arena as much as the previous ones. Now there are two fundamental assumptions here: