Good reasons include if the new theory is simpler, has a wider explanatory scope, is more accurate, and/or produces a new set of testable predictions that are subsequently confirmed. 

If you're talking strictly about logic as commonly understood, there are wholly mechanical procedures to accurately, consistently and comprehensively evaluate any standard argument. Therefore, I'm going to assume you mean this more in general: how do you, as the hypothetical smartest person in the world, recognize when you are in error? 

Any definition of "religion" that doesn't recognize it as primarily a sociocultural matrix is a bit suspect in my book. I would personally define religion as a set of defined values and ritual practices, attached to a community, arising from a combination of a developed theology and an accompanying set of folk beliefs, and typically having as an official purpose the development and advancement of a relationship with God and/or the divine (as noted in the comments, however, some "religions" are at least nominally non-theistic). Mr. Leiter seems to be focusing entirely on the the beliefs portion of the religion, and without any distinction between the developed theology and the folk beliefs. Even here, however, I have some reservations. His first point --that religious duties override all other concerns --is true in theory, but often not in practice. It is a valid statement about religious commitments, but it does not necessarily match the reality of religion for the vast majority of adherents. His second point, that religious belief does not "answer" to evidence is formulated in two separate ways. The second, that faith is "insulated" from ordinary standards, seems to me like editorializing. There is a difference between beliefs that are outside of ordinary evidence and beliefs that are "insulated" from such evidence. 

Basically with a proof system, you're seeking a rule-based process that will allow you to evaluate as valid ALL and ONLY the admissible arguments that actually are valid. 

Science is linear. Its purpose is to further the accumulation of an ever-increasing coherent body of knowledge. It is founded on a view of the universe certified by consensus of the experts. Philosophy is non-linear, its purpose is to change people's perspectives, and much of how it advances is in dynamic opposition to what precedes it. The achievement of full consensus would both signal the end of philosophy and of the need for any divergent perspectives in human collective life. 

A science is a well-defined systematic way of organizing and extending a body of knowledge. What makes it a science is its reliability, not its subject. Philosophy explores subjects that are outside the realm of science, which is to say, that do not have a well-established, reliable, systematic way of approaching them. Your lecturer is stating that when a philosopher successfully creates a reliable, systematic way of creating a body of knowledge around a particular discipline, that discipline passes out of the realm of philosophy and into the realm of science. While the consideration of the laws of motion seems, from our perspective, to be the very paradigm of a science, it only looks that way post-Newton (and his contemporaries). It wasn't a mathematical problem previously until Newton (and Leibniz) discovered the mathematical relationship. He approached the subject as a philosopher, and left it as a scientist. (PLEASE NOTE: This answer is substantively the same as Ameet's, just with a different emphasis) 

This is intended primarily as a supplement to Michael Dorfman's excellent, primary-sourced answer Similar to Plato, who rarely if ever wrote in his own voice, Kierkegaard had a philosophy deeply opposed to didacticism, and was endeavoring to convey concepts that were often paradoxical, or that couldn't be expressed directly. Therefore, just as in Plato's dialogues, Kierkegaard presents a range of characters, each with their own philosophies, as stages along the way towards a perfected philosophy that cannot be directly expressed. The characters themselves can be didactic, but Kierkegaard is disclaiming endorsement of their dogmaticism, he is merely presenting them as objects of study (or at least, so he can claim). 

I'm far from being a Zen Buddhist myself, but I've read a number of collections of authentic koans, and I would classify this one as fairly typical. Not all of them are like that, but a common thread in many is a shockingly unexpected action by the master that jars the student out of his normal mode of thought. Trying to explain a koan is like trying to explain a joke --it strips the enlightenment right out of it --but in this case I think part of what's going on in this story is the sudden undeniable reality of the overwhelming pain. It's not what the student was looking for, but it is what he was asking for. 

I found it surprisingly hard to find a good general reference about truth trees but here is one: $URL$ A truth tree is a mechanical method of checking the validity of an argument in symbolic logic. You start with the premises and the negation of the conclusion, and check to see if any possible interpretation does not lead to a contradiction. If the negation of the conclusion is inconsistent with the premises under all interpretations, the argument is valid (by definition). What makes a truth tree work is that every step in a truth tree decomposes a more complex branch into either one or two branches of a lesser order of complexity. When a branch reaches the base level of complexity (a single statement, represented by a single letter or the negation of a single letter) it can be evaluated as either consistent with everything above it (open) or inconsistent (closed). From the list of options, we can rule out #1 immediately, because some arguments (invalid ones) do not lead to closed trees. To rule out number 3 and 4 we reason as follows: Any finite argument (a finite set of finite premises and a finite conclusion) will have a finite order of complexity. Since each decomposition of the tree reduces the complexity of a given branch, and adds at most two branches of lesser orders of complexity, only a finite amount of branches can be ever generated for any finite initial level of complexity, and all branches must eventually reach the base level of complexity in a finite number of steps. Therefore every tree must complete in a finite amount of time. 

There is no one answer to this, because atheism is essentially a position of disbelief (in God) so different atheists might answer quite differently. The following all seem like possible legitimate "good faith" responses to a question that is essentially asking how you construct meaning in the absence of faith in a deity: 1) I haven't deeply examined my own beliefs. 2) I believe in people treating each other well. 3) I believe in a Godless universe. 4) I believe in science. 5) I don't find that question meaningful. Each might well be the response of a different atheist. The first is the answer of someone not philosophically inclined (someone who is "incidentally" atheist), the second is the answer of an ethicist, the third is a committed, philosophical atheist, the fourth person believes that the scientific worldview is a sufficient substitute for a religious one, while the final person rejects the entire search for deeper meaning. It's worth noting that people probably ask the question because atheism was once a position chiefly taken up by people who had thought about it deeply and come to it as a principled and controversial philosophical stance. Only recently have there been people who are atheist by default. 

Values typically make sense only in a group context, but in a pluralist society --a society with many competing systems of values --the personal choice of which values to follow becomes individually important. Many of the significant issues in society today revolve around clashes in values between groups, between individuals, or between individuals and groups. 

I think what you meant is "If your absence doesn't change anything then your presence doesn't matter." We can further express that as "If a change in state from presence to absence does not represent a significant change, then your presence is not significant," which is very nearly a tautology, a sentence that is true based just of the definition of terms. Under this interpretation, your example would be incorrect, since the first part doesn't correctly capture the contrast between presence and absence. 

The most famous philosophical work on military matters is Sun Tzu's The Art of War. Although thousands of years old, it outlines general principles still applicable today, and although largely about tactics, it also is centrally concerned with "running a military force in the abstract." 

My version is a simplification of your version. On the left we have for all x, A is a function that maps x to x. In other words A is an identity function. Given this identity function A, there exist an a,b,c such that A does not map a to b, b to c or c to a. In other words, a, b, and c are all distinct. Please note that my arrow only goes from the left to the right. Since we are being agnostic about the nature of A, nothing on the right entails that it must be the identity function. This should be a statement that is true in all and only domains of discourse with at least three distinct elements. ∀x[A(x,x)] -> ∃a∃b∃c[NOT A(a,b) AND NOT A(b,c) AND NOT A(c,a)] 

This is a conditional, so assume the antecedent. If you can derive the consequent (with no additional premises), the conditional is a tautology. You can divide the antecedent into three statements, using and elimination. Of those, the "Or" is the most promising. Assume p on one side, r on the other. On the p branch, you can get q via the conditional. Make that "q or s" with or introduction. Do the same thing in reverse on the other branch. Then you can derive "q or s" with or elimination. In general, with natural deduction, assuming the antecedent is the best way to derive a conditional. (For most other forms, assuming the opposite and demonstrating a contradiction is the most reliable approach.) 

It seems to me that the quote from Rilke is quite consonant with a Platonic understanding of Beauty. If we recall, Plato believed that our earthly existence is a pale imitation of a deeper Reality. In the quote Rilke is picturing a direct encounter with creatures more Real than he is, the Beautiful angels. His terror stems from the conviction that his own lesser reality will melt away and vanish as as result of the encounter, as the shadow is destroyed by the light. His larger claim is that our perception of beauty is intimately tied together with the terror of an encounter with the Real, a terror tempered only by our understanding that the Beautiful has no intent to destroy us. This conception of beauty is probably closer to the Kantian or the Aristotelian "Sublime" than the Kantian or the Aristotelian "Beauty" --it would seem that Rilke views Beauty only as a safer, less immediately dangerous variant of the Sublime. 

The structures of formal logic are widely applicable even in situations that don't have the same rigor. To use one of your examples, imagine you were a lawyer, asked to disprove a statement in court. If you had studied formal logic, you would know one of the best ways to establish something cannot be true is to assume it is true and then produce a contradiction. You could follow that same general strategy, even if you weren't exactly following all formal logical rules. You mentioned programming --as a professional programmer, I find having studied logic useful not just at the level of using logical operators such as "AND", "OR" or "NOT" in programming statements, but also in terms of the overall structure of programs. I'm not an engineer, but I imagine you can use a lot of the same kind of structural skills in producing a workable physical structure, even if electronic engineering isn't your area. 

I can't improve on Virmaior's excellent analysis above, but I did want to provide an answer focused more on the specific religious claims of your question: Although Christians do not accept Muslim scripture as valid, from the Muslim point of view, Islam builds on and perfects Christian belief, just as from the Christian point of view, Christianity builds on and perfects Jewish belief. The Quran, in fact, endorses Jesus as a true prophet of God, but neither as the Son of God nor as divine. Thus, the Muslim belief is that the Bible is largely accurate, except at the places where it diverges from the Quran, in which cases the Biblical text is assumed to have been corrupted in some manner. In summary, Muslims do accept the belief that Jesus was in true communication with God, but Christians do not accept the same in reverse. 

The Mandelbrot Set can be generated with less than 225 lines of code but is infinitely complex --and fractal geometry is deeply embedded in all biology. Is the complexity just an artifact of the millions of reiterations of the algorithm or does its emergence tell us something fundamental about the nature of the world we live in? Similarly, is the complexity of a human being "in" our DNA, or is the DNA merely the entry point? 

It's a mathematical approach to the problem. One useful way around the difficulty of using infinity in mathematical calculations is to replace it with an arbitrarily high number. In this case it seems like he's comparing n with 1/6 of n. As you pointed out, those are seemingly equal when n is infinity. However, if you replace n with any finite positive number, no matter how bit, n will be larger than 1/6 of n (six times larger). This pattern doesn't alter as you approach infinity --in absolute terms, the imbalance gets steadily bigger as n gets bigger. Hare is suggesting that the above result makes n > 1/6 * n a better model than n = 1/6 * n even at n = infinity. (As Dave suggested, another way of expressing this is that the limit of n divided by [n * 1/6] is 6, as n approaches infinity.) That would be a legitimate conclusion in most mathematical contexts, but whether it is aptly applied to Pascal's Wager is open to debate. 

Can pseudo randomness be equated with randomness if the observer cannot predict the outcome? No. Consider this thought experiment. You and I are playing a card game. As far as you know, the deck is fairly shuffled, so the sequence of cards is random. But in fact, I stacked the deck, so it appears random to you, but the sequence is entirely known to me. Clearly, I have a strong advantage in the game. In other words, just because the observer can't tell the difference, it does not mean the impact is the same. Even in the case that no other conscious observer knows the pattern, the fact that there is a pattern could alter the results in a way that might be significant. This is a problem with practical implications. (See this article for how this impacts cryptography, as an example.) This is especially significant given that it's unclear whether true randomness exists in the universe, or whether what we experience as randomness is just patterns we don't as yet understand. 

As with all philosophical terminology, the issue is that different philosophers have used the terms in different ways, and come to radically different conclusions. One of the most prominent theories of truth is that a "true" statement is one that corresponds with a "real" state of affairs. So truth describes reality. The problem, however, is to determine what is real. For instance, for Plato Truth describes Reality, but neither truth nor reality are equated, for him, with the physical/material states of being that most people view as constitutive of reality. A related but distinct theory is the semantic theory which holds that "truth" is a property of sentences. A sentence "X" is true just in the case that the state of affairs it describes is accurate. This is similar to the correspondence theory, but places truth entirely within the world of linguistic communication --a very different view than Platonic Truth. 

If this were an argument, and not a request, we would call it moving the goalposts, which is where the original conditions are met, but additional ones are subsequently added. 

In some sense, even the continuity of identity we experience from one day to the next is a construction. Rituals help us construct that identity, and the cyclical ones that are spaced out in time --daily, weekly, monthly, yearly, quadrennially, per decade, per century --help us maintain that identity over longer spans of time. 

How much help do you want? This is a fairly short and direct proof, but if you need more explicit help than @quen_tin's (correct) answer, read below: Your line 3 should be P v Q (from 1). Then you'll have to show that if you assume either side of the disjunction, you'll get the same result (P). The left side should be easy. For the right side, further assume not P and derive a contradiction (hint, the contradiction doesn't need to actually involve P). 

Here in the Meditations, Descartes is essentially referring to a well-known theological argument that has a long history in philosophy before him. It is perhaps most easily understood as originally formulated by the ancient Greek philosopher Plato and his later followers, who conceived of what we would call God as the "unity of all perfections," a simple singularity which is all good, all beautiful, all wise, eternal, incorruptible, and in all other ways perfect. A good way to picture this is as an infinitely bright point source of light orbited by increasingly imperfect copies of itself. The reason for its necessary existence is that it can be the "parent" of the corrupted things, but not their "child," because the copying process degrades rather than purifies. Thus, everything else that exists, in this conception, is a corrupted copy of the One, and the complexities of existing things are a part of the corruption. The unicorn is distinguishable from the One by virtue of its identifiably non-perfect characteristics. We can conceive of something more perfect than it, therefore it is not God. There are some challenges in reconciling this conception with the core Christian concept of the Incarnation, but those are not relevant to the argument Descartes uses here, which does not rely on a personified conception of God.