Genesis. In the bible it's called the Firmament, but it was taken from the greeks. Educated people understood it was the Greek Celestial Spheres which was accepted knowledge of the organization of the heavens until Kepler. 

Modifications to the original, US Neutrality laws tried to tighten restrictions on German purchases while not entirely abandoning neutrality. No loans for war materials with belligerent countries which went into effect in 37 were seen to favor the allies. In general some trade with Germany was important because it gave Roosevelt the cover he needed to supply Britain goods while still preserving the facade of Neutrality which was a political necessity until after the 1940 Presidential election. Second Thought... I find it odd that this Russian gentleman was so worked up over this position of US neutrality on the part of the US given Russia up until Jun 22, 1941 (Operation Barbarossa/German invasion of the Soviet Union) was allied with Germany and actively conspiring with Hitler to carve up nations like Poland Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact. Also of coarse Russia benefited greatly of the US lend lease programs which were made possible by creative US neutrality laws. Yes US Companies legally sold goods to Germany prior to Pearl Harbor, and Yes some US companies continued to work with Germany as the United States was committed to defeating Germany on the battle field. These latter transactions occurred outside of US law and were investigated by the US as treason. (although with regards to Standard Oil of NJ, not prosecuted). I think what the Russian guy was yelling about were the business dealings of Standard Oil of New Jersey(Esso, which would become Exxon) and their dealings with Nazi Germany and the German chemical company IG Farben. Standard Oil of NJ supplied the Germans with important technology and raw materials (oil, gasoline, gasoline additives, manufacturing technology and synthetics technology) before and after the United States entered the war. Both legally and illegally. Senator Harry Truman ran a Senate committee which investigated companies who received war contracts. Wikipedia: William Stamps Farish II 

No there was no impactful criticism of FDR for standing for a third term. In 1932 and 1936 elections FDR won with 57.4% and 60.8% of the popular vote respectively in 1940 he won with 54.7% So the criticism he received did not seriously impact his third nomination. 

Both Cotton and Linen make poor sails by modern standards. They both absorb water, rot in UV light, and are highly subject to mold. Linen is stronger. Cotton is lighter. By stronger there are two meanings. It lasts longer without tearing and more importantly holds its shape better without stretching. Tears can be sewn but stretched sales need to be replaced. For reliability And predictability Linen was the preferred material even when more expensive, even when cotton was more readily available. Linen was preferred over cotton during the age of sailing ships, if there was a choice because it was more dependable, lasted longer and perhaps most importantly was more predictable when eroding. If racing durability took a back seat to weight. For new sails cotton performed could perform better than linen, stretching wasn't a problem as the sails could be replaced at the beginning of each race, weight was the primary concern. Cotton only replaced linen as the preferred fabric in the 19th century for two reasons. (1) sailing ships got so sophisticated with so many sails linen just became to heavy to manage, too time consuming to lift. Nelson’s flagship HMS Victory has 37 sails or 4 acres of surface area in 1780, By 1850 a similar ship with then more modern rigging might have more than 100 different types of sails to take advantage of different types of weather and wind conditions. (2) Cotton as a preference over linen was especially pronounced after the age of sailing was concluded, when practicality took a back seat to performance as sailing ships ceased to be vehicles of war and commerce and became pleasure craft and status symbols. Still every ship which can float linen can float cotton sails. So if it were a necessity cotton would do, and sometimes it was a necessity. Wikipedia: Sailcloth During the age of sailing(the mid 1800s) cotton was used in cruising ships (merchant and military) mostly when linen could not be had at all. Wikipedia: Sailcloth If you look at the United States which was the largest producer of cotton; linen which depended upon imported flaxen, was still the fabric of choice for sails. In US merchantman and war ships, cotton was only used when global affairs conspired to make linen unavailable. Like the war of 1812. But once linen became available again it was used again. Cotton didn’t surpass linen on ships until after the steam ship pushed sailing ships out of the worlds navy’s and merchant fleets post 1860's. Sources: 

(English: Officer for enemy messages). There are some other websites with similar information. The German Wikipedia has an article $URL$ 

I try to identify your specific Schwedenschanze. There is a Schwedenschanze on Googlemaps,robably this one: $URL$ 

It is depending on your definition of a Russian. Gagarin was born in the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic, so he was the first Russian in space. Sergei Krikaljow (also a Russian) started as a citizen of the Soviet Union, when the Soviet Union was dissolved on December 26, 1991 he was in space. So he was the first citizen of the Russian Federation in space. The first manned Soyuz after the end of the Soviet Union started on 17 March 1992 (Soyuz TM-14) with Alexander Viktorenko and Alexander Kaleri. It was Alexander Viktorenko third start, so he was also a Soviet Cosmonaut before. But it was Alexander Kaleri first spaceflight, so he may be the first 'pure' Russian cosmonaut. I haven't checked for Russian cosmonauts, which were not trained during Soviet era. Gherman Titov is up to now the youngest Cosmonaut (started at age of 25 in 1961). The Soviet Union ended 1991. That's now 25 years ago. So there is up to now no Russian astronaut who was not a citizen of the Soviet Union before. Perhaps there is also an American astronaut with Russian origin? 

There is also another article at Wikipedia: Economic history of China before 1912 Maybe you can find hint to other sources there. 

There are still some areas with German background. The Nemetsky National District (German Nationalkreis Halbstadt) was established on July 4, 1927 and abolished on November 5, 1938. It was re-established on July 1, 1991. Similar: Nationalkreis Asowo But all this regions have the same problem: The German speaking people are mirgating to Germany or are assimilated by other local people. 

So it seems the I stands for Generalstab (sorry, I found no source), the c stands for a 3rd (the first officer is Ia, the second officer is Ib. 

You asked for a . My answer doesn't reflect a cultural difference but a political one. If you follow the link Gesamtergebnisse der Wahlen zum Reichstag und Mandatsverteilung you find maps with the results of the elections of the Weimar Republic. The map for the KPD (communists) shows a strong area in the east of the later GDR. 

There is a German Wikipedia entry for it, but I found no entry for this specific 'Schwedenschanze'. It is a military Sconce (fortification) (German: Schanze) or Hill fort, the name is based on the Thirty Years' War. Sweden (German: Schweden) was a participant during the war. It is not necessary, that the Schwedenschanze you found is a real Swedish sconce. It may be a any sconce and the name is only vernacular. 

Your assumption is wrong, there was the Uprising of 1953 in East Germany And the Fall of the Iron Curtain was also initiated by the East German mass protests. 

There may be differnet reasons. An extract from the German Wikipedia article about German gold reserves: 

When Europeans discovered Americas they also imported plagues. These plagues were one factor of the collapse of the pre-columbian cultures. $URL$ : 

There is an overview in an article on China Whisper.com: China`s historical GDP share in the world Han dynasty (206 BC–220 AD) GDP per capita: $450, 26% Tang Dynasty 618 – 907 AD GDP per capita:$480, 58% of world GDP Song Dynasty 960-1279 AD GDP per capita:US$2,280, 80% of the world’s GDP Yuan Dynasty 1271-1368 A estimated to account for about 30% -35% GDP Ming Dynasty 1368–1644 AD GDP per capita:US$600, 55% of world GDP Qing Dynasty 1644-1922 AD GDP per capita:US$600 Qing Dynasty accounted for 35% -10% of the World GDP People’s Republic of China 1949- GDP per capita:US$5414, 9.48 percent of the world economy. See also Wikipedia for this period. 

Orthodox Priests in 1800's generally had access only to an elementary education. Some self taught, advanced on their own beyond that, but they were not the norm. The only access to a higher education beyond the elementary level for slavs would be to travel to the west, which wasn't an option for many. Some were reportedly able to afford to make the trip. encyclopedia britannica 

Around 1905-1915 these advertisements began to show motorcycles and automobiles. A carrier on a motorized vehicle could deliver much longer routes faster than one on horse. Automobiles were quickly(over years) preferred. I found many many adds from 1910-1915 for motorcycles and automobiles targeting R.F.D. carriers. It was kind of like a boom cycle for manufacturing. 

I would not say "in ancient battles, being encircled meant defeat". Because that's not true. I would say, "in all battles, being encircled means defeat, unless you have good leadership which is prepared. Thus not so much in "ancient battles" does encirclement means defeat, just in the Battle of Cannae(216 BC). Encirclement alone wasn't the deciding factor in the Battle of Cannae. It's not like the Romans thew down their arms and surrendered after they were encircled. Encirclement is cited because it was seen as an achievement by a master tactician in general Hannibal of Carthage. Taking 40,000 and encircle the much larger 80,000 Roman army. It is why even to this day we consider Hannibal one of the greatest military tacticians ever. Hannibal did this because he believed the well disciplined Roman legions were both vulnerable to their rear and would panic if encircled. The Romans at Cannae used specific formations to wage war and those formations did not operate well with enemies in their rear. Which wasn't a problem because nobody could image a commander being able to encircle 80,000 Romans. The subsequent slaughter enabled by Hannibal's tactics both proved Hannibal right, and decided the battle. Contrast this with the Roman battle of Alesia (52 BC). The Romans under Julius Cesar laid siege to the Gallic fortress of Alesia. Alesia's allies arrived and surrounded the Romans who were still surrounding Alesia. (think of a giant donut) Cesar planned for this and had built fortifications in an outer ring to his fortifications besieging Alesia. At one point the Romans were outnumbered by 4 to 1 and surrounded. Yet in the end the Romans won, because they had the superior leader, and had planned well. 

I don't know if you know who Bull Connors was. Klan affiliation didn't hurt his reelection efforts throughout the 1960's. He was the head racist in the city of Birmingham Alabama, responsible for enforcing segregation laws and generally roughing people up who didn't like those laws. He became the antagonist to one of the great stand offs of the civil rights movement in the 1960's. Martin Luther King wanted to pick a fight with a racist on national TV. Bull Connors was his man. Previous marches to Birmingham by Adults had been met by fire hoses and attack dogs. Martin Luther King responded by sending a wave of children protesters.. some as young as 8 years old. Bull Connors did not disappoint, using attack dogs and fire hoses on the children, captured by national TV camera's it became a major turning point in the Civil Rights movement as folks all across the country became familiar with Bull Connors. May 3, 1963. Bull Connors was defeated for re-election in 1972!!! The list of klan affiliated politicians over the years isn't limited to the South, nor the early 1900's. It is long enough to be a cliche. Robert Bird senator from West Virginia was a recruiter for the klan and rose to the office of grand cyclopes. An outspoken advocate of the klan in the senate early in his career. Early on the clan was his political base. Hugo Black Supreme Court justice(1937 to 1971) and senator from Alabama (1927 to 1937). Black, a Democrat, joined the Ku Klux Klan in order to gain votes from the anti-Catholic element in Alabama. He built his winning Senate campaign around multiple appearances at KKK meetings across Alabama. Edward L. Jackson Gov of Indiana , joined the Ku Klux Klan during its revival in the early 1920s. When he became Governor of Indiana as a Republican in 1925, his administration came under fire for granting undue favor to the Klan's agenda and associates. Rice W. Means, a Republican United States Senator from Colorado, was a member of the Klan in Colorado. Clarence Morley was a Republican governor of Colorado from 1925 to 1927. He was a KKK member and a strong supporter of Prohibition. He tried to ban the Catholic Church from using sacramental wine and attempted to have the University of Colorado fire all Jewish and Catholic professors. Bibb Graves, a Democrat, who was the 38th Governor of Alabama. He lost his first campaign for governor in 1922, but four years later, with the secret endorsement of the Ku Klux Klan, he was elected to his first term as governor. Graves was almost certainly the Exalted Cyclops (chapter president) of the Montgomery chapter of the Klan. Graves, like Hugo Black, used the strength of the Klan to further his electoral prospects. George Gordon, a Democrat and Congressman for Tennessee's 10th congressional district, became one of the Klan's first members. In 1867, Gordon became the Klan's first Grand Dragon for the Realm of Tennessee, and wrote its Precept, a book describing its organization, purpose, and principles.