Hard to really tell, but since you've tried to identify possible reasons and can't think of anything, I'll throw out what I would look at. 

The best stretches to do before any exercise is no stretches at all. Stretching before exercise weakens your muscles and increases risk of injury. Any stretching you do should be after the exercise as part of a cooldown. The best warmup to do for weight lifting is appropriately called warmup sets. Do 3 sets of whatever lift you'll be doing with much lighter weights than your target weight for that day. So if you're going to be deadlifting 135lbs that day, you would do a warmup set with just the bar and bumper plates (~50lbs), then another set at 65lbs and a third set at 85lbs. You can adjust the weights according to however you feel. Obviously if it doesn't feel good, go lighter and throw in an extra set. Doing warmup sets is also a good way to figure out if something is off that day. If what you expected to just be your second warmup set feels unusually heavy, that's a good sign that you may have overtrained or haven't taken enough time to recover. 

Bar thickness is well known for making it more difficult to do deadlifts, there's no reason why this wouldn't apply to doing pull ups as well. Particularly if your hands are on the smaller size, increasing thickness will have a significant effect. 

I focus primarily on breathing out, making sure my lungs are cleared of air as much as possible. With the effort on breathing out, the lungs just fill up naturally due to the pressure difference (same with playing a wind instrument incidentally). 

It's not terribly convenient doing squats with dumbbells, deadlifts I find are a bit better (but I've also got long arms, so I'm well suited to them). If you're going to focus only on your upper body, given your age I'd suggest calisthenics - since you're still growing you have progressive overload with your bodyweight built in. Also, it's quite impossible to really diagnose a problem like that over the internet (to say nothing of the fact that most of us aren't physicians), but for general purposes it would be more useful to know exactly what workout routines you're doing. Some upper body workouts could actually be quite balanced given that they're only focusing on the upper body, while others could be terribly imbalanced and could likely cause you pain even if you didn't have any pre-existing condition. 

Cold food would affect the homeostasis of your body, requiring more heat to be produced to bring it back to 37 degrees, so there's probably some truth to it, but not to the extent suggested. A much more likely reason that bodybuilders drink so much water for contest prep is cutting weight. If you drink a ton of water and then stop 12-24 hours before the contest, you'll cut anywhere from 10-30lbs by pissing it out and sitting in a sauna in a sweat suit. I've cut 8% of my bodyweight in water doing that. Ice water might factor in there as well, as people in hot countries drink spicy tea to deal with the outward heat, whereas drinking ice water or slushies leaves you still sweating just as much. Cutting water weight leads to much better muscle definition, so it's quite understandable that someone might confuse 30lbs of water weight with 1000 calories worth of fat. 

Well the first part is true for some people. It's a fact that not everyone responds to diet and exercise the same way, and that's a reasonable hypothesis for why some people react in a certain way. The last part about alternating high and low calorie diets being the only way to lose weight and gain muscle consistency isn't true. For weight loss it might certainly be a way that works for some people, but it's not going to be the only way that works either. As far as losing weight consistently goes, I've seen numbers of as high as 95% of people who lose weight return to their original weight (or higher!) within a year, and that's regardless of specific method used. As far as muscle gain goes, you don't need to switch things up. There the science and evidence is pretty solid. Progressive overload leads to progressive strength gains and progressive strength gains lead to progressive muscle gains. If you're lifting weights, getting enough rest in between sessions and gradually increasing the amount you're lifting, you'll get stronger, and your muscles will get bigger. How much stronger and how much bigger will depend on your genetics and how suitable the method you're using is, but the principle stays the same. The biggest obstacle, aside from overtraining, to sustained progressive weight overload is that at a certain point a 5lbs or 10lbs jump in weight becomes a bit too much. Eventually you're going to be increasing in increments of 2lbs, 1lbs or even 8oz, and then finally at your absolute max you'll stop making gains at all. Once you hit that, switching it up isn't really going to help for strength, but that doesn't mean you should branch out. It's not going to be after 2 weeks that you'll need to change your strength building routine though. 

I used to have this notion that I would get in better shape by swimming with suboptimal technique, and therefore get more resistance. My girlfriend at the time was a good swimmer and thought the idea was ridiculous. I later had a friend who was quite into swimming as well, and had to stop entirely due to some serious muscular dysfunction in his shoulder from thousands of reps of a technique that was just a bit off. So even if you do somehow get better fitness by not worrying about technique, you're still prone to injury. Technique first is the only sensible way to go. You're not going to get in better shape if you're sidelined due to an overuse injury, and the people who are good at swimming seem to think you get the fitness from the technique. 

There are usually different attachments that you can get, particularly for the pulldown machine and the row (same machine in my gym). You could get a D-Handle or a rope handle to add elements of grip strength to your tricep pushdowns for instance, or add in one handed or two handed wood chops and reverse wood chops. There's also an attachment I've seen in a book but never in a store or in person that lets you tie it around your ankle to practice moving your leg slideways, which would be a great balance for the flexion and extension of leg extensions and glute-ham curls. 

Do controlled exercises until you can get your injured wrist back to the same, or very close to, strength and range of motion of your uninjured wrist. Do light activity that gets you back into using your injured wrist - that could be as simple as playing video games or music for 10-15 minutes, cooking food, kneading bread (if you don't make your own bread, you could always learn how). For exercises I would suggest sticking to dumbbells to start with, and start off at 5lbs with low reps just to get used to going through the motions, and steadily increase the weight until you feel you're at a point where it's a bit more difficult, then slow your rate of increase. The idea is to aim low to start and work your way up until you've figured out what your wrist can handle. I would avoid doing any sport that's unpredictable (tennis, soccer, wrestling) until you're fully or close to fully recovered doing something predictable, like lifting weights. 

It's unlikely that whey protein would contain a significant amount of lactose. Depending on your level of sensitivity even trace amounts could cause problems, but more likely than not you'll be fine with any whey protein you eat. If you can buy a small portion to try, that would be best. Alternately, unless you're vegetarian, meat is a good source of protein, as are eggs, and food sources are always better than supplements. If you can get enough protein from meat and eggs, you might not even have to bother with the whey protein. 

www.amazon.com/The-Frozen-Shoulder-Workbook-Overcoming/dp/157224447X/ or www.amazon.com/Trigger-Point-Therapy-Workbook-Self-Treatment/dp/1572243759/ might have the solution for you. I've had good results with the latter book (haven't got the former because it worked) in addressing neck range of motion problems as well as my left shoulder with issues that I've had for years. Not fully recovered yet on either, but it is much better. Then again, it might be something much different. It's trite to suggest seeing a qualified physician, and I'm not doing that just in a cover my ass fashion, but it's also key to get the right physician who can actually help you, not one that just suggests you no longer do weights and take some painkillers. 

The greatest predictor of future weight gain is past weight loss. If you try to cut weight that quickly, you're likely to be a part of that statistic. If you're losing a significant amount of weight over a short period of time, chances are you're losing muscle instead of, or as well as, fat. This might be a contributor to the above mentioned weight gain predictor. If you cut a bunch of weight, but it's mostly muscle mass, when you gain that muscle mass back, you'll also gain some fat with it, and suddenly you're heavier than before. Rapid weight loss can also be water loss, which is to say, dehydration. That's not good for you either. Really, if your goal is to lose fat, which if you have a ton of it, isn't a bad idea (if you're just in the 'overweight' category, I wouldn't worry about it unless you actually feel unhealthy), I would shake any notion of "weight loss". I would replace it with a goal of losing inches, and reducing body fat percentage. This allows for weight gain, due to added muscle, while losing fat. That's more likely to be sustainable. Muscle loss isn't sustainable - you'll eventually crash and have to build it back up (or be perpetually unhealthy; another likely contributor to the negative health effects associated with being overweight or obese is unhealthy weight loss practices). 

The answer changes a bit depending on the exercise. The core muscles are stabilising muscles, so holding a plank position is engaging your core muscles in the fashion which they are intended to be used, and that likely would bring benefits for a number of other exercises, including heavy compound lifts and monkey bar callisthenics. When we're talking about the horse stance, I'm not sure that's actually all that useful for anything other than doing horse stance. Obviously your flexibility will be very good as deep as you go into the horse stance, and that could very well be beneficial for squats as well, but it's unlikely that you couldn't get those benefits faster by just doing squats instead. Obviously squats won't help you hold a horse stance for 5 minutes, but you're not ever going to have to hold a horse stance for 5 minutes unless you're in a martial arts class... 

If you're feeling fine at the end of the session, then there's no reason not to continue doing that. Also no huge reason to change the pace, but in general it's a good idea to either increase the distance you run in a particular time, or decrease the time it takes you to run a certain distance. For sustainability, aiming for something like cutting 5 seconds off each day would be fine, or alternately maybe add 20 meters at the same timing. If you want to really inform yourself, getting a heart rate monitor would help, that way you can rest until your heart rate gets close to your resting heart rate, and run again instead of setting the rather arbitrary 5 minutes. 

The body is pretty good at getting what it needs from whatever you happen to eat, so as you suggest, a bowl of soup would work quite well. The Swiss Army in the 70s (most likely before that too) would drink boullion from a thermos to recover from endurance training, and it was apparently also popular for long distance competitions around that time as well. Obviously that's a matter of making use of what you have available to you. As far as supplements specifically designed for recovery go, I would avoid them unless I know exactly what's in them, if they're doing the carb and protein balance using refined sugars and a single protein source, that's not going to be particularly healthy. It's also going to cost a lot as they'll claim they're charging for the formula. You'll get better nutrients from something complete and balanced. Also, you'd have to ask why you're needing to recover so quickly after doing cardio. Any improvements you make to your body will be done while resting, and that's a rather slow process. Quick recovery would suggest you're having to do something else right after, which would likely impede any progress you're making. 

For diet, the best kind of diet is the kind that adjusts to your needs. For instance, an anti-inflammation diet I'm going on starts you off with a bunch of foods that are known to cause no problems for almost everyone, and then it slowly introduces foods that are otherwise very good, but do cause inflammation for some people (ie, some people react badly to the histamines in bananas, others react badly to the seeds in raspberries), so you can figure out exactly which foods cause you problems. If your diet doesn't make those kinds of adjustments, you'll be gambling as to whether it happens to line up with what your body works well with. That said, a good generic diet to follow is the glycemic index/glycemic load diet, it's primarily for people with diabetes, but anyone can benefit from it, and unlike any of the fad diets, it's unlikely to hurt you by following it. Also, if you are not already diabetic, it lends itself very well to "cheating" - as long as you eat one food item with a low GI before eating one with a medium or high GI, you'll not end up with a crash. It's also quite possible that following the GI/GL diet could help you with your snacking issue. Otherwise for snacks, I find the easiest methods is to just substitute the snacks out for something else. Try to make sure that you don't have any problem foods in the house anymore, and when you go shopping make sure you've eaten enough so you're not hungry. You're more likely to buy junk food if you're shopping while hungry than when you're satisfied. As far as exercise goes, cardio benefits some people and is counterproductive for others. If you've been doing cardio for a while, and you've been making some progress, even if it's small, it wouldn't hurt to keep going for it. On the other hand if you've kept steady at your current weight with cardio, you'd want to switch. It's really hard to go wrong with a strength program that's based on compund lifts of free weights. A lot of people have reported weight loss success on the Stronglifts 5x5 program. The best thing with focusing on strength is it's a win-win. Either you start losing fat (although possibly not weight due to muscle gain), or if you don't you're that much better prepared to your better base strength to work on a different weight loss exercise program.