An underinflated mat means you're on the ground. A firm (enough)a mat means you're not. The greater air doesn't make the mat softer, it makes the sensation of the ground under the mat softer. 

The main thing is that the outer guy-line needs to pull in a direction which pulls the top of the hoop outward effectively. Extending the guy-line in the picture farther away from the tent and closer to a horizontal angle is not an effective way to get more outward pull at the top of the hoop, surprisingly. It will pull the sides of the hoop somewhat, but to pull the top of the hoop away from the middle of the tent, the guy line should be perceived as an extension of the canvas eave. So, find the maximum angle which the eave can make away from the tent, and make sure that the guy line pulls toward the ground in that direction. So, you'll stake the guy line to the ground more closely to the tent. When pulling the guy line farther outward doesn't pull the eave farther outward, that's the point to stop looking for a stake point farther from the tent. Once you find that angle, you'll want the guy line to be under as much tension as reasonable. Given the angle, you can see, I'm sure, how "pulling down (and out, but not too far out) on the guy line is the same as pulling up (and out) on the top of the hoop". So come up with a way to make the guy line tighter. You'll want to ensure that the stake or sandbag or whatever's holding the guy line down is as secure, heavy, or otherwise immobile as you can, and then use various means of tightening the tension on the guy line against that resistance. The tautline hitch knot or a plastic or metal guyline adjuster tab at the end of the line are options. Last, you can also consider adding a guyline directly to the top of the hoop so that you CAN angle a guyline in the horizontal direction (which isn't optimal if the guyline is fixed to the canvas eave). Angling your guyline farther outward lets you take advantage of stakes which have less holding power, but only if it's attached to the top of the hoop and not to the eave. Once the line from the top of the hoop is fast and pulling outward (away from the center of the swag), then you still would use the other guy line, but only for holding the eave out, not for holding the hoop up. 

I'd have to say No, not based on the water vapor in the exhaust from the candle, but based on the fact that if the area is enclosed and not very large, you can only dry a very small amount of wet fabric no matter whether you're using a heat source or not. Unless you have a way to dehumidify the area and store the condensation. Heat will obviously help with drying in an open system. Warmer air holds more water vapor, and warmer conditions hasten evaporation. But it doesn't take much water to saturate the air in a small, enclosed area and prevent further evaporation and drying. Some means of rapid dehumidification, and sequestering the liquid water which condenses out, would help with the drying of the fabric and every other surface in the area, but you still wouldn't want to be inside of there. You're going to want ventilation. If you have that, then a candle is likely to help quite a bit. Not to mention, protecting any living, breathing occupant of the same area from suffering carbon monoxide poisoning. 

If you have been unable to retrieve the cam using the other methods described another climber will almost certainly abseil in or climb up to it and claim it as Crag Swag. 

By matching the peak of your recovery with your workout you will be able to increase the intensity of your training and gradually increase your performance. This will be quite personal and should be determined by logging performance over time. Your experience of decreasing personal bests being a good example of feedback that your over-doing it. Diagrams from Training For The New Alpinism, probably not the best book for running. 

This isn't really a clear yes/no sort of question, I'm also pretty reticent to tell someone what would be best for their child. Aside from that hopefully someone will provide some information that will make your decision or others thinking of doing the same easier. My first suggestion would be to work out which huts you are thinking of staying at or around and ring the guardians who are usually very helpful/knowledgeable! I don't know how much you know about huts in the alps but some things to consider; 

Why should you care so much about your aerobic fitness? because the body can only store about 2500 calories in glycogen, the fuel used to generate power anaerobically as apposed to around about 100,000 calories in fat, which will be used to generate power aerobically. As alpine climbing is an endurance activity lasting sometimes several days you can see that dipping into your glycogen supply is a luxury that should be reserved for difficult crux moves or unexpected emergencies, not to compensate for a lack of aerobic fitness on the approach. The most effective training will likely be quite boring unless you have access to some really nice country side. Walking with a weighted pack up something, local steep hill, stair master, staircase of multi-story building. Put something like water or rocks in your bag that you can dump out at the top to save your knees on the descent. I'd avoid running with weight for the same reason. Improving aerobic fitness is quite a large topic but the consensus is low intensity high volume. Adequate recovery is as important as the workout. 

As most people have recommended Training for the new alpinism is a very comprehensive sports science book on exactly the subject your interested in. It covers much more than a stackexchange answer could expect to. From said book, 

I'm not sure that anyone can give you a specific number that will suit your needs. Its worth bearing in mind that the temperature ratings on sleeping bags are created using a somewhat arbitrary test involving a dummy with sensors read more. The good thing about this test is that it creates an objective position from which to judge a sleeping bags insulation value. The down side is that human experience of warmth is massively variable. Are you the type of person who puts a jumper on while your friends are still happy in shorts and t-shirts or visa-versa? I would start by borrowing a couple of sleeping bags and trying to sleep in them at a range of temperatures you expect to face. Failing that simply using them and seeing if you find the ratings to be conservative or generous. This would then give you a suitable reference point when deciding what you need for a sleeping bag for your trip. Many other factors apart from the sleeping bag will affect your temperature, fitness, body fat, calorie intake, fatigue, exposure to wind or rain, insulation from the ground, adding additional insulation while sleeping e.g. cloths. 

There are probably several brands out there that you're not familiar with. A lot of smaller manufacturers only have regional distribution networks (and some have no distribution network) so I bet there are several on the east and west coast that you haven't heard of. Stellar is fairly new and has little distribution in the midwest and west. Lincoln is far more established (55 years) but only has distribution in the northeast. P&H Sea Kayaks is well established around the world, however on the entire west coast there are only five dealers. What kind of "performance" difference are you expecting from a glass vs plastic boat? There's nothing wrong with plastic -- it has some advantages over composite layups, in fact -- and shouldn't be discounted just because it's less expensive. All plastic boats are not like the cheap sporting goods store boats -- many manufacturers offer excellent kayaks made of plastic. In fact, some searching on the Hurricane site leads me to believe that all of their boats are thermoformed plastic -- not fiberglass. 

I'd start with class II or III. In addition to the good points MaskedPlant laid out, also be aware of the length of the rapids. A long class II can be every bit as exciting as a short class III, and can also provide a more safe opportunity for the inexperienced paddlers to gain some confidence. Another important tip: be sure to assess attitude of everybody throughout the trip. Paddling rapids sounds exciting and is one of those things many people want to do/think they can do. However, I've run into a handful of people who, when they get out there, realize exactly what's going to happen and are not looking forward to it. If you don't recognize that early enough you could be in trouble -- relying on them when panic-struck is trouble, or seeing them get upset and literally jumping out of the boat and possibly into more danger. 

Yes, there is definitely a performance difference between different types of kayaks. In fact, there are performance differences among the same types of kayaks. For example, a 14-foot kayak will always track more straightly than a 10-foot kayak. A wide recreational kayak will always have more primary stability than a narrower touring kayak. Even if you both get the same type of kayak I suspect you'll find they work differently for each of you. No doubt you both do not weigh the same -- if you're heavier, a given kayak will sit lower in the water than for her. That may result in increased stability, or it could mean that you capsize easily. Alternatively, consider height and armspan: if she's short she may find it difficult to paddle in a wide rec kayak where the paddle is constantly bumping the edge of the boat. In short: you should each look for a kayak that suits you. That means you will see performance differences between the two kayaks, but if the boats really do suit each of you, that won't be a problem because you've found something that fits well. As to a fishing kayak specifically, if you get a longer kayak than her you'll likely be able to keep up with her on a day trip (though at the expense of maneuverability). Of course, keeping up with a partner is about more than the just the kayak. The paddle will also make a difference (especially its weight as it relates to your fatigue), and paddling technique can be a big difference between feeling good at the end of an outing and feeling whipped.