I don't like and it seems it's not welcomed to give product recommendation, but since you mentioned it, I bought the gps unit you looked at. Still haven't used its follow track feature, but I bought it because of that. If you are not interested in maps, probably the competitor polar m450 is a better choice. For some reason I don't like the scheme that goes "no gps bike computer with connection to phone for gps" but it doesn't look like a really bad idea and it is way cheaper. Since I wanted a christmas gift i didnt check the cell phone bike mount, but I would have given it a try. Also, keep in mind that for the price of a gps bike unit you probably can get a new cell phone with bluetooth and ant+, look that it has a good gps and battery life over camera quality or memory for instance, look that it is not very big and use it as a dedicated unit, but that would require research effort, and just getting a bike gps is more convenient. 

Having such a limited amount of time for a group ride that in order to finish it on time you would need to push group speed up to a point where the ride is not enjoyable or even feasible 

Because I have had my feet sliding from the pedals indeed, and foud that the shape of this sole (possibly just one of the slots/carves on the sole, not two) does make my feet grip better to the pedal and does well to avoid sliding. I'm a student so I'm not wealthy, and I rather not buy some pedals and shoes just to check and see no real improvement. But what is more, I use the same bike to commute and to go on longer routes, and I don't see myself going to class or part time job with cycling shoes, or get the platform/cleat pedal combo. But I also wanted a jersey after those rides, to keep the cereal chocolate bars in the handy pockets, and the pants with cushion, and what is more, I wanted a better, lighter, shifters in brake levers, bike. I was / am, seriusly considering spending some of my savings in this, that is, in the full equip for a road cyclist, expecting to be able to ride at the other riders pace in an easier way. But I'm afraid that the main reason that I lagged and struggled was that I am just not as fit as them in regards to longer cycling. I live way uphill and daily climb some 6 km in 5-10 % steep, in town, and I usually go on longer routes (30-50 km) some evenings and weekends, but I reckon they are simply more fit. Now, thinking of buying a new road bike, I would be afraid of leaving it on the city street, so that implies keeping two bikes. For the new bike, I feel weird to get a 1500€ bike and equip it with platform pedals, so I should get clipless, and get shoes, and then, I feel like I have to buy also jersey and pants, and then I started thinking that this is a bit like internet explorer in windows, it goes bundled, you must go with cleats and spandex, because everyone else is doing so, so it must be better, but if it was not that significantly better it is a bit weird, at least to me to just wear this, maybe with a couple pockets on the side: 

Strava has a proprietary secret algorithm for internally calculating distance, which involves smoothing the GPS data internally, although the original GPS data points are still stored in your history. If that Strava-calculated distance varies from the device distance more than a threshold, Strava replaces the device distance with the Strava distance. The Strava distance is not calculated by mapping your course to road and measuring the distance along a road. Strava distance also does not account for elevation change - while that is negligent for shallow slopes, you will be losing ~2% of your distance will climbing a 10% slope. Strava's distance algorithm tends to lose distance over windy roads, perhaps because it is by design blind to the actual road traveled, so the windiness is removed as noise. It shouldn't be difficult to calibrate your distance sensor along a track of known distance. Then you can know the answer. 

I'd like to introduce another axis: Tire material. Soft grippy material vs. Hard less grippy material. The Soft grippy material has the advantages on grippiness, smoother riding, less rolling resistance, but has the disadvantages of getting more flats (for the same thickness of material) and of wearing out faster. The reason for getting more flats for the same thickness of material is that the less grippy tire is more likely to deflect a sharp object, and is harder to penetrate. Generally speaking, racing tires tend to use soft grippy material, and not much of it, to keep the tires light. Conversely, training tires tend to use the harder less grippy material, and lay it on thicker. Racing tires therefore grip better, are lighter, and ride smoother. The only problem is they wear out faster. If your are a light body weight short distance rider (going hard for an hour, say) riding on smoother roads that may be acceptable as you wear them out in 6 months. But if you are a heavy body weight rider doing a lot of long distance riding on rough roads, you may be wearing out those tires every month or two, and that gets expensive. An alternative is a grippy softer tire with thicker material. Maybe 100 grams heavier than a racing tire, but just as grippy and smooth and lasts twice as long. There are two very popular road tires which together I see on over half of all bikes around where in live in California where the roads are not smooth. One is the thicker soft grippy tire, one is the harder less-grippy tire. Both are made by the same company. (I won't mention the company or the tire names as I think that violates rules). I've used both, and harder tire lasts about twice as long. But I prefer the softer tire for comfort, and I believe it is faster as well. The only (semi-)competitive riding I do is long distance (generally over 100 miles). Yet another axis is the presence of a puncture resistant band built into the tire. There is a huge variation in effectiveness of these bands, but the really effective bands tend to make the ride very hard and increase rolling resistance. I've used a pair such "puncture-proof" tires for mixed terrain riding - only one puncture where a goats head came in from the side bypassing the band. Apart from that months without puncture, even though the rubber on the tires looked as though it had been attacked by a mountain lion - cuts and deep scratches everywhere. Nowadays there are also tubeless tires. But that's beyond the scope of my comment. 

There are organizations that offer riding in traffic classes, they even plan with you your best commute route, I would look into that as a way to gain confidence. Keep in mind that if you are afraid or you doubt at some intersection or maneouvre it can be dangerous if someone decides they don't want to wait for you to make your move. Confidence and paying attention to your environment is best for safety, which includes, as mentioned above, claiming all the lane for you. Practice and get proper confidence on your skills, get a good helmet,(I wouldn't go for the full closed hwlmet because in the tradeoff between visibility and increased face security I think it is better to have more visibility), see that your bike is in excellent riding condition, gears brakes, etc, make yourself seen without blinding other road users, that's it. And then, rememeber you can't be 100% safe on the bike, but just walking on the city is also dangerous, we have to go outside the womb 

Taking into account the strava ladder, with kom in 20 minutes, and experience on similar length and average gradient climbs, my girlfriend, who is an occasional rider, (less than 1.000 km a year) does approximately double time than the kom, and stops around 3 times in the side of the road. New roads in Spain do not usually have veeeery steep sections (10 +) but older roads do. 

I did get chain slap damage on a carbon road bike, like one or even more millimeter deep scratch in the chainstay. I still don't know the reason, but chain seems to easily hit the lower part of the chainstay, the one that is not protected by plastic guard. Even going down one of those bumps in the road intended for slowing traffic makes the chain clack against the chainstay. So it can be a problem. Had never happened to me before. Bike shop tells they see no problem. I don't know why this happens, maybe the chain is too long ? It's got a compact style drivetrain which I had not used before (used 52-42 and 52-36) and the big hit came when going through a pothole in the road big ring in front and small sprocket back. I've had worse encounters with potholes ( to the point of banging tyres and bending rims) with not a scratch in the chainstay paintjob. But this bike is somehow prone to chain slap. Been wondering if it's a thing of compact drivetrains, or nothing to do with that. But yea don't just write off chainslap as a source of problems 

Those are called gumwalls. With this keyword you can easily search for them. Brands I see mounted on my friend's bikes are the likes of bontrager, panaracer, schwalbe, but Id say that most tyre manufacturers have a gumwall offer.