First off - whether one is more durable or not, they're somewhat different products. Whether you need one or the other is more based on what you're doing than on "durability". Hardshell vs Softshell note - these are marketing terms in the US outdoor industry. Apparently they're not standard internationally. Hard shell jackets offer a high level of windproofing, and low breathability. They're also usually the most waterproof. They're made with heavy nylon / canvas materials. Think a heavy gortex rain jacket. The hardshell material itself offers great protection against wind and rain, but not much insulation. Because they're windproof, they usually don't breath as much as softshells. Softshells are more like polar fleece jackets, perhaps with a cloth cover- they're very warm, because the material traps a lot of air. They also tend to retain their warmth when wet. Some softshells may have a goretex treatment, and be somewhat waterproof. But they're generally not very windproof. What they're for Hardshells are necessary for harsh environments with strong winds. You may also have a "softshell" jacket underneath the "hardshell" outer layer for insulation. Durability Durability in outdoor gear is a odd issue. My experience is that a lot of gear on the market now is designed to be ultra lightweight, often at the expense of durability. Jackets, backpacks, even the expensive ones just get torn up sometimes. You can find products with more rugged construction, but they come at a weight penalty. I could see how a serious mountaineer (which high end jackets are theoretically designed for) may prefer a light outer layer that will just get replaced after each expedition. 

Belaying Multi-pitch It's often recommended to belay off the harness (an "indirect" belay) when belaying the leader, and off the anchor (a "direct" belay) when belaying the follower. Use of an indirect belay for the leader reduces the force on the anchors, but does require consideration of how the belayer may be pulled in a fall. Use of a direct belay for the follower similarly minimizes the force on the anchor by avoiding the pulley effect. When the anchor pieces are extremely solid (e.g. bolts), a direct belay may be desirable in both cases. Still, do bear in mind that neither setup is mandatory; if a direct belay would place you in an awkward or less secure position then an indirect belay would offer, you should probably use the indirect belay and vice versa. Belaying the leader Should the leader fall before placing any protection, and continue falling past the belayer, the direction of pull then comes from below, and so the belayer must reverse their braking direction. As the belayer may not recognize the implications of this and thus not respond quickly enough, it's common to want to find some way to redirect the rope. However, an easier way to address this is for the belayer to bring their brake hand around behind their hip, rather than making a habit of braking purely downwards. Having your hand further from the device when it's locked-off may also reduce rope burns in a high fall factor situation as more rope can slip through the device before it has to also slip through your hand. If a redirect is still wanted, the leader can do this by clipping the rope into the shelf, master point, or the topmost piece of the anchor, which the belayer may unclip once additional protection has been placed. Alternatively the belayer could lower themselves a few meters below the anchor. I've also seen it suggested that the previous leader could climb slightly above the belay station in order to place an initial piece, and descend to build the belay anchor. (This makes an exception to the "never back-clip" rule, as back-clipping this piece lets the rope run the correct direction when the other climber takes the lead.) Redirecting the belay by clipping the anchor may slightly reduce the fall factor due to the additional rope out. However, it also means the belayer will be pulled violently into that piece when such a fall happens. The pulley effect will also multiply the force on the anchor (or the particular piece that was clipped) in contrast to a direct belay. Thus, unless the clipped piece is solid (e.g. a bolt) and the belayer can also be anchored to prevent them smashing into it, it may be preferable for the leader to simply place good protection soon after leaving the ground rather than clipping the leader's rope into the anchor.[1] (Of course, if you have an extremely solid anchor, you might also consider a direct belay.) A strong argument for an indirect belay (off the harness) is that by incorporating the belayer into the system, some of the load on the anchor is shifted to the belayer's stance. This may be helpful if the quality of the anchor or gear is in question. If you do use an indirect belay, be mindful of the direction a fall will pull the belayer. It's also advisable to clip the belay device into both the rope tie-in loop and the belay loop when doing this, in order to prevent discomfort from the harness being twisted in two different directions.[2] (Clipping the belay loop vs. clipping the tie-in loop is also a way you can further adjust the amount of force going to the anchor.) On the other hand, a direct belay (off the anchor) will be much easier to escape if something goes wrong, and essentially eliminates the weight of the belayer as a factor in catching falls. This may be beneficial if the leader significantly outweighs their belayer, but it also means that it's harder to give a "soft catch". It also places significantly higher forces on the anchor and gear.[3] (Along those same lines, use of a tube-style belay device such as an ATC or Reverso will allow additional rope slippage that further reduces the impact on the anchor.) References: 

Disclaimer - I should mention that my answer only applies in the context of the original question. I'm discussing my experience rappeling in a rock climbing context, using a dynamic single or half rope, a "stich-plate" or tubular belay device, and an autoblock backup (not a prussik). I can't speak to rappeling in caving (where the gear would be different) or in rescue situations (where you'd be rappeling with the weight of 2 or more people) Actually, rappelling down a wet rope is about the same. Its just that everything else in climbing becomes more dangerous when its raining. :) I live on the east coast of the US, and we get rain pretty frequently. There's about a 30% chance of scattered thunderstorms nearly every day, and rain is just a fact of life. I get rained off a route maybe once a year. While I can't say I enjoy it, actually rappelling down a known rappel route in the rain isn't all that bad, especially if you can stay tied into a rope system the whole time (i.e, you don't have to scramble unroped along a ledge to get to a rappel anchor). The rope dynamics don't seem to change all that significantly. I always rappel with a regular tubular belay device and an auto-block backup, and I usually rappel with the device in "high friction" mode. (note - I also use a 9.8mm or thicker rope) I would think that the rope would get slipper-ier, but it seems like the ropes get thicker and heavier when they're wet, so maybe that counteracts it some (my rope is supposedly "dry treated", but gets fatter anyway). What is more dangerous 

Traditionally a bear bag was simply something to hold your food out of reach of bears. This usually meant finding a way to suspend it from a high branch, and in this instance it's usually sufficient for the bag to be waterproof. (With this in mind, some people like to hang the bags "upside down" to prevent rain getting in through the top. Be sure to tie them securely closed if you do this!) There are different methods for hanging, but a common one is the PCT method. To briefly summarize the method: 

Sterling Rope sells 8mm cord in both "accessory" and "prusik" cord variations. The only difference I see in their specifications is a 15.4 kN strength rating for the prusik cord, and a 15.6 kN rating for the accessory cord. (Effectively the same.) I don't see any differences in the weave, assuming they used the correct photo. They have this to say about the prusik cord: 

Shorter torso length (distance from shoulder to hip, often shorter in women). Narrower shoulder straps (men tend to have broader shoulders). Shape of shoulder straps (sometimes you'll see S-curved straps to fit better around breasts). Size and shape of the hip belt. 

The old advice is to "Take nothing but pictures, and leave nothing but footprints". Almost any amount of memento-taking is going to lead to some kind of impact in anything but the most isolated of areas. The details of what is and isn't legal are going to vary with the exact area you're in -in the US, Wilderness Areas, a national forests, Bureau of Land Management's land, and state forests, all have different governing bodies and different sets of rules. Even different national parks are allowed to set their own rules. But I think they all prohibit you from taking mementos. And, besides all that, I find that in this age of social networking and photo sharing sites, a handful of good pictures can capture the experiences of my trips better than physical stuff does, although that's purely subjective. 

Sorry for not giving a single recommendation, as in many situations in climbing, there are multiple options, and its important to know what the tradeoffs are. Carabiner As per usual, you want to make sure your carabiner is loaded along its spine. That is, longways. So, one end of the carabiner will be running through the leg loop or belay loop, and the other end will have both strands of the autoblock coord. What I do I place my autoblock on my main belay loop, then extend my belay device with a PAS. The rope runs down between my legs, and I can use either hand to control my descent. My autoblock is made out of coord that I measured and cut specifically to be too short to catch up in my extended belay device. 

I suspect you are bringing more items than you have listed, since you've alluded to some of them in the comments. That said, here's what I see as missing or improvable: 

In more temperate climates (forests, jungles, etc.) burying feces is preferred as it will be broken up by microbes in the soil while being somewhat protected from the environment. Plant growth in these areas is also rapid enough that cut roots are generally a non-issue. (I'm assuming you aren't hacking through larger roots.) In general the warmer the climate the better the decomposition. Deserts, canyons, and alpine areas above treeline represent special cases; there is generally a lack of organic soil in which to bury waste and vegetation grows very slowly, if at all. In such areas, particularly heavily impacted ones, packing out waste via WAG bags is preferred and sometimes legally mandated. On rarely-visited routes in the high alpine there are two other options which are sometimes used: the first method is to go on a rock then toss it down a moraine or crevasse. The second is to smear it into a paper-thin layer on a rock facing the sun; the sun and wind will slowly bake and abrade it away. (It's worth noting that the Leave No Trace Center for Outdoor Ethics found most people don't spread it thin enough.) Regarding toilet paper, many advocate packing it out. I've heard differing opinions on how well it decomposes in the wild, and often that's climate dependent. Outside of areas with good organic soil I would pack it out. Another option that many use is to skip toilet paper and use snow, rocks, or leaves instead. In terms of supporting data, one Tasmanian study looked at decay rates of different products (facial tissue, tampons, as well as bleached and unbleached toilet paper) at different sites and with or without added nutrients (i.e. poo). The actual paper appears to be paywalled, but the results suggest unbleached paper is slightly better, tampons decay much slower than the other products (and should probably be carried out), and outside of alpine/subalpine areas decay proceeds at a good pace, particularly when combined with waste: 

Acid rain usually has a pH of around 4-5, while normal rain is around 5.6, and pure water is 7, or neutral [1] [2]. To give that in perspective, acid rain is less acidic than orange juice or soda, while normal rain is closer to bananas [3]. You shouldn't be in danger from the acid rain itself any more so than normal rain. However, you are more in danger from the pollutants which cause acid rain, such as sulfur dioxide and the various nitrogen oxides [4]. Acid rain has more of an effect on wildlife, where it can interfere with the hatching of fish eggs (most of which cant hatch below a pH of 5), as well as leaching aluminum from the soil into lakes and streams. Additionally, it can remove nutrients from the soil, as well as damage stone and metal sculptures [4]. In conclusion, you should not be directly effected by acid rain, though the pollutants which cause it can harm you, and it will harm the environment in a bunch of different ways. 

I was out camping recently, and found that the bottom foot or so of my sleeping bag had gotten wet ( in part due to one of the stakes for my rain fly coming loose, but that's another story). As no one likes sleeping with feet in a wet sleeping bag, I was forced to curl myself up, which is an uncomfortable way to sleep as well. That got me thinking; is it possible to waterproof a sleeping bag? I have some waterproofing spray that I used on my boots and part of a tent, and it says that it is usable on nylon, suede, leather, and Gore-Tex. I was wondering how effective it would be, and whether it would damage my sleeping bag in some way. I was considering only spraying the waterproofing on the bottom foot or so of the bag, since I had seen things mentioning that waterproofing can remove the breathability of the bag. 

I think the regulations are so strict because the park service wants to keep a level of discipline about how hikers manage their food, so that none is accidentally left in a pack, and the oils and crumbs from food don't contaminate a pack. This avoids scenarios where food was left in a pack unintentionally. Bears don't hunt humans except in rare cases (except for polar bears). It's not an issue of a bear attacking you personally. Rather, some bears WILL linger around campsites and wait for opportunities to steal food. Its more that the rules are in place to ensure that a bear doesn't come into a persons camp because the person accidentally left food somewhere it shouldn't have been. 

The best way, when it works It usually works to grab the whole mass of coils, and flip them over when handing them to the second. When you're doing this, care has to be taken that you don't wrap one of the ends around one of the climber's anchor cord. The leader (when bringing up the second) has to make sure that the loops are neatly and tightly stacked, and not falling over. Also, as you're coiling: The general advice is to start with large loops, and progress to smaller ones as the second gets closer to the belay. That way the loops don't interfere with each other as you belay from that coil. With this setup, you want to do the opposite - start with smaller / medium sized loops, and progress to larger ones. That way when you flip it, the larger loops are on the bottom. But this whole thing is more art than science, and I'd recommend you try and practice it safely on the ground (maybe in your living room) a few times to get the hang of it. If the loops aren't laying neatly, this technique probably won't work, and will result in a big knot. Also, you have to make sure that the person leading the next pitch (or their end of the rope) isn't somehow tangled as you pass the coils over. The slower, more predictable option You also have the option of recoiling the rope manually, passing it foot-by-foot from the leader to the belayer. This is going to be slower, but has a lower chance of getting tangled. If you think the lap coils aren't as neat as you'd like, or your belayer is inexperienced, and may have trouble managing the coils while belaying, I'd go with this route. 

Finally, one other point you should be aware of. Fuel vapors are cause to reject a stove or empty fuel container, meaning if the screener smells white gas, out it goes. Using denatured alcohol to clean the container and leaving it in a warm spot to "bake" dry may help. For a stove, running it for a time on butane might similarly help, as mentioned in this thread. An alternate option to consider is shipping fuel to your destination ahead of time, particularly if you'll be staying at a hotel upon arrival. Having someone at your destination who can obtain or hold the fuel for you is also useful. ref: $URL$ 

My copy of Buck Tilton's Wilderness First Responder notes that for cold water immersion, aside from providing standard treatment for hypothermia, the patient should be "handled gently, lifted from the water, and kept in a horizontal position". Dry them off, and insulate them from further cold before you think about building a fire. (The reason behind keeping the patient flat is to avoid stressing their heart.) If you fall in yourself, use the first minute to get control of your breathing, then assume you only have about 10 minutes of useful muscle activity. Use that time to pull yourself out or swim to safety. In terms of re-warming, the vast majority of the work will be done by the patient's own body: your role is to support that by minimizing their external heat loss and topping up their fuel supply (calories) if they are conscious. Adding external heat sources may help a small amount. 

I've always just used tape marketed towards climbers (including Metolius brand tape) and reused the gloves, applying more tape as needed (although I have friends who make new gloves every time). Gloves last me almost a whole season in this fashion, so I don't worry about price too much. Other athletic tapes don't always work as well, for some reason, but there may be exceptions. $4 isn't totally unreasonable, IMHO 

You're framing this as a question of "how much will this hurt my climbing"? I wonder if you could use this down time from actual climbing as a chance to focus more on pure climbing specific strength training, and possibly come out of the whole process a stronger climber. Something I tend to do is all but quit route climbing in the winter, and take it up again in the Spring. In that "down time", I'll still boulder once a week, and incorporate some climbing specific strength training. I lose a lot of endurance, but gain some strength, and usually come back in the Spring as a slightly stronger climber. If you keep your strength up, endurance will come back in a month or so. If you already have rock rings and a pullup bar, have you thought about doing the official rock ring training plan: $URL$ ? Metolius published a 10 minute workout plan that includes finger strength, pullups, lockoffs, leg raises, all climbing specific stuff. It all done from a hanging position, so it shouldn't tax your lower body, and it would build a lot of climbing specific strength. And since you're planning on not climbing as much anyway, you could try and hit it a couple times a still have several rest days (at least for your upper body). You might actually come back stronger after the marathon, and be able to train endurance on routes on top of a better base of strength. I feel like something like this (10 minutes of pure upper body strength training a couple times a week on rock rings), plus one gym climbing session a week, would integrate with your marathon training. But you'll have to listen to your body as you go. 

There isn't much to be said about the preparation that hasn't been said by DudeOnRock, but making sure that you are dry, have a comfortable sleeping pad, and are warm are definitely key. One thing to note is that you are going to be biking a lot, which will tire you out. I can tell you that some of my best sleep has been while camping, even when it was less comfortable sleeping arrangements. Definitely sleep in a tent if you are worried about waking up and it's your first time outdoors, and make sure that you set it up properly. If not, water could get in when it rains (staking the tent out is key). If you want, feel free to bring earbuds if you like to listen to music when you fall asleep, or earplugs if that's what you prefer. When setting up a tent, I would recommend putting a groundcloth/tarp on the ground, then your tent with a rainfly, then a space blanket, then your sleeping pad and finally your sleeping bag. The series of layers helps keep you dry if it rains, even if some part of your sleep system fails, or if there is a large amount of water. You would be more likely to wake up because you get wet than due to the sound of rain, which is why I think that setting up a tent well is very important. One last thing is if you do intend to sleep outdoors, practice setting up and taking down your tent and sleeping arrangements at home first, that way you aren't trying to do it for the first time when it really matters. Tents are not necessarily intuitive, and experience with your equipment can help a lot.