I would put them on before the clear coat. That way the clear coat helps to protect the decals as well as the paint. 

Yup, you are on the right track, but it sounds like the shops you're dealing with may be looking at the "heaviest duty" solution, and from your description, you may be able to get away with a lighter duty one. To start with, breaking a couple spokes isn't so bad. Those may very well be the only 2 spokes you ever have to replace on that bike, and if not, it may do you well to have a couple spares and carry a spoke wrench and learn how to true your wheel. Outside of that, it kinda depends on the wheel you already have and what you want. For my money, the two quickest and cheapest ways to get a stronger wheel are to get one with(or upgrade to) stainless spokes, and if you're already there, start looking at double wall rims or wheels. I would think you should be able to find a decent set of wheels that would hold you for about $80-110 depending on your market and whether you want to shop online(which I usually don't recommend for this, since a shop will do a quick true-up on wheels they are selling). One more piece of advice, as Batman mentioned in the comments, make sure you're inflating your tires to the recommended inflation. It really does help minimize damage. 

Swapping the hub and spokes is possible, but be aware it is a very involved process. The spokes need to be the right size for the new hub/rim combo, and there are about 200 sizes of spokes, in 1mm increments. More often than not, it's more cost and time effective to buy a new wheel, but if you're dead set on doing it yourself, you will want to do a spoke length calculation on the new setup, there are a few places online that may be able to help some, but the best ones are services you have to pay for. You will want a good spoke wrench, a truing stand can come in useful, and lots of patience is a must. 

Per your comments, looks like you just needed to re-seat the rear wheel. To be fair, I will say there are things you can do while changing a tire that may cause problems like this. But having to adjust the disc brake, then the shifting acting wrong is a dead giveaway that the wheel went back in a bit of a different angle than it came out. 

Quick release axle or bolt-on? If it's bolt on, you should be fine to just eyeball it. Quick release should be as even as possible, because if it's too thick on one side, the quick release will not properly close on that side. 

As I remember charcoal lighter fluid should be safe for the aluminum and should un-gunk it pretty quickly... I don't think it's safe for the tire. But if you're ok with possibly having to change the tire, it should work. Also, works great as a degreaser in those chain cleaning tools with the brushes. Just don't smoke while doing it. 

You could probably add training wheels, but not a crank. There simply isn't anywhere on the frame for cranks to go. Also, adding training wheels to a balance bike is kind of defeating the purpose of a balance bike. It's meant to be an alternative to training wheels that allows the child to learn to steer into falls and "scoot" around and eventually learn to glide around before riding a bike with cranks on it. These have been pretty universally hailed as the best way to teach a younger child to ride. Oh, and with the shape of the frame, you may not be able to find an appropriate set of training wheels too, they would end up at a forward angle, and would be more likely to get in the way of the "scooting" action kids do on these bikes. 

Kryptonite does not sell that separately right now(source: am a Kryptonite distributor), but I'll bring it up to them, see if they are interested in offering it. 

The real star here is the Bendix Red-Band hub. They re-popped those racks and most of the original type parts for this for something like 30 years. I've seen new racks like that as of about 10 years ago they kept making. The part that really shows the age of this though, is that hub. If that's an automatic 2 speed kickback, that dates it between 1960-1964. So that would put it right in your estimate. I take it there isn't anything on the other side of that chainguard? I'd say it could very well be a Hornet. Those tanks are removable, and someone could have done just that. 

You know, from that picture, and from their description, it is very difficult to tell what kind of rear derailleur that takes. It says Tourney, but there are so many different derailleurs that have been made under the Tourney label, there is no telling from that. It will become very apparent as you try to replace it whether you got the right one... A Direct Mount rear derailleur will have a 5- or 6-millimeter recessed allen bolt threading into a hole in a bracket that is bolted to or part of the frame. A Hanger Mount rear derailleur will have that bracket built into the rear derailleur and will instead tension into the back of a long dropout where you also mount the axle of the rear wheel, usually attaches with a Phillips screwdriver or a 9mm socket, tightening a nut that has a half moon shape. That derailleur you bought has a direct mount on an extended hanger, and mounts as a direct mount. Once you determine from the above descriptions which type you have, match the replacement to the same type. 

Most of this is included in the comments... I'd start with derailleur alignment. Once that's done, you'll need to do some light tuning on the cable tension and limit screws to make up for any changes. If that doesn't fix it, maybe a new chain would help. Try borrowing a different wheel(with the same number of gears) to see if it still makes the noise, that will eliminate the cassette and hub body from possibly being the culprit. I know you're saying it's coming from the derailleur, but it's sometimes difficult to tell when all these parts are so close together. In the long run, though, if it's noisy, it may just be noisy. If it's functioning right, it may not be worth messing with. 

There is a rear locking rack box, the only one I've ever seen is by Sunlite, but it's not really what I would consider "high security". It's made of plastic, but it does take a key, and will deter the "casual theft". I actually know this company well, and their products are available at just about every bike shop in the US, as well as many places online. Shouldn't be hard to find. 

I know this isn't necessarily answering the question, but I feel it speaks more to the problem this person is experiencing. Maybe instead of moving the seat back, which would be likely to cause you reach/back strain/lumbar flex issues, you should be looking at bikes with a "foot forward" geometry. These are generally cruiser-type bikes, not sporty at all, good for neighborhood rides and bike paths. But they are definitely easier on your back/hips/knees. I won't name specific brands, as I've been made to believe we don't do that on this site, but there are several brands making them, and your LBS should have something in stock you can test ride just to see if it helps. 

Yes, it is possible to powder coat a frame. They most likely wouldn't put new decals on. You can usually find replacement decals online, shouldn't be too hard. The powder coating process is a bit involved, and probably will not be cost-effective. But if you want to spend the money, it's definitely possible. First, let's get this right. You're looking at "wheels", not "rims". Sorry to be pedantic, but the terminology does matter here. Single speed means what it says. It has spacing/cassette body/freewheel threads for a single speed set-up. Sometimes this can be adjusted(at great effort) to work for multi-speed systems, but more often it can't. Had a hard time following this at first. I think you're talking about a seatpost clamp. First, there's nothing "classic" about one that takes an allen wrench. Those are a bit more secure(if your bike is locked up somewhere, people will be less likely to walk up and steal your seat), and road bikers tend to change their seat height less frequently. There are Quick Release options available for most sizes, as long as the clamp isn't integrated into the frame. 

Sounds like a friction front gripshifter with a "Micro-Adjust" shifter. As mentioned in the comments, that will let you "trim" the shifting a bit. As you change gears in the rear gears, the chain moves a little side to side, and may rub the front derailleur. That shifter lets you move the front derailleur cage a little bit to alleviate that chain rub. 

I actually use that hub quite a bit, and was just looking into that setting for one of my customers earlier. The "set" gear is 2. set the shifter in 2, then yes, you want the connection from the chain to pin to be just protruding from the axle. Once you set it like that once, lift the back wheel off the ground and pedal it one revolution forward and pedal it backwards to engage the brake once just to be sure it's engaged in the gear, and check it again. If it has "settled into gear" and the position of that pin has changed, set it again. Once you get it so in gear 2 the pin has stayed at that point, you should be good. Check that all gears are working, and that it isn't slipping like you said in your original post. Riding it for long periods of time with it slipping out of gear will wear out the internals very quickly. 

Depending on the brand and model of the tool, you may have one that is simply too short. For instance, the cassette lockring tool for Shimano by Park Tool, the FR-5.2, has the same splines as the freewheel remover, but much shorter. Best bet right now would be to get a Park FR-1.3, which is the current model, which is significantly deeper set than Park's old model. Either way, you shouldn't need to remove the axle to remove the freewheel, but you probably need to remove the freewheel first if your aim is to remove the axle. Once you remove the freewheel, you need a 15mm box or open ended wrench and a 13mm cone wrench to unlock the locknut, and the rest should just thread off. 

Spoke wrenches, spoke holder if you have aero spokes, wheel extensions if you have a huge wheel, the dishing tool and tension meter are only important if you build wheels, there are also dials you can get for extremely close measurements on your wheel truing, and they also make one for disc rotors. I have never had use of either, but it just depends on how close tolerances you want to get to. 

If it specifically calls out that it's compatible with 7, 8, 9 and 10-speed chains, I have to assume it would also be compatible with those systems. That link resolves to a "404 item not found" on my end, don't know if it's a regional thing or what, so I couldn't look at it myself in this case. 

In my experience, the gap there isn't a problem. Usually those "long" spring ends go all the way through the brake mounting plate and a bit out the back side anyways, so there isn't an issue if they are a little shorter. As for the gap on the v-brake mount on the bike, too short is an issue. Too long usually isn't. As Criggie says in the comments, fantastic job on the photos showing the exact issue. But as long as the Shimano brake's spring end goes through the hole in the mounting plate(and doesn't back out of it) and the brake moves freely with the mounting screw tightened, you should be good to go. 

Here's a decent pic of a 4x9 set if that helps with the lacing pattern. The company I work for had several pairs set up like this, but I asked our wheelbuilding dept and they said there was no real calculation for it, they "eyeballed it" every time. 

I've never seen this exact flat, but I can see how it can happen. It's why some brands of liners now have rubber tips at the ends of them. a little filing just to be sure it's smooth there with an emery board should take care of it. Or as suggested in the comments, a piece of electrical tape should help. 

You sure that's removable? On the POC website, it lists that as "Adjustable visor", not "removable visor"... 

Sounds like you need a brake bleed, as mentioned in the comments. If there is air in a hydraulic system, the brake levers feel "spongy", or may not actuate the brake enough at all, which is what this sounds like. Any time you can squeeze a brake lever all the way to the grip, that's a dangerously underpowered brake. Brake bleeding is a process, and while you can do it yourself, it's usually recommended to take it to a shop, as it is easy to mess up, and messing up on a brake bleed can mean you ruin pads/hoses/calipers/levers, and can get costly.