As long as your armor is metal, touching the ground, and there is a continuous conductive path, any metal armor will protect against lightning and electrical attacks until the current is sufficient to melt/vaporize the metal. It was not uncommon for "gaps" to be covered or linked to the main body of armor with chain (either mail or simple links). Medieval armies had to deal with "greek fire", which can be thought of as a primitive napalm. Fire attacks such as you describe were commonplace on medieval battlegrounds, as were defenses against them. 

I found the perfect match, and found out much later by accident that he is autistic. His autism is a benefit in that role because a part of his condition is being synesthetic. He experiences emotions and sensations as colors, so he is finely attuned to subtleties of art that I completely miss. He and I get along well in part because I am oblivious to many social signals, so I don't pick up on his behaviors that drive neurologically normal folks nuts. However, If I were neurologically normal, his social skills would be a sufficient liability to rule him out, no matter how good he is technically. 

Your problem applies to the entire plant, not just the stomata. You need the sap to not freeze in that environment. Plants already produce ethanol or methanol under environmental stresses (concurrent absence of light for photosynthesis and low oxygen). Your plant can incorporate it into its normal metabolic processes, killing two birds with one stone. 

The bugeisha (warrior lady) was typically the of a high caste warrior family. The tradition predates the establishment of a formal samaurai class, but persisted until at least the late 19th century. In a time when men were frequently killed in battle or other dangerous occupations, or simply absent for prolonged periods of time to provide for their families (fishermen, hunters), it fell to the women to take up arms and defend the villages. The upper classes were expected to lead and participate in battle, and to participate actively in law enforcement. The absence of a man did not alleviate the high class family's duty to lead and defend. Japanese culture was, by our standards, very brutal. For example, in training a child in swordsmanship, at about 12 years of age they would be taken to the prison to practice getting the right angle to make a good cut on a human body. It was in this environment that the high class lady was expected to hold her own and prevail over criminals, and to lead militias and armies. Needless to say, with the difference in sheer strength between men and women, their training was less compromising than that of their male counterparts. Edit: Bugeisha in popular entertainment The anime "Yona of the Dawn" presents the Japanese cultural mythos of the bugeisha in a popular entertainment. It's the classical story of a spoiled teenage noblewoman caught up in palace intrigue, who escapes and then returns for revenge/justice. While there may have been women who fit this mythos, most of the biographies I have read of bugeisha's indicated that they we nobility that began harsh training at an early age with the intent that they would fight in and/or lead military/police actions. 

I don't think that selecting colonists because they are on the autism spectrum is necessarily wise. ASD covers a very broad range. Typically, I would expect you to select for a range of capabilities based on the roles to be performed. Some people on the ASD spectrum might fit into specific niches required by your community, but I would never expect the autism to be a deciding factor in and of itself. For example, I have a graphics artist on my webcast team. The requirements of the role are: 

Larry Niven did some hard math in the Ringworld Engineers.. While a ringworld can be constructed with the mass of a solar systems worth of.planets, the energy required to move that mass would itself be the equivalent of a couple of solar systems, assuming 100% conversion of mass to energy. The tensile strength of the supporting material for the ring would have to approximate neutronium. Terraforming Mars is much more achievable. 

Short form. .. yes. Medieval: cities are unhygienic and smelly. The king had power and means to build a fortress residence outside the city Renaissance : Same as medieval, but the nation's are wealthier and times are less warlike. The palace is less fortress like, and more comfortable. It may even have indoor plumbing and flush toilets. Modern and future: the countryside is where you want to live, if you have the means you get away from the paparazzi and have room for your kids to be kids. There is no advantage to living in a city. 

I used to run stairs in a 14 story building, 4 times up and down in 20 minutes. Call it 560 feet up and 560 feet down. On your back, you wouldn't notice 10 lbs but it would slow you down by a percentage of body weight. I weighed in at 130 lbs back then, so with 10 lbs I would expect to take roughly 2 minutes longer to run the same distance. 10 lbs of ore is a rather smallish stone. For scale, here is a link to a 3 1/3 lb rock sample, a sphere 10cm in diameter. Three of these is 10 lbs. $URL$ 

The buildings in the area have been rock and clay for most of history, matching OP's scenario The only eyewitness account of their destruction says they were destroyed by fire and brimstone, matching OP's scenario of destruction by burning The area has been relatively quiescent tectonically for some time, so there was no visually obvious risk factors City is situated above sea level - failed - the Dead Sea is below sea level City is in an semi-arid area - The humidity of the air hardly exceeds 40% and it drops in the summer to an average of 23%. ($URL$ The Jordan valley, which includes the Dead Sea area, is a part of the Great Rift Valley that extends from Lebanon into Africa. ($URL$ Tectonic activity is expected to a geologist but not to a casual observer. At present, it is believed that a super-plume of magma is widening the african end of the valley ($URL$ so occasional localized magma plumes are a reasonable natural occurrence (especially if receiving an assist from OP's diety) The dead sea area is pockmarked with quiescent volcanic craters, providing plenty of camouflage for the event, provided it is of a sufficiently small scale, matching OP's requirement that clues to the event must be well hidden As was noted in comments, destruction by brimstone (sulfur) would leave a strong sulfur smell. The entire dead sea valley south of Jericho is noted for its sulfur smell. At some points in history it was known officially as the Stink Sea, matching @RonJohn's observation that destruction by brimstone would leave a smell. City was destroyed about 2000 BC - match Destruction left limited clues that have left people guessing - match - some people wonder if the cities existed, others wonder which of several candidate cities whose period names are unknown might be the cities in question. ($URL$ Deity intervened to trigger an event to look like a natural disaster - speculative, but matches the eyewitness account, and allows for the precise range of violence that would match OP's requirements . 

Humans are expensive creatures to keep. Slave holding was already dying in hte US when the civil war erupted because it was not economical in the long run. However, the easy way to farm humans is to leave them in place, then harvest a fixed percentage on a regular basis. Having never tasted human meat (apart from my own fingers burnt when soldering too inattentively) I would presume that there is a "best age" for the harvesting. Typically, farm animals are harvested as young adults. The ideal venue for harvesting, then, is (drumroll ...) high school. Lure the "favored" graduates into your slaughterhouse with the right incentives and then the rest is much like any cattle slaughter operation. 

The biggest challenge will be recovery of normal society after massive destruction of infrastructure. In wars, destruction is not random. It is carefully focused to take away the enemy's ability and/or interest to wage war. With the breakdown of social order and disabled or destroyed infrastructure, people band together for safety. Band (militia, tribe, extended family) affiliation becomes more important than national affiliation. Look at just about any place in the middle east today. At Chernobyl we can see that radiation effects rapidly fade into the background noise. While Chernobyl is not a favored haunt of humans right now, the renewed presence of alpha predators (bears and wolves) in the city tells us that it has a thriving ecosystem just a few years after the nuclear event. A nuclear bomb is a weapon of terror, but is incredibly inefficient for most purposes. It focuses too much destruction in one spot. After Hiroshima and Nagasaki, it was determined that a conventional bombing campaign, that cost a fraction of what the nuclear weapons did, would have caused more destruction for equivalent explosive power. What the nuclear weapons did was add an element of terror to the equation - "one bomb can do this?" . This was in an age when bombing campaigns were essentially drop the load and pray you have enough coverage that one of your bombs hits close enough to your target to do significant damage. In contrast, modern weaponry is designed to be used as a scalpel. Destroy what you want with the minimum expenditure of energy and firepower. Drop a GPS guided concrete block on a bridge you want to destroy instead of carpet bombing the area around the bridge. You don't just attack the enemy's tanks, you attack his fuel supplies. You don't attack his soldiers, you attack his food supplies. You don't sabotage his weapons, you destroy his means of producing ammunition. In war, the amateur thinks tactics, but the professional thinks logistics. When the US struck Iraq, the press was less than impressed by the "shock and awe" campaign. However, the military was impressed. In a 5 minute span, exactly three missiles struck every military base in Iraq. One missile each for the main and backup communications closets, and one for the commander's bedroom. 

In practice, people trying working prototypes of MCP suits report that they fit like a diver's dry suit that is about two sizes too small. 

Disney animatronics were originally built with 1950s technology. Steel framing, sealed bearings, ballistic gel padding, silicone rubber skin. Add 1980s tech ... Amiga computer with vr goggles, access to Jordan Weisman for software. (FASA's battle tech video game hardware and software), ccd video cameras from Sony, VHF radio covering several bands. Don't try to get on an airplane. 

It's called a Mechanical Counter Pressure suit (MCPS) . They fit and look like a divers dry suit that's two sizes to small. Check out the MIT project that is under way. They have been a staple of scifi since the 1940's, and were a serious contender for the apollo space program. The air bag style suit that was settled on (and is in use to this day) was chosen purely because the effects of air pressure on a human body were known, but the effects of mechanical counterpressure in a vacuum were not. Having more experience now than the early days of the space programs to draw on, and knowing the limits of the fabrics available then, I am not convinced that their choice was wrong. MIT Link:($URL$ Professor Dava Newman models the MIT Biosuit - from $URL$ 

Since a tornado is "just" a wind, you need to be able to either (a) stop the wind, or (b) interrupt the formation of the wind pattern we call a tornado. Since a tornado is not a "thing" in the same sense as a rock or a bomb, it is merely a pattern of gas flow, it's not like you can easily break it up. If you chop off bits, it will simply regenerate until the colliding storm systems that formed it run out of differential energy. Theoretically you could intervene at several phases of the tornado formation to "disarm" the phenomenon. Phases of Tornado Development There are (crudely) four phases in a tornado's development. Link 

Adapt strategies used by terrestrial navies and police. Boarding a hostile ship is one of the most dangerous activities that individual sailors undertake. 

In world of warcraft, orcs are born with grey skin, but it turns green when they are exposed to fel (demonic) magic. Trolls are green because they have symbiotic algae that photosynthesis and give them better stamina than one would expect. 

The commercial challenge is that the core has exactly two things - iron and thermal energy. Iron is plentiful in other places that are much easier to mine, leaving energy. Mining energy does not require drilling any deeper than the top of the mantle. The technical challenge with mining the earth's core is that the core itself is roughly the same temperature as the surface of the sun. The structure of the earth is a blob of molten minerals surrounded by a crust the approximate relative thickness of an orange peel. "Splitting" a planet like the earth would involve shattering it into droplets with sufficient energy that it didn't re-coalesce immediately. The last time we saw something close to this type of event in our neighborhood we ended up with a moon. The nearest thing to a commercially and technically feasible way to mine a planetary core is the "core tap" for geothermal power. You will need thousands of miles of unobtainium pipe and ssomesteam turbines. 

What you are looking for is a bomb calorimeter. Instead of providing a known ignition source (spark) to an unknown material sample, you provide a material samples of known combustibility, and have your fire bender ignite the contents of the bomb. Measure the temperature change compared to the temperature change for the known ignition source. There is likely to be more than raw ignition power involved in measuring the total ability of your mages. Distance, precision, sustainability over time, spark rise time, etc are all factors that will come into play for determining where each Mahe would be most effective. 

There is no honor in killing with drones. There is much honor in defeating opponents under a self imposed handicap. The most honor comes from destroying a heavily armed and armored opponent with bare hands (or other appendages as appropriate). Their ships are well armored but undergunned,, because they prefer to acquire honor by boarding and destroying the crew personally. You can't do that if you destroy the enemy ship. Those seeking the highest honors will enter battle without weapons and as near naked as possible. Those who just want a minimal amount of honor will use light body armor and melee weapons. Ranged weapons are considered a necessary evil when dealing with honorless foes, and are reserved for cowards and criminals. 

So, 10 passes and 1 fail out of 11 criteria. The event itself must be in a precise range of violence on several fronts to achieve OP's ends. Fortunately he specified that a deity was in control of the event, so this is manageable. It is even semi-plausible without intervention of deity. 

Background Pentastomids are a good candidate, but the secret to their success in this case is in their lifecycle. The ear canal is a possible entry point, but only as a means to get to the spinal column and cervical joint at the base of the skull. However, it is extremely unlikely that an adult Echidnae would ever attempt such a thing - like other pentastomids, they are obligate parasites, unable to survive long outside of a host. They are already good at masking their presence from the immune system - that is part of their basic abilities as successful pan-species parasites, like all other pentastomid species. Brain control The frontal lobe is not a good place to control a creature from. While problem solving happens in the frontal lobes, behaviors are not governed by rational thought. Contrary to popular belief, emotions are the core of sound decision making, not rationality. Without experiencing emotions, people have great difficulty prioritizing, forming memories, or learning. In my own case, I have problem solving capacity in the 98th percentile of the population (great frontal lobes). However, I am very slow to learn new information, and under pressure would be organically incapable of prioritizing the house over my head being on fire versus a sudden desire for a peanut butter and jelly sandwich (lack of emotional connection). With the research into my own brain injury, I know that a relatively small section of the brain, comparable in size to the pentastomid itself, is responsible for carrying information between the region of the brain that "has" emotions and the portion that "experiences" emotions. Disruption of this section of tissue in a creature effectively gives the parasite full control of the creature, regardless of its rationality. Lifecycle Pentastomid eggs are consumed by the candidate host, and hatch in their digestive tract. The larval Echidnae migrates through the espohagus, but unlike its more common cousins, it ignores the lungs and moves higher before burrowing into the back of the the throat, seeking out the spinal column, and then migrating into the brain stem through the cervical joint. Following this route, it has no need to penetrate bone. Once in the brain stem, the parasite latches on to a capillary bed and feeds much like its more common cousins do in the lungs. Once it is fully mature, it begins to grow neural tissue outside of its shell which forms connections with the host's nervous system. Genetic Changes - Horizontal Gene Transfer The second part of the question involves genetic manipulation. A certain portion of all animal DNA is actually viral DNA that has become embedded in the genome. The Echidnae has a retrovirus that carries with it the genetic encoding for the physiological traits desired. The virus is transmitted by exchange of fluids - as the parasite consumes blood it excretes into the cerebro-spinal fluid, releasing the virus into the host's body. Since the virus affects the genome of the host, the changes will breed true. Even if they don't breed true in the first generation, the infant will be infected in-utero and will breed true in the second generation. Furthermore, the infant will be infected with Echidnae eggs, which will hatch and parasitise the young. A side effect of this potential multi-infection is a higher than normal cancer rate amongst Degenerates.