$URL$ suggests changing for fixed gear and coaster brake hubs, which isn't quite the same thing as single speed or internally geared wheels. (All fixed gear and coaster brake hubs are single speed or internally geared, but the opposite isn't true.) The Nexus hubs have coaster brake versions, but as far as I know the Alfine doesn't. So for the Alfine, it doesn't matter. 

A cheap hub will give you three gears with big gaps between them and a limited overall range, and although you can make the bottom gear low enough for a steep gradient you might find it too restrictive; a very expensive Rohloff hub will give you 14 gears with gaps and range comparable to a derailleur system (but without overlapping or duplicate gears - a 27-speed derailleur system doesn't have 27 usefully different gears). In between those, there's a range of hubs available giving you more gears, more overall range, and smaller gaps, as you pay more. See, for example: 

$URL$ says "This is a common size so it’s easy to find replacements should the need arise or to swap axles if, for instance, you have a QR axle and want to go solid", so it should be easy enough. Based on the photos, you might want some cone wrenches even though with cartridge bearings there aren't actually cones as such. As the Surly page says, you still need to adjust the load on the bearings when you do it up. $URL$ 

Any drop bar lever that isn't designed for V-brakes (which is almost all of them). Brakes levers come in two different mechanical advantages: $URL$ The Sturmey Archer straight bar brake levers are short pull, so you want a short (standard) pull drop bar lever. 

Stack Height The stack height of a headset is the vertical space taken up by a headset, and the stem when using a threadless headset. It's the difference between the headtube length and the fork steerer length needed to be able to use that headset with that fork and headtube. $URL$ $URL$ 

Dangerous driving, in UK law, happens when "the way he/she drives falls far below what would be expected of a competent and careful driver, and it would be obvious to a competent and careful driver that driving in that way would be dangerous". Just putting you in an unsafe situation isn't (in itself) enough to constitute dangerous driving. You may be surprised at just how badly someone can drive without it counting as obvious - this driver's excuse was that they didn't mean to pass a cyclist, but "somehow" got too close and hit them. Then failed to stop immediately. She was found not guilty. Careless driving (and causing death by careless driving) has a less strict standard for the driving, but a recent case confirmed that driving into the back of a lit cyclist (and killing them) without being able to give any excuse isn't even considered careless: 

(I'm assuming you have horizontal dropouts, since it's an old three speed bike.) Another option would be to upgrade the hub gears to new hub gears with smaller steps between gears and a wider range than the existing 3 speed, like a Shimano Nexus or Alfine 8 speed or Alfine 11 speed, or even the Rohloff 14 speed. $URL$ 

You want a separate saddle clamp, that clamps round the top of the post and the rails of a standard saddle, something like this. See also $URL$ $URL$ (scroll down to 'Traditional "pipe type" seatposts, use with separate saddle clamp'.) 

$URL$ - "On average, the estimated health benefits of cycling were substantially larger than the risks relative to car driving for individuals shifting their mode of transport." $URL$ - "We estimate that beneficial effects of increased physical activity are substantially larger (3-14 months gained) than the potential mortality effect of increased inhaled air pollution doses (0.8-40 days lost) and the increase in traffic accidents (5-9 days lost)." $URL$ - "Public bicycle sharing initiatives such as Bicing in Barcelona have greater benefits than risks to health" (Maybe your Arizona dust is an exception though. And dust masks do make it harder to breathe hard comfortably.) 

The usual cause of inner tubes exploding while being inflated is that part of the tube is pinched under the rim, or was damaged by a tyre lever while you were fitting the tyre (but manufacturing flaws can happen - I once had a puncture in a tube next the stem where it was difficult to patch, and my spare tube failed at the same place as soon as I inflated it (and there wasn't a sharp edge on the hole in the rim)). But apart from that, if the tube and tyre are properly seated, and the tube is the right size, the tube shouldn't limit the pressure. Rim tape can make a difference if the wrong sort is used, but shouldn't otherwise, see $URL$ and search for "Which rim tape should I use". Tyre sizes and rim sizes vary slightly, and a combination that is a slightly loose fit will let the tyre blow off at a lower pressure. The label allows for that, at least to a certain extent (see $URL$ and scroll down to "Pressure Recommendations"). Using a tyre on a rim much narrower than it is intended for can make the rim fail and let a tyre blow off: $URL$ So can using a badly worn rim, of course. 

Daniel is right. If you tighten the knurled ring by hand, but not quite as hard as it will go, then use a large spanner to tighten the locknut down against it, which will tighten the race slightly more, you won't need any sort of pliers (or, less likely to damage anything, a strap wrench). You might need to back off and try again a few times to get the load right so it turns freely but without play. 

Are you sure the cable is clamped correctly? Having that wrong can change the amount the derailleur moves for a given amount of pull (in fact it's sometimes done deliberately to use mismatched components - $URL$ Otherwise, make sure the cable moves smoothly through the housing and that the hanger isn't bent, then work through: $URL$ and/or $URL$ 

You could try something like this: $URL$ $URL$ With the right chainrings it gives you two different gears with no need for a chain tensioner, so can even be used for a fixed gear. (But without more details of your current setup, I've no idea why your derailleur isn't taking up enough slack, or doesn't have enough tension.) 

Seatposts have a relatively long length inside the tube, and no way to get a tool to the bottom of the post to hammer it. If you have a proper headset remover tool, I doubt a headset would ever get so stuck. (Even without the proper tool, it's unlikely to be a problem.) Also, I don't believe there's such a thing as a headset with an alloy bearing race. So if it has alloy cups, they probably have replaceable bearings that fit inside it, so the cups shouldn't ever need replacing. 

There are three questions: can your existing wheels take larger tyres, for which you should look at the "Width Considerations" section of Tire Sizing, can your existing frame take larger tyres without them hitting the fork, chainstays, or seatstays, (edit: now that photos have been added I don't think you will be able to go much larger), and are suitable tyres available. However, making some assumptions about your tyre sizes, the thing you are probably missing is that tyre sizes in inches are based on an outside diameter (but often a nominal size, not the actual outside diameter of the tyre). Again, Tire Sizing will help you. Your 28" tyre is probably on a 622mm rim; mountain bike tyres for the same rim diameter are usually labelled as 29". 

In the worst case, there's the advice from Richard Ballantine's "Richard's Bicycle Book". Note that Richard was a dog-lover himself, and this was a last resort if an attacking dog is seriously endangering you. "If the dog attacks: one defense is aerosol pepper sprays made for this purpose. They have a range of about ten feet and are light enough to clip to your handlebars. A water pistol loaded with a water-amonia solution will also work but is a good deal less convenient. If you have neither of these and can't or won't climb a tree get a stick or a large rock. No? The bicycle pump. Try to ram it down his throat. In any event, don't cower or cover up, because the dog will only chew you to ribbons. Attack. Any small dog can simply be hoisted up by the legs and his brains dashed out. With a big dog you are fighting for your life. If you are weaponless try to tangle him up in your bike and then strangle him. Kicks to the genitals and which break ribs are effective. If you have got a pump or a stick hold it at both ends and offer it up to the dog horizontally. Often the dog will bit the stick/pump and hang on. Immediately lift the dog up and deliver a very solid kick to the genitals. Follow up with breaking the dogs ribs or crushing its head with a rock. If worst comes to worst ram your entire arm down its throat. He will choke and die. Better your arm than your throat." 

At the time the question was asked, there were no 16" studded bike tyres. Now, however, there are: $URL$ But unfortunately there are two different 16" rim sizes, and the new Schwalbes are 349mm (as used by Brompton), and 16" Dahon is 305mm. It might be possible to fit a Brompton sized wheel in some 16" Dahons, but I wouldn't bet on it. (Since the title asks about "small wheels" and readers with other size small wheels might find it in a search: 20" studded tyres, as used by different Dahons, have been available for a while, e.g. Marathon Winter . It's possible to fit a 20" wheel in a Birdy, but only with a skinny tyre, so the new 18" makes a studded Birdy possible.) 

Find some recreation types who could make you a Sashimono? What's the budget, if any, for buying commercial off-the-shelf Cycle Campaign advertising flags (could perhaps be re-used at desk outside Guildhall or similar events)? Something like $URL$ 

$URL$ Light with an integrated USB socket for charging, but it's not clear from reviews how the USB charger and light will interact when using the output at the same time as the light once the cache battery is drained. $URL$ (warns that light output will be reduced while charging) $URL$ More options on $URL$ (but mostly chargers that can be used when not running a light). 

There are chainguards that work with derailleur bikes. Your belt might be wider than a chain, but it isn't wider than a triple :-) Something like $URL$ (If you've got a 52t chainring, it might be trickier to find something that will fit.) 

Similarly lights designed for use with a dynamo. So the main thing is just to be sure that if the lights and dynamo have frame connections, they are consistent. If there is a pair of wires, typically one of them has a stripe on and is the earth wire. For a trailer, the main thing is going to be reliable connectors that you can easily connect and disconnect. If it lives up to its advertising (and I don't know if it will), this system might help (and it also has some wiring diagrams that might be useful to you anyway: Dyna-Snap). Otherwise maybe something like Anderson Powerpole, or TC-2C1PT 

If you have a triple front chainring, then you will probably need to change the front derailleur. But looking at the Giant specs, it shows a double, so you might be able to get away with relying on the end stops (and worst case using two clicks on a shifter designed for three rings). $URL$ "Although rear indexing is consistent within a brand, Shimano's front indexing is different between their so-called "road" and "mountain" lines. Here's what that means in practice: 

Pashley used to do something a bit like this that I thought went to adult sizes: $URL$ (And that might be big enough for you.) Looking at $URL$ maybe the Pashley was only child size anyway. I've never seen a large equivalent of the sort of trailers that small children just sit in though. If by "inline", you mean a single wheel trailer like the Bob Yak, I've never seen a passenger version of them, only two-wheeled. 

Tricycles often have both brakes on the front wheel, and that could be done with a disc and a rim brake. UK law at least requires that bicycles (unlike tricycles) have braking systems on both wheels. You could have two brakes operated by one lever (as is done for some disabled cyclists), but when one brake is enough to lock the wheel, I can't see any reason to do so. (On an expedition tourer, having rim brakes fitted as a backup in case you can't get spares for a disc brake might make sense, but you would only use one at once on a given wheel. Even then, you would probably just use a frame where rim brakes could be fitted if necessary. Or just pick one.) 

Apart from the Sturmey hub, the only other option I know of for a multi-speed fixed gear is something like $URL$ You have two sprockets on the rear, and two chainrings on the front, carefully chosen so they work with the same chain length. To change gear, you stop, get off, move the chain onto the other set of sprockets, then ride off again. But you probably don't want to do that at the top and bottom of every hill, any more than you want to take off a wheel with a flip-flop hub and turn it around. 

It might help if you gave more details about your dynamo, and/or what your problem is. There are basically three different dynamo wiring systems. 

The Jtek bar end shifter claims to work with both Nexus and Alfine 8 speed hubs, so I don't see why other shifters wouldn't. A comment on this review of the Alfine hub backs that up: "Apparently the Shimano Nexus Inter-8 twist shifter can be used with the Alfine hub if you want to avoid endless button-pushing." 

Unless the bracket is so corroded it's useless, both cups being stuck and the whole eccentric moving (as astabada suggests) is the only way I can see that the cups can be stiffly linked. I'd try doing the bolts that grip that back up first (assuming they are the ones on a saucer in your photo). Have you tried undoing the fixed cup, or at least holding it it to stop it turning? You will probably need a better spanner/wrench than he one in your photo, something like $URL$ or $URL$ Alternatively, sometimes you can grip it in a bench vise - might be tricky with a tandem, but if you can get the eccentric out of the frame it might help get the bracket out of the eccentric. If you can get one cup out, see $URL$ for a tool to get the other one unstuck - while Sheldon talks about using it on a stuck fixed cup once you've got the adjustable one out, I've had one bike where I could get the fixed cup out but not the adjustable, it works both ways. Just remember that the threads are reversed. (Since the eccentric looks like aluminium alloy, gentle heat might be more effective at unsticking the cups than it would be on steel in steel. But unless you are prepared to strip paint off the frame, it probably won't help.) 

If you want something that really is absolutely puncture-proof: $URL$ But they are extremely hard work to fit and, more importantly, they combine the harsh feel of a small hard tyre with the high rolling resistance of an underinflated tyre, and they lack grip. (At least that was my experience with some 700c ones years ago; they might have improved, but I doubt it. But I was getting punctures several times a month until I fitted them. I went back to standard tyres when I changed my commute route. The Marathon Plus wasn't available then.) Review of another similar puncture proof foam filled tyre (doesn't have a 20" size available, but gives a second opinion on the merits of such tyres): $URL$ For normal pneumatic tyres Marathon Plus is about as close to puncture proof as you can get. They can be quite stiff to get on and off though (nothing like as bad as the GreenTyres though). $URL$ There are other 20" tyres with a puncture resistant belt, the Primo Comet for example, or the Panaracer Minit Lite "PT Shield", or the Marathon Supreme (lighter than the Plus), but I don't know of anything else as resistant as the Plus. It won't really protect against pinch flats though. Either teach your friend to check her tyre pressure and use a pump, or do it for her.