If the user has a or file in the home directory, then that may change delivery behavior. Check the logs in to see if there are any hints. CHeck any of the messages in the mail queue to see where they originated. It is not unusual for scripts to capture their output and send the mail themselves. You didn't include the original email, but that should indicate whether CRON sent the email, or the script did. 

If this works try with a browser. You may want to try setting your preferred language to something other than English to see how the language variance works. EDIT2: You can handle the errors in your php index page like WordPress does. This is done with rewrite rules to pass any missing URLs to the index page. (You need to handle the 404 condition in the index page.) I haven't tested any cases not generated within WordPress. 

Use the command to see how your names are being resolved. This should help identify where the issue is. When changing you nameservers you need to update the records at your Domain registrar to point to the new nameservers. The DNS lookups generally are done like this (using www.example.com with ns1.example.com as name server for example.com): 

The server distribution does not install a display manger, although it can be added. The display manager (xdm, gdm, etc) handles logging you into the system. If you work mainly from the console the display manager is in the way. However, firing up startx everytime you want to use firefox, thunderbird, or some other graphical tool can be a pain. Although I do most of my work from the command line, I leave gdm running. I often have two or more xterm sessions open, sometimes side by side. Scollback is superior to what is available on the console, and dynamical resizable screen size is quite useful. If I am doing modifications which may result in failures showing up in a log, I can tail the log in a full screen window behind the current windows. 

Allowed ports are usually configured by the . The configuration file should have an ACL configuring a ports list. This is used in an rule. My configuration has the rule . The Debian system may be running an iptables firewall which prevents outgoing access to port 4040. EDIT: It may be easier to read the configuration if you strip comments and blank lines from it. This should reduce the number lines you are looking at to under 50 or so. Commands to strip down the file and extract the acl data are: 

The GLUE records should have different IP addresses, and point to your name servers. They will always be non-authoritative addresses. It would be unusual that your web domain and name server domain would be the same. If they were, they might be use to access your name server. However, the correct lookup would be to use a GLUE record to connect to a name server and get an authoritative address. 

There is no requirement in SMTP for a domain to have an A record. While valid, and normal for MX domains, using the domain A record to identify the MX is not recommended. From your description you have a separate MX domain, so you don't need an A records for you domain. It is not uncommon to have the A record(s) return the address of one or more of your web servers. This allows people to find your web presence more easily. To be set up properly, your MX needs a fixed IP adddress, an A record. and a PTR record. The A and PTR records should contain the identity of the other. Normally, you will need your ISP (or IP address provider) to configure the PTR record for you. Your mail server should identify itself with the name in the PTR record. 

You mail server should be using the MX record to route the email. Configure an MX record locally for their domain, and point it to their mail server. It should be something like mail.example.com rather than example.com. You have have to duplicate their A record for their mail server. 

BackupPC is likely using the Perl File::Rsync module to connect to the client. I would suspect a bug or compatibility issue in this module. There is a BackupPC package for Debian. It should list all the appropriate dependencies. The source package may list dependencies. I generally prefer the packed modules, as they are more likely to be patched on a regular basis. If you do want to build from source, consider downloading the build package and replacing the source tar with your own. 

As an email sender properly configuring your server goes a long way toward establishing credibility/trust. Almost all evaluation is automated now, and many organizations are selective on what they publish. A majority of the connections to my server is clearly spam. 

Other factors normally constrain the data rate. Data transfer rates will be the slowest of the rate the source can provide the data and the rate the target can consume the data. Switches may not be able to transfer data between all ports at the full rate. In most configurations many ports transfer data at rates well below the speed of the link. Faster links may still be desirable as the link latency will be lower. A 1200 byte packet will take roughly 1 millisecond per hop on 10 Mbs links, 0.1 millisecond on a 100 Mbs link and, only 0.01 millisecond on a 1 Gbs link. There will be additional latency in transfer due to buffering, distance, and speed of transfers within devices. 

Set the sender address to an address that can receive email. Email will bounce to the sender address. The sender should always be an address which can receive email. Look at the options for header rewriting in the Postfix documentation. 

The Dovecot wiki described how it handles SharedMailboxes and Permissions. You may be able to tune your configuration to get the permissions you want. It appears on initial creation the user's Maildir should have 700 as its permissions. Permissions depend on how the path is specified. Initial directory creation is always group writable, but after that permissions aren't altered. New files and folders in the mailbox get their permissions from the containing mailbox. Files are created without the executable bit. There are reasons for allowing group write. Dovecot tries to use sensible defaults. There are examples that include a definition in the configuration, but I my copy of the Dovecot documentation indicates the option was removed. 

I would try setting to include the domain you are forwarding to. This should cause Exim to always use TLS for the server. This may need to be set on all transports using the smtp driver. (Some configurations have multiple smtp transports.) EDIT: If it works from the command line, then your configuration appears correct. It is possible that your running daemon is running an old configuration. You could test this with a command like 

It has been my experience that most e-mail distribution companies are in the business of sending e-mail. However, they are not in the business of helping you get your mail delivered successfully. Their servers may not be compliant with the relevant RFCs, and they don't seem to check that the appropriate DNS entries are in place for the campaign. Their DNS and RFC compliance issues are common to most automated mailing systems. Banks, utilities, couriers, airlines, governments, and others all seem to have the same problems. You should ensure that the appropriate verifications have been done. Once you have got to that point, I would consider it is pretty close to a toss-up whether you want to do it in-house or contract it out. In either case, I would start small, verify, and scale out. 

These errors don't seem to indicate a reputation issue. The first three indicate issues with the destination address being sent by your server. It appears the address entry has been mangled. This likely applies to the address in the RCPT TO data. The last may be related, or a different issue. Again it points to mangling of the message. Try running a program like to capture the traffic to one or two of the destinations having problems. Examine the contents to see what is being mangled. It is possible that some address rewrite rules were implemented on your server that are mangling the data. This may be expanding the addresses to excessive lengths and or inserting invalid characters The bounce messages should include the original message or at least the headers of the message. These may help understanding what is happening. The RFC describes the headers and their correct format. Building a new mail server and replacing the existing server may be in order.