Make the planet tide locked with its star. There are numerous examples of moons tide locked with their planets. The gas giants in our solar system have many such moons. I suspect a planet tide locked to a star is a common occurence, especially if the planet is close to the star. If the star is one of the very long lived red dwarfs, the goldilocks habitable zone would be near the dwarf star. The globe for a tidelocked body has 8 non arbitrary points and 3 non arbitrary great circles: 

.7 to 1.5 A.U.? Venus is .72 A.U., earth is 1 A.U. and Mars is 1.52 A.U. So judging by our solar system, 3 planets are possible. Smaller bodies at a star planet L4 and L5 are stable if the smaller bodies are 1/25 the mass (or less) of the larger planet. And 0.04 (M⊕) lies below the 0.10 (M⊕) boundary you suggest. Unless the larger planet is 4 times the mass of the earth, then it could have a Mars sized trailing as well as a leading Trojan. Would a planet 4 times earth's mass destabilize the other planets within the habitable Goldilocks zone? Sorry, I don't know. If a super earth is possible, I could see a super earth with two Mars sized trojans as well as two other Mars sized bodies in other star centered orbits. So my guess is up to 4 Mars sized bodies and a super earth are doable within a sun like star's Goldilocks zone. Edit: JDługosz suggested double planets are possible. I believe this is true. So I think 6 are possible. Here's a pic: 

Our Moon's Hill Sphere has a radius of about 60,000 kilometers. In my orbital sims I have placed objects in a retrograde lunar orbit having semi-major axis 50,000 km. These orbits have lasted centuries. I would imagine a DRO at 40,000 kilometers could last eons. And this is high enough that lunar mascons wouldn't destabilize the orbit. In a science fiction setting, a moon with a larger Hill Sphere is plausible. DROs are long term stable in the outer regions of the Hill Sphere. 

There are a number of Mars crossing asteroids that also come close to earth. 433 Eros for example. Occasionally Mars crossing NEAs pass close to the earth, a near miss. Eros came close to the earth in 2012 and we will see another near miss in 2056. It would take a small amount of delta V to nudge a near miss into an impact. It's been suggested humans would need to be on the asteroid. Not so. In fact placing a life sustaining hab on the rock would make the mission a lot more difficult. The Keck Report for retrieving an asteroid describes a robotic vehicle driven by ion engines. The proposed Asteroid Redirect Mission is based on this report. Ion engines have great exhaust velocity. This reduces the amount of reaction mass needed to achieve a given delta V. But they also have very low thrust. This means it will take a long time to execute a burn. The larger Near Earth Asteroids are too massive to nudge in a short time. Unless the ion rockets are a non neglible fraction of the asteroid's mass, it would take years. The earthlings would probably notice and take counter measures. It might be plausible to quickly nudge a Tunguska sized asteroid to an earth impact. This would be good for wiping out a city. But if wiping out a city is the goal, the Martians could do it a whole lot more cheaply and efficiently with nuclear bombs. 

What came to the stop of my head is a team of cowboys set up an ambush. One guy on the town's fastest steed gets the dragon's attention and the dragon flies above, giving chase. The other team of gunslingers hide ahead with their biggest rifles and shotguns to all take shots at the dragon's soft gut as he get near. "It might not kill him right away, but ain't no thing on Earth gonna take all these holes and just get up and go home." 

I write centaurs as wild barbarians that love fighting - especially with weakling, little humans. So let's say our centaur and hero are fighting in an open, little, dirt circle in the middle of the a village. Neither of them have weapons or armor or magic spells - all they have is their fists and hooves. They several paces away. And let's assume the human half of the centaur is as strong as a football player (because I don't know how strong a centaur would actually be). How would our hero be able to win the fight? What would he have to do? 

As someone who likes working monster characters, I thought about this before. What I would do is not make their scales so super invincible. Maybe they'd be highly resistant to sharp weapons but blunt weapons that don't try penetrating could be way better than swords. Maaaaaybe a big enough battle axe could pierce through. I could see someone getting enough force out of it to break the scales. Then there's the obvious weakness of the underside not having those protective scales. Well you were saying that magic does exist in this scenario. I don't see how a dragon could defend against anything magical. I imagine if I were a dragon, then breathing fire would be real tiring. Could you imagine how winded you'd be fighting and blowing at the same time? I tried running and singing before - seriously exhausting. 

So it sounds kinda like what you want is events that can be rigged. Races are an easy, obvious one. Maybe fire spitting can be an event based on distance or accuracy. I feel like taking a dive on accuracy wouldn't be too hard. I'd imagine dragons would want wrestling as an event. While I don't think dragons would have a judge scoring system to result in a time, I could imagine there being rules in place to prevent things gettig too wild: No biting or clawing or fire blowing - something competitive, but it can give an opportunity for the two to show sportsmanship I guess. 

I assume that centaurs have the best combination of horse and human organs. Someone was saying that they might have horse-sized human organs too but that's a different story. But if this is what we're gonna assume, then I see no reason they couldn't eat meat AND vegetation with "human" stomachs. I think centaurs would be omnivores. It'd make sense thinking survival-wise. When they obviously need a whole lot of food/water, it'd be a little stupid for them to pick either or. Hunting game like deer could mean a whole lot of meat, but gathering could go with it to fill them up and provide better nutrition. I guess a centaur could live off of plants alone if he's some Chiron hippie-like centaur and doesn't feel much like hunting. 

Realistically, any civilization capable of colonizing another planet will blanket its orbits with satellites first. Satellite imaging and communication will simply be too important for maintaining a developing colony, especially if contact with the home world is valued. GPS would absolutely be one of the vital services provided by the satellite arrays any of our colonies would demand. Instead of mandating that GPS satellites are not used/ are not reliable, why not posit that the GPS satellites have been taken out or sufficiently damaged? A large solar flare or Coronal Mass Ejection (CME) could potentially wipe out all the satellites in orbit and even damage ground based positioning systems. $URL$ If you still need long range comm systems that survive the CME, have the colonies connected by fiber optics rather than relying on satellite communication. Alternatively, if your GPS satellites were parked in geosynchronous orbits that are far enough outside of the protective magnetic field of the planet they could be critically damaged while those in near-planet orbits were protected. It could take quite some time before replacements arrive from outside your colony or for your colonists to fabricate and launch their own replacements. A major part of the need for unguided exploration could be scouting to find deposits of rare earth-metals needed to fabricate replacement GPS satellites. 

At minimum, about 2,100 dinosaur fossils, probably not more than 200,000. The main problem with this idea is that most of the dinosaur fossils are embedded in solid rock. While some are close to the surface, or even directly exposed by erosion, most are probably buried by literal tons of rock and sediments. To give any sort of meaningful answer we have to make some assumptions about the magical forces and their upper limit. Lets imagine that the magic force to hold up our dinosaur revenant can also remove at an equal amount of confining rock / sediment layer. Some example numbers: A 15 ton dinosaur might have a surface area of 10m^2 of rock covering it. Assume an average density of 2.6 g/cm^3 for quartz based rock, and our magic dino can escape from being buried about 1/2 m deep. Math: 0.5m * 10m^2 * 2600kg/m^3 = 13,000kg of covering rock. 15 tons = 15 * 2000 lbs/ton / (2.2 lbs/ kg) = 13,636 kg of dinosaur Larger dinosaurs would weigh more, but would also have a larger surface area to have to escape from, so it probably balances out. I made a ton of wild assumptions here, such as a dinosaur fossil weighs about as much as the live dinosaur, rock types covering them, and surface area. This is just to get a decent idea of what we're dealing with. Apply some hand-wavium to adjust the strength of the magic to extract them from even further down by magically shattering the rock and having the revived dinosaurs crawl upwards through the rubble. Three meters deep is probably a decent ballpark for that. The exact number of remains in that region is difficult to predict because we don't know how many dinosaur fossils there are in total or their distribution. However, it is estimated that there are around 2,100 fairly complete dinosaur skeletons in museums around the world. Those will be far easier to remove from their locations in research institutions than those locked in bedrock. Lets work with that number and say we have found 10% of partially exposed dinosaur fossils world wide, and now we can say 20,000 dinosaurs are exhumed by our spell. Adjust that percentage as you please (or how optimistic you might be for paleontologists!) and say that our 2,100 found skeletons are only 1% of the global total in our range of the surface and you've got 200,000 revived dinosaurs. Here is the source I used for the number in museums: $URL$ Have fun and I hope that helped!