A standard dictionary or encyclopaedia of mathematics should have these types of historical usages your talking about. You might find The Words of Mathematics: An Etymological Dictionary of Mathematical Terms Used in English if you can find a copy. You might also search works on history of mathematical notation, you should find historical key terms and usages alongside notation compendiums. Otherwise start browsing indices of books like Dictionary of Mathematics. The book Mathematical Methods in Linguistics Chapter 7.7 "Informal Style in Mathematical Proofs" but it's not something like a discourse analysis. It's more like an explanation of notation and common omissions in proofs. Another thing you might find useful are books on the history of mathematics. Such as Boyer's A History of Mathematics. These types of books should explain the contemporaneous concepts, key terms, and notation of mathematical science. I think the only way to find serious academic material on linguistic analysis of mathematical discourse is to approach it as mathematics being a domain of discourse. So, study discourse, then take as your domain "mathematical works" just as you would any other domain like "cooking" or "legal statutes". Then do as you would, eg extract collocations, classify documents, whatever. All this should really should be more than you asked for, but a less related subject is MathML and LaTex typesettings for mathematical documents. Reading about these would not be directly related to what you want, but it is the current and future course of mathematical publication, and if your seriously studying mathematical discourse you would be remiss to neglect this pertinent aspect. 

Of course, there will always be exceptions. For example Ivory Coast requested they be referred to as Côte d'Ivoire with little success outside official diplomatic communication. Additionally, there's the Burma → Myanmar change, with partial acceptance since that government's legitimacy is questioned. As for Cambodia, it only ever used "Kampuchea" officially between 1975 and 1989. 

Iraq's a little different in the sense that there's no orthographic change here. These are officially recommended. 

Note: I'm not a linguist, and I realize I might be treading in a grey area here. I'm wondering what the differences (and/or similarities) between native language, first language, mother tongue and L1 are. The first three, I find, are often used interchangeably in casual conversation. In academic linguistics though, are there generally accepted differences between these terms? Also, where does that leave L1? I believe it's an academic term, but I often see it defined relative to the other three casual terms. A quick Google search seems to reveal there is a lot of confusion around these terms, and possibly no straightforward answer. It also doesn't help that the Wikipedia article groups the four terms into one article and has fewer citations than I would like. The only thing I've been able to gather is that the tendency seems to be for "native language" to mean proficient and for "first language" to mean chronologically first. In particular, I'd like to find out (if possible) what term or terms are applicable to the following scenarios: 

I thought I saw somewhere else in the book the same "cohort" notion being used for something like the set of possible syntactic structures given a partially complete phrase, but I guess I was mistaken in that. I only mean to say that "a smallest set of words that need to be placed after a given word to complete the meaning of a phrase" can be thought of as an element of something like a cohort. If you think of a cohort as the set of all words and their syntactic configurations (in a conceptually similar way to the use above) that could be placed after a given word to complete the meaning of a phrase, then "the minimal number of words that need to be placed after a given word" would be found by making equivalence classes on the cohort by equating n-tuples of words having similar syntactic structure and then noting the smallest n. So, for example, some equivalence class has the elements {(he, car, drive), (she, book, buy), (they, baby, raise), ...} with element length 3 and which is smaller than the equivalence class {(he, car, drive, they), (she, book, buy, they), (they, baby, raise, they), ...} with element length 4. 

I realize fluency might not be the best word to use...but the words I would normally use are the ones that I'm seeking clearer definitions for! 

I believe that at the core this is prescriptivism as applied to orthography, though more examples would be needed to derive a definitive conclusion. In your first three examples1, these are official in some way or another: Kolkata and Mumbai were officially changed by India's government to better match local languages, while Beijing is the Hanyu Pinyin romanization, the official romanization scheme according to the Chinese government, and also later by ISO. The case is similar for Cambodia. In 1989, it's name was officially changed to the State of Cambodia from the previous People's Republic of Kampuchea. This change was made while the Vietnamese-backed government was still in power. Its unclear, but based on my brief readings, it seems the change was part of wider reforms which were aimed at restoring Cambodia to pre-Khmer Rouge times and improving international image. In 1993, the monarchy was restored, and along with it the official name previously used under the king, the Kingdom of Cambodia. English does not automatically have to accept official declarations from countries speaking other languages (note that English is an official language of India however). However, unlike other languages, such as French and German, English has no comprehensive language academy such as the Académie française or Rat für deutsche Rechtschreibung. This might give English a better chance at accepting the official declarations of countries speaking other languages. Compare: 

Definitely. This is a little obscure, probably to obscure to be of any real use, but there is a chapter from the book Aspects of Automatic Text Analysis, The Mathematics of Semantic Spaces (PDF), that models semantics as a metric space. It's general calculus on metric spaces, and this is probably the limit of mathematical abstraction in applied linguistics that I've seen. Unless you've been introduced to some very high level math, this material won't make any sense. Other then that, I know acoustic phonetics has derivatives, integrals, limits, series, etc. For example, one way to describe a sound wave quantitatively is take it's Fourier transform which involves the evaluation of an integral. Then there's statistical analysis of corpora, where calculus isn't directly involved, but the formulas won't make any sense unless your familiar with the concepts of basic calculus. Things like weighting, infinite sums, neighbourhoods, continuity, finding volumes and lengths, optimization etc. are implicit in a lot of statistical measurements. Including vector calculus. A lot of linguistic models employ continuous sets, not just discrete sets, and require a metric or a topology to define the set as a mathematical space.