As a Christian, I'm compelled to point out that Jesus didn't seem particularly concerned about convincing people that his claims were true. In fact, he was purposely vague on some points: 

Here, Lincoln seems to justify the civil war as necessary on the same grounds as the Revolutionary War was necessary. He seems to take the earlier Declaration of Independence as higher priority than the Constitution, which came later. He certainly played hard and fast with the rules, if he didn't violate his constitutional powers outright. He justified himself (whether rightly or wrongly) by appealing to a higher rule: "that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth." So I think a legitimate grounds for violating a rule is in the service of a greater rule. That's why the police are allowed to speed and double-park when pursuing criminals. 

Since the argument is only useful for a monotheistic god ("than which nothing greater can be thought"), it would be surprising if a non-monotheistic thinker would propose such an argument. Since monotheism is primarily found in the West, we should expect Ontological argument to most often observed in Western philosophy. But I'm wondering why you don't cut to the chase and search for non-Western examples of an "introspective God". It's also not clear to me why the Ontological argument's absence (as opposed to other attempts to prove God's existence) in non-Western philosophy would be helpful to proving your conjecture. 

Source: Russell, Bertrand. Human Knowledge, Its Scope and Limits. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1948 

This piece of pedantry explains why freedom of speech is important in the pursuit of truth. Source: Knowledge by Acquaintance And Knowledge by Description 

祿 : Official's salary, promotion, rank or "climbing the ladder." Source: $URL$ This is a keep-your-head-down-and-make-no-waves advice on how to prosper in a hierarchical organization. 

Two mistakes in traditional usage of syllogisms were discovered by Peano, Freg, Whitehead & Russell, and were subsequently removed from set theory. Mistake One: Before Peano and Freg, traditional syllogisms mistook the relation of membership (∈) for a particular case of inclusion (⊂). This was pointed out by Peano. As a matter of fact, in virtual of traditional Barbara(AAA), "Socrates is mortal" can never be asserted. The following is an excerpt from Russell & Whitehead's Principia Mathematica: 

If you are a scout, you will be repeatedly told to "report what you see, not what you think you see." In other words, be mindful of the differences between facts and inferences. 

To reformulate the question bit in more familiar terms: "Which type of argument is more robust to error: deductive or inductive?" (I'm not overly familiar with Nietzsche's work so I'm going to cheat and assume that since he stands against holding ideas a priori, he tends to reason from an inductive stance. I assume that's what you mean by "social analysis". Plato's Republic also does what I'd call "social analysis", but as you imply he tends to rely on first principles.) To answer: it depends. I disagree, for instance that the inductionist's "entire analysis doesn't collapse if he's wrong". Afterall, empirical evidence suggested that atoms were the smallest possible unit of matter (hence the name) until further evidence showed that smaller entities existed. As time goes on, the Atomist Theory becomes increasingly incorrect as more data is gathered. Meanwhile, many of the practical conclusions of Plato have been shown to be wrong in the sense of accuracy, but his works are still very relevant today despite being built on assumptions that are no longer commonly held. Many of his ideas can be recast into contemporary terms without disrupting his reasoning process drastically. His theories of social stratification don't have much traction today, but his idea that society ought to be governed by rational principles holds up very well. Perhaps a better criteria for robustness is that general claims tend to be more robust in the face of error than specific claims, but specific claims tend to be more useful when correct. "Diamonds are hard" is a general claim likely to survive any new information, but "diamonds are the hardest material" is a more specific (and useful) claim that may not survive new information. Note that both these claims are inductive based on observation and not a priori assumptions. 

However, it is possible to start an argument without common premises. The goal of such arguments is to find out if there are common premises. If there is no common premise, politely walk away like our Lord Bertrand Russell: 

Yes, they should care about emotions. Emotions give us purpose. Emotions, feelings and desires are at the core of what used to be called morality. Morality disappears after analysis; emotion will not. The following is an excerpt from Bertrand Russell's "What is an Agnostic." 

Yes, we can. As a matter of fact, everything we know about the external world is known through history. All scientific data are historical data; all scientific knowledge is derived from observations of past instances; as of today, no one can tell for sure how the number of past instances is related to the credibility of a belief. There are no repeatable scientific experiments because one cannot step into the same river twice - we just wilfully ignored some factors as irrelevant. It is possible that Newton's laws have lifespans, and someday the errors become so intolerable that it is necessary to revise these laws. All human knowledge is conjectural: some are almost certain; some others are extremely tentative. Just because the number of past instances is only one, it does not make the lessons learned from it less valuable. Most people would not eat again the same kind of food that once made them violently ill; most people who were bitten once develop a healthy fear of dogs. They might be wrong, but their instincts put them on the safe side. Speaking of these "uncontrollable" historical events, shrewd observers can nevertheless isolate contributing factors and learn lessons from them. Take the Renaissance for example, Byzantine had had books and scholars for a thousand years, but they added virtually nothing to world civilization; only after these scholars took their books to Italy did the Renaissance began to take place, which started a spontaneous progress that lasted till this day. If books and scholars were the stimuli that caused Italian Renaissance, then why Byzantine, with the same books and scholars, had been stagnant for a thousand years? Bertrand Russell could not scape from the conclusion that progress had depended upon a small number of individuals of transcendent ability: Byzantine had books and scholars but no geniuses; Italy had geniuses, no books. Then what happened to Plato, Socrates, Aristotle, Archimedes and all those fathers of western civilization? They quietly died out: geniuses are a species within a species - that is why their extinctions do not set off alarm. Another example is Cromwell's revolution. After the English civil war, the English learned what kind of effects a radical revolution would most likely have, and developed a love of compromise ever since; for the next three and half centuries, no more bloody revolution ever took place in England. And, in Bertrand Russell's view, the Brits even developed a healthy disinclination towards pursuing any political theory to its logical conclusions. Ever since Cromwell and before the rise of science, gradual reforms had been characteristic of the British way of life; after the rise of science, this habit of mind is totally justified by how science works. Another example was MacArthur's big mouth; his unrestrained public speech caused America a lot of trouble and many unnecessary deaths. Nowadays American Generals speaking softly are common; anyone who dared to speak recklessly, even in quiet whispers, was quickly relieved of command. But I've been a philistine all this while. History offers intrinsic pleasures. If one cannot see pleasure in history itself, he had better leave history alone. 

Thus, to avoid all ambiguity, maybe it would be more suitable to replace the term “relativist” by the one Rorty employs to categorize thinkers like William James, John Dewey and Michel Foucault: “pan-relationalism”. In the ways relativism and absolutism are generally presented, the choice between these two notions come to two dead-ends: “the absence of possible discussion” and “the faith in abstractions”. If we can question the idea of replacing categories in the heart of philosophical tradition, pragmatism nevertheless highlights the necessity in defining them better. 

For pragmatists, the social context in which a thought is born and interpreted gives its meaning and signpost, hence the uselessness of the seal of the absolute. Rorty insists on the fact that pragmatism is an “anti-essentialism”. In this perspective, the philosophical undertaking does not consist in a search of the essence of things, but more of the relations that a thing has with the rest of its environment. The anti-essentialists abolish the metaphysical distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic, in the sense that, for them, there is no characteristic that is more essential than another in the study of an object. To demonstrate his point, Rorty takes as example the number 17: 

In this question, I will make a slippery slope argument. It's probably fallacious, but your task is the identify the point where one step does not inevitablly lead to the next step and explain why not. Here are the steps to the argument: 

As a Christian, I would argue that God (and God alone) is worthy of my worship whether or not He does miracles, changes my life for the best, or allows me to experience eternal happiness. That He did this is an undeserved favor to humanity. The standard Christian belief conforms to what Paul of Tarsus once wrote: 

But the argument doesn't seem to fit that pattern. Is the quoted argument fallacious and, if so, what fallacy does it commit? 

From the standpoint of most critics of these philosophies, there is no difference. An analogous situation is the diversity of thought that falls under the umbrella of Marxism: communism, socialism, Leninism, Bolshevism, Trotskyism, Maoism, and even state monopoly capitalism. To a critic, all of those categories are meaningless since they reject at some level or another the principles of capitalistic economic theory. They are distinctions of no import to a critic. Obviously, a proponent of one of these subphilosophies (hierarchically speaking) would make many distinctions between their positions and others which from outside seem similar. It's the nature of the beast. As someone wholly outside, it seems to me that the difference is whether the goal is to alter humanity to some specific endpoint (posthumanism) or whether simple improvement is in view (transhumanism). It seems likely that the later used term is a correction, expansion, or clarification of the earlier term. (This seems to be the pattern: Platonists are followed by neo-Platonists. Marxism is followed by Marxist–Leninism.) According to Wikipedia, "transhumanism" was coined in 1957. The original definition of transhuman according to Julian Huxley: 

Wittgenstein's understanding of Russell's Theory of Type is very shallow and muddle-headed, but I'll make an effort to interpret what he says. Wittgenstein thinks that a function's prototype determines what kind of argument it can take - this is exactly how some computer language, like C, define functions. Since the function is defined this way, if it is used otherwise, the resultant meaning is undefined: F(x) is defined as a function that takes individuals as arguments. G(U(x)) is defined as a function that takes first order function as arguments, where 1st-order function are those who takes only individuals as arguments. Since F(x) can only take individuals as arguments, F(F(x))'s meaning is undefined. Suppose there is such a thing as F(F(x)), the outer function takes first-order function as arguments, the inner function takes individual as arguments, therefore they are actually different functions using the same symbol. ∃ means there exists. (∃Φ):F(Φ(u)).Φ(u)=Fu means there exists a 1st-order function Φ such that Φ satisfies the 2nd-order function F(Φ(u)) and Φ(u) = Fu. Wittenstein tries to show that F(Φ(u)) and Fu are different functions having in common only the letter F. Ignoring Wittgenstein's misuse of symbolism, his argument can be simplified like this: I designated this basket for apples only, therefore you must not put baskets in this basket, and if you see a basket inside another basket, the outer basket must be a totally different type of basket. Basically, Wittgenstein just demonstrated how the Theory of Types works, but failed to explain the underlying principles and concerns that gave rise to the Theory of Types. Whitehead and Russell, in Principia Mathematica, invoked the vicious circle principle to dispel Russell paradox. The vicious circle principle states that a totality must not contain itself as a constituent because the totality cannot be determinate until each of its constituent is determinate; if one of the constituent is the totality itself, then the totality is indeterminate. The vicious circle principle determines why a function must not take itself as an argument. A function Fŷ -please notice the hat - denotes a totality. Suppose there are only two individuals in the world, Socrates and the earth, then the functions "ŷ is a man" denotes the totality {Socrates is a man, the earth is a man}. It follows that the meaning of Fŷ presupposes - or depends on - its values. Fy - no hat here - denotes one of Fŷ's values when y is substantiated, i.e., either "socrates is a man" or "the earth is a man", but ambiguous. It follows that propositions of the form Fy must not involve Fŷ because Fŷ is indeterminate until Fy is determinate and, if Fy depends on Fŷ, Fy is indeterminate. Therefore, F(Fŷ) has no meanings.