Yes, because Steve Pearce became the first player in MLB history to hit multiple walk-off grand slams within the span of a single week. 

Note: I'm not sure if it can be taken as duplicate of the question power play in T20 cricket but the comment of Ben Whyall states: 

I am not exactly sure when board approved this table of measurement as some meeting files are not available online. 

A. As the Orange Cap is presented to the batsman at the end of the innings in which he achieves this feat (either at one of the flash interviews or at the post-match presentation). A player in the field will wear it till the end of innings. 

Off-duty law enforcement officers working as independent contractors are assigned by Authenticators, Inc. for Major League Baseball Properties to authenticate autographs and game-used memorabilia at every Major League Baseball game. Only those items that an authenticator actually witnesses being signed or used in a game may be eligible for authentication under the MLB Authentication Program. Other Sources: tokens-icons.com, sportscollectorsdigest. 

Issue of link between repetitive headers and dementia has been bought up after retirement of striker Kevin Doyle over concussion problems but all started by the death of Spurs legend Danny Blanchflower from Alzheimer’s disease. Former West Brom and England striker Jeff Astle died aged 59 in 2002 and it was found that repeatedly heading heavier balls had caused the dementia which led to his death. These articles 1st, 2nd suggest FA were warned 22 years ago about dangers of heading footballs but FA refused it saying there is no connection back then. 

Bobby Zamora and Obafemi Martins have scored from both feet on kicks from the penalty mark in Premier League. But I'm interested in knowing, If there are any players that have done the same thing in other top European Leagues? Note: Doesn't have to be in same match or within 90 minutes. Not relevant to question but, Andreas Brehme Germany’s left-back at the 1986 and 1990 World Cups, took two penalties with both feet in consecutive tournaments. The kick in 1990, with his right foot, was the winning goal in the World Cup final. 

For example: In One Day International form of cricket Sachin Tendulkar has 49 centuries, 96 half-centuries. Using Statsguru Sachin has scored between 0 to 99, 96 times and scored 100+ 49 times, which makes it clear that centuries is not counted as half-centuries otherwise Sachin would have 145 half-centuries. Again, Sachin has scored between 100 to 199, 48 times and scored 200+ 1 times, which makes it clear that double centuries is also recorded as century. 

To start off, Keith Olbermann article mention, pitchers did once wear helmets. In the 1950s, the Pittsburgh Pirates insisted that all their players wear helmets while on the field, though that mandate was soon abandoned when the helmets proved too cumbersome. And for the chances of such incident happening Dan Diamond author from Forbes article states: 

An article from Tennis Warehouse University has done a research on Spin and String Pattern few important parts summary related with this question are: Even if the two rackets are of same pattern in our case open pattern, tension also plays part in producing spin. Following two figures obtained from the website shows the spin ratio for open pattern with high and low string tension.(For pattern 16 x 18) 

I am not a swimmer but after searching on many website vertical flutter kicking is the best technique for improving kick and make kicks begin at the hip. Article on triathlete has a conversation that mention these two drills for focusing on strengthening your core, glute and hip extensors. 

As for uniformity, yes it is compacted soil but the ground under the grass is never as perfectly level as hard court is, so there are always places that will cause the ball to bounce unpredictably(source). So it does not seems uniform, but with the level of work that goes into maintainig the court only small patches will appear in different parts of court. Those patches can produce irregular bounces — obvious to the player, but barely perceptible to fans in the crowd or television viewers.(source) From a Forbes article: 

Emphasize part explains that it is the referee who will award the goal. But on that specific case referee may have interpreted Ramos shot was not headed towards the net and gave an own goal to Mertens. 

In an recent International Champions Cup match between Chelsea and Inter Milan, Inter's Geoffrey Kondogbia scored 45-yard own goal. Is this the longest own-goal ever scored? 

There maybe many reasons, but one of the reason why this can't be given to the last attacker can be understand from this paragraph of this fifa.com article. 

A 'perfect over' of 6 wickets taken with 6 consecutive ballsbbc was achieved by Australian Aled Carey on 21 January 2017 while bowling for his club Golden Point against East Ballarat. This perfect over consisted of 2 catches, an LBW and 3 bowled. Wikipedia and his club Golden Point tweet states this as quadruple Hat-Trick, while few media like deccanchronicle, thenews and article.wn states this as 2 hat-tricks in an over and some other media like zeenews, scroll and financialexpress states this as double hat-trick. So, as hims056 said in his answer, there is no special term for that. Everyone refer to these hat-tricks in their own term. 

Rubber attached to professional table tennis players blades, is slightly bigger than the blade itself is not true because rule clearly mention rubber cannot extend beyond the limits of the blade. Other source: allabouttabletennis.com 

France Football will use a pool of 30 top players who Journalists can vote for. The scoring system is likely to be the same. Every Journalists will pick his top three in preferred order. No.1 pick has 5 points, No.2 has 3 followed by 1 point for no.3 pick. 

I have been able to find two such incidents of forgetting Red cards, one in World cup by English referee Graham Poll (2) and another by referee Mick Russell. 

I am not getting, how you are calculating it but the plan of playing field from NFL Rulebook clearly shows that the field is exactly 100 yards. 

No, it is not ok to take any active part in the game when standing on the floor of the pool, to walk when play is in progress or to jump from the floor of the pool to play the ball or tackle an opponent. (see WP 20.5) 

In this case he can't take the ball. Doing the things mentioned in rules will result in an indirect free kick for opposite team, when goalkeeper is inside his own penalty area. Other sources: Quora 

*The management of the team (coaching and medical staff) might be under the club board. For more information read this wikipedia article. 

Note: All the quotes are copied from the respective website and i'm not original author. If I have failed to mention any copyrighted material that is clearly my mistake. 

So for your question, When making weights, why are some MMA fighters sometimes below the weight limit? They are not below the weight limit, while some of them are above but because of 1 pound weigh allowance for non-championship fight they are allowed to compete. 

Rules applicable to this question are, RULE 7 BALL IN PLAY, DEAD BALL, SCRIMMAGE: SECTION 2 DEAD BALL 

IPLT20.com clearly shows the match time as 4:00pm IST and 8:00pm IST, so this is the time the match will start. 

According to article from Whatculture FIFA World Cup with average viewer 3.5 billion is the most watched sport broadcast in the world. But FIFA says 3.2 billion and estimated 280 million people around the world watched matches online or on a mobile device. And the 2014 World Cup final between Germany and Argentina in Brazil was watched by more than 1 billion viewers which suggest it might be the highest TRP match. 

But one week later another article from cricinfo clarifies that Michael Holding and Joel Garner do have bowled a no-ball and wide ball. But also states: 

This question doesn't have an exact answer but there are many articles which suggest, for a particular (9 innings) game , on avergage 8 to 10 dozen baseballs are used. From old.post-gazette.com article (link might be dead, information is taken from a thread citing this source.) 

The riders that competed in the 2016 Tour de France represented 35 different countries. And the riders that are competing in the 2017 Tour de France are from 32 different countries.Wikipedia But my question is which year Tour de France had competing riders representing most number of countries? 

Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) wants their players to feature in domestic competitions which take place at the same time in December and January. BCCI is also keen to give their senior players a breather, as the cricketers play a number of international matches in a calendar year. BCCI thinks if Indian audience gets to see their cricketers play in other tournaments, the interest in IPL will diminish. Board officials say that they don't want a situation like West Indies to emerge in India where most of their top cricketers are busy playing T20 cricket by ignoring the national team. BCCI thinks that if players are allowed to play in foreign leagues, it will dilute the IPL's brand (i.e; to protect IPL's revenue). 

What is a Slider? The slider or back spinner is the reverse of the top-spinner. Instead of bouncing and kicking as the top-spinner does, the back spinner delivery will skid onto the batsman. (Sources:1, 2) This article from cricket.com.au will help in understanding slider. Youtube What is off the seam bowling? Seam is the raised stitching around the circumference of the ball. While seam bowling is, using the seam of the ball to cause the ball to bounce in an unpredictable fashion when it hits the pitch. Off the seam term is used by commentators to describe the ball that bounce unevenly or deviates from the length of the bowling (movement of the ball), after seam of the ball strikes the pitch.Need citation Sources:1, 2, 3 

However I am not sure about: Other professionals are keep saying that the best way to prevent injuries is rehab. Because from this article Sports Injury Rehabilitation 

A. The Orange Cap will be worn while fielding by the batsman who has scored the most runs in the league (including the Playoffs) during the season to date. And, the Purple Cap will be worn while fielding by the bowler who has taken the most wickets in the league (including the Playoffs) during the season to date. So, it is not permitted to wear these caps while batting. 

This seems to be for Indian Players only because the BCCI has decided that players who have represented India in one Under-19 World Cup cannot take part in another edition of the tournament, even if they meet the age criteria to do so. Apart from this, the BCCI also passed a rule that players can only play a maximum of two season of Under-19 cricket. This is one of the many ways the board is trying to rectify the situation of age fudging. Before this rule, a number of players have represented India at more than one Under-19 World Cup. Three members of their squad in 2016 - Avesh Khan, Sarfaraz Khan and Ricky Bhui - had also played in the 2014 edition. Examples from the past include Ravindra Jadeja (2006 and 2008) and Vijay Zol (2012 and 2014). 

Although there is no restriction on racket size, shape or weight there are restrictions for rubber covering the racket. From ITTF rules and regulations handbook 2017, Rule 2.4 The Racket 

(my emphasis) While the technology employed is Hawk-Eye based provided by Hawk-Eye Innovations Limited, to know how it works watch this video.