I have an older CygoLite headlight that I used for commuting for a couple years. It's been in storage for about 12 months, and now it seems like the battery won't take a charge. I think its a variation of a NiCad battery, not lithium. The battery looks like this: 

In general, I don't think there is a tool right now that does exactly what you want, but you can get close. It sounds like you tried Google Maps, and hopefully when you did you clicked on the Bike Route option to see the suggested route. That is not going to minimize the different roads and turns because it is optimized for safer, lower-speed roads. One nice thing about the Google Maps bike route tool is that the printable directions/details are formatted very much like the route tip sheets I make for myself when going for longer rides in new areas. You can also use veloroutes.com to create your own routes, see elevation profiles, export to google earth and create the same google maps navigation directions mentioned above. You can also search veloroutes.com by location to see if anyone has a route like yours. A search for Camus turned up this route for instance (not quite what you are looking for but it give you an idea of what you can generate). For your specific starting point and destination you may want to check with your local bike shops for any Washington specific route maps or publications. The sports or travel sections of your local library or bookstore are another good place to look for books or maps that have long-distance cycling routes. You are in luck for part of your route though - The section from just north of Toledo to a little west of Longview sits on the Adventure Cycling Pacific Coast Trail. Adventure Cycling routes and maps are some of the best I have encountered. The maps can be a bit pricey, but are well worth it for their detail. They typically show convenience stores, bike shops and rest/camping areas. There are other Adventure Cycling Routes in Washington and all over the US. 

The key in these tests was that they compared the tires at different widths but at the same pressure. What you are experiencing is likely that you are running the 28mm tires at a lower pressure than the 23mm ones. On a smooth road, minimizing the area of the contact patch becomes more important to rolling resistance, so the narrower tire at the high end of pressure will be fastest. That's why you will see velodrome riders using specialized tires that have a max psi of 185 or more. 

Remove the seat post and clean it and the inside of the frame thoroughly with a little degreaser. Remove the seat post clamp if it has one (some frames have braze-ons through which the seat bolt is installed rather than a separate clamp) and clean the inside of the clamp and the outside of the frame. Apply a very thin coat of teflon or lithium grease to inside of the clamp, and to the threads of the clamp bolt. I generally do not apply any grease to the outside of the frame. Apply a very thin coat of teflon or lithium grease to the seat post and the inside of the seat tube - just enough to facilitate installation and inhibit corrosion. Install the post and adjust the height. Tighten the clamp to the manufacturers specification. 

If you do those three things the only real differences between a road bike and your mountain bike will be the weight (which matters a lot more when accelerating than it does when you are already rolling) and surface area resistance from riding in the drops. But most road bikers don't spend much time in the drops. Finally, your weight and fitness make a huge difference. I frequently pass road bike riders while on my commuter rigid frame mountain bike with high pressure slicks. 

I've seen rules and graphics online that basically say that bikers are to yield to hikers. Is this the generally accepted rule, and if so, how do you define "yield"? Background The areas I normally hike are wilderness areas (US) so I don't encounter cyclists very often. Yesterday I found myself on a trail that is very popular with mountain bikers and can honestly say that while hiking uphill I think that most of the cyclists barely bothered to slow down to allow me to step off the trail. Coming down and normally being approached from behind they would slow and pass with comment like you normally would on a multi-use path. I'm not being critical of the behavior of the cyclists - and in general I found them to be courteous - but it seemed that the expectation was that I would get out of the way, especially while I was hiking uphill. 

Chain slap is a result of slack in the relatively longer length of the chain required to accommodate the wide range of gears on the typical mountain bike cassette. You essentially have two options: Treat the Symptom Wrap the chainstay with an old inner tube or use a neoprene chainstay guard. 

In the world of professional cycling, the 'Monument' races are five of the oldest and widely considered most prestigious one-day races held each year. They are: 

My General Recommendation Wrap the chainstay first, check the length of the chain and derailleur tension second and then if you can go tight-range/short-cage. My Specific Recommendation for your bike You picture shows a long cage derailleur, and a 'mega-range' cassette. In your specific case you could start with swapping out that cassette with the huge jump to the granny gear with a more rationally stepped one and just shortening the chain 

Note: The question is tagged Shimano, and for Shimano the compatibility over the years is very high. If someone is trying to do the same thing with a Campagnolo hub I would say the odds of being able to convert are much lower. Campy rolled out several different 7, 8 and 9 speed standards over the years 

Apply the lube to the flat clips on each pedal - hit both sides if they are double sided mtb pedals. If you think the squeak may be coming from the pedal itself, rather than the friction between the pedal and the clip, apply some lube to the spindle attachment points where the pedal rotates around the shaft. Wipe away any excess. Hold onto a wall or go for a ride and and clip in and out of the bicycle pedals until the lube is adequately distributed and worked in. Repeat all steps if still squeaking. 

Just a note about that last point - I hear that one a lot, and my usual response is that by a huge margin most accidients and collisions that result in injuries sugnificant enough to require medical attention (and therfore be tracked and reported) are not collisions or accidents involving automobiles. The most common is a 'fall' - meaning you hit something in the road or path, or otherwise lost control and fell over all on your own. 

Some things differ if you are looking at a new or a used frame, but here are some suggestions: First, when you say you are looking for a steel frame, what you probably mean is a ChroMoly Steel alloy frame. This would be a frame made from tubes where chromium and molybdenum were added as the steel was refined. Frequently you will see a sticker on the tube with a number like 531, 631, 725 or 853 which is used to describe the particular blend. Second, spotting a high or low quality frame has become more difficult over the years as machining and welding techniques have filtered down. With older frames you definitely want to look at the quality of the welds and brazing, as well as the paint. Welds may be smooth, or have a regular pattern. Watch out for welds that look rough, 'globby' or irregular. It used to be that the use of lugs was a hallmark of lower quality frames, but today you see them more often on high end boutique or custom touring frames. You may also want to feel the bottom sides of the tubes for a "seam". On older low quality frames you frequently find rolled tubes, where the steel was a flat sheet that was then rolled and welded length-wise. Finally, the durability of a steel frame is largely a function of the paint quality and maintenance. Water and rust are the primary enemies of a steel frame. If buying used you will want to closely inspect the area around the bottom bracket, dropouts, and the whole underside of the bike for chips, cracks and visible rust. For long life, as well as the low environmental cost, steel v. aluminum is probably a wash. In the US and most the developed countries both aluminum and steel recycling is around 50% and the production costs and impacts are pretty similar. And while corrosion may be an issue, an aluminum frame won't rust. Good Luck. 

If you want to be precise, this page originally by Rainer Pivit but found on the excellent Sheldon Brown site has the relevant formula. In short - the effort required to reach and maintain a given speed is a combination of overcoming the forces of gravity, friction and wind resistance. The key factor in reducing wind resistance is minimizing the frontal area of the bike and the rider. A tight, form fitting t-shirt or cycling jersey will provide some benefit, and will reduce the 'parachute' effect of flapping clothing. But at the rates of speed we are talking about for recreational or utility cycling, the impact will be minimal.