Deal with the paradox. Emptiness is form; form is emptiness. But I think when they say to not have preferences or to not judge it means to not attach yourself to phenomena, to what is right or to what is good. Likewise don't refuse or avoid what is wrong or bad. Learn the Dharma but don't blind yourself with it. 

It sounds like "intelligence" craves for an image called "freedom of action in the future". Buddhism is very different: meditation is a practice to free people from suffering. He also says that intelligence is goal-seeking and control-grabbing. I think that Buddhism doesn't mean to control someone's own life, it's more about "behaving in a way that suffering is not produced". Control is subjectively pervaded with attachment and aversion. It's subtle. How can someone change his/her own behavior without being attached to some mind states and not being averse to others? And also, someone can think that enlightenment is a goal, but seeing it like this is a pitfall. A goal implies expectation, or anticipation of the future, only more samkara. How someone can seek nirvana without imagining it in the future? But there is a lot of intelligent people clinging on samsara. 

Meditation is more about perceiving that there is no sense to imagine too far, or to get excessively concerned with thoughts. I'm not saying that thinking is bad, but be more pragmatic. Instead of thinking too far away and producing suffering, try to do something practical. Try something like "ok, this scenario don't look very good, what is the simplest thing I can do now to reduce the possibility of it?" Meditation, I think, is very related to pragmatism. When you meditate, you just meditate and nothing more. And bringing it to life, instead of becoming overwhelmed by the possibilities, try to find what you can do right here and right now that can contribute to avoid the bad cases. It is a change of focus. Instead of feeding the image of some possible future, come up with something that can be done immediately. And if you can't do anything about it, let it be. Again, instead of improving your thinking or changing the feelings that thought produces, meditate to be more pragmatic, more present and more aware. And lastly, a book recommendation. I think that being pragmatic is one important point in Shunryu Suzuki's "Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind". 

I just read Allan Wallace's "The Attention Revolution: Unlocking the Power of the Focused Mind" book. He cites vipashyana (or vipassana, vipassanā, vipaśyanā, lha-thong) but he doesn't deepen much on it. Can you refer to some texts and books regarding this meditation? 

I think that the point of meditation isn't to enable logical thinking. If you let yourself be carried away by the trains of thoughts, it doesn't matter if it makes you feel bad or good. Meditation is to be present and aware. 

If you are willing to read, I think you will enjoy Alan Wallace's "The Attention Revolution: Unlocking the Power of the Focused Mind". This book is only about satama, about the levels of focus, the benefits, the hindrances and some pitfalls. 

Read Alan Wallace's "The Attention Revolution: Unlocking the Power of the Focused Mind". For short, practice shamata. Practice to focus your attention on the breath, and practice to keep your focus on it as long as you can. Even if you can't sustain it for more than a few seconds, keep practicing. If you can sustain your focus on the breath, you can sustain it in any other meditations. If you want a more didactic explanation from someone trustworthy, read Wallace's book. 

Yes, but only if you have some severe mental illness, or if you do a long recluse retreat. These are just some quick answers. But I strongly recommend you to read Wallace's book, because it is much more extensive, detailed and instructive. 

He says that we can get lost in the theory, but he never says we shouldn't study it. The point is that theoretical knowledge alone can't produce any enlightenment. 

Currently I'm trying to read the "Stilling the Mind" by Alan Wallace. Although he tries to be detailed and didactic, it's very dense. In this book he translates and explains Dudjom Lingpa's Vajra Essence, from Dzogchen school. If I understood correctly, he uses the expression substrate consciousness for alayavijnana, and he says that in Theravada it's called bhavanga. The five senses and the mind manifest in it. Dreams and after-death bardo also happens on alayavijnana, acording to Alan Wallace. It isn't like a soul, but it is a continuum of consciousness. It gives the sense of continuity of time, and even after sleeping it allows us to feel this continuity. And it isn't a self, which is disclaimed by vipassana. But it could be said that it is a self devoid of color, sound, smell, taste, shape or concepts. So it's not a common self. I don't know if alayavijnana is permanent, but it lasts more than the phenomena of the five senses, the mind and the dreams. It seems that alayavijnana is the consciousness that enable the manifestation of phenomena, or that perceives them manifesting. 

I'll present a counterpoint, maybe adding to what @no_comprende wrote. It's about my personal experience, and probably a consequence of not meditation alone, but also Buddhist philosophy. After I started meditating my productivity in LoC/day lowered, and I don't solve problems faster, and not even more tasks per week are accomplished. But in the other hand, I started to think more carefully, trying to be more aware of program states, of side effects, of bad code interactions, of unexpected use case conflicts. I started to test more, and I usually don't "turn a blind eye" to problems without taking note of it (commenting or registering a task). Put in short, I became more defensive and I started thinking in a more attentive way. Instead of just completing more features, fixing more bugs and thinking in a rush, I began to try to be more aware of what I do. Thankfully my bosses allow it, and seemingly they support it. 

Contemporary literature is enough for you? There is a Dzogchen text from Namkhai Norbu Rinpoche called "The Mirror: Advice on the Presence of Awareness": $URL$ He starts saying: 

It depends on who perceives it, depends on what's being talked about, and it can be the both at the same time. Eastern philosophy and spirituality is very different from our western logic. For us, it must be A or not A, for them it can be A and not A at the same time. In Shunryu Suzuki's "Zen Mind, Beginners Mind" there is a handful of paradoxes. Coming back to the question, to the western mindset it seems that being active is good and being passive is bad. But it wouldn't be correct to assert that Buddhism is active just to say that it is good. So I prefer to say that enlightenment isn't one nor another. Or, in mystical terms, it is a balance between active and passive energies. Meditation can look like a very passive practice, since you stay still, you stop moving, you stop talking, you calm down thinking and other mind processes. Then you stay there passive to noise, to itches, to mosquitoes, to pain, to chatter in the mind, to boredom, and so on. Now, if you look from another perspective, meditation is very active. Nowadays people fill their days with activities, there is always something to do avoid tedium. Usually when someone starts meditating, it requires a great amount of effort to not move and to calm down the thoughts. People usually need to actively practice meditation to achieve subtler states of mind. You will never listen someone saying something like "There was nothing to do and I was bored and then I suddenly realized that I was meditating." Now, in enlightenment the underlying constant existential suffering isn't produced. It isn't fed, as if the ground of mind wasn't fertile for growing suffering. So if it doesn't exist, there can't be a relation of passivity or activity to it. If you take mundane suffering such as physical pain or emotional pain, it keeps happening, but there won't be a "me" that feels pain. But there is just pain. You could say that enlightenment is passive because there is just a stream of phenomena that flows and between these phenomena there is pain. You could also say that enlightenment is active because there is complete presence and clear awareness of all phenomena that emerges, and nothing we judge as bad could produce the slightest suffering. And finally, "active" and "passive" are just concepts. If you are taking the path to enlightenment, instead of trying to define it take the path to get there. And if you are just trying to define it, be warned that words and thoughts are too limited for this task.