For a port you need a bay or other protected body of water. Or else ships caught in port by a storm will be smashed against the cliff and into docks and buildings. Many river, lake and sea ports were and are multi leveled. The docks are at the level of the water and the buildings are at various levels on gentle slopes, sheer cliffs, natural and artificial terraces, etc. etc. In Naples, for example, the buildings climb up hillsides, though not as steep as you would like. $URL$ Istambul. Again,not a steep as you asked for. $URL$ Santorini looks closer to what you asked for. $URL$ Rio has mountains, but most of the buildings are in the flatlands: $URL$ Dover has buildings at sea level and other on top of the cliffs. $URL$ And "seaports with cliffs" yields some interesting images. $URL$ 

Taking kingledion's suggestion of an alignment of the two moons with the special constellation, I have some suggestions. For the alignment of moons to happen at least once a year and at the same date(s) each year, both of the moons have to orbit an exact or whole number of times during a year. Thus a moon could orbit 10.000 or 11.000 times per year, not 10.49 times per year, for example. It would be a vary rare coincidence for both the moons to orbit whole numbers of times per year, but there are so many possible rare coincidence that rare coincidences do happen. It has been calculated that a moon needs to orbit more than 9 time's during a year of it's planet, in order to orbit close enough to the planet to have a stable orbit for astronomical and geological time frames. Thus the outermost moon must orbit at least 9.000 times per year and the inner moon must orbit at least 10.000 times per year. If the inner moon orbits faster and more times per year than the outer moon, it should catch up with the outer moon at least once per year. In order to make the two moons lining up in the specified direction a unique yearly event, the lining up the two moons should happen as few times as possible. One way to make that unique would be to have the orbits of the two moons highly titled relative to each other. The two orbital planes would intersect in a line through the planet with intersecting nodes 180 degrees apart. If the two moons line up and pass each when they are not at the nodes, they might pass at ten degrees, 45 degrees, possibly even 90 degrees, so their passing each other would not be very noticeable. But if the two moons pass through the nodes at the same time, they will pass very close and the inner moon might eclipse the outer moon. So James may want to have the orbit of the outer moon be highly inclined, perhaps because it is a captured celestial object, and with one of the nodes where the orbital planes of the two moons intersect pointed at the desired constellation. I think that I have discovered a couple of methods to make the alignment of the two moons happen only once per year. 1) make the inner moon orbit only one more time per year than the outer moon. If the outer moon must orbit at least 9.00 times per year, make it orbit 9.00 times per year and the inner moon orbit 10.00 times per year. Then the outer moon will travel 3240 degrees in one year to come back to zero (or 360) degrees and the inner moon will travel 3600 degrees in one year to come back to zero (or 360) degrees. 10 orbits is 5 X 2 orbits. 9 orbits is 3 X 3 orbits. Since none of the factors of 9 is identical with a factor of 10, the two moons should not line up in the original direction more than once in a year. What if the outer moon orbits 11 times a year and the inner moon 12 times a year? 11 x 12 is 132. In one year the outer moon will orbit 11 times and travel 3960 degrees to wind up at 0/360 degrees while the inner moon will orbit 12 times and travel 4320 degrees to wind up at 0/360 degrees. Thus they will only line up in their original direction once per year. If the outer moon orbits 12 times per year and the inner moon orbits 13 times per year, the outer moon will travel 4320 degrees in 12 orbits and the inner moon will travel 4680 degrees in 13 orbits to both windup at 0/360 degrees. 2) make the inner moon orbit a prime number of times per year. A prime number cannot be evenly divided except by one and itself. All prime numbers are odd numbers, but not all odd numbers are prime numbers. The lowest prime numbers are 3, 5, 7, 11, 13, 17, 19, 23, 29, 31, 37, 41, 43, 47, 53, 59, 61, 67, 71. The orbits of some bodies have orbital resonance (which sometimes destabilize and sometimes stabilize orbits) if their number of orbits during a time period have a simple numerical relationship. As near as I can tell none of the orbital relationships that allow for a once a year alignment of moons would be resonant, though some could be close to a resonant orbit. James will have to decide if he wants the two moons to align pointed at the proper constellation during the day or the night. During the day people would not be able to see the stars of the constellation, though ancient astronomers and astrologers could calculate the position of the sun among the invisible stars in daylight over three thousand years. This disadvantage would be offset by the possibility of the two moons eclipsing the sun, or transiting over it, if one of the nodes where their orbits intersected was pointed at the sun at the time when the two moons passed through the node. Depending on the apparent diameters of the two moons, they might eclipse the sun or merely transit it as tiny black dots against its brightness. Thus watchers on the ground might see the sun blotted out in two directions as the two moons crossed it in different directions, or two tiny dots crossing it in different directions. The two moons could cross the son simultaneously or minutes apart. If the two moons passed close to the sun but didn't cross it they would be invisible in the glare of the sun. If they crossed each other in the day sky far enough from the sun, they would appear as two thin crescents. The farther from the sun, the fatter the two crescents would be. On the other hand, if the event happens in the night sky, the two moons would look like fatter crescents, or half moons, or gibbous moons, or full moons. People on the ground could see the stars of the culturally important constellation, except in so far as the light of the two moons might drown the stars out. Possibly there is a nearby open star cluster in the important constellation that has many stars that appear far brighter than Sirius does on Earth. I think that James should prefer to have the two moons cross paths either in the day eclipsing the sun or at night opposite the sun as full moons. Thus it seems like it should be fairly easy for James to have someone calculate the orbits to make everything work out. . 

The Earth animals most like humans are mammals. The nonhuman mammals that already have the greatest intelligence and are most like persons are apes, cetaceans, and proboscideans. Thus there is a certain logic to uplifting apes, cetaceans, and proboscideans. The larger the body of an animal, the larger the brain it can support. Some animals with large enough bodies to support large brains will evolve large brains for various reasons. Of apes, cetaceans, and proboscideans, only a few species of apes and cetaceans are as small as humans or even smaller. The proboscideans and the rest of the apes and cetaceans have larger bodies than humans and thus should have little trouble supporting brains large enough to be intelligent. Thus it may be more practical to uplift those species to intelligence. I think that humans will have little need for the assistance of uplifted animals as some have suggested, since they will have all kinds of robots in that future. Some of the mammal species suggested for uplift to human intelligence have very small bodies compared to humans and thus would have great difficulty supporting a mammalian brain large enough to be intelligent. 

It seems strange to me that someone would even ask that question. I think I read that as a general rule, if Planet A orbits star B at distance C, another star D in that system will not destabilize the orbit of planet A if star D never gets any nearer to star B than a distance of about 5 times distance C. The nearest star system to Earth, Alpha Centauri, is a double star. And it has often been calculated that planets orbiting in the habitable ones of either Alpha Centauri A or Alpha Centauri B would have long lasting stable orbits. Earth orbits the Sun at a distance of 1 astronomical unit, or AU. The equivalent distance around Alpha Centauri A would be a little larger, and that around Alha cCentauri B would be a little smaller. Since the two stars never get any closer to each other than 11 AU, any planets that might be in their habitable zones should have orbits stable for a long time. And there are many other binary star systems in which calculations indicate that any planets in the habitable zone of one of the stars should have stable obits. Of course there are many binary star systems where the two stars are too close for planets orbiting one of the stars in the habitable zone to have stable orbits. There are even stars so close together that a planet could orbit in the habitable zone around both of those stars and have a stable orbit. 

It seems impossible to calculate a maximum sized organism (animal/plant/other) that could be still undiscovered, because it seems possible that an organism bigger than any that could possibly live might remain undiscovered. For example, a hypothetical deep sea organism - plant, animal, or other - could grow to the size of a mountain - kilometers or miles in each dimension - and stick to the ocean floor. Survey ships could pass over it with sonar scans and record it as an undersea mountain with unusual texture. And who knows how long it might take for anyone to be interested enough to investigate more closely and discover it is a life form. What about a giant sea monster that comes to the surface? If it surfaces away from normal shipping lanes, it might never be seen or photographed. There is no radar system that constantly scans the entire surface of the sea to detect ships, is there? Are there satellite systems that constantly image the entire surface of the Earth and record it? And if so, what is their resolution? How big would something have to be to certain to be detected? I believe that under the right circumstances, organisms miles wide could come to the surface periodically and not be detected. What about a sea creature that doesn't make songs, calls, echolocation and other vocal noises like whales do? Could underwater hydrophones detect the sounds it make swimming if it was big enough? And if so, how big would it have to be to certainly be detected? Thus it seems possible, under the right circumstances, for plants, animals, and other organisms as big or bigger than any known to exist to remain undetected today. 

Possibly the children have wings and can fly, and as they grow heavier and can now longer fly, the wings morph into heat exchange organs but still look somewhat like wings. The average adult human supposedly weighs about 62 kilograms or 133 pounds. That is much larger than the largest flying birds today. The largest flying birds, like the Great Bustard and the Kori Bustard, can weigh up to 21 kilograms or 46 pounds. A Mute Swan weighed 23 kilograms or 51 pounds, though it might have been too fat to fly. Thus really young human children would be light enough to fly - if they were built like birds - while older children and adults would not be. An intelligent species could have adults significantly smaller than the typical adult human. Thus their children would be lighter still. Adult specimens of Homo floresienses living on the island of Flores about 100,000 to 60,000 years ago have heights of 1.06 to 1.09 meters, or 3 feet 6 inches to 3 feet 7 inches. The weight of one adult has been estimated at 25 kilograms or 55 pounds. Thus adults of that semi or fully intelligent species would have been a little too heavy to fly even if they were built like birds and had wings, while children would have been small and light enough to fly for most of their childhood. So we can picture an intelligent species where the children weigh 10 or 20 pounds and can fly while the adults are heavier and are grounded. But, on the other hand the heaviest known extinct flying birds and reptiles were larger and heaver than any known birds at the present time. The extinct Argentavis magnificens, the largest flying bird, weighed an estimated 70 to 72 kilograms, or 154 to 159 pounds. The largest extinct flying reptiles weighed an estimated 200 to 250 kilograms or 440 to 550 pounds. Thus there could possibly be an intelligent species where the children were built like prehistoric flying reptiles and could fly until they reached body weights of 500 pounds or more, but then had to live on the ground or in the water as larger adults. Their wings, now useless for flight might shirk in size but still be used to get rid of excess body heat and be used for display in interpersonal relations. If humans only met the adults of a species somewhere between Homo floresienses and Quetzalcoatlus northropi in size, the adults' former wings might resemble wings enough for humans to think they were wings and to imagine that the adults could fly.