Take the logical fallacy that seems to come up the most: Appeal to Authority. People will make decisions all the time because someone with lots of experience or an important sounding title told them to do so. I think rather than saying "No Fair! That's the appeal to authority fallacy," you guide the person to the meat of why it's not a compelling argument by asking questions: 

I think you have to look at it by different schools of thought: 1) Ayn Rand is a well known for believing in an objective moral truth while not believing in a higher power. From the Wikipedia article: 

At the end of the day, what is a human brain? It is a network of neurons that have been trained to trigger in certain ways, essentially simulating logical gates like NAND and NOR. One can construct a theoretical mapping from logical gates to neurons that shows that the logical gates are capable of simulating a human brain/nervous system. Therefore from a computational power/language hierarchy standpoint, the human brain is "no different" than a computer because they are reducible to each other. So, it seems the answer is Yes, it is possible. The cost of a computer developing conscience, however, is a different story. The above mentioned mapping ignores practical steps and costs to how one would create an artificial brain/sentience in practice. For all we know, the costs of practically creating a self-sentient machine may be prohibitive. So, while it may be possible, it may not be practical. 

So, for example, asking why God made such-and-such a decision isn't a matter of science, because there is no way to reproduce making that decision, there is no counter-factual or control group, and the predictions that have been made from positing a model for such a decision are evidently not so clear as to be beyond all doubt. 

The current philosopher Peter Kreeft has in one of his books (God Does Exist) made a list of many of the common arguments used to justify God's existence irrespective of religion. Kreeft offers this way of organizing these arguments: 

As to why someone would join a particular religion, I think arguments follow the same two categories: either "psychological" or "cosmological," but I'm unaware of any scholars who have explicitly done such a study. Many of these cross the boundary from philosophy-proper into theology, so are studied more in that context. 

He discusses this in the context about how behavior shapes the soul, and how Christian beliefs in the after-life matter for morality - precisely because (Lewis says) we have mutable souls. 

As an example of each, the Kalam argument is an example of a "cosmological" argument, and arguments appealing to an individuals conscience or innate sense of morality is an example of a psychological proof. Kreeft points out some things that these arguments do not all share: Not are all equally convincing, and some are more like evidence-in-favor-of then "proofs": 

I think it helps to include more of the transcript than you provided. For example, when pressed on the practical benefits of moral rules coming from religion, Russell responds: 

then it's difficult to discuss right and wrong conduct without discussing what other people are due. "Moral theories" that don't assume some virtues are absolutely good but can help deciding "What do I do?" in real human affairs? All moral theories I know are entirely about how to decide what to do in real human affairs - Christianity, Marxism, Stoicism, Consequentialism, Libertarianism, Socialism, etc., all make claims about how we should order our lives and how we should make moral decisions. Some take virtues as their starting point, others start somewhere else but arrive at something much like it. I would challenge you: is there such a thing as a moral theory that doesn't say something about what to do in real human affairs? 

Here are a few resources that address different philosophical-anthropological aspects of your question. I haven't come across one resource that covers everything, but will checkout Chris Sunami's suggestion. Greek (and Roman) Philosophy and Christian Revelation Greek thought came in multiple waves: the Eastern portion of the Church (today's Orthodox Churches) had Greek as it's primarily language, and so necessarily had some intellectual borrowings from Greek Philosophy. The second wave one can point to comes in the later Middle Ages, by way of Aquinas, who heavily use Aristotle's work. I seem to remember this being discussed in the History of Philosophy podcast, I can't remember which episode though, but my recollection is that Aristotle was mostly not well read in the West, but was read frequently in the East (where Greek was spoken), and he continued to be read after the areas that were Greek speaking became Arabic speaking after Islam came to power in those areas. Augustine was heavily influenced by Roman writers, primarily Cicero. Most editions of his work that have preface material discuss this, and he himself includes many details of what works influenced him philosophically in his Confessions. The Saints The challenge here is that the presence of similarities between having a patron Saint of this-or-that and having the god or goddess of this-or-that is often used by Christians who are not Catholics as a way of attacking Catholicism, without asking where it comes from, and so are often more about grinding a particular axe then a search for truth. While similar, there is a fundamental difference, and Augustine in City of God addresses why he thinks that polytheism does not make sense. I don't recall him explicitly mentioning it, but the extension of his argument seems natural: it doesn't make sense to have gods of human inventions, because gods are supposed to precede humans, meanwhile it is natural to say that particular saints are important to such-and-such a human invention or cause, because those saints were human and therefore cared about the cause during their earthly lives. Semi-divinity of Heros Rightly or wrongly (I would argue rightly, but since I am Catholic I am biased), orthodox Christianity (little-o, meaning those who accept the Nicene creed) has always gone to great efforts to distinguish itself from pagan religions by stressing Jesus as not half-man-half-god, but as fully man and fully God. This is the central point of many, if not most, heresies before 1500. For a good video description of these different heresies, I would recommend the Yale course on the Middle Ages or the relevant episodes from Jim Papandrea, or any resource on this question, which theologians call "Christology." 

If you look at Marx's Theses on Feuerbach, or Feuerbach himself, it seems that Marx would say something like religion's origin is anthropological in nature the same way that economics or any other social phenomenon is - that is, it originated based on natural social phenomena (not simply top-down). It is possible that Marx meant that while the origins are natural, it is exploited by the "this state." In any case, the metaphor of "it is the opium of the people" itself doesn't seem to imply a direction either way, just that either (1) Marx thinks it provides a dulling effect or (2) it provides a consolation that does not exist against suffering that does exist (much as a "heartless world's" heart and a "soulless condition's" soul doesn't actually exist). 

What happens when these two things come into conflict (i.e., your children are sick on a day you are supposed to go to work)? Clearly, everyone must decide one or the other, whether that person is a moral relativist or a moral absolutist; the question is how is one to decide. It is in the mechanism of how one decides that one becomes a moral relativist or not. 

The brain is notoriously complex, I would look to parallels elsewhere. Consider the plum-pudding (or, as I learned it, the "blueberry muffin") model of the atom. This was discredited as being wrong after only a few years. But, it was useful - it was the first model to reconcile an "atom" (the very word meaning "indivisible") as having different parts. The parallel here is that psychology is a field that provides us with models. Some of these models are useful, but not all of them are (just as not all models to come out of physics or economics are useful). Of course, there is only a fine line between what you call "a useful fiction" and a model. Instead of looking at psychology as a whole, I would look at individual results from psychology. Those that have been disproved can be thrown out. Results based on poorly done studies, or studies that misuse statistics, or studies that cannot be replicated can be ignored. It seems that psychologists (or, at least some of them) are aware of the point you raise. Looking at a piece by Andrew Gelman and the links coming off of the piece describe many of these problems with how psychologists evaluate their hypotheses. If you buy this analysis, it seems that in psychology scientific best practices are not often followed. In such case, it should not be surprising when results are not valid. There is another, different problem of psychology which results in untestable hypotheses. It seems that the best one can do with such work is to try to digest it into testable hypotheses.