However, studies appear to contradict this. According to the book "Alkohol und Alkoholfolgekrankheiten" by Singer/Teyssen (in German, sorry), studies during wine degustations (where ethanol is brought in contact with the oral mucosa but not swallowed), there was no relevant rise in blood alcohol levels, unless contact was for more than one hour (and then only to a BAC of 0.015). They conclude that a stronger buzz after drinking ethanol through a straw has never been scientifically observed. 

in order to detect an infection with Malaria. Now this device sounds a lot like a simple oximeter, and the claims put forth in that article are rather vacuous, i. e. 

without saying anything about whether those results were accurate. But even if they were, my guess would be that changes in oxygen saturation caused by a severe bout of malaria would far outweigh any possible changes in light absorption caused by Plasmodium parasites. But I'm curious anyway. A quick PubMed search has turned up nothing, but maybe I've been using the wrong search terms - is there any evidence available that such a device/app could in fact work? The students have won the "Women's Empowerment Award" from Microsoft's Imagine Cup in 2013, which is wonderful, but the website doesn't have any additional information, either. 

The book "History of the Indiana Democracy 1816-1916" written by John B. Stoll in 1917, describes the outcome of an Indiana state senate election in 1841: 

The article also includes a fairly in-depth account of the mid-00's reversal of fears from surplus to shortage which I won't bother to blockquote here. It's worth reading if you're really interested. In summary, while this claim may have had some truth in the past, it is certainly not true now as the major professional organizations are actively lobbying to expand medical education. Unfortunately at the moment the major limiting factor in that expansion is federal health spending, which in the current political environment is a hard sell even for the powerful AMA lobby. 

This USA today article from 2005 confirms that the AMA and other organizations were indeed actively seeking to limit the number of new physicians being trained to prevent a projected surplus. 

I recently stumbled across a 2005 paper in Chest that as far as I can see has not been previously discussed here on Skeptics, so I figured it might be worth resurrecting this question. The methodology is quite a bit better than the ADD paper (but not perfect as I'll discuss below.) In short, a C30 dilution of potassium dichromate significantly reduced secretions, intubation time, and time in the ICU in a sample of 25 COPD patients vs. 25 on a well-designed placebo. Abstract: 

In 1996, there was a publication by Greaves et al. in the Lancet titled "An air stewardess with puzzling diarrhoea" about a stewardess who presented with a 7-year history of abdominal pain and diarrhoea (up to 10 times a day). The cause they finally found was overuse of sorbitol-containing chewing gum. (Unfortunately the article can't be accessed for free) There are more case reports like this, for example in the British Medical Journal where people consuming sorbitol in amounts of about 20-30 grams a day (one chewing gum stick contains about 1.25 g, apparently) had similar problems. The authors conclude 

I haven't found a concrete reference to "5 % of all cancers in Australia", but it seems at least plausible. According to the WHO report, 21.6 % of all alcohol-attributable deaths are caused by cancer (p. 26). In Australia, alcohol appears to be the underlying risk factor responsible for 2-4.9 % of deaths (p. 27), and not all cancers are fatal, of course. So we're at least in the same ballpark... 

In this video, Ted Cruz is asked by the newsanchor how he feels about asking for disaster relief funds in the wake of hurricane Harvey when he opposed such a bill for hurricane Sandy. He argues that he is all for disaster relief, but that the hurricane Sandy bill became a 50 billion dollar bill, 2/3 of which were "pork spending" that had nothing to do with Sandy, which is why he opposed that bill. Is it true that the bill contained that much unrelated material? One of the YouTube comments links to an act that reads more like a 10 billion dollar increase in spending for the National Flood Insurance Program. But maybe that's not the relevant bill in this case? 

If by "toxins" they mean myoglobin, then there is a at least some scientific basis, if not much evidence of real danger. Muscle damage releases myoglobin into the bloodstream; this is called rhabdomyolysis. Myoglobin is toxic to your kidneys at high concentrations, and dehydration makes attaining those toxic concentrations more likely. The effects are well-documented in conditions causing muscle damage such as excessive exercise, trauma, etc. Massage isn't a recognized cause among healthy people, but I did find this case study of an elderly diabetic man who experienced acute renal failure (ARF) after an unusually vigorous massage session and inadequate hydration. The authors conclude: 

Chest's publication of a homeopathic study was understandably criticized, most notably in this letter to the editor by David Colquhoun in which he also neatly rips apart homeopathic theory. 

The Texas State Library and Archives Commission confirms that one step of the annexation process passed 27-25 in the US Senate. Of course history doesn't record whether Mr. Shoemaker himself supported the annexation of Texas. A Hoosier in the 1840s might have had mixed feelings about adding another southern slave state to the Union. But his one vote evidently did "make a difference". 

Lots of related links can be found here - it appears to be more frequent than I thought, even Vitamin C supplements containing sorbitol have been found as a cause of diarrhea... 

Survival of three weeks is definitely not possible. The longest time you can survive under ideal conditions without drinking (or being administered) any water is projected at 10 days. Other than that (depending on whether the depth of the coma interferes with your breathing regulation), a few days should be survivable. But I doubt you'd be in a good enough condition to outrun a zombie afterwards. Hard to find references on that, though. 

The argument as I know it goes somewhere along the lines of "water drops act like lenses that focus sunbeams so that they burn the plant". Several experiments have failed to reproduce this, though (link in German, sorry) - a drop of water, even a perfect half-sphere simply doesn't act as a lens. However, there are circumstances where it might happen, and that appears to be if the structure of the leaf surface is not flat but irregular or hairy. In that case, water drops might "hover" above the actual leaf surface, and sunbeams might be focused enough to cause damage. This is not to be expected with grass, though. 

Of course, none of these differences are statistically significant, but taken together they are certainly very suggestive that the randomization was not well-distributed. Additionally, this table show greater variation in the placebo group among the significant outcomes, suggesting a few outliers could have skewed the results. In a paper making extraordinary claims such as this one, such inconsistencies demand that the results be re-examined and reproduced. Since I can find no more supporting studies on this topic since 2005, it seems unlikely that the treatment meets the reproducibility standard. 

However once the looming shortage became apparent, these efforts were reversed. For example the American Association of Medical Colleges (AAMC) set the goal of increasing medical school enrollment by 30% from 2002 levels by 2015. Unfortunately they are already behind on this goal. More importantly, medical school itself is not the rate-limiting step in training new physicians. As a recent, excellent article in the Seattle Times points out, 

However this response did not address the actual results of the study. To answer that, we need to look at the distribution of the patients after randomization. Although the study's assignment methods seem sound this table shows that by several measures the placebo group may have been less healthy than the treatment group before intervention. 

If you count viruses, then yes, it has been done: Reconstruction of the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic virus 

Well, to some extent, but probably not when drinking the stuff. Urine contains urea, which is used pharmaceutically as a rehydrating (water-binding) and keratolytic agent, e. g. in the treatment of skin disorders that cause scaly, dry skin, or to assist in removing skin detritus. So the presumed usefulness in diseases such as ringworm, tinea, sores, dandruff etc. appears at least understandable, although it would be a purely symptomatic treatment. Some research also appears to indicate that urea possesses some antimicrobial activity and that it enhances the skin barrier function against external factors like bacteria/fungi. But this is only for external, topical application, not for drinking. Now, why camel urine, not human urine? Well, this is all guesswork, but camels are able to concentrate their urine much higher than humans (which makes sense from an evolutionary standpoint if you're a desert animal), so you'd get a higher dose from camel urine than from your homemade stuff. But if you don't have a camel around and don't mind the social disadvantages of this treatment, human urine should also work to some extent.