Most mathematicians today would say that the "real" definition of a limit comes from epsilon-N proofs: the limit of the sequence is x if and only if, for any given epsilon, there is some N such that all elements after the first N are within epsilon of x. In other words, the sequence gets arbitrarily close to x and, at some point, it never gets further away from x. This definition doesn't require any appeal to infinitesimals or an actual infinity; just the potential behavior of the sequence indefinitely into the future. I don't know the work by von Mises you're referring to, so I can't comment on whether that was what he had in mind. But it does seem that textbook frequentism uses exactly the same notion of the potential behavior of a sequence indefinitely into the future. On idealization in physics, there's some discussion in the SEPh article on models in science (scattered, so search in the page text). And Angela Potochnik has a new book on the topic. 

In my opinion, neither of these is more important than the other (and of course there are many, many others besides); where propositional modal logic really shines is with respect to the second goal. So, should you study propositional modal logic? It depends: what do you want logic to do for you? 

Let me contrast two different foundational goals (or directions, since there's no expectation of eventual completion) for formal logic: 

The converse is extremely false! First of all, note that most structures in predicate logic don't come from frames-with-valuations - e.g. in what sense can you think of a field as coming from a frame-with-valuation? Even once we restrict attention to structures which come from frames-with-valuations in the above sense, propositional modal logic is still very weak: for example, how would you try to express the predicate logic sentence 

The Aristotelean tradition also criticizes the solitary pursuit of wealth. Here's Aquinas' version of the argument. . Briefly, following Aristotle, Aquinas distinguishes "natural" and "artificial" wealth. Natural wealth refers to the general resources that humans need to live: "food, drink, clothing, cars, dwellings, and such like." (This is a translation from the 1910s. Apparently "car" used to mean any form of transportation.) Artificial wealth refers to money. Both kinds of wealth have no intrinsic value; they're only valuable because they're good for other things. Natural wealth is valuable only because we need it to preserve human life. Artificial wealth is valuable only because it makes it easy to exchange goods. So it makes sense to seek out money — but only for the sake of using it to pursue further goods. Money has no value by itself. It's also important that, for Aristoteleans, the good life is coherent, and failures to lead a good life are incoherent. In other words, we shouldn't be surprised that the endless pursuit of money tends to mess up other parts of our lives. We might neglect our friends and family. We might fail to develop other, more valuable parts of our lives, like artistic, athletic, or intellectual talents. We might become so stressed and anxious that we fall into other problems, like alcoholism or drug abuse. We might become callous and indifferent to suffering, especially the suffering that we cause in the pursuit of money. If some of these things are true in your brother's life, you might try pointing that out to him. Is he really happy pursuing money if it means, say, his children hate him, he never has time to write anymore, and he's going to drink himself to death? 

Now this translation is faithful in the following sense: if every world of a frame-with-valuation (W, R, V) satisfies phi, then the associated structure M satisfies "forall x, phi'(x)." There are other senses in which this translation is faithful, as well; propositional modal logic can, in every sense, be faithfully be embedded in predicate logic. (I've focused on frame-oriented modal logic, but this really extends further.) 

Philosophy.stackexchange doesn't seem to allow mathjax, so this answer is a bit messy; if anyone knows how to make mathematical notation display properly here, feel free to edit. You ask: 

OK fine, a comment on the last sentence: in mathematics people do prove "conditional" results, e.g. "If the Riemann hypothesis is false, then [something]." However, the hypothesis is part of the result: we do not claim to have proved [something]! So you can perfectly reasonably claim the conditional result "If the existence of a maximally great being is possible, then there is a maximally great being," but (a) that's not much of a surprise, and (b) you'll still need to define "maximally great being." 

In general, there's been relatively little interaction between philosophy and psychology over the last several decades. This isn't just a matter of different questions and different methods, but also the institutional divisions and incentives — philosophy department hiring and tenure committees generally don't give much credit for publishing in psychology journals, and vice versa. However, there have been several particular interactions that you might find interesting. One is the "situationist critique" of virtue ethics, which points to experimental research in social psychology to challenge the existence of stable character or character traits. (Read more about this here.) Second is the "experimental philosophy" movement, which more or less explicitly borrows basic experimental methods from psychology to investigate how people respond to philosophical thought experiments. (Read more about this here.) Third is the field of cognitive science, which has often involved both psychologists and philosophers as primary researchers; some philosophers have also acted as outsider critics of cognitive science. (You can read a philosophical discussion of cognitive science here.) Fourth, and I think overlapping with cognitive science, a certain tradition of philosophy of mind has been heavily engaged with psychology and neuroscience research; I'm thinking especially of Patricia Churchland, Paul Churchland, and Daniel Dennett. In many of these particular interactions, philosophers have appealed to research or methods from psychology to produce critiques of other philosophers. I think cognitive science and the related tradition in philosophy of mind have generally been more collaborative, with philosophers influencing the empirical research; but often even here philosophers appeal to empirical research to criticize other philosophers. 

in the context of propositional modal logic? All this is to say that, compared to predicate logic, propositional modal logic is extremely weak. However, in many senses this can be viewed as a positive: philosophically we may doubt the "definiteness" of predicate sentences in general (stemming from a doubt about the meaningfulness of iterated quantification over the entire domain), while having much more faith in sentences expressible in a particularly nice fragment of it; mathematically, modal logic and its variants exhibit a number of nice properties (e.g. decidability) which full predicate logic does not have, making it interesting from both pure and applied standpoints. 

How can we view propositional modal logic as a fragment of predicate logic? Well, you had the right basic idea - possibility ("Poss") and necessity ("Nec") should correspond to "exists" and "for all," respectively; let me give the details. There is a natural way to convert a Kripke frame with a valuation (W, R, V) in propositional language {p_i: i in I} into a structure M in the sense of predicate logic: the language has unary predicates U_i for each p_i, a binary relation S corresponding to R, and the elements of the structure are exactly the worlds in the frame. In this spirit, there is a natural way to convert a sentence phi in propositional modal logic to a formula phi'(x) in predicate logic, which intuitively has the property that phi holds at world w of (W, R, V) iff M satisfies phi'(w). The details are a bit tedious, but I'll give an example which should make it clear: if phi is the sentence 

In social science and humanities, qualitative research methods systematically collect observations, identify phenomena, and analyze them without quantification. Consider this report by the research nonprofit FrameWorks. (There are plenty of peer-reviewed examples — qualitative methods are widely used in anthropology, for example — but this was the first fully-public document to show up when I searched my research library.) The researchers gathered data by interviewing two groups of people ("experts" and "members of the public"), then analyzed these data to identify common themes (in the way people talked about the value of natural spaces), and were especially interested in picking out themes that were different between the two groups. This study involved systematic observation and analysis, but not quantification. So I would say that it's identifying things that aren't "delusions," but without measuring anything in the McNamara sense. "Objectivity" is highly ambiguous. You might think that quantitative measurement and analysis are objective processes because they're "mechanical" or "automatic," meaning roughly that the outcome doesn't depend on the researcher — i.e., different researchers would get the same results. Qualitative data collection and analysis are not mechanical in this sense, so you might worry that they're not objective or reliable. But qualitative researchers use other approaches to ensure that their data analysis is reliable. For example, they'll continuously re-analyze their data until they reach saturation. Or they'll develop definitions of the concepts they're analyzing, have two or more researchers independently analyze the data according to those definitions, and then compare the results. 

This suggests that you view the role of a logic as letting you express more things - so that more expressive logics are better. However, this isn't universally true: there are lots of times when we actually care about weaker logics, which have better properties (e.g. decidability), from both mathematical and philosophical perspectives. Propositional modal logic is in fact a fragment of predicate (= first-order) logic; this fragment is quite small, and much better behaved than full predicate logic, and plays an important role in the general study of nice fragments of predicate logic. I am told (although I haven't read it) that the text to recommend here is Modal languages and bounded fragments of predicate logic. 

Breaking an informal argument into explicit steps is only half the battle; you also have to define your terms. In particular, this will often reveal that an "obvious" assumption is anything but . . . . . . as it does in this case. You've edited to stipulate that statement (2) is justified by the definition of "maximally great being," so is implied by statement (1). OK, that's fine, but that depends on what you mean by "maximally great being." Whether or not the possibility of a maximally great being is plausible (let alone true) depends on what that phrase means precisely, and that's something you haven't even tried to do. So you can indeed make (2) justified by choosing a sufficiently strong meaning for "maximally great being," but then that makes (1) extremely objectionable: given that maximal greatness now quantifies over all possible worlds, why on earth should such a thing be possible at all? ("Given any thing, I can imagine a better thing . . .") And "nobody has successfully disproven the possibility of a maximally great being" is not a justification for (1) being a "reasonable" assumption at all. Nobody has yet disproved the possibility of a counterexample to the Riemann hypothesis; is that a reasonable assumption to make?