Nope, and riding with it locked is quite beneficial in certain factors of riding, and if you have a locking suspension, you are very lucky compared to me, who has a bike without it. The bike will not break from simply having your suspension locked; It still absorbs impact, just in extremely minute amounts. Seeing as many web sites have covered this, I'd thought I may as well throw some info out there. Imagine the fact that I have 22mm tyres on my road bike; you should have about an inch and a half. Not much of a difference? In terms of absorption, I can swap my tyres for 25mm and feel a huge difference in comfort and less shock through the frame. If you have an inch and a half or even just an inch, you should be more than perfectly fine, no matter what terrain. I mean, come on, I ride a road bike off-road on bumpy-ass terrain. 

Best bet with quick releases when they are hard to remove because of the frame in the way is to get a rag, place it against the frame and then use a long-handled screwdriver to pry it up. That works all the time in the bike-shop I work at. Good luck! EDIT I should actually say, if you have carbon fiber release levers, be VERY careful not to crack/crush it, otherwise that's gonna have to meet the wheelie bin. 

I'll answer all your questions in order. 1) "Will this tire wobble wear down the bearings faster, or other components?" -Nope, this wobble will do pretty much nothing to the rim. If anything, you will feel the slightest of 'floating' (the only way I can describe it, the bulge ever-so-slightly lifting the bike when you go over it.) 2) "is this amount considered normal, and won't do any harm?" -Any tyre wobble is not classed as normal, though it will not do any harm to you, the bicycle or your bike's performance. 3) "Is this as true as you can get on such a cheap bicycle?" - The bicycle has nothing to do with the tyre. If the bike was £120, you can still get £80 Continentals. The tyre's quality, however, is quite a big factor. If you bought them for £12 a piece, there's a high chance that there may be minor defects. 4) "Should I spend more time trying to adjust or leave it as it is?" -Leave it. If anything, you risk doing more damage to the tyre/rim, constantly playing with it. Ride around on this tyre for a couple days. In my experience with cheaper tyres, they'll settle down. It's usually due to storage/transit. Re-inflating usually gets rid of any deformation, though not always. Riding it for a while will eventually get it to even out. If the tyre is damaged, you'll usually notice a very major bulge. If you take an innertube and inflate it, looking at the valve, you'll notice it has a weird shape around where the valve is. It'll look somewhat like that, but on the tyre. 

Through-axle hubs have a larger inner diameter to accept a 15mm or in some cases 20mm spindle, so many of them can be purchased with adapters that accept a 5mm spindle and fit in a 9/10mm dropout (QR usually have a 5mm spindle and fit a 9/10mm dropout). For example Hope have conversion kits for their hubs that allow you to use their hubs with an older quick release (QR) fork $URL$ 

I tried the GoPro for a while and there were several things I didn't like about it, or where I felt it fell short. I'm now looking at buying one of the "tough" cameras produced by almost all of the major camera manufacturers which have several advantages over something like the GoPro or the ATC3K. Things I didn't like about the GoPro are... - The weight on my head when used on the helmet (could cause my helmet to shift). - No screen, so you can only review footage once transferred to the computer. Transferring also takes a long time. You can get an add-on screen now, but this will add bulk and weight. - No zoom, so for instance the wide angle cannot even show red-light runners, as the lights on the far side of the intersection (perpendicular to my direction), are too far away to show up on the video. - Menus are difficult to use and you have to remember the abbreviations they use. - The square shape is bulky. I didn't try it strapped to my arm because it would be too uncomfortable whilst cycling. - The handlebar mounts are kind of bulky and can be fiddly to fit. - It interfered with my wireless speedo when mounted right next to it (the speedo numbers went haywire). - Enclosure can fog up requiring the purchase of, and fiddling with, anti-fog inserts. Olympus, Panasonic, Sony, Canon, Nikon, Fuji and Toshiba all produce "tough" cameras that are resistant to water, shock, dust and so on to varying degrees. Of course the models vary but typically they have these advantages over the GoPro or ATC3K 

Having seen the video, it looks like your derailleur is MASSIVELY outside of it's B-tension adjustment. Put it on the biggest cog and turn the B-adjustment screw to the point where the top cog of the derailleur is about 3-4mm away from the cog. In my personal experience, this is a common cause besides the actual indexing, and it looks quite likely here, too. Also, that chain looks a bit big for an eleven-speed set-up; Is it original? Also check for chain wear, as this will cause a horrifyingly loud sound, along with wearing out the cogs faster. Also, and this might sound a bit basic, but please bear in mind we have all skill-levels here; Is the wheel properly aligned within the rear drop-outs? The wheel on the derailleur side needs butting up against the very furthest point of the drop-out, or rather, shoving in as far as it'll go. The drive-side is used to make sure the wheel is A) grabbing onto a safe amount of material and B) to essentially 'zero' the alignment for the cogs, and where they sit inside the frame. Remember, the adjustment screws on the derailleur only adjust where the derailleur will sit within the frame, not where it'll hit the cogs. You can use the old-style method of measuring the gap between the frame and where the first cog would be, and then measure the distance of the first and last cogs, then adjust the tension of the cable to make it evenly move around the range, and have a perfect derailleur adjustment, you don't actually need the wheel within the frame to do an indexing. However, it is recommended for less experienced to just do it with the wheel on, and it also helps with fine-tuning. After checking the wheel's alignment, make absolutely certain that the springs on the derailleur are moving easily, with no noise, and without requiring cable tension to be dropped to near zero. They should only need a slight tension adjustment to make a fairly drastic gearing change. Good luck with the repair! 

I am currently riding Conti GP4000S tyres, in 700x23mm version, inflated at 115 psi. The grip is great, the (light)weight is amazing. I have punctured twice with them (in 1500 km) which is more that I would hope, but I can live with that. Still, when I look at my tyres, I see minor cuts on the tread. Nothing major but let's just say that any time I am stopped at traffic lights, and I look down, I can see at least a "wound". Do I run the risk of increasing the number of punctures? are those tires really too road-training-oriented to use them for commuting? I like Continental, I like the 23mm format, I like this (lack of) weight. So I was considering 4Seasons which are a few grams heavier but offer an extra layer of protection against puncture. I have plans for a long ride (~150 km) and would want to avoid more than 1 puncture in the day. 

I mostly commute and have never had trouble climbing a hill sometimes by using my lowest speeds (or close to them). How do I evaluate even roughly what grave %age I climbed? What I mean is that I would love to tour someday in a real mountain-y region, and would like to know how to approach climbs like this. For example, I see profiles with %ages as high as 10%. I know I never rode 10km at 10% but how does 10% look like? how do I know I won't be forced to give up after the first mile or two? How about 5%? 7%? or the extreme 12.5% I see on some climbs? I do have a GPS device that gives a reliable path of where I've ridden, but the altitude is not reliable to the profiles of my rides are not either. 

How long is a piece of string? Honestly, the life of a bike can vary dependant on whether your bike is regularly serviced, if you're going to actually replace parts like chain, cassette, chainrings, bearings, brake pads, brake cables, gear cables, bottom brackets, headset bearings, etc. If you don't do ANYTHING to it, and ride it daily, you'd be lucky to get about a year and a half out of my personal experience. If you constantly service it and you don't torture it, you could have it outlive you. It's down to the owner's effort in keeping the bike running. I know people who have four chains that they interchange after each ride and people who use multiple wheelsets. 

I don't suppose anyone knows the make and model of this tyre? These allegedly came as OEM on all Carrera Virtuoso Road Pro circa 2008, the Black and Blue Road Pro model. This has been bugging me as I cannot find ANYWHERE the model of these tyres, and I found these ultra-grippy compared to any other tyres I've used. I've done many hours of research online over a couple of days, but I just cannot find any information on these tyres, or even people who sell these. 

Not sure I'd call that a clutch.... ;) More a freewheel. I have done jobs like this in the past, and I found using a Lithium Grease (very thin, textured a bit like facial cream) works great, so long as you only line it on the teeth. 

Seems like I'm a Necromancer again... Most likely a spacer. No, I take that back; Almost certainly a spacer. With the Hybrid cassette fitting correctly, it's quite often that they are slightly thicker, even by a couple of millimeters. An easy way to check is to check the limiter screws on the deraileur if you haven't adjusted them. If there's too far away from the wheel for where the jockey wheels line up, it's probably missing a spacer. If not, it needs a thicker spacer or more, assuming the gears were properly set up before you took it to pieces. Also, good call, taking the cassette off to clean it. Too many times, people leave it on their wheel using a degreaser to clean it, and it breaks down the grease inside the hub and freehub body! Annoying because I usually get asked to replace them when it happens, then I lecture them about all the problems from doing so..... Boring! 

If the quick release hub is truly a 9 or 10mm quick release hub then no. The diameter of the internal hole where the spindle goes through on these hubs will not accept anything larger than about a 5mm spindle, which means it is not possible to use them with a 15mm spindle that threads into the fork or frame. 

You should secure the cassette lockring removal tool with the quick release skewer or axle bolt, just enough to hold it in place (although some removal tools don't have a hole in the middle for you to do this). This means you can use more force without fear of the tool slipping. Then use a long handled wrench (spanner) and chain whip. A box-end wrench (ring spanner) will give you more purchase. Otherwise use a vice in place of the wrench (spanner) and just turn the chain whip counterclockwise when looking from the side of the wheel not fixed in the vice. When using the wrench and chain whip, if you can't push the two tools toward each other to remove the cassette, you can inflate the tire fully, and go for the most mechanical advantage by having the spanner and whip handles forming a v with angles of about 120-150 degrees. Then push down on both handles. This does run some risk of damaging your wheel though, so only try this as a last resort. You can also try putting the chain whip on the larger sprockets for more purchase. 

Looking at this and your previous question, and to answer whether you should be throwing good money after bad, the big question is how much riding you expect you're going to do. You may not know that yet, but what is obvious is that the more regular riding you do, the more you'll spend on maintenance. If the bike is old, you may find the bottom bracket bearings worn, the headset bearings worn, the hub bearings worn, the rims worn (if you have rim brakes), brake pads worn, cables in need of replacement, derailleur adjustment / replacement required, the wheels in need of truing, and so on. These things can be tolerable if you do only a little riding, but if you become a regular rider, you'll probably want to replace or fix a lot of that stuff. It may benefit you to go to a shop to have it looked at and they can assess the things that need replacing, before they go ahead and do anything. Try and find a shop that focusses on the type of riding you're doing. I'm mostly a commuter so I go to an urban commuting type shop. The road racing focussed shop near me will do it, but they don't have quite as much patience for me.