and they are of the opinion that it originally was a gnocco. They are less informative about "macaroon": 

The OED reports that the word was first attested in Cyclist & Bicycling & Tricycling Trades Rev. 29 Dec. 100/1, "We can conscientiously recommend it as an excellent shillingsworth of ‘bike’ and ‘trike’ literature". "Bicycle" was borrowed much earlier from French. There not being much evidence about the history of the word(s), one can only speculate. There is some resemblance to hypocoristic reduction and mutilation process for creating affectionate versions of words, like Art ← Arthur, Ginnie ← Virginia, Bob ← Robert. The scare quotes in the citation probably indicates a judgment that the form is seen as "cute". There is certainly nothing regular about the process. It might have been a writer's cute reintroduction of the velarity of original Greek κ. 

You could use Acoustical characteristics of selected English consonants, by Ilse Lehiste, to determine what the formant transition patterns are, or the voicing patterns, that would be of interest to you. However, a simpler way to decide is to just listen. If for example a listener isn't fluent in English and has problems in certain contexts, distinguishing "tea, key, pea" then this might be useful. However, nothing much will help you if your underlying question is "is this [t] or is it [t̪]?". A study acoustical properties of sounds in a language will mainly tell you what distinguishes sound a and sound b within the language, but there is no resource for "absolutely identifying" what sound exists in a token, compared to the vast array of sound in all other languages. Absolute identification is impossible, but if you are trying to find a closest match assuming English, then Lehiste's book should help. 

I think any theory on the market can probably handle such sentences. The first part of the analysis is simple relativization, where a noun in a higher clause also has a role in a lower clause, for example "I saw the man who drank the coffee", where "the man" is both the object of seeing and the subject of drinking. As a special case, you can arrange your choice of subject and object roles so that the higher subject is also the lower object, and the higher object is the lower subject (the David-hating-lizards example); or other permutations as you consider. The second part is that a would-be postnominal modifiers precede the noun subject to conditions worthy of separate discussion, so that "The man who is singing" becomes "The singing man", and "The man who is singing bawdy songs" becomes "The bawdy song singing man". You get "David hates David-hating lizards relativization and preposing. The third example doesn't work, which makes it interesting. To make it clearer, we should change the verbs, to wit: David loves lizards. Lizards bite blondes. Blondes hate David. You might think this would yield "David loves David-hating blonde-biting lizards". The problem is that this doesn't preserve the semantics of the simpler parts, since in this merged version, lizards bite blondes and hate David, whereas we want something where it's the blondes who hate David. Lizards can bite David-hating blondes and David can love blonde-biting lizards, and that's the end of it. There is a limit on relative clause reduction and preposing -- it can't be just any relative clause. Note that you can't say , meaning "I know the man who bought a house". To be preposable, the clause has to be reducible to a compound (normatively, you should stick in hyphens, which reflect the different intonational structure of preposed clauses). Nouns have to be singular ("book-buying child" but not ) and the verb has to be a participial form, not a tense-inflected form ("man-eating tiger" or "moth-eaten pants" but not ). You can have one VP thing in the clause ("slow-moving car", "very slow-moving car"; "house-buying business", "dilapidated house-buying business"), but not a verb-plus particle and an object ( or anything like that) and not some string of postverbal modifiers ( etc.). So, while you can merge three clauses into "David loves lizards which bite blondes that hate David", you can't do that plus compounding of all of the clauses. Rules for forming relative clauses are not all the same and are highly variable across languages. See Keenan & Comrie 1977 Noun Phrase Accessibility and Universal Grammar for discussion. 

If the constraint says "any X aligns to some Y", there is no violation if there is no X, but there is a violation if Y is lacking: it depends on the order in the constraint (Cat1 vs Cat2). The case you mention is the same as Tagalog infixation, where in GE they state the constraint as Align([um],L,Stem,L), so if um is lacking, there is no violation. Given the choice of *[sulat] and [sumulat], the former does not violate the alignment constraint. However, there is a higher-ranked constraint requiring um to be present in that grammatical context ("actor focus", as I understand), so *[sulat] is ruled out as an actor focus form. In your example, assuming that the root in question is /tebrut/, this raises a different complication: why don't you get /um-sulat/ → [musulat] in order to satisfy *Coda and Ons? Metathesis violates Linearity, and since there is no morpheme-internal metathesis, Linearity is apparently undominated. 

I would check your assumptions of what the order is in the various languages. See this paper, which is not about history, but indicates that pre- and post-nominal order co-exists in Norwegian, Faroese and Icelandic, as well as some Swedish dialects. I would attribute pre-nominal order in Norwegian to Danish influence (hence more common in formal and written registers). It's very complicated, from what I can tell. 

Proper names are created in many languages, often by taking an interpretable phrase and using it (e.g. the Shona names Chipo "gift", Farai "be happy (pl)!"), the name of the Tanzanian author Kezilahabi "came from a bad place"). They frequently have special morphology (different inflectional affixes; only they take the "honorific" prefix; often wider use of and special forms of diminutive affixation) and syntax (especially obligatory vs. prohibited definiteness marking). Even the study of why people name their child "death approaches" is within the sphere of one form of linguistics, sociolinguistics. So I can't see what wouldn't be linguistic about the study of proper names . 

This paper by Cardona surveys the problem of determining the status of anunāsika versus anusvāra (I don't derive any firm conclusions from this, but it does lay out the textual facts). Pāṇini is said to have believed that the terms refer to different phonetic things, and Whitney thinks the difference is terminological / theoretical without basis in reality. Aṣṭādhāyi Bk.1 Ch1. Sut.8 says, in typical telegraphic style, "mukhanāsikāvacano 'nunāsikaḥ", which Vasu translates as "that which is pronounced by the nose along with the mouth is anunāsika...". In addition to vowels, which may be nasalized, /n+l/ undergoes regressive lateralization to give [l̃l], which is also anunāsika. So the term may refer to nasalization of vowels and approximants. From a practical perspective, making a nasalized vowel is sufficient, until you decide to dig at a high level into the terminology. 

Some languages have an additional POS termed "ideophone", which are similar to English words like "bang", "whump", "crash", but frequently with a very wide semantic range, and their syntax can be kind of odd. In Shona, they tend to require an auxiliary verb "say", for example imbwa yakati mwana n'a "The dog bit the child", where yakati is "he said" and n'a is the ideophone referring to biting (imbwa = "dog", mwana = 'child'): literally, "The dog said the child 'bite'". There is a regular verb -ruma meaning "bite", so this can also be rendered imbwa yakaruma mwana. An ideophone can also be combined with a lexical verb, e.g. imbwa yakaruma mwana n'a "The dog bit the child 'bite'", or akabvunza nga nga nga "he asked persistently" (akabvunza="he asked", nga nga nga = ideophone meaning 'persistently'). The purpose of the introducer verb -ti is to provide something for verb inflection to hang on, since ideophones don't inflect. If the ideophone precedes the lexical verb, then the ideophone usually has an introducer (-ti) and the lexical verb is in the infinitive, so imbwa yakati n'a mwana kuruma ("the-dog said 'bite' the-child to-bite") again meaning 'the dog bit the child'. Ideophones have pretty unrestricted syntax (modulo the requirement for the sentence to bear verbal inflection), though perhaps cannot penetrate inside an NP. These examples have provided verb-like and adverb-like semantics; additionally, they can contribute adjective-like semantics, e.g. akavhura nzii bhokisi "he opened the black box" (*akavhura='he opened', nzii=ideo. 'black'*) – or, bhokisi rakavhurwa nzii 'the black box was opened'. As far as I know, the ideophone here conveys something about blackness as a consequence of opening the box, like "He opened the box and it was all black inside". Ideophones do not appear to supply nominal information. They are "special" in two areas of phonology. One is they can be monosyllabic, whereas in all other word classes a word undergoes epenthesis to become a least bisyllabic. The second is that they cannot undergo tone sandhi rules. 

Spoken and signed languages are distinguished in the brain in different ways. From the perspective of perception, spoken language is processed in the cochlear nucleus of the brainstem and then the primary auditory cortex, whereas signed language is processed by the lateral geniculate nucleus in the thalamus and then the visual cortex. As for production, different areas of the brain control muscular movements for speech apparatus versus hand, arm and facial movements in signed language. The glottis actually is not a muscle, it is a hole, defined by the vocal folds, which are also not muscles, they are mucous membranes. The speech organs of humans are special from the perspective of comparative mammalian anatomy, since we have greater volitional control over these organs; of course it would be comparing apples to oranges to compare control over the tongue versus the hands. Brains don't treat any body parts as being invalid. Some people think that there is no difference between brain processing of language and brain processing of any other stimuli, but I think the evidence does support the view that language is special. 

That kind of sound bite is common in the profession, but is also wrong. Phonology is about a particular cognitive process where language sounds are studied as units which are made up of yes-no categories. For example, in forming the 3rd person present of a verb in English, the suffix /z/ is added, but it is changed to s when the preceding sound is f,θ,p,t,k; and the vowel ɨ is inserted when the preceding sound is s,z,ʃ,ʒ. Phonology studies these rules. Phonetics studies the a number of things about how we produce such sounds (acoustics, articulation), but it is also involved in the psychology of articulation and perception. So it is wrong to deny that phonetics studies sound from a psychological perspective. 

There are many explanations for the properties of a given random sound file on the internet. Since Wiki provides virtually no metadata on recordings, one can only speculate as to the circumstances of a recording. That token certainly doesn't tell you anything about the structure of the language. One step in the direction of making the question be about the language and not the sound file is to get other examples. Wiki also provides this token which BTW is linked in the Polish page, where the stop is clearly devoiced. All of the Forvo tokens have devoicing. Other Wiki entries with potential and actual devoicing are Tarnów, Grudziądz, Stargard and Bełchatów. So by overwhelming majority rule of evidence, Polish does have final devoicing. To get the truth, you need more-controlled data, and you need to control for well-known artifacts. The most important is hyperarticulation, especially a problem with intelligent and multilingual speakers (you can interpret "and" as "or"), particularly a problem with literary languages. That is, the grammar of Polish does not prevent speakers of Polish from articulating things not generated by the grammar of Polish. People often have normative ideologies that control how they behave in guarded moments (like, making a recording). The other variable is phonetic context. In the offending file, you will notice that the right edge is prematurely clipped, which suggests that the recording was extracted from a longer utterance – it was not the pronunciation of the word in isolation, it was in a phrasal context. Since Polish has voicing assimilation at the phrase level, it is quite plausible that the token came from a voicing context. Thus you would need to get actual citation forms, not phrasal forms that were edited down. 

One type of argument is based on "behaves like". Suppose for example that there is a contrast between /p,b,t,d/ but [k,g] is predictable by rule. If /b,d/ do things that /p,t/ don't do and the mystery sound does the same thing that /b,d/ do, then you have evidence that it is /g/. Another is based on simplicity of resulting rule system. For example, if [k] only exists word-finally, then a rule /g/ → [k] /__# is simpler to formalize, but a rule turning /k/ into [g] before a consonant or vowel is more complex. One problem with the simplicity argument is that it depends on having a theory of rule-formulation. A related problem is that people are fond of reifying heuristics like "you get X in this context, and Y elsewhere" into a rule where "/z/ → Y elsewhere" is an actual possible rule. (The problem is that "elsewhere" has no independent meaning and instead stands for a complex kind of rule that produces two different outputs – the "elsewhere" rule isn't actually a separate rule). This presupposes that you have a good enough reason to think that the two surface sounds have the same underlying form. Simple complementary distribution is not an automatic reason to assume a difference between surface and underlying forms.