Based on your objective of fat loss whatever diet you follow should result in a caloric deficit of some sort. What that means for you will vary based on how much exercise you get both in a strict sense (at the gym or on the track) and a broad sense (do you sit at a desk all day or do you herd cats for a living). Seeing that you want to gain muscle mass your diet should be rich in plant and lean animal proteins (i.e. legumes, grains like quinoa, chicken, turkey) and healthy carbs (whole grains). Healthy fats (avocados, nuts or fatty fishes) are also good and important because they facilitate a healthy metabolism but should be consumed in moderation. Eliminate unhealthy fat and refined carbs. That fried twinky isn't a good idea and neither is that slice of pizza and you know it. Healthy eating is not rocket science. Stick to whole, unprocessed foods. Read your labels and understand what you are eating. The Whole30 diet has a great guiding principal in that regard: Read your labels and if you do not know what an ingredient is or does or where it comes from pass on it. 

I'm a college runner with a 14 month injury that doesn't look like it's going away anytime soon. So I decided I may as well take up weight-training instead. I absolutely hate lifting weights, but, uh, apparently girls don't find 135 lb runners with a 15:20 5k attractive. Who knew. I want to come up with a weight workout routine, but honestly I have no idea where to begin. My only goal is to get a "normal" or slightly above normal amount of strength as quickly as possible, so I don't look like a stick (my arms are thinner than most girls). I know that for running, twice a day and 100 miles a week gets you good pretty quickly, but I've heard some people say that's its not good to lift weights every day. Is this true? And do I want to do low reps, high weight, or high reps, low weight, or somewhere in between? I don't even know what sorts of things to do. Machines or free weights? How long of a workout -- 30 minutes, an hour and half? Thanks! 

Any exercise can cause over training. There is no magic limit or number because everyone is different - you have different levels of stress, different sleeping habits, different nutrition habits, different intensity of exercise, etc. than anyone else so there is not cut and dry formula for what over training is. As a general rule of thumb, if you are seeing progress, you are not over training. If you stop making gains, find yourself more injury-prone, tired, etc., then you may be pushing too hard and should consider backing off. Stationary bike will be the least invasive cardio because it is low-impact. Running is the most likely to cause issues because it is a high impact activity. However, there are plenty of documented cases of people who run huge volumes every week and continue to perform well so again, it's not a cut and dry formula but something you need to learn specific to your body and situation through trial and error. 

I've slowly pieced together my home gym and have a few recommendations. Although my wife has had major back surgery and is fused from neck to sacrum she is able to use the same set up. First, the easiest way to get started is to invest in a simple adjustable bench and some dumbbells. You can train every body part, load different sets and reps and even use the bench for things like sit-ups and hyper-extensions (yes, I use a regular bench for these, although a special hyperextension machine is preferred you can lock your legs on the bench and hang off the end). When you move to another, I do NOT recommend a smith machine. Although it can provide some security and a sense of safety for beginners, it tends to lock you into an unnatural range of motion. Instead, I would get either a squat cage with bars or a free weight device that has "hooks." These are adjustable bars that can capture the weight. This is an example of a cage: $URL$ This is the example with hooks: $URL$ Either way you get the benefit of a free weight workout, but can adjust the bars or hooks so that they will catch the bar if you lose control. Using this technique I've trained successfully by myself for 10 years. If you can afford it, investing in a machine with pulleys will add options like pull-down, row, curls, push-downs, etc. but not necessary. My set-up consists of a cage with a built-in pec deck, high and low pulley, free weights, adjustable bench, dumbbells, and a dip station that I use for dips, leg raises, and pull-ups. The great news is that you can put it together piecemeal over time. You should look at places that sell used equipment. Last I checked, there is no difference in weight between a 10 pound used dumbbell and a 10 pound new one, and the used one can be as much as 50 - 75 percent less expensive. If you are looking to do any Olympic style lifts (jerk, snatch, etc.) be sure to look into weights that you can drop and that bounce rather than metal weights. I go with the metal weights but I have to always make sure I'm in control, which is not a bad thing. Crossfit for example encourages lifts that end with dropping the weight. 

I'm 22 years old and had knee surgery almost 7 months ago to fix damaged cartilage (I was a distance runner). The damaged cartilage was right in the weight bearing portion of my knee (medial femoral condyle) such that putting pressure on it while walking hurt. I had the OATs procedure and am almost better now. After taking x-rays, my surgeon said that I am free to run, bike, and workout. He said it would be hard to damage the cartilage plug at this point. I've been workout out for about 5 months, but I've only been doing upper body. I've read that to really get good and build muscle, you really need to do squats and deadlifts, as these are considered the most essential exercises. I'm sure doing these exercises with the bar or even a plate on each side probably wouldn't hurt, but I imagine that I will improve over time, and at some point I'll be wondering if a 300 pound squat is a healthy thing to do. Someone who's had cartilage damage and knee surgery: do you have any experience with this? 

Nosaka K, Sakamoto K. Effect of elbow joint angle on the magnitude of muscle damage to the elbow flexors. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2001 Jan;33(1):22-9. 

There is not a "normal" rate because of so many factors including stress, amounts of sleep, age, metabolism, gender, etc. However, as a good rule of thumb, I've found that aggressive fat loss for men can typically be 1 - 2 percent of their body weight and for women 0.5 - 1.5 percent. That means at 300 pounds, losing 3 - 6 pounds per week for males and at 200 pounds, losing 1 - 3 pounds per week for females is possible. Typically I've found people can lose more weight than that per week, but when it's faster than those guidelines, the extra weight is often water weight and muscle. Water weight is an illusion - it really isn't helping you with your goals, so when you first switch to a low carb diet for example and lose 8 pounds in a week, you've really only burned a few pounds of fat and then flushed water from your muscles. Muscle weight or what we call "lean mass" also isn't good to lose because that will slow your metabolism and actually make it harder to burn fat. 

Hyperextension is a frequent cause of bone bruises. These are very long and painful injuries that disrupt the surface of the bone (they're more like many micro-fractures as opposed to a bruise). See $URL$ for some more information on the relationship between bone bruises and hyperextension (it also includes bone bruise causes other than hyperextension). 

I've seen some studies that indicate MK4, a chemical from certain types of Vitamin K, is capable of preventing and reducing bone fractures. I believe kale is the food with the most Vitamin K; however, I am unsure whether the vitamin K from it gives MK4 or MK7. If you have a link, that'd be great. 

Personally, I have no opinion on the subject of whether you should wear cycling-specific shoes or not; however, I will say that you are not going to get less efficient power-transfer from not wearing clipless pedals. It's simple physics. The energy is conserved -- it necessarily HAS to go into turning the crank. A very VERY small amount may turn into heat, but instruments probably don't exist that can measure to that sort of precision. Here is a good article called the "Shoes Ruse" that details why it is perfectly acceptable to wear any shoes that you want when cycling. I'm not sure if I entirely agree with it, but you can read it and make your own decision: $URL$