As @mikenichols points out, a big problem is going to be the passing on of harmful genetic mutations through the forced incest. If they are so unlucky that they both carry the same defective gene, this could be devastating. 25% of their children would display the defect. Combined with other genetic defects, this could be brutal. But if they're reasonably lucky and they don't, their grandchildren will still have a high infant mortality rate -- see Mike Nichols post and my comments on it -- but enough grandchildren should survive to carry on the human race. And the deaths will slowly reduce the incidence of the defective gene. Presumably they will have less genetic diversity than the human race as a whole does now. While they'll be carrying many recessive genes, they're not going to have the full set of all the genes that are presently out there. (Barring some extraordinary coincidence, the odds against which would have to be astounding.) The best chance would be it the two people are genetically as far apart as possible, like if one of them is a white person from Norway and the other is a black person from Nigeria or some such. Still, plenty of isolated communities manage to survive and thrive. There have been tribes on remote islands or deep in the jungle who had no contact with the outside world for centuries, and yet seemed reasonably healthy. There is no reason to believe that this of itself would be an insurmountable problem. It may be that they just wouldn't have the genes to survive in some climates, or to live off of certain foods, etc, but that wouldn't be fatal. Again referring to my comments on Nichols post, suppose it's true that the average person carries 60 mutations. Most of these are probably trivial: a funny shaped ear, a mole, that sort of thing. Some will be serious. It is likely that some will be serious enough to be debilitating or fatal in the right (or wrong) circumstances. Some that are not fatal themselves will prove to be fatal in combination with others. Once lost, there's no way to get genetic diversity back. Well, mutations will create genetic diversity, but not the kind you want. Mutations are random damage, and random damage does not make things better. Try turning your Honda into a Rolls by throwing it over a cliff a few times and see how that helps. No one has ever observed an unquestionably beneficial mutation. Even if you buy that crazy evolution theory, to fit the observed facts you have to concede that beneficial mutations are extremely rare, so it would take hundreds of thousands of years to accumulate even a handful. Another big problem that comes to mind: How do you maintain any sort of civilization or economy with such a small population? Suppose each woman has 10 children who survive to adulthood. That seems very optimistic, but even then: second generation = 10, third generation = 50, fourth generation = 250. Sustaining our present technology requires many thousands of specialists. You rely on the work and knowledge of others every day. Suppose they decide that they want to make some electrical wiring. They'd have to know where to go to find copper ore and how to recognize it. Then they have to know how to smelt it into usable metal and string it into wires. Will they make the insulation out of rubber? What does a rubber tree look like, and what is the process for extracting the rubber and turning it into a usable form? Etc. Even assuming that libraries survive and they can look stuff up, there are limits to how much one person can learn. They might be able to continue to use many existing artifacts, but building new ones or even repairing the ones they have would be very difficult. And many would rust or decay over time, so that within a few generations they're probably wouldn't be much of the old technology still usable. They'd have to start over in many ways. They'd have the advantage that if they're smart enough to keep the old books, than they wouldn't have to re-discover or re-invent things. This would be like the fall of Rome and knowledge preserved by monks times a million. RE religious implications: The immediate descendants of Adam and Eve had to reproduce by incest, as did the immediate descendants of Noah. It wouldn't take any great theological leap to say, This is an extreme situation, God will surely allow us to break a general law as the alternative is the extinction of the human race, there is no harm to anyone other than ourselves, and there is more harm by not doing it than by doing it. I might note that personally, I'd see this as very different from a situation where the only way to survive is by harming others. I suppose there could be Christians or Jews or Muslims or whatever religion you suppose these people are who would dogmatically say that all commands from God must be understood as no exceptions under any circumstances, and therefore we have no choice but to allow the human race to end. Addendum: Rate of defects Confer Mike Nichols post. Consider just one gene. Let's call the "good" gene "A" and the bad, mutated gene "a". Then let's assume that one parent is AA and the other is Aa. So: Generation 0: 1 AA + 1 Aa Generation 1: 50% AA + 50% Aa Generation 2: 25% will be children of AA+AA, 50% of AA+Aa, and 25% of Aa+Aa Of the AA+AA, 100% are AA Of the AA+Aa, 50% are AA and 50% Aa Of the Aa+Aa, 25% are AA, 50% Aa, and 25% aa Summing this up gives: AA=25% x 100% + 50% x 50% + 25% x 25% = 25% + 25% + 6.25% = 56.25% Aa=25% x 0% + 50% x 50% + 25% x 50% = 0 + 25% + 12.5% = 37.5% aa=25% x 0% + 50% x 0% + 25% x 25% = 0 + 0 + 6.25% So the grandchildren will have 6.25% incidence of a pair of bad genes, and thus show the recessive characteristic. Assuming that each parent has 2 such bad genes, with no overlap of the 2, then there are 4 total bad genes, each of which will show up in 6.25% of the grandchildren. The probability of a child not having any one of these is 100 - 6.25 = 93.75. The probability of having none of the four is thus 93.75 ^ 4 = 77.25%. So -- assuming we are talking about fatal mutations here -- about 23% of the grandchildren will have at least one of the 4 fatal mutations, and die. 

One could ask a similar question about our own world: In a world with high technology, would thieves be more cautious? Given the existence of alarm systems, security cameras, etc, wouldn't that prevent thievery? With that in mind, I think the answer is: (a) It depends on the nature of the magic. How effective is it? If the nature of the magic is that it alerts the wizard that someone is trying to steal his stuff, like an alarm system, perhaps the thief can steal the stuff and get away before the wizard has time to respond. (b) If there is magic that allows someone to protect his valuables, is there also magic to neutralize or circumvent this magic? Or are there non-magical ways to neutralize the protective magic? (c) What chances is the thief prepared to take? If he knows there's only a 10% chance that he will successfully steal the valuable item, but if he succeeds he will be fabulously wealthy for the rest of his life, maybe he concludes it's worth the risk. Lots of thieves in our world take chances like that all the time. (d) How desperate is the thief? No matter how difficult it is to get away with stealing, unless it is literally impossible and everyone knows that it is literally impossible, someone will try it. If he is living a life of total poverty with no hope of ever improving his condition except stealing, even if the odds against him are long, he may still try it. Oh, and I'd also say, a work of fiction normally is about people who do something daring, not about people who do the ordinary. Imagine a story that readd, "Fwacbar caught sight of the Pearl of Great Price through the window of the wizard's house. He longed to possess it. He began to hatch a plot to steal it. But then he realized that the wizard surely had cast protective spells around it, and trying to steal it would be hopeless. So he sighed and went back to his job hauling chicken feed to the market. The End." Well that would be boring. The story you want to read is about the person who tried despite the difficulties, succeed or fail. 

All sorts of engineering. If people are going to re-take control of the machines, they have to know how they work. Science. You need some science to understand engineering, and if people are going to get on the road to progress again you need in depth science. If human population has dwindled to the point of near extinction, biology might be the most important science. But if the problem is not biological, i.e. it's not that people are incapable of reproducing and thriving, but that they have lost interest in doing so, then biology is not the pre-eminent issue. History, philosophy, and religion. If people have lost interest in preserving society, you need to give them reasons to change their minds. They have to have reasons to think that human life has value and is worth preserving. And of course the real essentials: feminist theory, oppression studies, etc. 

I don't think it's possible to answer this question without getting more information about what your Messiah figure is supposed to be like. If you're talking about the Jesus of the Bible, the whole point of the story is that he was God come to Earth as a human being, and thus able to perform all sorts of miracles. As Green says, if someone came along today claiming to be Jesus come back, but he can't perform any miracles or supernatural signs, I'd think pretty much every Christian would conclude that he is NOT Jesus. If you're inventing some fictional religion with a fictional messiah, of course you can ascribe any characteristics to him that you want that make your story work. But if he has no supernatural powers or anything else unusual to distinguish him from a normal man, what is it about him that makes him a messiah and not just "some guy who talks about religion"? If the idea is just that he is the reincarnation of this past religious leader and there is nothing else unusual about him, then I think almost by definition the only way he could prove that he is who he claims is if: (a) He can be shown to be "just like" the original person, e.g. has exactly the same DNA or something of that sort. But if he's supposed to have come the first time hundreds or thousands of years ago, I don't suppose anyone back then analyzed his DNA. Maybe if some artifact with his DNA from that time still existed, it could be analyzed. Like theoretically, if someone came along today claiming to be Jesus, maybe his DNA could be compared to the DNA in the blood on the Shroud of Turin, assuming anyone could actually get an analyzable DNA sample out of that. Or you could suppose someone finds the Holy Grail, etc. (b) He might know something that only the original religious leader would know, but that can be verified after the fact. Like he could tell people the location of some artifact, and then people go and find it. Though that wouldn't prove that he was actually "the man", but just that he was around thousands of years ago to have seen this artifact buried. Though maybe that would be enough. Of course any proof would be subject to trickery, like if he gave the location of some artifact and then people dug it up and confirmed it, maybe he secretly buried the object himself just a few weeks ago, and in general manipulated the site to make it look ancient. Etc. But you can say that sort of thing about any sort of proof of anything. If someone claims to have proven that the butler committed the murder, maybe the evidence is fabricated, etc. 

I think it would attract the poor much more than the rich. Assuming that the surrounding society is not rich enough that food is abundant and cheap, the poor might seriously struggle with hunger. A place where this problem is solved would be very appealing to the poor. The poorer a person is, the more appealing. Rich people don't struggle with getting enough to eat, pretty much by definition. Generally, to a rich person the cost of food is trivial. A rich person might find it convenient that he doesn't have to take breaks from whatever work or entertainment he's doing to eat, but that would be the only advantage. Are people still able to eat if they want to? Lots of people -- myself included -- enjoy eating. People like good tasting food. I often eat when I'm not hungry just because I like food. (Which might have something to do with me being overweight, but that's another story.) Some people might dislike this phenomenon. If you don't have to eat to live, then your boss might decide that you no longer need a lunch break. Stopping to eat is often a convenient excuse for taking a break from work. Presumably farmers and butchers and bakers and restaurant owners would not like this at all. Depending on how much of their income people in this society spend on food, this might free up significant amounts of money for other things. For most of history for most people in the world, a sizable percentage of their income went to buying food. If they don't need to spend money on food, people might suddenly see their income effectively multiplied by 5 or 10 or more. Similarly, for most of history, most people have been farmers. I read recently that in the United States, the 1870 census was the first time that less than half of the people said their occupation was "farmer". So all these farmers would be freed up for other jobs. Depending on how things worked out, that could be anything from artists and poets to scientists to soldiers to conquer neighboring nations. Oh, it occurs to me that this would be welcomed by lazy people. Now you don't have to work to live. While presumably you still have to work to have a house and other nice things, some would be happy to do without in exchange for not having to work. Or maybe they'd get just the minimal amount of work needed to afford basic creature comforts. This society would probably have lots of people wandering about doing pretty much nothing. And bored, lazy people often end up in gangs, so there might be more violence and crime. 

I doubt that it's possible to destroy all life on Earth using present technology. Realistically, I think science fiction stories -- both those published as fiction and those which claim to be fact -- tend to overestimate the power of human technology. Consider: People very regularly try to kill off large numbers of other people. We call it "war" and "genocide". And yet, there has never been a war in human history that has even significantly slowed the growth of human population. World War 2 resulted in something like 25 million deaths. Certainly a terrible tragedy, but in 1940 world population was about 2.3 billion while in 1945 it was about 2.4 billion. The catastrophe of WW2 didn't reduce population, it just slowed the growth a bit. Biological weapons can certainly be horrifying. One can certainly imagine a biological weapon that would wipe out all human life. But in practice, there always seem to be some number of people who are naturally immune. Presumably if the U.S. or a European country was attacked with a biological weapon that caused massive deaths they would devote every available resource to finding a cure. Would they find one in time? Who can say? Similarly, nuclear weapons certainly make it possible to kill many more people than in the past. But even there, you might kill a significant percentage of the population, but 100%? You could certainly cause massive casualties if you dropped one bomb on New York City, but no one has enough bombs to hit every isolated ranch in Montana. Some number of people would hide out in bomb shelters until the fallout and died down. Etc. In any proposed disaster -- natural or man-made -- one can construct plausible scenarios for how you would kill millions, maybe even hundreds of millions. But even if it's literally possible to kill billions, it would be very very difficult to kill every last person. Surely when the disaster struck, there would be some people in very isolated places, like a remote ranch or mining colony, a research station in the Antarctic, etc. And some number of people would be prepared and would have suitable shelters. Of course if you set the story in the future, it is at least plausible to suppose that even more advanced technologies of destruction are possible. Maybe people or aliens or whomever will invent an incurable virus, a bomb that can blow up the planet (well, you ruled that out), etc. For a fiction story, you don't have to present a rigorous academic argument how this technology will work. You just have to come up with something marginally plausible, throw some fast techo-speak past the reader, and boom, you're there. Personally, I'd suggest that if you want maximum plausibility, you make it a multi-pronged attack. If I was going to try to wipe out all human life, I would launch a nuclear strike AND a biological agent AND an army of robots that will relentlessly hunt down the survivors. But I'm still working on perfecting the design of the robots so it will probably be at least another year or two before I'm ready to take action.