I have a Mavic Open Pro rim in 700 diameter. The manufacturer recommends tire widths between 19 and 28 mm : $URL$ How strict is this recommendation? Could I fit a 30mm wide tire on that rim despite the fact that 30 > 28? 

Don't know if it helps,... but I use Sora shifters for Alivio rear derailleur (switched bars from straight to drops). So I would think they are compatible. 

Sometimes at a crossing, when one wants to turn right for example, the "new" street has a different surface and there is a small step (2-4 cm) to get there. These kind of steps are already unconfortable to apprehend when getting the from the front but when one's turning right, even getting a 45 degrees angle is not always easy. How should one proceed? How big a step can a wheel handle? should I stand up? hop somehow? And when one is facing the obstacle, how to proceed? angle is not a problem, but should one ride slowly towards it? or as fast as possible? What is the safest way? 

(set quality to HD) I noticed that on the side of my chainrings there is a noticeable gap between the seal and the bottom bracket. So what is going on here? and more importantly can I fix it myself without special tools Can I expect any kind of a warranty from the bike shop who put this in a year ago ? Solved: Took out the bottom bracket. It is fine and so are the cranks. The threads on the frame are not fine though. I need a new frame :P 

Of course, when in trouble, when you have no spare tube, and you have a flat, patch it no matter what. That is a no-brainer. A properly patched area might be stronger than the intact area since it fixes the hole, but apart from the hole, it adds some thickness to the tube so puncture resistance. You will (almost) never puncture a patched area: the patch might fail, but you will not puncture the patch. That downside of the patch is that it does not expand (or just very little) compared to the intact tube (try to inflate a patched tube outside of the tire, you will see the diameter is smaller in patched areas). So an overly patched tube will be less expandable in the tire than an intact one. This causes the whole physics of the tube inside a tire to be less perfect than it is conceived for; which is why you must not over-patch a tube (and solves the apparent contradiction). 

I never carry anything special on Centuries. I carry water and Clif bars but I carry that stuff anyway. The one thing I do differently is eat and drink more. It sounds like you have plenty of stops at good intervals. Make sure to eat a lot at each one of those whether you're hungry or not. I wouldn't take any clothes. You'll be fine. We wear clothes all day and we're fine. I certainly wouldn't take anything that I haven't been training with previously. Don't run a race with new shoes. Or whatever the bike equivalent is. This is me. If I were in this ride and there was help and food stations set up, I wouldn't take any of my own. I wouldn't want the encumbermant of self-help products. Plus, it would be pretty cool to go on a long ride without that stuff. Let the volunteers do what they do. Let them feed you, let them fix your tires, let them carry out the trash. They want to do it. You hardly never get help on the road so take advantage of it. 

Yes I know it is mid-August and Winter is not here yet, far from it. I am just thinking way forward on how I will be able to do my daily 18 km commute in the Winter weather of Paris (yes, it's not a very harsh winter, but there will be some negative temperatures some ice etc,...). I ride on a trekking bike tranformed into a touring one (Trek FX 7.2) with skinny tires (23 mm) which I love for their reactivity when starting and their speed thanks to their low weight (I know skinny tires are debatable but that what I do and love it). What should I do to ride all winter long? I'm pretty sure I will need spiked tires for ice and snow, however little of it there is in here, but still,.. And since they do those only in fat version (which completely makes sense, obv.) I will need a new set of wheels. I think I will go cheap on that part, a fully built set of 700c wheels for trekking (which will fit my 135mm axle on the rear). Remaining wonderings are following: 

Today I was at a bike shop looking at single speed bikes. I rode one, but didn't buy it because I like to bike fast, and this bike must have weighed 2x more than my aluminum road bike (the bike was steel). The store owner told me that the bike weight will not have as great of an effect on my top speed as many other things both on the bike and things I could change about how I ride. Is he right or wrong? Does bike weight make a big difference or is it just very good marketing? 

I mostly commute and have never had trouble climbing a hill sometimes by using my lowest speeds (or close to them). How do I evaluate even roughly what grave %age I climbed? What I mean is that I would love to tour someday in a real mountain-y region, and would like to know how to approach climbs like this. For example, I see profiles with %ages as high as 10%. I know I never rode 10km at 10% but how does 10% look like? how do I know I won't be forced to give up after the first mile or two? How about 5%? 7%? or the extreme 12.5% I see on some climbs? I do have a GPS device that gives a reliable path of where I've ridden, but the altitude is not reliable to the profiles of my rides are not either. 

Unlike the rest of the broken bottom bracket questions, my bottom bracket does not make any noise or feel like anything is grinding. There is about 1/2cm of play left to right that i can see on the top chainring. I can definitely feel it being loose. What is the worst amount of damage that I can do to my bike riding like this? (assuming that I dont fall off and die etc because of this little matter) The bracket itself is new(ish) it was installed there about a year ago, but I did ride 50 miles per week on it since. What could have caused this to happen? My best guess right now is that someone did this to my bike because I park it out doors while I am at work. edit: My level of expertise in that area of the bike is pretty low, so here is a video of what is happening: 

I am currently riding Conti GP4000S tyres, in 700x23mm version, inflated at 115 psi. The grip is great, the (light)weight is amazing. I have punctured twice with them (in 1500 km) which is more that I would hope, but I can live with that. Still, when I look at my tyres, I see minor cuts on the tread. Nothing major but let's just say that any time I am stopped at traffic lights, and I look down, I can see at least a "wound". Do I run the risk of increasing the number of punctures? are those tires really too road-training-oriented to use them for commuting? I like Continental, I like the 23mm format, I like this (lack of) weight. So I was considering 4Seasons which are a few grams heavier but offer an extra layer of protection against puncture. I have plans for a long ride (~150 km) and would want to avoid more than 1 puncture in the day. 

I have left all of my navigation needs to my iPhone5. I like the 'one-device' scenario. For my longer distance stuff I am starting to get into cue sheets. I think mapmyride.com has them available when you make a map. Cue sheets have distance and name of next turn but also how long until the turn. My iPhone does all of that so I don't know how much you want to fiddle with on the bike ride. A mounted smart phone with scrolling cue sheets is easier to read than a map.