This depends on the definition of sanity. There surely are people who would incessantly use drugs or will just be so bored that they'd commit a suicide. But majority of people wants automation not for these purposes. I don't see any problems why should automation be banned. 

So, when we say to a child not to touch hot object, even if their will is to touch it, we refer to future will: the child will be hurt by it and the result of that will be undesirable, which means that future will of the child will be not to touch hot object. So, we take into account the future will when say someone not to do something sometimes. But is there any estabilished term denoting both present and future will? I am asking that because I am wondering if the ethics/morals taking into the account both present and future will can be named "will consequentialism". Or another wording for will generalized to the whole time continuum could be named "sense" but I am unsure about it as well. 

There are many disasters that would take humanity "off-line" and machines surely can help mitigate or totally prevent them. 

Depends on the definition of labour. There, indeed, are people who like some kind of non-intellectual labour. There are people who don't like it. Intellectual labour is - arts, science and philosophy. Yes, mere translation of algorithm from human language to programming language is not really intellectual. But development of new algorithms is intellectual labour. Of course, the word emancipate means those who don't want X, won't need to do it in order to fulfill their desires. So, why have I started to talk about intellectual labour? As you may think, among those people who do intellectual labour, much higher percentage do it because they want to do it, as opposed to those who do physical labour. Latter majorly do it only to have money, which on their turn, allows people to fulfill their desires. If they were not be in need for money, they would not do it. While artists, scientists and philosophers still would exist and do arts, science and philosophy. This means that non-intellectual labour is majorly seen as undesirable and should be automated. People strived for this, and do it now. Of course, large corporations, as I see it, do it partially because it allows to get money faster. But that does not negate the fact that people want to get more by spending less. So, there are a few prognoses possible. Prognosis 1. Automation reaches the threshold when further automation is unprofitable for large companies, from the position of currency. So, automation stops. And no emancipation from labour. Prognosis 2. This prognosis is really pessimistic one. As we know, money have only instrumental value. When there are only a little money, their value is survival and purchase of some desirable goods and services. But when there are a lot of money, their value turns to hard power. Power itself already can be seen by some people as having intrisic value. And then those people would prefer to have robots and other devices, while depriving others. Just because it allows having more power, which is seen as having intrisic value. But as I said, it is pessimistic one, if really many people see power as intrisically valuable and not merely instrumentally. Prognosis 3. As I said in prognosis 1, there is a threshold when further automation is unprofitable. In the optimistic case people will change current social structure by better one. By current I mean the one that offers only money as stimulus for labour (and automation itself is labour). By better I mean one that is better suited for it's purpose - emancipation from labour. In either case, it won't be capitalistic anymore. 

Addendum - It is also pertinent to add that a poorly formulated question, by contrast, will have a tendency of either confusing the respondent or lead their train of thoughts in different directions from that intended. While accidents can be positive in their results, they generally serve the purposes of neither the seeker of knowledge nor the subtle imparting of views. 

Why should one suppose that an omnipotent God necessarily has to be good? In the same way that a child might wish to build something up for the pleasure of breaking it, might it not be that God might have an interest in seeing such evils play out? What if an omnipotent God were to exist beyond what we would consider the remits of good and evil? What if an enlightened curiosity were instead to be unfolding? In fact, why should we not suppose that the universe is in fact one with such an omnipotent God? What if time and space were but of the fabric of God and that all sentient life forms are but vessels drifting through their short existences gathering the essence of experiences to once again become one with the Creator? If this last possible interpretation were to be close to the truth then perhaps the answer simply comes down to 'experience'. 

Both democracy (in its purer forms) as well as populism are ideologies involving a rule of the people by the people or representatives chosen/ selected by the people. 

There are several dimensions to consider. Pre-note: To fear consequence of losing or not gaining that which is valued by the self is a natural instinct. Even the sympathy-driven fear of certain others suffering consequences is natural enough. Firstly there is nature of the consequence itself. Is it threat of losing or not gaining that which one would consider a right or a privilege (a right to live versus the right to watch TV)? Secondly - the nature of the challenge set - whether such is cooperative or competitive (is the individual rewarded for personal proficiency or are multiple individuals assessed as a group or are multiple individuals assessed against each other?) Thirdly - Consent. Are the participants willing or forced? 

You presuppose one thing here. You say being/existence come into it. But what is the ground behind it? From my point the question itself is not valid. Our mind and, probably, universe is constrained by some rules. And you may understand these constraints by looking the difference between our language and our thoughts. Our languages has a hugr amount of words and there are dictionaries showing their meaning. But then, let we look for definition of "definition". We will use the words used there, look for their definition and so on up until infinity. This problem may be solved only if we have some basis, words that do not require definition. But how do we understand their meaning? Through common sense, of course. Now you may see that language is much less expressive and more constrained than our mind. But our minds themselves are costrained. We think in yes/no logic. We use notions to think. But like language is weaker than mind, our mind is weaker than what you call "existence". And it may turn out so that our logic does not work for the whole existence. You may see analogy in mathematics. Mathematics uses some axioms (constraints) to work. It is said without constraints it is nothing to think of. And same might apply to existence. For sure, there are no reasons to say everything has constraints. Thus, constraints are not universal and our words, our notions and logic do not apply there. But if so, we cannot say anything about unconstrained part of existence. We cannot even call it somehow. And can't say it comes into itself. So, your mistake is to apply our constrained logic to unconstrained. And your question loses it's senses. 

The statement would be false if he said "The outcome can only be 1 or 2." Would it be lying even in this case? Well, being wrong does not mean lie. Lying implies that the liar himself does not believe in his own words. The person who is wrong because of unawareness or unintended errors (fallacies, acceptance of wrong premises, etc.) is not lying. According to Cambridge Dictionary 'lie' is: 

The driving forces of sympathy and desire can transcend human-made rules and principles - and may take their place in their absence. A human being stripped of religion and philosophy is left with desires. Desires can be constant in their presence and they can also be impulsive in their intensity. Desires are self-centric and fan outwards. Independently of moral strictures the self will tend to benefit the non-self in gratification of the self. This is amplified in a context where the non-self is either inherently attractive to the self or where the assistance of the non-self may be of benefit for the self (selfish altruism). (A few classic examples. A male going out of his way to assist a female in distress (a flat tyre for instance). A restaurateur going out of his way to please a table of clearly affluent guests. The acts provide personal satisfaction and/or improve the odds of gaining the favour of the person(s) in question. The human being is a social being. To gain the approval of one's peers one will at times contradict principles that one holds to be true and/ or desirable. Perhaps halfheartedly, perhaps not. Perhaps driven by fear of rejection or ridicule. Perhaps driven by a greater trust. Humans, particularly those of a more mature age or inclination, are more at home with the familiar - with stability - and this is where consistency can be practiced as a means of satisfying this desire. However you will find that even those who live by consistency will at least desire to make exceptions. (An example of such is a person who may consistently advocate a particular penalty for a particular transgression - but who desires to make an exception for a familiar person - in such cases it may be desirable to review the proposed penalty in question if it be so harsh that one would not feel at peace to apply it universally) 

Thus, theism posits that god[s] is/are affecting our world by their actions. We may consider that those actions are not responces to what is happening in our world. In other words, those actions are independent on our world. This means that either god[s] is/are deterministic or all their actions in our world are occasional. If we accept that those actions are responces to what is happening in our world, we must accept that these actions are parts of interactions between our world and god[s]. 

Why yes? Ask any human whether they consider group sex, promiscuity or other unconventional sexual practices good. With higher than 50% probability answer will be "no". Of course this is the result of Christian faith at least in Western world (as Conifold pointed out). But I'd say it had global influences due to colonization by West (pre-20th century) and globalization. Of course you will point out that I'm saying about unconventional sexual practices. But that's what the question is: it asks not about sex in marriage, but about sex in itself. Since of that and the feeling that minors can be involved in such sexual practices it is considered good to censure sex in society. Obviously, we can't ignore the fact that laws censoring sex may try to reduce teen births as well. But in my experience they are not really effective as the vast majority of 13 year olds (my country laws suggest 16 year old age for sexual consent and right as everywhere 18 year old age for watching porn) know what sex is and even have masturbated. Not surprising at all, is it? 

Freedom is a language construct. It is used for conviction. E.g. when some social groups say their freedom is violated, it means they are dissatisfied with current status and want something to be changed. Of course, in order to be more persuasive, they ought to use thick moral concepts. One of such concepts is freedom. Therefore, what really freedom is varies on context pretty well. Sometimes it can mean your first definition, sometimes second. Sometimes it can even mean omnipotence and omniscience. Now answering on your other questions, one by one.