Some claims of existence are mathematical: is a given set of properties consistent? is there a number/object which satisfies a given set of constraints? Whether you set out to prove the positive or the negative, the burden is on the claimant, there's no need to worry about whether it is positive or negative existence or non-existence. There may still be an issue of difficulty (or as your example shows, issues of constructibility and reverse mathematical -logical- axioms (like "p or not p") are allowed). Other claims are scientific: is there a an instance in the 'real' world? Here the properties are not inconsistent, but not necessary either. Is there a unicorn dancing on my head? (evidence shows not). Is there an atom of atomic number 120? (theoretically its possible, but we can't scan the entire universe, and our current technology only gets us so far). So for your primes example, existence or non-existence, it doesn't matter (any quantification can be converted from existential to universal or back again with a couple extra negations). For your 'murderer' vs 'not natural cause' example, you're still playing with the properties of the concepts, which is...mathematical. 

I can look at one hand and know (not necessarily immediately) that "This is my left hand". How do I know this? (How can I be so successful at judging this?) This question is inspired by the classic Kantian remark: 

Of course not all fallacies have the same weight of importance. A logical fallacy is an error of argument that renders the argument invalid (e.g. assuming the consequent) and depends only on the logical form of the argument, but a fallacy of relevance (argument by authority) depends on judgment of that authority. Within logical fallacies, the severity of the error depends on its primacy in the argument (how close to tthe root in the proof tree it is) or fixability (it is sometimes easier to fix "A->B,B then A", than it is to fix something with an accidental negation dropped in. And within fallacies of relevance, an argument by authority or numbers is less serious than an argument by force (ad baculum). Are you trying to quantify relative strengths objectively, give numeric strengths to errors? That might be possible with logical fallacies, but fallacies of relevance really depend a lot on qualitative real world assessment (one person's fallacy by authority is another's expert witness), so I expect that will be very difficult, like trying to quantify esthetic judgments. It can be attempted, but might be difficult as nailing down jello. 

I don't think the burden of proof is on positive or negative versions. I think it is with respect to the existing claims. If you are in a society that is generally atheistic, then the burden of proof is on claims that there is at least one god (of course it goes both ways, that is why it is appropriate for the burden of proof to be placed on atheists in a god-believing society). The difficulty sometimes is in figuring out what the socially acceptable norms. Skepticism is a trend contrary to this which is to take the burden of proving any side (putting doubt on an accepted claims). Also, sometimes there is no clear standard, say with a new concept which may have alternatives. Whichever direction, it is the new statement which needs to have energy spent on justification. 

To side step the concerns about where the soul lies, let me attempt to answer the second question about what the difference is between a human and a machine with respect to ethics. A machine is an artificial device, constructed deliberately and based on scientific rules (by definition, otherwise it is magic). And so, whatever outward appearance a machine may have (simulating a human in every respect), it is ostensibly a repeatable process to create another identical machine with the identical characteristics and exactly repeatable behavior. However, a human has to be born and tended to for years. There is no such thing as an exact replica of a human, no clone popping out of an artificial womb to look and act like an identical twin. There is no recreating an individual human. The effort is unobtainable. This difference is why turning off a machine, even though looking and acting like a human, somehow doesn't feel of the same ethical 'badness' as turning off (killing?) a human. Then there's also the more petty 'humans are one of us and machines aren't'. 

is, by truth table analysis or accepting it as is common and natural as an axiom of propositional logic, a tautology (true under all valuations of its variables). So from an 'atomic contradiction' one can construct a proposition that is a tautology. 

Once we start using a scientific method, that is, observing nature in order to learn what is really happening, we are already assuming a determinism of some kind, that there are strict rules about how nature works. So it understandable to assume that all our rules about nature are lock-step, undeviating. And if they're not, that's just a failure of effort, to work past the feeble approximations to get to a final exact solution. (use any grade school science here, biology, sociology, physics, etc.). All probabilistic distributions of measurements of natural phenomena are expected to be artifacts of experimental error, not part of nature, and that better experiments would eventually narrow the distribution to a single determined point. Under the mathematics of Newtonian mechanics, this is a reasonable strategy to pursue. It just turns out that under investigation of certain physical phenomena, sub-atomic particles, it was experimentally found that even when the experiments were adjusted to the extent that there was -no- variability in the input data (control of single particles), there was still a probability distribution on output of the system. That is, things that we metaphorically think of as discrete particles still act as though they have a probabilistic distribution. There is no determining the outcome exactly, nature has inherent distributions that are not artifacts of the experiment. (I am describing the two slit experiment). Something that we think of as a single particle can have properties that are inherently indeterminate. At certain scale levels (very small), you really -can't- know, given initial velocity and mass, the end position of the actual particle (or set of particles). It's not so bad as all that, because we still can quantify that lack of knowledge with a probability distribution. Anyway, the point is that we seek as much determinism as possible in science (that is what the form of scientific laws follows, but it can turn out that nature doesn't always comply. But really, science has determined enough for us to put people on the moon, make smallpox extinct, and have auto-answer phone-menus for our banks, that a little sub-atomic non-determinism is livable. We certainly -do- know something about the particle 

There are two aspects to this, depending on what you mean by 'to know'. One aspect is the mental mechanics of awareness and consciousness and how the brain processes statements. The other aspect is the mathematical idea of knowledge, the symbolic manipulation of mathematical propositions. First, being able to articulate consciously a statement about the world also means being able to articulate consciously your confidence in your internal state about it. Once you're aware, you're aware that you're aware and so on, it's all in the same conscious mental space. But there's lots of knowledge and ability that we have as organisms that we can't articulate consciously. I have a lot of awareness of my physical surroundings that I am not aware of but I tend not to bump into the door frame when I walk though it. Mathematically though, logic has stipulated very well a lot of these things very distinctly. There are facts (propositions) that are 'known' and can be inferred from, but there is a separation in some logics whether one can know about these facts. Provability logic, a particular kind of Modal logic, helps to separate between things that are known (elementary propositions) and things that are known to be known (i.e. proven). For example, there is a rule of inference (which is not necessarily used by all modal logics) that "If p is true, then 'p is provable' is true". So for everyday things that you talk about, things that you know, yes, you know that you know them, because things that you know are all in the same mental space, your consciousness. If you know it, you know that you know it, and you know that you know that you know it, and so on. But for that infinite regress, you probably didn't know that, since you're asking. In some sense that really proves there are some things that you knew that you didn't know that you knew. But informally, that's probably not what you're talking about. But in mathematical logic, one can choose your logical properties such that in one proof system you may know things but don't immediately know that you know those things but in another your self-knowledge is infinite. 

In the social context of Aristotle's time in Greece, there were the few idle rich, the few artisans/trades people (people who worked for a living making and/or selling things), the many slaves (some overlap with the former) and the many farmers (also overlapping with slaves). From the idle rich's point of view (of which Aristotle was a member), those who weren't idle, artisans and trade/business people, were, well, not particularly intellectually minded. They didn't have the time or inclination for education, reflection, reading (or the time to learn how to read). So, in my view, Aristotle is being a bit elitist, saying in a backwards direction (as if anybody would move from idleness to employment) the poorer people who actually have to work for a living are just not that smart. 

What do you mean by "why"? Do you mean "how did 'things' come to be?". That is a scientific question, and can be attacked by gathering and interpreting data (like what the physicists do). If you mean, "what is a justification (a proof) that there is something (and not nothing)?", then the justification is that if there were nothing, you wouldn't be able to formulate such a question. I think such a question is more figuratively motivated, a searching for psychological satisfaction in the consciousness of one's own consciousness, the existence of one's own thoughts. The answer to that, of resolving that tension, is to just get used to it.