You need to ask the company what they would prefer you do, since they are paying you for your work. If it were me, I'd offer to work at least one more day. I'd also offer to work to complete the job, assuming it didn't interfere with my new, promising job. 

I tend to prefer to negotiate these sorts of things alone. It's far easier for one person to be granted a benefit than to get a complete policy change. If the names of the others comes up in your discussion, you could include them as well, but I wouldn't start there. 

It's certainly okay to ask, but I wouldn't expect a great outcome if you do. Likely, the interviewer doesn't even remember the specific questions that were asked. Additionally, you are basically telling the interviewer "I can't remember four questions for a day. I wasn't on top of things enough to jot them down during my phone interview earlier today. And I don't want to go through the work of doing some research online to see if it jogs my memory." While the interviewer might be willing and able to give you the questions that were asked, I don't think the negative impression that you might leave by asking would be worth the risk. 

Since you indicated that it is standard practice to ask for and receive comp time in your company, when someone works on weekends, then No - it would not be rude for you to ask for such time off. Once you have completed this project, it might be time for you and your boss to have a serious discussion and reassess your situation. Based on some of the language you are using ("I don't think it is fair", "he just shrugged it off", "I might get fired", "deadline, which is unreasonably set", "because of the stress"), it appears that there is a disconnect between the company's expectations and yours, as well as your ability to deliver on those expectations. That's a sign of a bad job situation. Have a discussion with your boss. Be honest about what you are seeing and feeling, and be open to the feedback you might get. Then try to determine if you are a good fit for this job or not, based on what you have learned during your probationary period, and act accordingly. 

No. That's unprofessional. If you are supposed to be there by 9:00, then be there by 9:00. Anything after that is late. Playing the "can I be 10 minutes late and still get credit for being on time" game is for children and college students. 

Just talk. Explain why you would like to move to Team A and what you would do to lessen the potential impact on your current Team B. 

No. Go to the place of employment with your letter in hand, and talk to someone in person (HR, the hiring manager, etc). Explain what happened, when you would like to start, and ask what you should do now. It's possible that some of the pre-employment requirements can be fulfilled while you are working and won't actually delay your start date. If they only need the letter, then give it to them. If there is other paperwork to be filled out, then do so. And ask for contact phone numbers and emails. 

It possible that what you did is exactly what they hoped a good candidate would do. It's also possible that they expected candidates to be fluent enough in JSON that this wouldn't take up all of your time. The only way to know is to wait to hear from the interviewing company/recruiter. 

If I had to guess, I'd suspect that your part-time status has more to do with how you are treated than anything else. I've been a part-timer recently. It's just a different kind of employment. 

Ugh - what a stupid policy! Hopefully this burns out very quickly. There's no way that I'd share my personal life with my manager if I didn't feel 100% comfortable with him. If simply saying "Pass" doesn't work, I'd probably make something up. Perhaps something from the front page of the newspaper or a television series, or your favorite internet feed would work. I'd be tempted to use the same "best and worst events" for a few weeks to see if anyone really cared or not. That way, it would be less work searching for new "events". I hate to lie. But in the unlikely event that I felt like I wanted to stay at a company with such a foolish policy (what are they thinking?), I'd make an exception. If I was admonished to tell the truth, I'd pick two trivial events each week. Bad = I had to clean out the refrigerator. Good = I had a nice beer. 

There is no standard. A company or recruiting agency can ask for a response within any time frame they choose. That said, such a short time is pretty unusual, in my experience. 

Yes, you are probably being overly sensitive. But if you want to try to prevent it, put a floor plant, lamp, or additional chair at the end of the table so folks have to swing wider and won't be able to knock. 

Probably not. You were offered a particular salary and accepted it. What they do in the future is not really relevant. But if you want to know for sure, the only way to find out is to ask the people who can give you a definitive answer. In this case, the hiring manager or whoever sent the offer letter would be the right point of contact. 

The best ways I've seen it done would be to use your firstname or nickname. firstname@NameSurname.fr or nickname@NameSurname.fr Only do this if you have a reasonably typical nickname. (For example, I would use something Joe@JosephStrazzere.fr but probably not Wacko@JoeStrazzere.fr) 

Neither. Assuming you weren't drinking to excess or loudly criticizing others for drinking, it's extremely unlikely that potential employers would notice or care either way. It you are very concerned, hold a glass of ice water. 

Clearly their goal is not to give you a bad impression. Almost certainly their goal is to find the right candidates for the companies they represent as quickly as they can. The fact that they made the first contact with you, rather you contacting them, may be new to you and causing you to feel uneasy about it. But this method of finding candidates is somewhat common these days. Just as attending an interview but not landing the position doesn't mean the interviewer had bad intentions, contacting you but then concluding you aren't a match doesn't mean the recruiter did anything wrong. That's just the way these things go sometimes. 

It's much more expensive. And of course your "expected" may not be the company's "expected" salary structure. But here's a concrete example. Where I work, my salary and bonus account for less than 75% of my total "compensation". The other 25% or so is made up of: 

I've never heard of a remote mentor. But I know many people who have friends in their professional network who are remote and provide advice from time to time. Perhaps not up to a real "mentorship" standard, but very helpful nonetheless. 

If you haven't heard anything in a week, it's time to call. Use the telephone this time, and follow up with an email. Just phone the relevant person and indicate that you need contract, start date, and other information. Waiting a week between communications is reasonable and won't come across as needy or annoying. 

That depends on your goals here. If your current employer matched the offer you got, would you stay despite your "fair degree of frustration"? If so, then go ahead and ask if they will match it. And if they do, find a way to get past your frustration, and stick around for a while. If you wouldn't stay, then perhaps you are just trying to up the ante for the new company that gave you the offer? In that case, you need to tread carefully. There is a possibility that you could end up with the offer being cancelled, and your current company saying goodbye. 

If you are proud of the contents of your blog, and it is relevant to the kinds of positions you are seeking, then yes, I think you should list your blog on your resume. Hiring managers like me often want to hire people who care passionately about their profession. A blog relating to that profession is a nice way to demonstrate your care and interest. When hiring (and I've been hiring technology people for many years), this is exactly the kind of "extra" that attracts my attention. Take special care that everything on your blog is presentable. If I were considering hiring you, and I started to read the blog you directed me to, I wouldn't want to see rants against your employer, pages full of misspellings or poor grammar, cheesy ads, an old, out-of-date site, or a site which emphasized pictures of cats. I'd want to see something that tells me the kind of professional you would be if I hired you. Even if you don't list it on your resume, there's a good chance the hiring company will discover it anyway. I know that I always do a Google search on candidates, and see what kind of public postings they make. You'll want to try that yourself, and see how potential employers might view the results. 

The only way to know what "counts" and what doesn't is to ask. Ask your manager, and ask whoever it is that manages your time within the company. You will be asking permission here - unless there's something in your contract, you aren't automatically permitted to "make up hours" this way. 

Yes, its normal. I've also worked for companies that paid twice per month - there's nothing odd or nefarious about that. I've also worked for companies that paid once per month, every other week, and a few other arrangements. And every company I've ever worked for held the paycheck for some number of days after the end of the pay period. Usually, it was around 5 days to 1 week. In my last company, we were paid on Fridays for the previous week and the week before that (so 7 days after the end of the pay period for many, and 5 days after the end of the pay period for those who worked on Sunday). Timesheets needed to be completed and approved by the end of the day on Tuesdays, so they actually turned them around fairly quickly. Nothing unusual here at all. 

They are not out of line for needing to access whatever was left in your network folder. But there's no need to hand over your password to give them what they really need. 

It would be considered strange in every office where I have ever worked except for one. In one startup where I worked, several folks discarded their shoes while in the office and walked around in bare feet. Another brought her dog to work with her frequently. My boss walked around with a yo-yo all the time. In that office, sitting cross-legged would probably be considered on the formal end of the behavior range. It was a fun place, but rather unusual. In general, the answer depends on the kind of company and even more on the company culture. Look around and see what others do - you'll quickly learn if this would be considered strange there or not. 

That's not being professional. That's just being accommodating - and in this case perhaps overly-so. 

It's not a good idea to list references in a resume. That's the wrong time and place. If you have names to drop, do that in a cover letter instead. Something like "Bob M, Judy T, and Roger W have all told me great things about this hospital..." Even better, have the one or all three write to the hiring manager on your behalf. 

Just explain that you have an offer at another company, and you have to make a decision soon. They will understand what it means in relationship to their company. If they have gone far enough in their interview process, have pretty much reached a decision, and want you badly enough, they will try to speed up their offer. Otherwise, they will wish you good luck with your job. 

No, it's not bad practice. It's good practice to avoid surprises. It's good practice not to assume when you aren't sure. Ask if the company will pay expenses, which expenses will be paid, what limits there would be, and what the process will be for getting reimbursed. Either the company will indicate that no expenses will be reimbursed, or they will provide their policy. Then you can act accordingly. Either way - no surprises. 

In my opinion, it would be in very bad taste to ask X to pay for this conference, when you already know you won't be employed by X during the conference, and will publicly be linked with company Y. I see a few options here: 

Have you talked with someone outside your organization that is a Ruby on Rails expert? What do they think about your company's architectural strategy that you dislike so much? A "one Rails monolith" architecture doesn't sound good to me, but I'm not enough of a Rails expert to pass judgement. Quitting over professional differences when you prefer an architecture that experts think is misguided risks not only labeling you as "a bitter control freak" but worse as a "bitter control freak who doesn't understand a proper Rails architecture." Again, I don't know if that's the case here or not. But before I started telling the tale to a prospective employer, I'd want to know for sure. 

I'm not sure I understand your reluctance to use a company laptop for company work and your personal laptop for non-work, but it sounds like the company will allow you to make the decision either way. It is reasonable to ask the company to buy you a new laptop (since that's basically what you are asking for with your "signing bonus". If you explain that you prefer using your own laptop, but that your current computer isn't up-to-date enough for the job, that doesn't sound too greedy to me. Still, if they aren't in the habit of handing out "signing bonuses", then the answer will likely be "No". But the only way you'll know is by asking. 

Hmm, tough call. And I suspect it's very context-specific. I've worked for CEOs that really wanted honest feedback on pretty much everything. I had a good relationship with them, and they were the type that welcomed constructive criticism on everything from company policies, to the corporate website, to marketing materials. (None of these were within the purview of my job at the time). They were the types of CEOs that made it safe to be honest. And I've also worked for CEOs (and others) that clearly did not want honest feedback. They wanted yes-men, and they got only yes-men over time. It was clear that frankness was not a good career move in those companies. If you don't already have enough insight into your CEO's personality, then tread carefully at first. See how others talk. Perhaps informally offer an opinion on something not overly significant and gauge the reaction. Then you'll get a better sense if it is safe to go further, or if you are better off holding your tongue. 

You don't need to deal with his heightened self-esteem if you choose not to. If you suspect his evaluation of his own abilities differs so much from yours such that it would get in the way of his success as a middle developer, then you should pass on him. But if you believe he might do well in the role and might be amenable to the position, then you just need to be honest. Something like "We think you would fit well in the role of a middle developer here." should suffice. You could point out the job ladder at your company, and show where someone with 1 year of his experience would fit, and where it could lead to eventually. Some candidates will outright reject such an offer. If that's the case with this individual, then you need to move on to the next candidate. It's not your role to "remove rose colored glasses" from candidates - it's your job to find someone who will fit and wants the position you are offering.