TCS, a Swiss automobile club, has performed such tests in 2013. The study itself has not been published, but I have received a copy on request and the permission to show below table extracted from it. Other references to this study (in German) can be found in an article in their monthly magazine, a campaign to encourage switching off the engine, and similar articles. 

Translations: The left column shows the tested car model, its year of construction, and the type of fuel (Benzin for gasoline). The second column shows the measured consumption in grams per warm start, the third column the presence of a start-stop-system (ja=yes, nein=no). The right column indicates after how many seconds switching the engine off saves fuel. In conclusion, you should switch off your engine when you expect that your stop lasts for 5-10 seconds or more. This test focuses only on fuel-efficiency. Comparing the fuel savings with potential service cost is unrealistic in my view, as fuel prices vary widely (in time due to the oil price and by location due to taxes and subsidies) and should also include external costs related to emissions as well as fines (60 CHF in Switzerland for not switching off, though rarely enforced). 

As the official story continues to evolve, it's worth keeping the timeline of events in mind. The ABS says they took the census offline at 7:30 PM on the 9th. However twitter indicates sporadic reports of outages from as early as 9:41 AM on the 9th, with a significant uptick from about 6:00 PM on the 9th (see also: 1, 2, 3). I personally tried to access the census several times between 6:30 and 7:00 PM AEST on the 9th, and could not (I'm on NBN fibre, so the problem wouldn't have been at my end). Nobody has claimed that the DoS attack continued past 7:30 PM, however it took nearly a full 48 hours before the census was brought back online. A malicious DoS attack is something that should be quickly addressable (particularly given the more recent reports downplaying the size and impact of the DoS). An ITWire article on Sunday notes that reports of problems accessing the census have continued since it was restarted, despite geoblocking now being enabled (the site reports as down because downforeveryoneorjustme.com is hosted in the U.S.) and a relatively lower volume of forms being submitted since it came back online (2.33 million forms were submitted on census night before the server went offline at 7:30 PM, versus 405,000 in the first 18 hours after it came back online) and no claims involving new DDoS attacks: 

Dr. Kalam's state visit to Switzerland was originally planned for May 27-28, 2005. The original official media release (not available in English) emphasized a visit of the capital and the canton of Berne. It also mentioned visits to the Swiss Federal Institutes in Zurich and Lausanne during the president's stay, and referred to a more detailed program to be published later. A second official media release did schedule the visits to the two Swiss Federal Institutes on May 26, "prior to his state visit to Switzerland". Dr. Kalam also visited CERN in Geneva on that day. The official state visit was thus preceded by an unofficial visit to science institutions in Switzerland. Kalam signed agreements between India and CERN as a European institution, so his visit to CERN could not be part of a formal state visit to Switzerland. Possibly some spokesperson mentioned that May 26 would be an unofficial "science day" preceding the official, formal state visit. Indian newspaper articles might have misinterpreted such a statement as an official declaration. No Swiss sources, neither official nor in newspapers, can be found on a formal declaration for that day. 

Whatever else you may say about the King of Pop regarding surgery, possible misdeeds, or how he handled his condition, it's pretty evident that he HAD a condition. Whether or not he later chose to bleach his skin in order to give himself a more even complexion, I cannot say. Most times you see him, he is wearing extensive makeup anyways. As far as whether or not skin bleaching is even possible, the answer is "Yes". Skin Whitening 

Zerona is a laser based non-invasive procedure that claims to reduce fat in targeted areas. They also appear to be FDA approved. However, I have seen claims that the FDA approval is not based on any efficacy testing, merely safety. In addition, the commonly stated claim is that the treatment can remove up to "7 inches". However, this is a total reduction in at least four circumferential measurements around your body, which is a very vague and mutable standard, which is subject to a LOT of variables. Further more, the treatment requires you to stay on specific dietary standards, take a supplement, and drink 64 oz of water a day for it's duration. There is enough here to be skeptical of it, but I have not heard much outcry against it, so I'm wondering if there IS any evidence it works, despite my reservations. 

As time goes on, there seems to be a gradual backing away from claims of a significant attack. On the afternoon of the 11th the Sydney Morning Herald declared the attack(s) "small scale", "not particularly formidable", and "low level" (and if you watch the video accompanying the article, you'll also hear "That raises a couple of possibilities, one is that there were no DoS attacks. The government's maintaining that there are, we have to take them at their word on that."). And on the morning of the 12th, Sky News is describing the event as a "disruption" that came "from within Australia" and discarding previous suggestions that an overseas DDoS attack occurred. Also on the 12th, News.com.au published an article criticizing the system for underestimating the anticipated level of demand, and also pointing out that in previous online censuses (censii?) legitimate traffic was misinterpreted as a DDoS attack by a number of ISPs. A subsequent Sydney Morning Herald article notes IT analyst Kevin Noonan casting doubt on the idea of a malicious DoS occurring or succeeding: 

Public activity logs show no evidence of a DDoS attack occurring at the time: There's some further discussion and analysis of this here. Smaller and/or more tech-savvy news outlets (LifeHacker, The Conversation, News.com.au) have published articles questioning the claims about a malicious DoS, and generally concluding that it's at least equally likely that no attack occurred and that the system simply fell over under the weight of legitimate users trying to complete the census. Load testing done prior to the census going live appears to have underestimated actual demand. According to ABS statements, they planned for 0.5 million submissions per hour, and load-tested to somewhere between 1 million and 1.5 million submissions per hour. There are somewhere north of 12 million households in Australia, about half of which are located on the Eastern third of the continent. And with the census held on a weeknight, most people would be waiting until sometime after 5:00pm AEST to submit it. On that basis, it's easy to see how actual, legitimate demand could have exceeded what was expected and planned for. A recent ZDNet article, while characterizing the event as a "denial of service incident", attributes the following statement to the PM (albeit without citing where/when the statement was made): 

Can fillings (presumably on metallic fillings) "pick up" radio waves? If so, under what conditions can this occur? If so, can the radio waves be "interpreted" correctly or near enough to make the noise identifiable as a broadcast? 

I recently heard this claim referred to on House M.D. when the titular character is experiencing phantom sounds, and the show appeared to give the idea some credibility. So I decided to look it up, but only found half hearted explanations or theories. The question is three-fold: 

Noise That movie got me thinking, because it makes a number of claims about car alarms that jive with my personal feelings about them. They're noisy, obnoxious, tend to go off at night, and are almost universally ignored by passersby, people in nearby houses, and the car owners themselves. Despite these flaws, having one is almost default for new automobiles, and you even get a discount on insurance if you have one. So the question is: Do car alarms actually reduce the incidence of theft of or from automobiles in which they are installed? If so, by how much? Whether or not the reduction (if any) is worth the hassle and noise will, of course, be a matter of opinion. Edit: I'm not, of course, referring to car security systems in general. I'm only questioning the usefulness of the loud noise making aspect of them. 

The same article notes former Australian Bureau of Statistics chief Bill McLennan pointing out that even the ABS system designed to handle requests for paper forms was basically crippled by the amount of legitimate requests it was receiving (emphasis mine): 

Conclusion My conclusion is that there was no malicious DoS attack on the census. #6 is the real clincher for me. We know there were problems accessing the census prior to when the ABS says they took the system offline. There's approximately an hour and a half of downtime unaccounted for, with the most likely explanations being a malicious DoS attack or too much legitimate load on the system. If we take Turnbull's #4 statement that "the site was not crashed by denial of service" at face value, the only remaining option is that it was crashed by legitimate traffic. So there was, in technical terms, a denial-of-service that occurred. But that was more likely the result of millions of Australians all trying to complete the census at around the same time(s) and the census IT systems being underprovisioned (or poorly implemented and managed). There's no actual evidence at this point of any malicious actions being taken by domestic or foreign actors against the Australian census. Such claims appear to be based purely upon government say-so, with zero independent verification taking place and observable facts which contradict the government's story. And those claims have been gradually tempering in a way that downplays the role and size of any alleged malicious DDoS attack. Parting Thoughts If we were to further examine the less tangible aspects of the issue, we would also find that this incident presents the government and the ABS with significant motivation for dishonesty while not really providing a malicious actor with much motivation for attacking the census (not with a DDoS at least). We'd also see that the timing of the 4 alleged DDoS attacks tended to strongly coincide with times when large numbers of Australians would be attempting to complete the census, and the possible use of an obfuscating scapegoat in claims that geoblocking failed as a DDoS mitigation strategy (which it just plain isn't). There's also some keen irony in the demands for honesty levelled upon the Australian population by the ABS, and the blatant and brazen manner in which they appear to have lied to the entire population of Australia about what happened.