Both the M785 and the M980 are hollowtech II systems and compatible. They use a compatible bottom bracket sm-bb70 and sm-bb93, which are English threaded 68/73mm. The M980 uses the same clamping system as other Hollowtech II systems which is different to earlier xtr cranksets which required specialist tools. The stages power meter comes as a replacement crank arm with the meter built in, so while this set up would work for aesthetic purposes wouldn't it be better to get the m785 meter? 

Just a small one that has me stumped. In a newspaper article where I live in New Zealand there is a picture of guy riding a cyclocross bike with a caption saying that he is mountain biking. I realised I don't know the verb for riding a CX bike, is it simply called cycling or mountain biking? 

The number one rule is be considerate to other cyclists, motor vehicles and pedestrians. Regardless of speed, it is inconsiderate to stop directly in front of a cyclist who is waiting for the lights to change, however there are different situations that could occur so saying to stop behind them is open to exceptions such as: 

Yes, some convertible helmets can be as safe as Full Face Helmets. The safety standard for the protection of a full face mountain bike helmet is ASTM F1952 - Standard Specification for Helmets Used for Downhill Mountain Bicycle Racing. This covers the chin bar and a higher level of testing than EN-1078 (such as a higher drop height 1.2 to 1.6). En-1078 is the standard for road and trail helmets. Purchasing a helmet meet this standards means they will be as safe as a proper full face. Choosing a helmet that doesn't hold the standard doesn't mean that it isn't as safe, but it hasn't been tested to that level and doesn't offer the same assurance. The standard has two levels, one for the chin bar and one for the helmet. In order to get the same protection as a full face you'd need to find a convertible helmet that held both such as the Giro Switchblade. If you are happy with a trail helmet with a certified chin bar but EN-1078 certified helmet then something similar to the Leatt Enduro. If you want chin protection and not concerned by the standard then something similar to the Bell 2R, which simply holds EN-1078. The reason behind the Bell 2R not holding the standard is suspected to be vents on the chin bar. Bell have said that they test to internal standards, which may meet ASTM F1952, but they haven't certified the helmet against the standard. 

What are some options for a seatpost remote cables on frames without a pre designed route? I'm considering a dropper post but would only do this if I was able to mount a remote as I like the continuous flow of being able to change things on the go. The bike I spend most of my time on at the moment is a steel hardtail which under the top tube has a route for two gear cables and a brake hose (FD-RB-RD). I'm wondering if there was anyway to snuggly attach two lines to the brake hose hangers or if there is another tidy and safe alternative? 

The 10 speed crankset has smaller spacing between the rings due to the smaller chain to fit the rear cassette. A nine speed crank set will work with a 10 speed drive train. However it's not all plain sailing. You can have trouble using a 10 speed FD with a 9 speed crank set. It doesn't shift as far out as the 9 speed so you may experience sloppy changes to the outer ring and chain rub against the FD in some gears. Some people I've heard of run a 9 speed shifter, FD and crank set up on the front and 10 on the back to avoid this but most are happy not to. 

It's necessary to understand the design of the systems to understand why Avid requires a separate bleed kit. There is a significant difference in the design of the brake system between Avid and other manufacturers such as Shimano and this is the main reason on why Avid have a proprietary bleed kit. Although an 'open' hydraulic system Avid's Taperbore resembles a 'closed' system, one that operates in a vacuum. The Avid system uses a small reservoir fixed amount of fluid in the system and a bladder around the master piston with air in it. Shimano and other brands use a larger reservoir with a bladder separating the brake fluid (in this case mineral oil) and air. In both cases air is used to compensate for the fluid in the system expanding. Because the Avid system operates in a vacuum it requires all air to be removed from the system and that is why you need the two syringe set, other designs simply require fluid to be topped up in the reservoir and air worked out. All the different brake fluids have different characteristics (boiling points, freezing points, amount of expansion etc.). Avid specifies DOT 4 and 5.1, which is a pain. Like all solvents you don't want to get it on your hands but it isn't going to kill you unless you work with it everyday without protection. DOT fluid is hygroscopic, it attracts water so although you can buy it in larger quantities cheaper than through Avid it doesn't have a good shelf life once opened and probably shouldn't be opened again. To bleed Elixirs you don't need a Avid bleed kit, just a hose barb that fits and some generic hose. I use the brass hose barb which is for my Rockshox x-loc and generic hose and syringes. Also you can do a less complicated 'speed bleed' to remove air from the system, but a full bleed is better. I bleed the brakes on my hack/ commuter but leave it up to the wrench at my LBS to bleed the brakes on my XC bike (I just don't see the point in paying a few hundred for good brakes and then not getting them optimised by a professional). 

The roading network in the UK is well categorised so understanding what the different categories of roads are will assist you in planning a route: M Roads motorways bicycles are banned from using these. A Roads major roads intended to provide large-scale transport links within or between areas. These are generally dual carriageways and will have consistent haevay traffic especially in peak travel times which may lead to congestion. B Roads roads intended to connect different areas, and to feed traffic between A roads and smaller roads on the network. These will be well maintained roads with lighter traffic between peaks. Classified unnumbered smaller roads intended to connect together unclassified roads with A and B roads, and often linking a housing estate or a village to the rest of the network. These will have some traffic at the peak but generally quiet. Unclassified local roads intended for local traffic. Generally always quiet unless there are road works or a detour in place. These road types should be identifiable on any map. Generally speaking if you planned a cycle tour that avoided A roads you should have a reasonably quiet run for most of the day. 

Sounds like you have a BB30a bottom bracket (30mm spindle and 46x73mm shell). In order to run any Shimano Hollowtech II cranks you will need some form of adapter to reduce to a 24mm spindle. There are a few available (obviously your existing one) as well as some such as WheelsMfg. The Shimano bb-mt800-pa is too small a diameter for your BB (41mm vs 46mm), you need an adaptor. The 89.5-93 is the full length to the outer shell. On a 68mm bb you need spacers between the bb and crank. Both the M522 and M667 are Hollowtech II so the new cranks will work with the old BB. Other considerations for shifting from 3x10 to 2x10 are chain line, front derailleur and shifter. 

As @jimirings said its hard to tell from the photo. To identify which derailleur you have there are a few options: 

I've just been adjusting the spring pressure on my Rock Shox SID XX fork and then adjusted my Manitou Minute Expert because I had the pump out. The SID has the solo air spring and needed 115psi and the Minute has the ACT spring and only needed 20psi. Whats the difference between high and low pressure systems and what is the benefits of each? 

Yes, as the above answer has explained a some 15mm TA front hubs can be converted to use a 9mm QR. But... No, a rear 142x12 TA hub cannot be coverted to fit in a 135x10 frame as there is a 7mm width difference. Also you ask if your frame or fork can be converted and the answer to that is also no. The open ended dropouts do not have a simple (and safe) solution for through axle conversion. 

This fix may work for a long time, dependent on the sealant and whether it degrades. Silicon sealants do not degrade quickly. This type of system is good for small punctures where you can quickly identify the cause and eliminate it. If you have a large puncture (such as a tear or a cut) the sealant may not be able to effectively seal it and once the air leaks you would not be able to re-inflate it. Also it's best practice to ensure you remove the cause of the puncture before inflating a flat tyre. This generally involves removing the tube and checking the tyre so you're not actually saving that much.. If you don't do this you may get a subsequent puncture. If you are that adverse to fixing a tyre in the rain or at night use a preventative treatment rather than a temporary repair such as this. Use slime tubes (or fill tubes with slime) or move to tubeless and use a sealant such as Stan's. I ride single track twice a week and have put a single scoop of Stan's in each tubeless wheel 6 months ago and have yet had to remove the tyre. I occasionally add air (probably a month ago and this week) so I know I have a leak somewhere but it hasn't required me to fix it yet. 

I'm currently repurposing an old frame and replacing the drivetrain. If possible I'd keep the old 7 speed drive train the bike had together in case I ever find a use for it. The chain is an HG40 quick-link. There's plenty of info online about joining chains with quick-links but little about breaking and reusing them. Is there a trick to the quick link to separate the chain so it can be easily reused or do I just need to break it with a chain tool? The install Tech Doc can be found here. 

It is relatively simple to thread the cable through the entry end cap and outer but even with removing the exit end cap it is difficult to thread through the last cap. 

The bike is one of the Haro Nyquist siganture models. There were a few different models and years so you would need to get the serial number and deciper from BMX Museum Haro Serial Number Info For instance if the S/N starts with R24W5.... it will be a 2005 Haro R24 Nyquist. 

The Click'R system allows for a more recessed cleat in the shoe. It is a very similar design to Shimano SPD but is marketed for commuters and trekkers who want dual purpose shoes for when they are on and off the bike. They also allow for multi-release meaning they offer a wider range of movement to release the cleat from the pedal making them easier to use. 

Yes, this will be a straight swap (although you will need a cartridge BB tool, crank remover and HollowTech II BB tools) The M980 bottom bracket is compatible with 68/73mm English threaded frames and HollowTech II cranksets such as the M640. You would not have to change anything else on the drive train unless they were worn as running worn chain on a new chain ring can accelerate wear. However there are other things: You will need to consider a narrow/wide chain ring or some form of chain retention to avoid chain drops once you remove the FD. As the Avalanche doesn't have ISCG tabs an option would be similar to this guide from Bionicon. You will need to shorten your chain by removing links to fit the new set up. Use a chain equation such as this from Park Tools to get the correct length. Your current set up will also be running a long cage derailleur which will now be redundant and you could move to a medium length RD. The longer cage could exacerbate chain slap so may be worth changing if that is important too you. 

The compatible part is SHIMANO RD 5700 and the part number is 5XH9812. The set come as a pair and is available at a number of places such as Chain Reaction Cycles and Wiggle. The only thing to ensure if using generics is that they are the right chain size. 

The 2007 Giant Anthem Advanced had a 80mm fork. To maintain the geometry and handling of the bike you should select a similar travel fork. Other things specifications are: 

On the outside of the shifter (where the levers are) there should be a single screw. Put the deraileur in the first gear (the gear with the least tension) and remove the screw. Then simply push the cable out. 

Wheel: Yes you will need to have a new wheel built replacing the hub with a IGH hub. You can reuse the rim (if spoke count matches) but will also require new spokes. Dropouts: The Globe Works 3 has a semi horizontal rear dropout while the Globe Works 2 has a vertical dropout and hanger. Derailleur bikes rely on the RD to tension the chain, IGH relies on placement of the rear hub in relation to the crank, this is where horizontal dropouts work well as you can slide the wheel to the right place. Without these you need a separate chain tensioning device. Chain Tensioner: Without horizontal dropouts you need to find a way to ensure chain tension. The most simplest and effective is an eccentric bottom bracket which allows the crank to be reposition slightly to achieve chain tension. Other devices hang in place of the derailleur but add moving and noisy parts. Crankset: IGH work with a single crankset and fixed chainline. You would need to modify your current crankset to a single ring (if possible), keep the multiple rings only using one or buy a new crankset. Shifters: IGH use different shifters to derailleurs so you will need to also purchase new shifters. 

I don't think there is an 'easy' way so it will require a bit of leg work and study to get a good reference. It is unlikely that any manufacturer will offer any of these parts at a higher spec level than that of the groupset. So I would: 

You need to purchase a SRAM 10 speed rear derailleur to ensure compatibility with your shifters. SRAM previously made a wide range of derailleurs for X5, X7, X9, X0 and XX but have limited their range to GX and X0 following the market shift to 11 speed drive trains. GX has replaced the old X7 and X9 price points. Your options are limited as SRAM and Shimano rear derailleurs/shifters are not compatible. 

I would suggest that your bike is not set up correctly and your centre of gravity is too far back. The first thing to consider is what is the predominant terrain you are riding? 

I'm happy putting my wife's and my commuter in it but worried that it will damage the wheels of my XC bike if left in there for long periods. Can wheels get damaged if there is prolonged pressure on a group of spokes? 

I then pull the tube tight and hook it back to the rack to get it very tight and secure. This makes putting the bike on the rack quick and more simple without having to muck around with rachet ties.