Orbits are not like rails a train might run on where there's some threshold between staying on the exact same path or flying off in some catastrophic manner. An orbit is just falling and missing the ground, or whatever you are falling toward. If you are falling and a force pushes you, you will still be falling, just along a different path. So any force acting on a satellite (be it a fleck of paint orbiting the Earth or a star orbiting the galactic barycentre) will change its path, even very very tiny forces, although the change will be comparatively small. In simple cases where a satellite is orbiting a spherical object and other objects don't have a significant impact, orbits take the shape of conic sections: circles, ellipses, parabolas, and hyperbolas. Parabolas are a infinitesimally precise boundary case between ellipses and hyperbolas are so aren't worth worrying about. Circles are a similarly precise special case of ellipses. 

If your satellite $S$ is in an approximately circular orbit (the blue path) around planet $P$ and a force acts on it, it might expand the ellipse (the green path). Even more energy might push the orbit into an open hyperbola so that the satellite escapes from the planet (the red path). If the force acts counter to the path of the orbit, it contracts, and if it contracts enough, it will pass through the planet (the yellow path). Satellites can't generally pass through planets so such paths are more akin to normal falling as we are all familiar with it, and so are termed 'suborbital'. It's also important to note that a quick application of force will only ever produce changes to the orbit that bring the satellite back to where it was (within the inertial frame of reference of the body being orbited) when the force was applied unless the orbit becomes open or suborbital. So if the satellite is at 30,000 km and is given a knock, the new orbit will always include a point that is at 30,000 km Escaping from a body that is itself orbiting another will generally put you on an elliptical orbit around that second body. Escaping from the Earth will put you in an elliptical orbit around Sol. A good way to get an intuitive sense for this is to play an orbital simulator game like Kerbal Space Program. The amount of energy involved in significant orbit changes is immense, and if applied in in uncontrolled manner it would cause highly significant effects beyond orbital changes. Consider that the energy to get a capsule with three humans in it to the moon and back is about equivalent to a city destroying nuclear weapon. The energy involved in making changes to the moons orbit are literally astronomical. So, in summary, it's best not to think about knocking something out of orbit but to think about changing the orbit enough to have whatever specific effect you are after, with the most extreme being to escape from a closed orbit, or to crash into whatever it's orbiting. 

No material we can think of could withstand the stress of providing spin gravity to anything that would qualify as a "world". The best that could be managed would be a big space station. The less the curvature, the faster you need to spin to get the same level of effective gravity, and the faster you spin, the more tensile strength needed to keep the whole thing from flying apart. Matter as we are used to it is held together by the electromagnetic forces between atoms and that simply can't produce enough force to withstand the stress of even a small ring world like one of Iain Banks's Orbitals, let alone the stress on Larry Niven's Ringworld. The forces within an atomic nucleus are strong enough to support at least the Orbital, but building a single atomic nucleus in the form of a ring 3 million km across wouldn't work. So you need something magic like the "Skrith" that Niven used. An "active" structure that requires power to maintain its shape might help. This is one idea which has been proposed to solve the issues with space elevators and vacuum airships. I don't think there's a way to make it work for ring worlds, particularly not a Niven scale one so you end up with something like the "Structural Integrity Field" in Star Trek which is pretty much just magic. You also have a world that houses hundreds of times as many people as Earth (at a bare minimum for the smallest thing that might count as a ring world) which will fall apart catastrophically if there's ever a power outage. If you have magical science fiction force fields, you probably have artificial gravity. Doing away with the need for spin gravity eliminates all the tensile strength issues. You don't really need a ring shape though; you could make it any shape you wanted: disc, strip, Moebius loop, etc. (A Klein bottle would be pushing it without some even weirder magic technology though) Needless to say, if nothing we can think of would let us build one, then they won't occur naturally. To put it in perspective, the sense in which we don't know how to build these things is much the same way that we do know how to build a planet: Put enough matter in one place and its own gravity will force it into a sphere shape. How you move that much matter is just a detail. How you get it together without building up so much heat that it takes hundreds of millions of years to be habitable, or how you get rid of the heat, is just a detail. Building ring worlds is a way of showing that a species is "sufficiently advanced". 

"Frequencies" is a bad way of looking at this. Both sound and EMR involve some sort of oscillation which we can measure the frequency of. They have about as much relationship to one another as the wheel base of a car and the orbital radius of the Earth. The way crowd control devices like that work is by imparting energy to the senses (the skin, eye, ear) in a way that produces an intense sensation, swamping other sensations and causing discomfort, not by directly affecting the brain to produce an emotion. So no, you can't induce arbitrary emotions through the use of radiation at some particular frequency. 

The Earth and the Moon do orbit each other, or rather, they both orbit a common point between them called the barycentre. The Earth/Moon barycentre is inside the Earth, but closer to the surface than to the centre of the planet. The barycentre of the Earth/Moon system orbits the barycentre of the solar system, which follows a complicated path that is sometimes inside the Sun and sometimes outside it. When two bodies of similar planetary mass are orbiting each other first and then around a star, they are called a "double planet". This is not a formal term though and the definition varies. The most common criteria are that: the barycentre is not inside either body or that the orbits of the bodies around their system barycentre are both convex (or put another way, the star has a stronger pull on both of them than either has on the other). Both definitions can produce strange results. By the second definition, Earth and the Moon are a double planet as the Sun's pull on the Moon is about twice the Earth's. If the moon were significantly bigger and not much further away, it would probably have pulled Earth into tide lock the same way it is locked to Earth. 

It might help on a high gravity world, but it is not going to be able to completely compensate for different gravity. Things fall at a different rate in a different gravity field. Even just walking consists of repeatedly falling over until you catch yourself on the other foot. An exoskeleton can't correct for this. It's also not going to help with the problems different gravity has on the internal working of the body. 

The Frog Levitation works because water is Diamagnetic (It weakly repels and is repelled by magnets) and frogs are mostly water. Other materials may be Paramagnetic (weakly attract/attracted by magnets), Ferromagnetic (Strongly attract/attracted by magnets, and able to become permanent magnets) or Superdiamagnetic (Repel magnets fairly strongly, superconductors do this) The magnet needed to levitate the water in a frog is much, much heavier than the frog. A magnet is not going to be able to levitate itself over a diamagnetic surface like water, and even if you had a stupendously powerful magnet that could do this, it would only work over diamagnetic surfaces. The same magnet would pull on paramagnetic materials with comparable strength and would have an immense pull on ferromagnetic materials, including all iron and iron alloys. A hypothetical magnet able to exert it's own weight of repulsion against water at an interesting distance is going to be enormously dangerous at a much greater distance for any form of iron. Its movement (Which is rather the point of a vehicle) will also induce electrical currents in any conductive material around it which would produce a sort of electromagnetic drag. My understanding is that the more powerful the magnet, the faster it moves, and the more conductive the conductor, the worse this effect would be. This is not my area of expertise though but I expect that if a permanent magnet dropped down a copper pipe shows a highly noticeable effect, then the stupendously powerful electromagnet needed for diamagnetic levitation would suffer from this quite severely. 

Assuming armour retains the same thickness, a giant's armour would scale in mass at the same rate as its raw strength, but the amount of that raw strength going to support the giant's own weight is increasing faster, so the strength available for carrying armour increases slower than the load of the armour. So your giants are less able to support heavy armour than humans unless their strength is magically augmented. Also, much of what makes armour stuffy is lower layers of thick cloth. A cloak of mail would not significantly help with keeping warm. However, just BEING bigger though would improve their ability to withstand cold. The heat you generate is proportional to your mass while the rate you radiate it is proportional to your surface area. So big things overheat more easily while small things freeze more easily. So giants wouldn't need as much protection from the cold, but would be in trouble if dropped in the tropics (that's why elephants have big heat radiating ears) 

Having declared that there is absolutely no difference between the weapons other than the ability to remove the power pack, you've made it quite simple. There's no reason to buy the non-removable version. If someone doesn't care about having a removable power pack, they will be equally happy with either weapon as they can just leave the power pack in the weapon at all times and would gain no benefit from the non-removable weapon. Gun enthusiasts can get pretty worked up about the most trivial of differences between weapons, but even they would have a hard time here. Have it shave a gram or two off the mass, reduce charging time by 15 seconds, or something like that and they'd have something to work with. So, any sane manufacturer would either only make the removable version, or re-design the non-removable version to take advantage of not having to be removable to improve the weapon. 

Any medium for language should have the same capacity for expression as any other given an adequate encoding. Lets take 6 colours Red Yellow Green Cyan Blue Magenta (Of course these are human colours. Alien colour perception could be radically different and cephalopods, despite their colour changing skin, have monochromatic vision, although they can see polarization) That lets us make a base 6 place value number system. 2 base 6 digits is enough to represent all the letters needed to represent English.