While the immediate effect of increasing focus at the expense of "lightness" is well established, there seem to be no studies supporting long-term vision improvement. In fact, companies selling this product in the United States are not allowed to claim any long-term effect due to the lack of formal clinical studies. According to Casewatch: 

I've seen quite a few of these "tongue maps", showing discrete borders between taste zones and often conflicting setups, like these two: 

Sites like $URL$ and $URL$ as well as a multitude of "concentration apps" on Android Market and iPhone App Store propose the idea that white noise improves your ability to focus and concentrate. I've seen similar claims for pink and brown noise as well. On the other hand, there seems to be some research suggesting that it actually has a negative effect on learning and memory. So which is it? Is it a good idea or not to listen to [insert color] noise when trying to focus? 

On the other hand, while the Straight Dope is doubtful, it believes that the evidence could be better: 

I have heard many claims that spanking is ineffective for disciplining kids? Is there any research to confirm or deny this? 

According to Wikipedia, Banzai skydiving is a form of skydiving where the parachute is thrown out first and the jumper tries to catch up with it, put it on and then deploy. I tried searching the Guinness World Records website (don't have access to the book) and it came up blank. Is this a real sport and does Yashuhiro own the world record for Banzai Skydiving? 

There are many stories of drowning humans being rescued by Dolphins. Are these just tales or does this actually occur? 

The Straight Dope claims that one person may accidentally swallow a large number of spiders after an egg sac bursts: 

However, these events should be rare and the author argues that average number of spiders swallowed being so high seems doubtful: 

The motivations behind the techniques seem plausible, and it's easy to find supporting anecdotes. However, are there any studies that actually confirm the efficiency of these techniques compared to other techniques? Is the Suzuki method "better" than other methods? Edit: For any plausible definition of "better". 

A common trope in popular culture regarding psychopaths is that they are above average to extremely intelligent. Granted, smart psychopaths make for a more interesting villain (or anti-heroes), but this seems to be a common assumption even in reality. In The Mask of Sanity (5th ed.), Dr. Hervey Milton Cleckley claims (p. 339): 

In the hidden-camera clip BEHIND THE VEIL: Never-Before-Seen Footage of Secret Mormon Temple Rituals we supposedly see never-before-seen footage of secret Mormon Temple rituals. A longer version of the Endowment Ceremony is also avaliable. While it might be hard to establish if these particular movies are genuine, is the movie an accurate representation of Mormon "secret" rituals? 

The mass media appears to provide unrealistic portrayals of the human body. Does that contribute to the number of cases of anorexia nervosa or other eating disorders? 

The other day, I found the following claim that solar flares cause a great increase in human agressiveness: 

However, they also believe that a Donald Duck comic caused a patent for raising a ship from the bottom of the ocean to be rejected, which is actually a myth. 

One of the primary claims of neuro-linguistic programming is that people possess a particular language system (visual, auditory, or kinesthetic representational). For example: 

According to the following article, the oft quoted result that abortion is higher in countries where it is legal is misleading: 

While past performance isn't a perfect indicator of future performance, so far nuclear seems to be winning in safety. There is also the issue of safely storing all the waste we produce for thousands of years. Whether this will become a huge problem or we will invent a solution, remains to be seen. We also have to worry about the effect nuclear power has on the proliferation of nuclear weapons, but that is, of course, another question. 

Anecdotally, I can feel all tastes all over the tongue, more or less equally well, so I don't really understand what these map are supposed to indicate. Does the tongue have different taste zones as shown? 

The Suzuki method is influenced by the violinist Suzuki's observations of how children learn to speak their mother tongue. Some of the characteristics of the method are 

Several online forums I've frequented have had discussions removed when suicide methods are mentioned. The reasoning have been that discussion about suicide themselves are suicide triggers. While it sounds plausible, and it's not that hard to find anecdotes, is there any research confirming that sentiment? Clarification: If you frequent suicide forums you are exposed to a constant stream of suicide information, so naturally that could probably give you that extra push if you are prone to self-destructive behavior. My questions is not about suicide websites or forums dedicated to suicide methods, who naturally attract people contemplating suicide, but whether discussion about suicide in other contexts also function as triggers. Example: On a nutrition forum, it's not unheard of threads shifting to discussing toxicity, and then someone mentions cases of suicide by overdosing on a compound. Are you justified in fearing trigger effects even in this context?