My understanding of the hsitory is that mathematicians proposed definitions and theorems. Those were criticised in various ways, e.g. - the definition included something that should not be covered or excluded something that should be covered. See "Proofs and Refutations" by Lakatos. 

The division of labour is just another name for people specialising on stuff they are good at. It is true that some things need to be done. Sometimes they are done as a result of people doing stuff that is boring. For example, working on an assembly line may be boring if the worker has to do the same task over and over again. But why should a boring task should have to be done by a person? If a person can do X, then why doesn't he write down an explanation of how to do X and construct a machine to do it? The answer is that he doesn't know how to do this, and he doesn't want to learn. A machine to do the assembly worker's task would be an improvement in the vast bulk of cases. Machines don't need to go to the toilet or to lunch. They don't make mistakes through boredom or carelessness. So there need not be any downside. Sometimes an employer would not welcome such an innovation and wouldn't know how to evaluate it. But in that case, there is nothing to stop the worker from solving the problem in his spare time and starting his own business, other than lack of inclination to do what is required. You might say that this amounts to coercing the assembly line worker. But what has happened is that the worker has been offered a range of options for how to live his life, and has picked one of the options. He could have decided not to take the options on offer but create his own opportunity. As long as other people will voluntarily provide resources, he can do whatever he wants on the free market. There are people who play video games professionally. There are people who have sex professionally. The only alternative to people voluntarily providing resources is to use or threaten physical violence against them. This is a bad idea partly because it will prevent people from acting on objections to the plan being imposed by force. If another person objects to some idea and declines to provide resources, you should be interested in understanding his objection. You might be able to answer the objection. And if you can't meet the objection, you may have a bad idea and you should want to replace that bad idea. If you don't want to replace your bad ideas, that's your fault: you suck. "Oh, Alan," I hear you cry. "You've got me all wrong. I don't want to use force. I just want the workplace to be democratic. Everybody will help make the decisions about what to do." But this does not address the actual problem that leads to people doing stuff they don't want. The problem is that some people don't want to create new knowledge and take real responsibility for their lives. Such a person prefers to do a shitty job he hates instead of taking responsibility. If you want such people to take responsibility, you will have to coerce them unless you first come up with an argument to change their minds. There is a further problem. Democracy doesn't fit this situation. Democracy is an attempt to solve the following problem. A society with millions of people needs laws but not everybody is inclined to help write them. So then you have some people who specialise in doing that sort of thing: politicians. Voting is a mechanism to throw out incompetent or malicious politicians. If enough people vote for some other candidate, the politician loses his job if people don't like the results he produced. They don't have to argue with him about it, they can just remove him from office. But if you are in a small group at work, you need not vote. You can discuss a topic until you all reach a position you find unproblematic. If you adopt voting instead, then you won't reach such a position and some people won't like the position that was adopted as a result of the vote. You will just recreate the problem you wanted to solve. If you want to understand more see $URL$ and ask questions at the associated discussion group: $URL$ See also $URL$ 

Physics is supposed to be about explaining how the world works, which is what this question is about. 

Common sense is just what a particular person happen to think is obvious or sensible or something like that. Some common sense may be right, some may be wrong. Different people think different ideas are common sense. So we can't use common sense as an authority to sort out what we should think. There is also no other source of knowledge or criterion that can be used as an authority. A theory should be judged by taking it seriously as an explanation and working out whether it is consistent, whether it solves problems and that sort of thing. You should adapt your common sense to the explanation you judge is correct rather than expecting the world to conform to your preferences for a laws of physics. By the explanation based standard the competition is not even close. the only interpretation that is any good as an explanation is the MWI. See 'The Fabric of Reality' by David Deutsch, chapter 2. 

There are some specific comments on the influence of philosophers, e.g. - Chapter 1 of Part II, Chapter 5 of Part VI. It is easy enough to use the search function on your browser to look for "philosoph" if that's what you're interested in. 

Knowledge is created by evolutionary processes: processes that involve producing variations on current knowledge and selecting among those variations. A lot of epistemology is implicitly or explicitly concerned with justification: proving ideas true or probably true, or more probably true than alternatives. This is a dead end: every argument makes assumptions and uses rules of inference that haven't been proven or shown probably true, so the same holds for the conclusions of those arguments. Our ideas are all just guesses that have survived criticism. This was explained by Karl Popper, see "Objective Knowledge" and "Realism and the Aim of Science." Some of the implications of these ideas for issues like AGI have been considered in "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch, see especially chapters 4,6,9,13,15,16. 

As Karl Popper pointed out in "The Logic of Scientific Discovery", the idea that theory comes from observation can't be true. Theories don't follow from observations. A theory is an explanation - an account of what is happening to bring about events. An observation is a record of events that happened in some particular region of space and time. A record that some event happened doesn't imply anything about why or how that event happened since many of the causes will not be observed in any particular case and some may not be observable at all, e.g. - the core of the sun can't currently be observed and perhaps it will never be observed. Any theory places limits on what physical systems can be constructed and so on what observations can be performed. For example, no experiment apparatus that requires sending information faster than the speed of light can be constructed, so no observations that require sending information faster than the speed of light can be performed. In addition, without a theory of what's going on, you don't know what observations will give you useful information. As already noted, theories don't follow from observations, so observations don't give rise to theories. Observations don't support theories either. Part of the problem is that observations can't imply theories. But in any case, observations involve theories about what is happening at a particular place and time, e.g. - theories about wires in the experimental apparatus responding to magnetic fields etc. Since those theories about the observation may be wrong, trying to found a theory on observations doesn't make the theory more secure. The ideas you have about the observation are either right or wrong and you don't know which, so the same is true of any theory that allegedly follows from the observations. But if your theory sez X should happen and Y happens instead then your theory has a problem and should be discarded. Sometimes a variant of your theory that's only slightly different will account for Y, but on other occasions you will have to throw the theory out and go for a completely different idea. Kuhn was badly wrong about these issues as Popper pointed out on several occasions, e.g. - the title essay in his book "The Myth of the Framework" and his introduction to "Realism and the Aim of Science". In particular, Kuhn thought there was no objective distinction between good and bad ways of creating knowledge, see his essays in "Criticism and the Growth of Knowledge" edited by Lakatos and Musgrave. So his philosophy is intellectual poison that will prevent progress if you take it seriously. For more Popper references, see $URL$ "The Fabric of Reality" and "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch are also good on this topic. We don't know the details of where the guesses used to create knowledge come from, but it must be a process that involves generating variants on previous knowledge and selecting among those variations since no other way to create knowledge is known. See "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch, chapters 1,2,4,10,15,16. 

Your question mixes up two different sense of the idea of alternative universes. One is the multiverse as described by quantum mechanics. The other is universes with different sets of laws of physics. With respect to the latter it's difficult to say much because the theory is not well developed. In quantum mechanics, different instances of the same system can undergo interference, e.g.- a single photon in a double slit experiment. If you look at the interference pattern in such an experiment and you look at a given point there is no single fact of the matter about what slit the photon came through since instances of photons from each slit interacted to give the final result. So the interference pattern does not contain information about what slit a photon came through. By contrast, if I type the letter z then you can tell that I have typed that letter, so information about what letter I typed is copied from my computer to you. A universe is a structure within the multiverse in which information is copied. So there is a universe in which I typed the letter z because there are lots of copies of the information that I typed that letter. There is not a single universe in the interference experiment wrt which slit the photon went through because that information is not copied. The information that can be copied in that way is discrete, so the number of universes is discrete. See section 2 of $URL$ Continuous quantities may be relevant to the probabilities of a given set of universes, but the set itself is discrete. 

No. A theory that is a worthwhile explanation will not single out a particular time or place and say different rules apply there. If it did, that difference would be an unexplained complication. Any such theory is refuted if you observe an event that is incompatible with it. And since it does not say "rule X applies except after 9.27pm on 17 June 2015" or whatever, that theory is ruled out for all times and places. For an extended discussion of this point, see Chapter 7 of "The Fabric of Reality" by David Deutsch. 

Quantum mechanics has very little direct relevance to free will, which is a moral and philosophical concept. It has some indirect links. For example, it is possible for you to understand how the world works, including issues like how to create knowledge. So having a critical discussion with you about something bad you have done can make a difference to your future behaviour. Part of the reason why you can understand how the world works is that a computer made from simple components can simulate any finite physical system. Part of the reason why such a computer can work has to do with the quantum theory of computation and so with quantum mechanics. In addition, it is common to deny that quantum mechanics is comprehensible. And if that is true the world isn't comprehensible because everything interacts with quantum systems. So having a good explanation of what quantum mechanics says about how the world works is indirectly relevant to ideas like free will. See "The Fabric of Reality" and "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch.