Summary: While it's impossible to prove the statement, "Bernard of Corleone did not know the date of his death" or "No evidence exists that Bernard of Corleone knew the date of his death," I find the above compelling enough to think that there is probably not readily available and reliable evidence to support the claim. The fact that the first book recounts a vision of Jesus gives me reason to think that if there was also evidence to support the foreknowledge of his death, it would have been included. I can't know this for sure. All I know is that five comprehensive books aimed at presenting the lives of the Saints in an inspirational manner did not list this would-be-inspiring tidbit for its intended audience (probably Catholics). As for my method, I searched Google Books and Amazon for "Bernard Corleone" and "Philip Latini" (his pre-Capuchin monk name) and looked at pretty much all the books I could find. There were some older versions of Butler's Lives of the Saints that mentioned the name, but Google didn't have the full entry available. Current versions of Butler's Lives of the Saints, as shown above, either don't mention it or don't list him except as a footnote. 

Yes Russia comes in at #4 for alcohol consumption in the world based on a World Heath Organization report on alcohol published in 2011. But pretty much any country in that region is extremely close, so Russia probably enjoys a disproportionate amount of negative publicity. 

In terms of assessing the term "health," please use typical measures of remaining battery lifetime. This could be the voltage at the present moment vs. the starting voltage, or some means of calculating the remaining capacity (mAh). I simply mean to suggest answering in a way that's both quantifiable and relevant to the mechanism of alkaline battery electricity output. 

I've run across several claims about oral contraceptives ("the pill") and how the residuals that enter municipal water supplies via urination cannot be filtered out and may have detrimental effects on animal and human health. One particular claim is that the ingestion of these trace amounts of chemical in drinking water may contribute to male infertility: 

As always, correlation does not equal causation. While there is evidence supporting the claim examined here, the fact that it doesn't seem to matter which religion it is, that AA may have such benefits, and that individual benefits doesn't scale as a society makes me want to look further. I'd be particularly interested in the Levin paper above, for the abstract also contains this: 

No idea where the statistics are coming from. By this reasoning, if we take any species and compare illness rates to another species, should we conclude that all instances in which one does better than another simply cannot be a coincidence? Re. the claim that cat bones heal faster; I could find no such evidence in my searching. Every search phrase returns that site or a copy-cat of it, though. 

Bernard Bangley, *Butler's Lives of the Saints, Concise and Modernized Edition Features this entry extracted from the Amazon preview, and makes no mention: 

So, I wandered over to the link to the Massey/Wake Research Centre, but the link was only to their home page. I clicked around to their list of PUBLICATIONS and searched the page for the terms "caffeine" or "coffee." I got one hit: The suitability of a caffeinated energy drink for night-shift workers. Physiology and Behaviour. The abstract is HERE, but I can't get the full article. They tested 15 night shift workers, giving them energy drinks containing actives (caffeine, etc.) during one period and a placebo energy drink during another period and monitored their "wakefulness" and sleep. The abstract certainly seems to indicate some effect, but I'm hazy as to what this might mean: 

So far, this appears to be a Yes, provided one has the right tools. I was first going to look at the chemistry involved, but figured it would be easier to just look at one of the top hits for chargers claiming to do this and examine its patent. One such device is the Battery Xtender. I searched for patents containing "alkaline battery recharger" and came across a few. I wanted to try to figure out which one was responsible for the "patented technology" claim in the link above. I simply searched the applicant's name and "battery xtender" and got it on the first hit: JD Pfeiffer of Quebec, Canada, owns the trademark to Battery Xtender, and his patent application was granted under US Patent #5,543,702 (LINK). You can read the patent, which contains circuit diagrams and descriptions of preferred current supplies and test methods to determine when charging is completed. Now... does it work? I can't be sure without testing one, but one of the requirements for a granted US Patent is utility -- it has to be useful (LINK). A charger that doens't charge is not useful. Assuming the US Patent Office is doing their job, the data provided by the applicant with the application showed that this device was useful! You do have to jump through some hoops for this -- charging alkaline batteries requires that they not be depleted. Here's a page from their manual (LINK): 

Update: I used data from National Transit Database (LINK) to calculate BTUs/passenger-mile for every US city. I was initially unsure of how to do this, but I just wasn't looking at the right documents. The data I used is available in the bundle of Excel files titled, "RY 2009 Data Tables - Complete Set (Self-extracting xls)" (LINK). The necessary files are "T17_Energy_Consumption.xls" and "T19_Op_Stats_Service.xls." From these, I was able to compare fuel used to passenger-miles traveled for all buses in the country. The results are as follows: 

Data/Analysis Data to attempt to answer this question may reside in The Transportation Data Energy Book, published by the US Department of Energy (DoE). We will be pulling from Edition 29, published in June 2010 (available HERE). Table 2.12 is shown here (LINK): 

The massive 12 volume Butler's Lives of the Saints January Volume only mentions him as a footnote (from Amazon preview): 

The Excel files above list all public transportation by type, so I sorted and pulled out all bus listings, then summed the listed passenger-miles for each state. I also used the conversion factors mentioned below to convert all of the fuel listing into BTUs and then simply divided BTUs by passenger-mile to find the rates. I used the value of 3,400 BTUs/passenger-mile as listed below and inserted "Car" into the chart. It appears 6th in the list; in other words, only five US states have achieved an efficiency higher than a car for transporting individuals. See below for discussion about BTUs I left the rest of the answer mostly as it was -- it jives fairly well with this data, other than the bus average coming out to about 5,000 BTUs/passenger-mile with the National Transport Database data vs. the Department of Energy value below of 4,300. 

I've starred those outcomes that are different. What we have with these uninfluenced nodes is that any AB speaker will not drop A when telling opinion B to a B listener; instead tehy will retain A. Any listener containing A alone will not add B to their list when told B by either a B or AB speaker. In any case, this is surely enough to clarify that these are vastly simple rules carried out in a computer simulation. While I know that appealing to "common sense" and "logic" may be frowned upon, I'm dearly hoping I don't need a source to back up the statement that humans aren't this simple when it comes to adopting one opinion or another during person-to-person interaction. It's hard to know whether the paper even attempts to say what ScienceBlogs says it does, though. For example, from the ScienceBlogs summary: 

You're trying to do the last bit right now. I just wanted to offer this answer as related, as I used to follow Luke's blog and recalled him having mentioned that he had read so many of these types of books; if it helps, great, but perhaps someone will find something specifically on seminars that will help even more. HERE is another writeup of Luke's knowledge on the "self-help" arena and applying techniques effectively to "win" at life on LessWrong. The site functions very similarly to this one, with upvotes/downvotes. Seeing as though he started writing there only a few months ago and is now one of the top contributors (according to upvotes/points), I'd say that the rationalist community there thinks he has something to offer on the subject. See THIS post as a summary of the state of "self-help." 

She also cites research by Samuel Becker at the University of Iowa (LINK) as having shown the following: 

The writeup on the referenced Chinese gentleman is HERE. Randi also points out that aluminum and copper stick to him (not sure where this was seen/documented), and that this rules out the magnetism hypothesis. So... does this disprove this specific case? Not necessarily. The family would simply need to be willing to douse their son in oil or talcum powder or have him put on a shirt to really illustrate that it's not a hoax. Prior incidences of similar "powers" having been disproved sways me much more in the "hoax" direction. 

So, to conclude, it appears as though this is, indeed, valid research with documented results from actual experimentation. Regarding rebuttals, one may need to see if any appear citing this down the road. Honestly, though, as long as someone can replicate the trial, I don't see much to argue with -- it's power collected with and without the device. It either works or it doesn't. 

No mention of seeing her mother/brothers at their home some distance away and recalling details which were all verified to be true. The fact that she recounted details about what was happening to her own body are far less impressive, at least to me. The paper cited for this short summary is HERE and I don't have access, so I admit the possibility that far more details are present in the original paper. I will note that Morse's site (linked above) is absolutely filled with references to religion (Jesus/Christianity in particular), a spirit/soul, etc. While these details don't establish anything by themselves, I'm simply noting that he may have a particular interest in these experiences leaning in one particular direction. Lastly, I'll note that Morse believes he can successfully remote view. The religious motivations are one thing, but belief in remote viewing abilities are another. 

True? Worrisome? Also, I'd love any references as to the method of making the particles airborne if they do occur. I had the understanding that to aerosolize, one needed to overcome the cohesive forces of the material -- hence forcing them apart into small particles via strong jets of air vs. the nominal droplet size of the liquid. I'm skeptical that a toilets have the power necessary to aerosolize, except for perhaps the "jet-powered" public toilets. 

I'd have to fire up the DVD, but I recall it giving a specific length of several hundred hours of crawling prior to walking and suggesting that parents not hold their kids in standing position to help them walk any earlier. A secondary question if the above is "Yes" is how much time is suggested. 

I emailed every manufacturer listed HERE (except Trojan -- could not find an email contact method on their site) the email found HERE. I received one bounced email, one instruction to actually call the company (which I didn't really feel like doing), but I just got a written response today that I think is quite helpful! The email is from a Regulatory Affairs / Quality Assurance Manager at Global Protection Corporation. Now, I don't actually know which brand uses this company -- they appear to be a manufacturer and perhaps they are re-branded and sold under one of the more common names at the link above. In any case, here was the response: 

I also just found about the coolest site ever while digging around for this. Laborista (LINK) allows you to select any country and view available data for it's wage rates by occupation! They list their sources and methodology for each country HERE. Here was my method: 

Despite being alluded to, no specific sources are provided (like links to the papers or actual journals/titles for the 1920s and 30's studies). I found the claim surprising and so I thought I'd bring it here. 

Note the word "always" -- this doesn't leave room for the type of belief, at least in my own read. Note this from the introduction of the actual paper, though: 

Interesting. So, if caffeine is correlated to questionnaire determined "hallucination proneness," (via Jones, 2009), but "hallucination proneness" isn't correlated to actual false alarms (hallucinations) (Crowe, 2011)... then hallucination proneness may not be a very reliable quantity of measure with respect to anything usefully predictive. 

So, yes, there are definitely cases. It appears that the mechanism is unknown and that it may occur more/less frequently depending on the type of cancer as well. 

Read the quote yourself, but there seems to be no obvious connection (at least in that quote, which is what Woomb itself chose to reproduce) made between S crypt cells, the "age" of the cervix, or the ability to become/stay pregnant. Lastly, here's a blog post that reiterates the above and might be something similar to what caused my wife to bring this up. 

So, fairly well cited claims, but I'm a bit skeptical. There's the obvious personal component, as I no longer espouse the views of Catholicism, but there's a purely skeptical component as well in that the Catholic Church stands to gain support for its teachings if it can show evidence to support their benefits... and lo and behold, they have found evidence to support their teachings. But this strikes me as quasi-related to evidence that condom distribution, after all, is somehow increasing the spread of HIV/AIDS in Africa. In other words the pope was right. 

Wow. Huge claim and one would think that we'd have heard about it by now if it had such wide effects. My honest thought when reading this is that the same could be said of certain shades of purple quartz -- but only certain shades. Again, no sources whatsoever about how such effects were determined as "good" for such illnesses. Some stats for cat vs. dog lameness and other sicknesses are given (cats come out ahead -- surprise), followed up by this: 

Answer from full text PDF of the article being discussed, "Social consensus through the influence of committed minorities", Physical Review E Vol. 84 Issue 1, July 2011. 

You also asked why this might be. I'm not exactly sure. One factor might be that "practice makes perfect." The more one studies, discusses, and teaches, the more familiar one becomes with the subject matter, corresponding vocabulary, terminology, and minute details of the subject. I have found that in my area of work and in my personal areas of more intense study/reading, I find myself able to access somewhat esoteric vocabulary words and phrases that might have once caused met to previously stumble while looking for the exact wording to express a concept. Thus, "sounding like an expert" may cause the unfamiliar to think one "is an expert." While this can be used to mislead, it can also assist in preventing others from being misled. Take the "expert sounding" speakers on creationism or homeopathy. Say you're extremely confident that such areas are false, but are not a geological expert or haven't been through med school. I consider it advantageous to be eloquent when discussing such matters as to not be outdone by my opponents and lose others into murky waters. 

As pointed out below, the question is more accurately, "All else being equal (subject knowledge, intelligence, etc.), will the more eloquent individual be more persuasive?" Yes. I'll go along with the Wiki definition found HERE: