I've been taking dance lessons for 3 years and there are a number of key things that I'm still learning through a teacher. All those things involve learning how to use your body, specifically: 

For iPhone and Web I used to use Lose It! It's one of the best apps and websites out there. I stopped using it when I went to Android and now use MyFitnessPal which is also available for the web. Both of these allow you to create recipes, track foods, calories (fats, carbohydrates and protein) as well as exercises that you do. If you buy a chocolate bar track it right away and see where you are in your calorie allotment for the day. 

The last two times I've done legs curls at the gym my left glute will feel the burn on the third set, but the right glute did not even though I made sure that both legs were putting in the same amount of force. After thinking about the last set I decided to do a fourth set with only the right leg doing the curl to get some burn. So the obvious question as stated in the title. Is it normal for only half the pair to feel the burn? 

Could it simply be bad posture or your muscles supporting your head aren't strong enough and get sore. I don't know exactly what muscle you'd need to work though. 

What can I eat the night before I go to bed to help me get up in the morning? My issue is not waking up, or being lazy, nor is it my body being sore. But there are times when my body will refuse to move in the morning and it will sometimes take me anywhere from 15 to 45 minutes before I can gather enough energy to push myself into a sitting position. Once sitting I'm a bit better and once I get something into my stomach everything is fine. From everything I'm reading, pretty much anything I eat before I go to bed will get used by as energy, to rebuild muscle or get stored as fat. Currently, I'm taking a casein shake before going to bed which hasn't had any negative effect. Anyone have a clue. Should I just have a jar or raisins on the night stand as quick energy in the morning? Update: Well, I do not know if this is fitness related or not, that's the issue. I do go to the gym three times a week and workout fairly intensely. I have also started counting calories in the last couple of weeks to stay within 1800 calories daily and adding more based on whatever activity I'm doing. And have been slowly burning off fat, hopefully. My caloric intake is 50/50 carbohydrate/protein (hovering at 200 grams each), fat will vary from 10 to 40 grams day to day. But as I said I'm keeping caloric intake to around 1800 calories, so on days when I consume more fats, I'll usually intake less carbohydrates and protein. At the gym I usually burn about 600 calories on weights alone and the scale seems to confirm that. Hope that's enough information. 

One measurement that is missing is shoulders which depends on your deltoids which can't be measured individually. Also, how do you measure traps? Or would the extra weight of the trap muscles force to increase of the other muscle proportions in the chart. Lastly, who actually takes this chart seriously. I've seen it displayed in a few sites. Update: Ok, did some research and found this for shoulders. And this seems to point to the Golden Ratio of 1.618. THE QUESTION: Is it realistic to follow the above body proportions chart? Or should I use my own judgement? 

Even though the answer has already been accepted, thought I'd throw in my two cents. I've been on protein shakes for a year or so and going to the gym and other activities. After going to the gym I'd get extremely exhausted and it would take me a week to recover each time. So I went to the nutrition store and they suggested I take BCAA and right away I noticed that I would recuperate a lot faster after going to the gym. So for me, this really worked. So what's the difference, when you got the answer already checked. Does it work? Heck yeah. 

I don't know the actual life of a mixed protein shake, but I wouldn't drink anything over 24 hours old. If you want convenience what I would do is pre-fill the bottles with the powder and fill with water or milk when needed. You will need to re-shake it anyway. 

Seriously, I had this issue when I used to work as a stock boy at KMart a long time ago. The doctor called it tennis elbow. This had occurred one summer when we had been receiving tons of bikes in boxes. All the boxes were the same size, shape and weight. And I picked them all up and carried them the same way from the truck to the conveyor belt going into the basement storage. My forearms were hurting because I had to grab a strong grip by the top handles and lift them high to carry them. All this repetition led to my sore forearms. I think he suggested I use Absorbine Junior or some anti-inflammatory cream. He explained that it was because I was doing the same moves over and over and over... When the summer sales season was over, my forearms stop hurting. Nothing more to it. It's a repetitive soreness which I think can lead to injury. 

I've just started a HIIT training routine and after two workouts my arms (triceps & biceps) grew 1/4 inch. I went to the gym this morning and after I got home 12 hours later measured my arms and they'd shrunk by 1/8th of an inch. I know that muscles grow when I rest and sleep. But will the gain return in the morning? And is the shrinkage a sign of possible over training? I haven't trained to failure in any of my muscle groups in the last week. 

In order for the body to have a balanced look I believe in doing exercises in pairs. For leg extensions I will also go leg curls. For arm curls I'll do cable tricep pushdowns, etc. But what is the best back exercise to balance out chest workouts for proper symmetry? 

Maybe it's because you're not paying attention to the fats you intake. You may be so focussed on the carbs and protein that you're not paying attention to anything else. Also it would seem to me that you're assuming that the last 3 weeks are what's responsible when in fact it could have been the whole 5 months prior that caused the bad cholesterol to go up. I've been reading around and haven't been able to get a solid answer on how long it takes for LDL and HDL levels to change. Some sites say 14 days, others 6 months. Here's a good article on how to bring your LDL down. Then go see your doctor again in a couple of months. 

So after a couple of years of doing some isolation exercises and paying attention to the mechanics of a bench press I've determined that my front delts were the culprits. And so when I was originally doing bench presses, I think my delts weren't activating. But now after some time working on them, I finally feel them working when pressing. I haven't gotten pass the plateau, but working on it. I'm currently doing weighted dips in order to increase the amount of weight I can push with my delts and the amount of weights I've introduced has increased drastically in a short amount of time. So hopefully I can go beyond 185 lbs. 

I used to workout a lot about 10 years ago then due to life ended up no longer working out. I started going back to the gym regularly about 1.5 years ago and I gained the muscle back very quickly. So quickly in fact that it took me a while to get used to the extra growth when going to bed at night. And I'm now adding new muscle. I haven't researched it myself, but I don't think muscle fibers disappear. They may go in a deflated state waiting to be called upon again. 

What's wrong with water-mixed protein shake? It takes a while to get used to, but I think it's worth the benefit. Or you could try a Thermos, it should keep your shake cold. As for chicken, I know it takes a long time to digest, you'd have to get up pretty early in the morning to eat it. But how long I'm not sure. 

My number one essential for getting fit is being realistic. If you go on a proper diet and exercise regime, which is a given, you will have setbacks and failures. Accepting those and then pushing yourself to get back into your diet and regime ASAP will do you wonders. You need to be determined and realize that it takes about a month of very hard discipline. After a month you'll start seeing some changes and things will become easier on your brain as you won't need as much focus to eat well and exercise. That has been my experience when dieting and exercising. 

There are two things that I learnt before I got any good at swimming. The first I learnt in elementary school ages ago and that was to go into the shallow end of the pool, dip down to about chest height and then wrap yourself into fetal position. What that did for me was it thought me that I can float and also to learn to relax in the water. Mind you your head will be under water, but it part of learning to relax and hold your breath. The second thing I learnt from a friend was the dog paddle. Essentially you swim like a dog. You can easily keep your head above water and the movements are easy to do. From there you can slowly experiment and learn to swim in other styles. 

Baby steps are the key words here. If you want to lose weight by exercising good for you. You need to find something you enjoy and the rest will almost take care of itself. Maybe go hiking, where running isn't an option, but can be fun. Maybe mountain biking. But don't work yourself to exhaustion though. Just be sure to stay within 70% of your maximum heart. That is the maximum you should work out at. See this link to see how to calculate your heart rate. Three years ago I started taking salsa dance lessons. Got so addicted to it and the lifestyle that goes with it that I had no choice but to dance some more to get better. Eventually diet came into the picture and things are looking great. And the answer is no, you should be comfortable to be able to burn calories. I think I read somewhere once that pushing yourself harder will not necessarily burn more fat. Fat is burned when you move more slowly. As you move more aggressively, carbohydrates start to burn more and you burn less fat. 

I would think that the long socks in sports would be for some protection. I wear short socks when I go to the gym because I don't like/need the long socks. But do wear medium length socks when rollerblading to pad my chins. 

Protein is the building block of muscle tissue. You want to gain muscle eat protein, much like consuming calcium for your bones. This is all bodybuilding 101.