No this request is not frivolous at all, particularly if you perform a fair amount of company work at home on a regular basis. $50 is not a lot to spend to help an employee be more productive. At my current company, we have many folks who work from home often. They have all been provided with the tools they need to work efficiently - including additional chargers as needed. I have one myself. If you are wary of approaching your boss, ask one of your co-workers first to see if this is something the company normally provides. Seems very reasonable to me. 

Every company has different policies regarding what must be recorded and in which categories time is recorded. If neither you nor your colleague know how to categorize this time, ask someone who does - that might be your manager, or someone else responsible for timekeeping. Some companies use this time to charge external clients for projects and have contractual rules surrounding time recording. Some use this time to input into payroll. Some companies do both. In my most recent shop, it seldom mattered how your time was recorded, as long as it added up to 40 hours per week. In other shops where I worked, time recorded against specific projects was very precious and they worried about every 30 minutes. In most shops where I worked, lunch time would never be recorded, even if you talked about work or actually performed work. Don't overthink things. I'm not saying any of this makes sense, or that any of this will amount to a sensible ledger of time spent. Just that every company defines their rules differently, and you will have to ask until you have learned them. Every timekeeping system has ambiguities (what if you think about work while you are eating alone? What if you spend only 10 minutes talking about work and the rest eating? What if you talk about projects that don't have accounting codes assigned yet?). You just need to learn how your management wants you to handle these situations. I don't see a lot of commonality across companies. 

It's reasonable to ask, but I believe it weakens your negotiations. You are basically signalling that you don't know what you are worth. Do your research. Look for jobs with your experience level and similar to the developer job as you understand it, and find some that indicate a salary level. Read on Glassdoor, PayScale, and others. Then decide what you need to receive to accept a job and what you want to shoot for. That way, you'll be in a stronger bargaining position. 

What does your boss say? Have you talked with your boss and explained why you thing that have no value? Perhaps your boss doesn't understand the situation fully, or perhaps you don't. Perhaps you can rotate the required attendance through others in the department, so that it isn't always you who spends 3 hours per week. Either way, you need to come to a common understanding on this. Is there a meeting Agenda? In my company, I attend many, many meetings (far more than 3 hours per week). And, as you are doing, I represent my department in these meetings and my input is seldom needed in some of the meetings. Occasionally, though it actually is important that I am in attendance. For some of these meetings, the Agenda will let me know if my attendance is worthwhile or not. You might try approaching the meeting organizer and suggest that an Agenda be published, if one is not already. Can you pay partial attention? For other meetings, there is no real Agenda other than ongoing discussions of the prior and upcoming week. At least in my company, it is considered acceptable to attend with your laptop, and not pay close attention. This allows me to be present in the room in case something comes up that needs my attention, yet still get some work done. Perhaps this will work for you. (Normally I don't like this approach, as it borders on rudeness. But it depends on the company culture. In my current company, lots of people who attend lots of meetings take this same approach.) Ultimately, your boss decides But if your boss wants still wants you to attend, in the end there likely isn't much you can do. 

Unless your job is Productivity Clerk and your main task is to spy on others and report their behavior to your boss, then you don't escalate this issue. You are a newcomer and perhaps this is your first job ever. Eventually you will learn that you need to focus on your job, your work, and not the work of others. This colleague has a boss. That boss is the only one who needs to be concerned with the work of this colleague - not you. Just do your own job and don't worry about your colleagues. 

Two things aren't clear: why you were CCed, and how urgent is the question. In general, since the question was asked of someone else who seems to have responsibility for such questions, you should let the main addressee answer the question. It's effectively the same as if you were in a room and someone looked directly at the this person and asked the question. You may know the answer, but it was asked of someone else. What could change the answer is if the writer of the question believes that the individual in question doesn't know the answer. Even though that individual might formally be the one to provide the answer, you were copied to help craft it. In that case, you should offer the answer to the addressee and let them respond. The other possibility is that you know the question is urgent and that the addressee cannot answer in the expected timeframe. In that case, you reply to All, and say something like "I know this question is for [addressee]. But since he isn't available right now, I can help. [the answer is...]". 

Drop the subtlety. Be direct with your boss and tell him/her that you are afraid you'll blow the sale, and why. Ask what you should do about the situation. Then do what you are told to the best of your abilities. If your boss dismisses your concerns and still requires you to talk with clients, do the best you can, based on his directions. 

LinkedIn "recommendations" are often given during one's association with the individual requesting them. It's not unusual at all. And LinkedIn's "recommendations" are far less powerful than real references. So don't be shy about them. They don't imply that you want to see this co-worker leave or are helping them do so. 

I've done the same in the past. If my experience is any guide, employers seem to appreciate an enthusiastic new employee who wants to "hit the ground running". Asking for such materials helps to demonstrate that. I once asked for a way to get up to speed prior to joining a company that had just hired me. I was given materials, and asked to plan the layout for our new computer room two weeks before my start date. That was actually a lot of fun to do. If I were asked the same by a new employee, I wouldn't consider it strange at all. 

You can do whatever pleases you most. The worst he can do is let you go now. I'm assuming you wouldn't care. 

This one is easy. You tell them your current salary. And you indicate that you feel you are currently underpaid. 

In my experience as both an applicant and as a hiring manager, most times a company already has in mind a range they are willing to pay for a position. If you come in asking for more than the top of the range several things can happen: