The main issue with evolution is that it's all about concurrency in reproduction. So it would go in directions that an individual would aim for maximum of offspring and also might care for his offspring to improve their chances. A simple solution would be to construct a society which postulates rules where this is not possible - say to reduce conflicts. In natural evolution i could imagine some species that only has a single male or female and the rest of the population is the opposite gender. Like the queen in an ants colony. Also naked mole-rats evolved something similar. The reason could be that the individuals barely produce enough sperm or eggs for the "queen" so every single one needs to contribute. As you want communists you could consider the "queen" without brain just like a reproductive tank. 

Looking at this I would start by adapting a plot truck. It should fullfill many of the requirements. Just replace the windows by grates and cover the easy to climb parts with flat slippery walls. On the professional side riot control vehicles would be equipped perfectly (they are not considered military - though might be against your intentions). But have look what they build into them for ideas 1 2 3 All that said - given that Zs mass at one place means there are other places where they are sparse. It would be less effort finding a path around them than upgrading a vehicle. 

If the Caretakers have fusion power, they don't need a specific intensity of sunlight for power production for photosynthesis since they can use electrical powered artificial lighting for plants. But no doubt they will also use a lot of natural sunlight for power production. Waste not, want not. So build space habitats out of materials found in the solar system. Use fusion power for artificial sunlight for the plants. Stock habitats with Earth lifeforms. Each habitat must be large enough for a flourishing ecological zone. It may become a problem building habitats large enough for ocean ecological zones. Enough space habitats can be built that the total volume and surface areas of all the space habitats is many times greater than Earth's biosphere. Stock them with Earth life forms and move Earth life forms from habitat to habit until they have multiplied and filled them all. Move the habitats outside the zone of destruction. Also move a lot of the raw materials from planets, moons, asteroids, etc. from the zone of destruction out to the safe zone. Waste not, want not. Wait though the entire solar red giant phase. Then terraform at least one remaining solar system body if possible and colonize it with some of the lifeforms from the habitats. Put artificial sun satellites powered by fusion in orbit around the terraformed body. Keep maintaining the space habitats with Earth lifeforms as a back up, which should have been started many millions of years before the red giant phase, anyway. 

My main character is going to be readily exposed to death in my story, and I'm not sure when it is she will stop feeling so affected by each body. She's gone through a decent amount of trauma and lived through it without serious mental damage so she's not dainty by any means. However, she will experience seeing her first dead body in the story line followed by many more. How many dead bodies will it take for her to become "desensitized" or used to seeing them? She will also be killing a few herself through self defense. How many kills will it take for her to become used to killing? 

The backstory of one of my characters involves being lowered onto steadily rising, open flames back first. The story is set in a dystopic/post apocalyptic time where modern technology became unavailable over a hundred years before this time, so skin grafting, sedatives, and medical tools are all absent from the equation. The only supplies they have for healing would be herbs, fresh water, and maybe something like store bought honey that has an indefinite expiry date. For the story, the burn would have to be enough to leave the character with PTSD and a massive scar as it is a big part in the plot-line. Would it be possible with the situation described for my character to survive by healing and fighting infection with herbs and fresh water? 

The method of finding the parallax, and thus the distance, to stars involves observing them from Earth or Earth orbit and plotting their apparent positions half a year apart. The distance Earth travels between two observations will make nearby stars seem to change position very slightly against the back ground of farther stars. The accuracy of observations and distance measurements can be improved by improving the resolution of the instruments and/or by moving the instruments a greater distance between observations than a mere two astronomical units. Or you can use simultaneous observations from widely separated instruments. So by first using widely separated observatories in our own solar system with accurately measured distances between them we can find the distances to nearby stars very accurately. Then instantly transport observatories to some nearby stars at distances about a million times the diameter of the Earth's orbit. Simultaneous observations from those widely spaced observatories will thus be a million times as accurate as observations from Earth six months apart. That will be enough to make a very accurate three dimensional map of the globular star clusters. Then instantly transport observatories to distances thousands of times farther from Earth than those nearby stars. The map of the globular star clusters will enable precise positioning of those observatories billions of times farther apart than the spread of the earth's orbit, and thus capable of measuring parallaxes billions of times more precisely. Observatories thousands of light years "above" and "below" the galactic plane will have views of hundreds of billions of stars in the galaxy, unobstructed by the dust clouds. Observing each star over a period of years will detect angular motion while spectroscopy will reveal how fast it is traveling toward or away from each observatory. Knowledge of how far away each star is from an observatory will indicate how old the positions are and thus where the star has moved to since its light was emitted. And that is the procedure for a preliminary mapping of the galaxy to be followed by more detailed surveys of stellar positions. but you would need really super sized telescopes to detect small objects like moons, asteroids, comets, etc. over hundreds or thousands of light years. Detecting them should be left to surveys of individual solar systems. If space travelers are afraid of running into unseen objects in interstellar space despite the fact that "Space is empty. Very, very, very empty." they might as well stay home and not dare to travel in interstellar space. 

You will not move at full speed, probably not faster than walking. So Zs climbing on the vehicle will be a real issue. While weapons might take care of the first 100 on the long run it might be better if the vehicle wouldn't expose parts to climb on. The vehicle needs to push it's way through the horde. So its movement is less driving but more pushing through a gelatinous liquid. It will need serious horsepower. Near visibility will be bad. The odd splatter of blood and gore will cover windows. It would be good to have a way to clean the windows - or get rid of the glas and just have grates for protection. Farer visibility will also be problematic - the horde will cover the ground. Hiding all kinds of obstacles - till you hit them. It might help a lot if one could come up with a way to disperse the horde. Also it is a must that you have somebody elevated over the horde just to navigate. In a regular car you will lose orientation immediatly as view in all directions will be blocked by Zs. The ground will be covered by bodies, gore and stuff. Very easy to get stuck or hide the odd spike that might pierce a tire. Definetly large wheels for slippery ground would be advisable. It may be a risk that the vehicle might topple by a push of the horde - or just an unlucky hole in the ground. Ideally the vehicle would be rather wide and stable. 

During the Roman Empire, people were more or less loyal to their individual city states or civitates and to the Roman Empire as a whole, as well as to one or more levels of regional identity in between those extremes. In the later empire there were six levels of government. Pagi, or small rural districts, civitates, provinces ruled by various types of governors, (secular) dioceses ruled by vicars, prefectures ruled by praetorian prefects, and the empire ruled by the emperor. And a person could be more or less loyal to the region at each level of government that contained his home. In medieval Ireland, a much smaller region, there were four levels of kingship from a ri, the basic king of a small tuath, to the high king of all Ireland. In most parts of the USA there are four levels of government: municipal, county, state, and Federal. Thus a world government is likely to have many levels of government administrative divisions, with democratically elected governments in some of the levels. And it would certainly be possible for a person to identify with many progressively larger regions and groups of people up to the world as a whole regardless of whether those regions or groups correspond to actual administrative divisions. 

In my story, I plan on having one of my main characters lifted off the ground by a dragon-like creature and carried a couple miles away. Of course the plan involves them surviving the encounter whether or not they leave with a few wounds as well, however there is no modern medicine for them to heal anything remotely fatal. The creature is, again, dragon-like; large, reptilian, curved teeth and talons, and with bat-like wings for flight. Its behavior is predatory with a preference for human flesh, but they have a tendency to take live prey for their young in which case my main character is the victim. For the flight, they would be dangling for quite awhile and again I'm not sure if its realistic that they could last that long being upside down. Would it be realistic if the creature snatched the character without initially harming them, carry them a few miles through the air, and drop them from a decent height without killing them along the way? 

In the dystopic/post-apocalyptic world I'm building, civilization has been split into two different societies. One is the rich who live in very large, protected cities that have giant walls surrounding them to keep out the other society, the poor. I haven't been able to figure out a material that would be plausible in this situation, as it would have to be strong but not top heavy and light but not fragile. Cost, time, and availability doesn't matter as it is fiction, however for the plot I am looking for a material which has a major weakness. The poor society expose said weakness in later chapters and bring the walls down in one fell swoop using something such as fire. They do not have access to extremely modern weapons or anything of the sort such as nuclear weapons. Would it be possible, under these circumstances, to have the walls be made of an already existing material? If so, what material could be used?