I fast once a week to be healthy and improve performance. It is intermittent fasting (I restrict eating to a four hour window). I have insomnia almost every time and a quick google search shows multiple forums with the same issue — but no resolution. I almost never have insomnia when I don't fast. Is it ok to have insomnia, or is something else (eg. hormones out of whack) causing me to have insomnia when I fast? 

Nearly every day in the morning, I get up and have a 5 min cold shower. I've heard of contrast showers before, but never tried one (I was too repulsed). I'm relatively adapted (6 months of 5 days a week) and impressed with my increase in recovery time. This is specifically for strength training recovery. I was wondering if contrast (cold/hot/cold/hot...) showers would bring better recovery now. If so, what protocol to use? 

There is a definite correlation with people who strength train and longevity. Even if it is just becuase they slow age-related muscle loss (sarcopenia) people who strength train tend to live longer. I was wondering when does the correlation end, or, more precisely, when does getting stronger become equivalent to maintaining strength if your goal is longevity. For example, if I trained consistently for a year would I obtain any further longevity benefit from building more strength VS maintaining? 

Untrained 50 year old looking to build strength with the intention preserving muscle while aging, joining a gym soon. Will not get a PT, is looking for 'gentle' exercises. Not willing to suffer much pain. Will something build strength while being (relatively) comfortable? For example, a lower weight than usual. Is it possible to build and maintain strength for a beginner with little discomfort? 

Nicotine seems to be a performance-enhancing drug, like caffeine. But because nicotine is associated with smoking, it seems dangerous to try a nicotine patch to get better gym results. Is it safe? And if so, how should I dose it? Are there any unwanted side effects? 

There are established ways for externally measuring virtually every muscle group in the body, most of which require little more than a flexible tape measure. Based on this page: 

I'm considering buying a good set of dumbbell weights (pro tip: get them on craigslist) and a bench so that I can work out at home. However, I'm a big fan of the squat, but I don't want to have to also buy an olympic weight bar and plates. Are there any exercises that can be performed with dumbbells that are mostly equivalent to the squat? Thanks! 

Muscle soreness after exercise is a very common symptom of a strenuous exercise, and is usually indicative of a "good" workout, i.e. one in which you've stressed the muscles to the point at which they will grow stronger. The cause of the soreness is currently unknown. Previous hypotheses involving lactic acid and muscle spasms have been demonstrated to be incorrect. You can provide temporary relief using warm compresses and gentle massaging of the affected muscle, but the soreness will persist until about 72 hours. The best thing to do is to stick to a regular routine; soreness is notably worse the first time a muscle group is significantly stressed. Note that while continuing to exercise will stave off soreness, overstressing can lead to sprains and tears. 

Is there a "typical use" for kettlebells? Given my goals (fitness & muscle mass increase), are there any kettlebell exercises that would better suit me than 

Does anyone know of a resource which would provide at least most of the above, specific to weightlifting? 

From my experience, hitting the gym in the middle of the day may not be what you're looking for. After a good workout, which I try to get every time I go to the gym, I'm tired, sweaty, and on an adrenaline buzz, none of which are conducive to being productive in an office setting. I've started doing small in-office workouts; planks, jumping jacks, jump rope, or even just walking around the office or outside (I have a large circular hallway around my building, I'll just walk around that). I personally find these short, invigorating physical activities more useful than a full-blown workout, which I do at the end of my day. 

Does aerobic training (cardio) help a 4-minute gymnastic rings performance? In Overcoming Gravity Steven Low argues that an Olympic artistic rings performance is around 4 minutes, the same time as the world record for the mile. The mile is strongly influenced by aerobic capacity, so a 4 minute rings performance would be too (to a lesser extent). This seems really dodgy reasoning to me (the sports have many differences), so I'm asking the question here. Would cardio help a 4-minute rings performance? 

I follow a very basic routine of squat, deadlift, pull-up (weighted) and bench press, and have for many weeks. What are some isolation, muscle-specific or machine exercises to 'fill-in the gaps'? One example that comes to mind is something for the rhomboids. 

I don't care about being flexible. I can touch my toes fine because I did a lot of stretching as a kid, I feel like I am naturally flexible. I am definitely not 'tight'. I also think stretching is boring. Given that I don't care about being more flexible, is there any possible benefit to stretching? 

I am trying to gain strength, which leaves a lot of rest time in between sets (3-5 minutes). I am a beginner and have no clue what to do in between sets! I kind of just dag around. What are some decent things to do in between sets? 

This got me wondering about how much strength crossovers to muscular endurance. I am NOT talking about marathon-like endurance (which weight training improves), but how, say, your bench press 1RM correlates with the amount of push-ups you can do, even if you've never trained push-ups endurance. What is the amount of carryover, and the mechanism(s) of strength increasing muscular endurance? 

If I had a dollar for something along the lines of... "lots of sitting every day gives you tight hip flexors and hamstrings/calves...". I am skeptical of that claim. It's plausible, but seems taken for granted everywhere. Some muscles (eg adductors) seem to be in a constantly tight state. I've never heard "keeping your legs together gives you tight adductors". I was wondering if there is any science based evidence showing sitting actually reduces flexibility of you hip flexors and hamstring/calves. 

One of the aspects that the Starting Strength book emphasizes a good deal is that the wrists should be straight when doing the squat (see point 3, as well as the wrists of the guy in all the cartoons on that page). My problem is that my wrists always look like that of the guy in the image to the right on that page; they're severely supinated. In order to straighten them out, I have to either (1) move my hands farther out, which causes them to be bent inwards; severe "yaw", if you will, or (2) push my arms really far back, to the point of stressing my shoulder blades, and usually by the seventh rep my back actually hurts from the stretching. Does anyone know of any stretches I should work on that will make this exercise easier? Thanks! 

I've been working through Ripptoe's Starting Strength and Practical Programming books and training schedule, mostly aiming for basic fitness and building muscle mass. My current workout is mostly squats, deadlifts, bench & standing presses, and a few variations on the plank. True to the full title of starting strength, both of these books focus almost exclusively on barbell training. I've found that I was able to incorporate dumbbells into my workout as necessary (particularly for the standing press). I've recently begun simply playing with the kettlebell - not really using it as part of my workout, just getting to know the basic exercises and motions. So far it seems to me that barbells are typically used for increasing core strength, and dumbbells are typically used for targeted muscle group workouts. My questions are twofold: 

The barbell wrist curl and/or dumbbell wrist curl can greatly improve your grip. Personally, I find the barbell wrist curl to be easier to execute correctly, but both will work. 

Once you have it down, try holding the position for longer and longer. There are also many variants that you can find by searching online; ways to make it easier (rest on knees), ways to make it harder (put toes on a balance ball or against the wall), and other stuff as well. 

I live with my family who eat a regular western diet (or maybe slightly healthier becuase of me). They eat few and eat mostly storebought. They are not interested in being healthy. That's fine becuase they don't care and I can't do anything about it (I tried). However I want to be different. We always eat dinner together, and they don't exactly make kale salads. Tonight is salmon noodles with 'things' like refined wheat noodles, soy sauce, fish farm salmon, honey, etc. If there's anything I'm trying to avoid, it will crop up in significant amounts from once a week to every night. They go out for dinner/lunch almost once a week, and it isn't nice to order salads at restuarant when everyone else indulges. They say they can't order takeaway for dinner, or make 'fun stuff' more often because of me. Where can I draw the line between healthy and social? If they go out for ice-cream, I won't go. I don't have any conditions and have been 'different' for about a year (lots of nutritious food, little junk). 

I've been lifting for a couple of months, Mon-Wed-Fri, no problem. I changed jobs and now I'm thinking about changing it to Sat-Wed-Sun — I am a lot busier on weekdays now. I know it will impede my progress. I know it's not optimal. But I don't mind too much, becuase I'm expecting it not to matter that much. Will it be fine? Should I expect progress to be really slow? Or would it be best to lift Sat-Wed and keep Sunday for prehab? 

I am planning to do HIIT and want to buy one (cheap, under $100) piece of equipment for the whole body. I cannot sprint because I live in a busy city with few open spaces, however I would be fine with equipment like a suspension trainer or skipping rope. I'm not a beginner, and wouldn't mind high impact exercises. Please do not recommend bodyweight exercises — they are just not for me (I've tried), and not what this question is about. If your piece of equipment has any other benefits (eg. portable, scalable), please put that in your answer as well!