Obviously you can only do this if you have an idea of how long this will take, if you don't know then about all you can do is be up front about that say something like: 

If this was a common occurrence (and by common I mean more than two or three times in a year) then yes I would look unfavorably on it. Unless the kids are as quiet as can be they are always going to produce some disruption, and while when I've been in management roles I've always taken the view that as long as an employee is getting their work done in an appropriate time frame I'm not too fussed how they spend their day family visits tend to cause disruption to the work days of multiple employees. Even those who have no direct interaction with the visitors can be disrupted. My own opinions aside the acceptability of this is very much dependent upon the culture of the individual organisation and it does seem to be generally more common in smaller companies of the kind you mention you used to work at. More corporate environments (unless they make a big show of being family-friendly) tend not to look too kindly on this sort of thing. 

Unless you've given the recruiter any promises of exclusivity then there's nothing wrong with what you've done - the HR contact has told you that they haven't seen your CV from the recruiter so you got in first and that's the recruiter's loss. As far as I can see you're well within your rights to forget about the recruiter and continue to pursue the avenue you have. Good luck with the application! 

I have every sympathy for you OP as I'm very similar to you in this regard. Keeping it to "introvert" vs "extrovert" (I know the exact terms don't fully describe the nuances of the situation but I'm not about to get into internet psychiatry here!) the majority of people you will encounter in the world are of the "extrovert" type (or are "faking it") and the workplace is no different and sadly this means you will be somewhat disadvantaged in your career as a result. You have two choices: 

Both of these can be solved by having 1-1s or mini-appraisals more frequently than annually - quarterly or six-monthly depending on numbers of direct reports. This amortizes the "they pissed me off/impressed me just before the review" effect over the entire year which reduces any skewing of the results, and it also gives you the opportunity to work on any areas where they need to improve while there is still time in the year to make a difference... they can get a better review and you can "fix" problems months sooner. Yes there is extra time spent on the reviews but it's going to be much less time and effort than the system you propose and will give better results and happier employees (and remember a happy employee is generally much more motivated and productive than an unhappy one). 

There's various routes you can take - obviously I can't speak to what your full reasons are for wanting to withdraw and I will say that it's best to try and at least be honest where you can. The key to doing this professionally is to make it clear that the reason you are withdrawing is not because of anything wrong with the job or the company (even if it is I would advise avoiding that route) but rather that continuing isn't the best choice for your circumstances right now and to stress that really you have the company's best interests at heart in not continuing when you don't feel that you can follow through. The relocation aspect (especially with it being to another country) is really your ace in the hole here - everyone understands that moving to another country is a really big deal, more so when you have a family. Something like: 

Not the use of the word "us" - you aren't implying that he's the one who'll get it in the neck you're implying that you're a team. It's subtle but it does help. If for some reason your manager keeps pushing back on this with you I'd suggest going to the next most senior member of the team/department (i.e. the person just below your manager) and discuss it with them, see if there might be history you are unaware of. And if there isn't then they may be a substantial ally - firstly because there will now be two of you in the issue, secondly they will likely have their word carry more weight with your manager because of their seniority and finally it's relatively safe because they aren't over your manager so you aren't going over his head. Also, and I cannot stress this enough, you must do communication on this with your manager by e-mail - in the worst case where he does nothing or actively rejects your attempts to get this issue resolved and it then get's exploited your behind is sufficiently covered. 

If you absolutely have to yawn in an interview then you should descreetly cover your mouth and apologize, preferrably immediately. 

If it isn't already clear to you you aren't going to be doing web work here. You've asked, repeatedly and been denied, then you've acted insubordinately and been caught. The fact that your insubordinate act was to do work is largely irrelevant because it wasn't your work and it was work you'd been told not to do! In the process you've demonstrated that you have zero respect for your manager and that if you don't get the answer you want to a question you will just go ahead anyway which is not a great attribute in an employee - loose cannons might do well in '80s cop movies but in the mundane world of work they are generally a liability. 

Depends on what the QA roles involved - if they were quite dev focused and were actively using dev skills then it probably wouldn't be a problem for there to be a couple of roles on the CV. When I'm hiring people I look at what they did in a role not what the job title or department was. Some additional thoughts: 

As above you are limited in what you can really do until you are officially his supervisor, but you could start talking to him about the "clean slate" perspective in advance potentially. Or even talk to him about the fact that while the changes are happening it would be good to keep your heads down and not upset the apple cart, it's something you'd have to approach with some delicacy as you don't want to be seen as ordering him around with authority you don't have yet but given you say you have already talked to him about work performance before as a friend there is precedent. 

All of the suggestions you make are reasonably good things to do and will probably improve you in their eyes. However I would caution against pinning too many of your hopes on this startup. Unless they have explicitly stated that your lack of experience in these areas was where your application fell down and that they would like to see you again if you improved these I think the chances of this resurrecting the opportunity are extremely slight, verging on zero. They have clearly rejected you this time around and I'd be expecting them to employ another candidate for this opening. Your ideas might help you should you reapply for any future openings but I think you have to accept that this one is gone and you should be redoubling your efforts towards the job hunt as a whole rather than just this company. If the things you are talking about doing would improve your employability in general or wouldn't detract too much from the job hunt efforts then they aren't going to hurt, otherwise I think you need to focus on getting a job and then look to reapply at this place down the line when they are next hiring. 

The number of negative reviews the app currently has - if it's got millions of people rating it as one star then it's going to take a significant number of better ratings to see that average shift upwards. And unless it's a very popular app that's going to take some time. The reason(s) why people are rating it one-star - if the app store in question supports user reviews and comments then have a look through some of the negative ones and see if the problems are something you think you'll be in a position to resolve if you take the job. If yes then you'll hopefully have a fair chance of making a difference, if not then, well it can be quite depressing having to try and make improvements with a metaphorical hand tied behind your back. 

Sorry but if that referes to stretching your arms out as you yawn then yes that's incredibly rude, and that would also come across as not stfiling your yawn. In fact it wouldn't surprise me if that (assuming that is what happened) is playing a large part in informing the other feedback. I can imagine that they would be far less likely to let something like a slightly wrinkled shirt, or lack of a tie go in the light of that sort of rudeness - this means something that they might not even have thought twice about to become "didn't dress professionally". Same with the leaning back - what might have been charitably written off as "just the way they sit" or "relaxed under pressure" becomes lazy, tired, or even "slouching". 

Yes they can. You have made the classic misunderstanding - it's not your Macbook, it's your employer's Macbook which they have assigned to you to use. It remains however their property. The finer details of what the company can access on a device they have assigned for your work use depend upon the legal jurisdiction this is taking place in, and what data they are trying to access. India You have very little protection in India, while it is "recommended" that employers obtain employees consent for monitoring of their electronic conduct, it is not mandatory and Indian law does not otherwise protect employees’ rights to privacy with regard to electronic device usage. If the device belongs to the company then they have the absolute right to access the device under Indian law. (Accessing any of your personal social media or email accounts is a murky area in Indian Law but there's some cyberstalking provisions that would probably make it illegal, IANL though!) US In the US if the password is preventing access to the entire system (such as a BIOS password or disk encryption) then they can require you to give up access to it. In extreme cases you can even go to jail if you don't! As regards protection of your personal files and data on a work device it largely depends upon what their policies say so you need to start reading that fine print ASAP, generally if they have reasonable cause to suspect some violation of policy or duties or other misconduct then they can access your computer to investigate and this trumps your Reasonable Expectation of Privacy - see Leventhal v. Knapek (consenting to the employer monitoring or accessing your data doesn't remove the Reasonable Expectation of Privacy from a Fourth Amendment perspective but that only protects against the government looking at it sans warrant and prevents the company consenting to the same on your behalf see US v. Ziegler) EU You are somewhat more protected in the EU - individual files/emails etc on work devices have a limited amount of protection via Article 8 of the Human Rights Act ("Right to respect for private and family life") - this means that if something is of an evidently personal nature then it can only be accessed by the company if there is a legitimate business need for them to do so and this access is limited to the minimum number of personnel necessary to fulfill this need. The fact that the company may monitor or access personal communications or files also needs to be made known in advance to the employee (IT policies, employee handbook etc.) This protection only applies to things that are "evidently personal in nature" though - if there is company data on your Macbook (or the company could reasonably believe that there is company data on there) and we're talking about a full disk encryption scenario then they can absolutely require you to give up the password. If, once decrypted they see a folder called "Personal Files" (for example) then they wouldn't be allowed to access that folder without satisfying the "business need" and prior notification requirements etc mentioned above. This is where the legal minefield that Lillienthal mentions in the comments below comes in and each individual case and it's circumstances would be considered on it's own merits by the courts. As an example in 2007 a Romanian man was suspected of sending personal communications on a work device during work hours. The company read his yahoo messages and saw evidence of him doing just that and fired him. It went to court and in January 2016 the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) ruled in favor of the company, as the judge in that case put it: