Will you be paid monthly? If the month starts on a Saturday but you only work Monday-Friday, would you be happy if your first cheque was for 29/31 of a nonth? But just call HR and ask when (and where) they want you to turn up. What's the big problem? 

What's a 'paid intern'? A task has developed beyond your level of competence. That's OK. Don't whimper about 'beyond my pay grade'. Just ask for help. Maybe the project will have to be outsourced. Make sure your work so far is well documented, and be available to help in the hand-over. Management need to manage this development. I expect they will, quite happily. But don't play games with them. 

Define "Walk out"? If you leave in a huff, word might get round that you're stroppy. If you get to the point where salary is mentioned and they don't offer an acceptable response to your proposition that experience counts as well as age, there's no problem with saying "Thanks, but no thanks this time". 

The candidate didn't bring her mother to the interview. She accompanied her to the location then stayed in the waiting room. Perhaps she gave her daughter a ride. Perhaps they just intended to make further use of a trip to the city. Can't she use your waiting room to, well, wait? This isn't a big deal. 

Maybe I'm overthinking it, maybe I'm suffering of Imposter's Syndrome, or maybe it's a reasonable question. Feel free to correct me if I'm wrong. 

I think that as long as you don't reveal any particulars such as company name or identities of the people involved, there should be no problem at all. Just in case, check if there is an specific employee policy that states clearly that you cannot post it in sites such as this one. And, if you're really afraid to be caught, post it using your own equipment and outside the company network. Your coworkers or management may try to guess, but unless you say you did it, or someone has proof you did it, they will never know. And if they do, is really a crime to ask a bunch of strangers in the Internet for advice? 

I'm afraid it's almost impossible. Sure, you can avoid the agency that helped you get your current job, but that's not enough. Some companies that use recruiters ask to disclose their name only during the interview, some prefer anonimicy until the last moment. In my case I prefer to apply for positions where the name of the company is known from the beginning, or to ask my contacts for tips or referrals. If a position I like is posted by a recruiting agency, I google them, as many like to say who are (some of) their past or present clients. If I get and interview with a recruiter or a consulting company, I ask if they can disclose who the client is. Most of the times they tell me. If they don't, well, that could raise a red flag for me, or at least make me suspicious. If that's the case I don't press further and let the process go on. 

I'd say in case you are accepted, just respect legal period of notice and politely say goodbye to your old team. It's never easy to quit a job in this situation, but it's part of a company life to handle turnover. I was in the exact same situation few weeks ago : working in a small team, quitting, lots of planned work etc. but they found a promising replacement even though they had high expectations (finding quickly a cheap autonomous dev ready to work overtime). It's advisable to finish in good terms, by extending the notice period as much as your next employer would accept and/or suggesting a competent replacement if you know any, but thinking about yourself is higher priority. The company will recover. Good luck for the interview ! 

I am currently leaving my job. I have a short period of notice and I've put my employer in a uncomfortable spot. When I did this, he quickly asked me if I had a reference for him. Refering someone for an interview, especially if it's a good fit, is something generally apreciated by employers and ease the tensions. It is possible your employer is so angry that he may react irrationally (you have to figure this out) but most likely he will end up respecting your decision and accept that you help him to find a replacement. 

Nothing wrong with saying "Thanks, but my family have food waiting for me". If your interview was scheduled to end before prayers, checking your table manners wasn't a pre-planned part of the interview! I'd be more worried about the previous candidate over-running. You don't give a WEAK candidate extra time. But then, employers do have this ridiculous idea that employees should be prepared to drop EVERYTHING when the company wants them to do something! We're all guessing. It's done now. There will be other jobs if you miss this one. 

Yes, of course tell him. Why would you possibly not? These unauthorised 'clone' accounts are very common on Linkedin, Facebook etc. A friendly warning that there seems to be one using his name can only be seen as helpful. It's vaguely possible he's started a new account for some reason. In which case no harm will be done. 

I've worked in companies where a Friday "liquid lunch" was the culture, and I've worked as a theatre musician where an evening performance preceded by a matinee often was sloppy due to the 'tween shows visit to the pub. Only you can judge how sensible it would be for YOU to be the "whistle-blower". Your headphones seem a good idea! 

You're really asking - will the company mind if I use office resources after hours to do my own studying? Ask them. I doubt there's an issue about liability insurance etc. when the building isn't fully staffed, otherwise you'd be required to clock out and the building would be locked. But ask anyway. Some of your co-workers will certainly look for problems in any non-standard behaviour. Cope with it. If you want to be special, don't be afraid to be special! 

I've been at both sides of the phone line, so I may be of some use. First of all, don't yell, insult, threat or abuse a customer support representative. I repeat: don't do it. First level customer support rarely employs developers or people with IT studies. The rep in question may not fully understand what you're talking about, and even if he/she does, it's out of his/her scope. What you can do is document everything, to prove that both you and support people are doing all they can. How? Like this. 

I worked at a company for a year an some days. When I entered, I was told that I would work at max 9 months (6 months mandatory, 3 optional) as a part-time Trainee. The first six months I did some minor testing while my team leader try to place me in an stable project, without success. Then, he got a project with a new client, a top Company in its field. Soon became clear that he would need all hands on deck, so I started there as a Shadow dev, mentored by a Semi Senior. As my time as a Trainee was coming to an end, I asked my mentor if he had any idea regarding my situation. He told me to ask the team lead. When I asked him, he told me to ask the PM, whom I didn't know by that time. Time passed by and I still was a part-time Trainee, even though I wasn't a shadow dev anymore, I started visiting the client with my mentor and facing deadlines. Whenever I asked about it, the answer was "I don't know". As my first anniversary in the company was coming closer, I decided it was good moment to ask again. This time, my mentor told me to ask formally to my team lead, CC-ing him and the PM. I sent a very polite "I'd like to know the status of my situation" email. I was fired the following day. I updated my CV, adding a description of my position, but I'm not sure which seniority I should add. I've read many articles about seniority levels, and so far my responsibilities and time in the company seem to place me as a Junior. On the other hand, most of the texts only mention Intern as lower than Junior, but I was nothing of the sort. TL; DR: My seniority got stuck in a gray area between an Intern and a Junior and I can't find a proper way to make it clear enough without risking my chances to be hired. So far, my options are 

I would avoid to put "senior" in the title as this is covered by experience, and doesn't explain what is the profession of the candidate. 

I had the same issue when building my CV, and solved it using a "speciality" line. Typically, your job title would look like 

As others answer provided, there is no such thing as being unprofessional for checking the documentation especially considering you are junior, especially considering programming is vast and there is always a detail you can forget and you have a mission for your code to be correct. There is however cases I would consider being documentation abuses. I have a collegue who is sometimes unable to come up with his own solution about a given problem. Therefore, he sometimes proceed on checking the web about how to solve his problem. Last time, for example, he checked how a web framework was architecturing validators and error counters because he had a seemingly similar feature to design. This is a case where what you are looking for is far too abstract for the Internet to help you. Worse, you could find solutions that seemingly fit, but in fact don't, because they are applied to a different use case. By trying to grab some premade code/architecture/pattern he would have more or less injected code in our base that may have worked, but would be hard to maintain because written by someone else for a different purpose. I don't look the documentation often because I write code that uses mostly core language features (no framework) and I am gifted with a reliable memory when it comes to code, but I do use the doc everytime I'm stuck on something trivial. However, if I'm stuck on something higher level, the good thing to do is to seek help from a more experienced collegue, you will get a much better answer. 

You keep your job, nothing changes. Lucky you, you survive the lay-offs. However, it can have other consequences, which takes me to You keep your job, but you get demotivated. Layoffs can lower team morale, especially when highly valued employees are fired. Witnessing a colleague clearing the desk or saying goodbye to the team is a tough experience. The ones that stay in the company may fear any of them may be the next, or start to get paranoid that someone can betray them. You keep your job, but your work load increases. Your team loses members and you and the rest are expected to do your job and theirs. Depending on what you're doing a the time, how many people leave and how many stay, you could find yourself doing more than you can handle. In some cases companies may force their employees to do unpaid overime or work till you burn out. You get laid-off. It's difficult to know what criteria they use to fire employees. Sometimes is productivity, or seniority ("juniors first"), random or a mix of all them. You may even survive the first batch, work a few more months, and be a victim of a next one. 

If I were you, I'd start polishing my resume ASAP. Terms such as "re-org" are usually codewords and consist mostly in reducing costs by firing employees. This may not be the time to talk about promotions.