Well you won't believe this, but it was the seatpost in the seat tube. I replaced everything in the bike. Until the only thing left was the seatpost. And it makes total sense. The seatpost was totally dry. I figure it settled into one spot after a lot of years and the crash busted it loose, so the slight wiggling was creating a clunking that resonated through the bike. The reason it was really hard to diagnose is that the bike is a fixed-gear so I can't coast. If I could coast I would have been able to realize that the noise didn't happen when my butt wasn't moving. But since my legs are always moving, I was always making the seatpost make the noise. I lubed the seatpost and the noise went away. 

You can see the problem - if I lift the fender up about 1/2" to clear the tire, the two ends of the fender are still very close to the tire. The solution is to bend the fender during installation, to stretch those ends away from the tire, which I did. I installed this fender about a year ago. It cracked at the seat stay bridge today. I have steel fenders on my 26er, which is strictly a snow commuter, and they did not need to be stretched and forced to fit. They've held tight for two winters. I feel like I need either a flexy fender which won't crack, or a perfectly fit steel fender. Or maybe there is a way to modify steel fenders so that they are not under tension when forced to fit? EDIT: The crack: 

All Garmin Edge models can be used without any sort of online account. As can any of the outdoor models, eg the Etrex, Oregon etc. There is a handlebar mount available for these, so you can use them on your bike if you want. Newer Garmin models work as a USB mass storage device. ie you plug it into your computer, and it appears as a disk drive. So you can just copy files on and off, usually in FIT, TCX or GPX format. Some models also have the option of Bluetooth or wifi for uploading. These will require a Garmin Connect account, and the app on a phone or tablet. But you don't have to use this, you can just plug in a USB cable as above. There is a variety of free software you can use on your own computer for viewing rides etc, eg 

For your second and third questions: You don't need any stickers on your rims. So you can replace them if you want. Or peel them off completely. Or add some other sort of stickers, eg those RimSkins. Its just a matter of style - plain black rims can look nice, so can multi-coloured stickers. Or reflective stickers would help you get noticed at night, especially for side visibility. So long as they are kept clean, and not peeling off or looking messy. Just so long as you don't put any stickers on the braking surface. ie the flat bit of the rim, next to the tyre, where the brake pads should contact. If you put stickers on there, your brakes won't work very well. 

Wait patiently while you ride very slowly and safely past them until you either get their attention and they move over or until you are safely past. Get a louder audible signal, like an AirZound. Of course, this doesn't guarantee anything. Signal with your bell and pass them, accepting your fate. Start a public campaign to get the rules enforced. 

You will need a crown race reducer. 1-1/2" -> 1-1/8" is a pretty common size. The 1-1/4" -> 1-1/8" that you are looking for is rarer but it probably exists. Maybe the de-evolution from Chris King. If you can find that part, the existing bearing can stay. Also do some research on the Problem Solvers headtube reducer; you would just use the bottom piece. If you use this, you can use the existing crown race (and bearing obviously). 

Of course you can get the super-bright LEDs that have cords and battery packs; I have tried them and do not need them. Flashlights work great, I can carry spare lights and batteries easily and it's all swappable. I have a charger at work and at home and the batteries are cheap and abundant. I also ride with a small blinkie headlight that I velcro to the top of my helmet; easy on and off and charges via USB. As I said, independent lights let me ride any bike any time and I can leave my bike anywhere. I can post links to any and all hardware but this isn't an advertisement. EDIT: I use the taillight from Dinotte. The Quad RED is the current offering but I am still using the 300R that I bought in October 2010 which is still going strong. 

The PD-T780 is an discontinued model. For 2016, they have been replaced by the PD-T8000. It seems the main difference is the PD-T8000 has metal pins on the flat side, so they should give better grip for your shoes. Plus it is a slightly different shaped platform. 

Mars Bars are not that great for cycling. Yes, they have quite a lot of calories, so will give you some energy. But most of that is simple sugars, so it may be a quick energy boost, but soon followed by an energy crash. Also Mars Bars have quite a lot of fat (about 17g per 100g), so this can not be easily digested while cycling hard - it could just make you sick. Mars Bars are not very practical either. On a warm day, a bar in your back pocket will probably melt, so become rather messy and difficult to eat. 

An older model, with a large metal platform, so a bit heavier. They have the option of adding reflectors or toeclips. Weight: 533g (pair) 

Whereas a commuter bike is designed more for comfort, and carrying luggage as required. So it may have: 

These are designed for road/touring bikes, so are fairly slim, with a small metal platform. (Not to be confused with the PD-A520, which are one-sided SPD pedals, without a flat platform). Personally I use these, they work pretty well, with either SPD shoes or non-SPD shoes. Weight: 383g (pair) PD-T780 

Much of this is due to UCI regulations. They specify what shape and size of frame can be used. It is not allowed to add extra parts just for improving aerodynamics. See the UCI document Technical Regulations For Bicycles - A Practical Guide To Implementation (PDF) which covers most of this. As it says for Article 1.3.020, the frame elements must be tubular, with a maximum transverse dimension of 8 cm and a minimum transverse dimension of 2.5 cm, in a maximum ratio of 1:3. Also Article 1.3.024 "Protective screens, aerodynamic shapes, fairings or any other device that is added or forms part of the structure, and that is destined or has the effect of reducing wind resistance, are prohibited." It could be possible to make a more aerodynamic bike that was not allowed by the UCI. But you would be restricted by what races it could be ridden in. A few brands have mode non-UCI compliant race bikes, mostly designed for triathlon. eg some versions of the Specialized Transition or Shiv, which have extra aerodynamic tubes etc. 

I know that the physics of disc brakes are different than rim brakes, but the differences are not intuitive to me so I want to double-check this. I understand that one fail point of single walled rims is the spoke hole; that they are prone to cracking. Will this tendency be exacerbated by a disc brake (compared to a rim brake)? FWIW, this is the front wheel I am thinking of. EDIT: if the answer to the question is no, what do I do with the various yes answers that I find? For example from Park Tool's website: 

Last year I, after cracking an sks chromoplastic, I decided to get some stainless steel fenders. I noticed at the time that the fender (700x45) was almost identical to the diameter of the tire (700x35). This seemed odd to me and I took this picture. 

Nasa says 58 lbs is 5th percentile (I think they use 5% bc they want to make sure that devices can be operated by the weakest of possible people) State of WA puts avg at 106 lbs BMC Musculoskelet Disord has average of 153 lbs I'd guess someone who trains their grip can get into the hundreds of lbs. 

Yes, they are safe. Said better, all else being equal there is nothing about the curve in an aluminum fork that would make it less safe than a straight fork. 

It is hard to spell this out but you basically hold the outer cable in your hand and with your thumb and forefinger to keep tension on the inner cable. If the outer cable (or cables, depending on the routing) is flush up against all stops the inner cable will stay tight in the lever by pulling it tight out of the other end of the outer cable. By "hook it onto the caliper cable" I am assuming you mean the straddle cable. Try this - the straddle cable has a "nut" (as you call it) attached to one end which quickly attaches/detaches from the brake arm. Detach the straddle cable. With the straddle cable detached from one brake arm, hook the straddle cable through the yoke and hold it there. Now you can make sure the other end of the cable is seating correctly in the lever. If it is still seated hook the loose end of the straddle cable to the brake arm. You might need one hand to squeeze the brakes shut while you do this.