So, the boat you've referred to as "a Canadian" counts as a canoe. Now on to the substance of your question. 

I was also very surprised doing the Appalachian Trail the number of people I ran into wearing even less substantial things -- such as tennis shoes -- who claimed to be in the middle of doing months worth of the trail. Perhaps I'd just never noticed this before because I am someone who had always worn boots. I've got a nice pair of light boots now that are great, but in a pinch I'd say if all you have are running shoes, etc., don't worry about it -- if you're like me, you'll be pleasantly surprised. I have a friend I've done overnights with who swears by trail type sandles also. The thing that makes me most trepidatious about that is all the exposed skin, although I've never seen him suffer any because of it. 

One of my favourites is breadfruit, which I acquired a taste for while living in Jamaica. They apparently grow all over Southeast Asia and the Pacific too. In Jamaica they grow wild practically everywhere (there is a peak season when they end up littering the ground in places), making them a staple bush food. I've seen them occasionally in the supermarket in North America; you can also cook them whole in a barbecue or an oven. Here's what they look like fresh: And after roasting in a fire for 45-60 minutes: 

I am not (yet) a slackliner, but I have been impressed with the methodology of testing and development of Adam Burtle of NWslackline.org. His site has a number of videos that demonstrate different anchoring and tensioning systems. He also does line tension measurements and break testing on different setups and materials. When you watch his videos make sure you have annotations turned on as they often contain important details, corrections or revisions. I cannot recall seeing an anchor/tensioning system using only carabiners but the line-locker system using a forged rappel ring is simple, light and inexpensive. Chain links are even less expensive but need to be deburred to protect your webbing. One of his basic tensioning systems looks like this (the load cell is only for testing of course): 

Further illustration and efficiency testing (video). Videos: Using line lockers. Rigging a primitive slackline Rigging a 2″ line without a ratchet. In Strength of 3 men, for only $20 (article and video) he rigs a basic pulley system: 

As far as I know there are no general authorities for the placement of fixed gear and bolts may have been placed well or poorly. There are however organizations that provide safety guidelines for placing and replacing bolts. Understand that while good bolts rarely fail there is always a good measure of faith involved. You should learn how to inspect bolts and check every one that life or limb will depend upon, though that's easier said than done in many cases and you may have to trust guide books and beta from other climbers as to the suitability of bolts along a route. It is my understanding that bolts are often not professionally placed, that is those placing them often have no specific training or certification in their correct application. A likely reason for this is liability mentioned on this Allied Climbers of San Diego page: 

My mother and her husband feed hummingbirds rather religiously. They have feeders all over and in every conceivable condition you could possibly imagine. My mother refills all of her feeders on a daily basis, and the birds have learned it is her providing the food. When one of the feeders has gone empty and the others are too crowded, the hummingbirds will hover outside her kitchen window to get her attention. This is not a joke, nor an exaggeration. The birds will hover around her while she's refilling the feeders. In one case, a hummingbird failed to fly south for the winter, and they kept one feeder filled and warm to prevent freezing and they successfully helped that hummingbird overwinter in the mountain tops of North Carolina. 

Breathing technique is bar far the most important. Remember to keep your airways open at all times during descent and ascent, but most importantly during ascent. During normal dives you want to keep you ascent slower than the rising bubbles, while in a near continuous exhale, in deep dives you slow the ascent to half the speed of the air bubbles while exhaling. An air embolism is a SCUBA divers worst nightmare come true. 

They are the size of small melons. If only the forests here had stuff like this! I might not have to take any food hiking at all. If you are ever anywhere where they have this, try it. It's also prepared various other ways and served with all kinds of stuff, as it's complementary to most things (again, like bread) and can absorb sauce. Mmmm. 

In Canada, at least, we do distinguish between kayaks and canoes, and those are the words I'll use for the contrast here. To first make sure there's no confusion, have a look at the articles in wikipedia: "A kayak is a small, relatively narrow, human-powered boat primarily designed to be manually propelled by means of a double bladed paddle. The traditional kayak has a covered deck and one or more cockpits, each seating one paddler." $URL$ 

The outer rind can be completely charred black; this one perhaps is a bit under done. Inside, there's a mild tasting, wonderfully soft textured (hence the "bread", I would guess) carb rich meat: 

As someone who's done a decent amount of hiking both with proper boots and a standby I used for years, hightop skateboarding shoes, here's the three major differences I've noticed: 

This does have a basis in a known technique, back burning, but by your description the application wasn't orthodox. From Wikipedia: 

Serrations are formed on one side due to the method of manufacture (a formed grinding wheel). I suppose it would be possible to grind serrations from both sides with very careful alignment but I cannot recall seeing this on any production knives. Single-side or "chisel grind" blades not restricted to serrated knives. Nearly all traditional Japanese knives use this design: 

I don't think anything works the hands in exactly the same way as climbing. I think that a training board or minimally Metolius Rock Rings are the best bet for keeping hands in shape. 

From this one might conclude that all injuries exposed to river water should receive special attention, perhaps even antibiotics. 

The climber can accept that he is basically highball bouldering until the 2nd bolt is clipped (don't forget the pads!) The belayer can attempt to run backward if he sees the climber fall (good luck!) The second bolt could be placed one meter lower (Scenario 2a) 

I would say no, because according to records, the strait is not even considered navigable except during short periods of slack tide. Does that mean a person couldn't survive? No certainly not, but I wouldn't bet my own life to try. 

Honestly you are better off bringing some other form of starch, such as hard tack or saltines or something similar. Take a bite of cracker, and take a sip of water and chew. Rice and rice water, when kept at unsafe temperature develops a toxin that is used by doctors and pharmacists to induce vommitting such as when someone eats something they shouldn't have. This isn't classical food poisoning, but in the wilderness this can be a cause of serious dehydration and I don't recommend it, ESPECIALLY, since your goal is to reduce the amount of water you need to bring with you. You will be putting yourself in a very dangerous position. 

That's a different measurement. In the 4 digit number the first 2 digits specify the diameter of the shaft in 64ths inch. And the second number specifies the wall thickness of the shaft in 1000ths of an inch. So 3545 would be an arrow that is 35/64ths inches thick and the wall of the arrow is .045 inches thick. This is described at the bottom of this article: $URL$ 

I think if you're seeing damage your concern is valid. I do recall reading that soil compaction is the bigger problem and different rigging won't help that. You could use a "friction saver" as shown in the following video, saving both the tree and your rope from wear. $URL$ 

Much more detailed information is available from the American Safe Climbing Association. They have a collection of articles on the subject of bolting and bolt inspection, such as: Dangerous Bolts - Bolts to Avoid, and How To Rebolt. Some images are provided, sadly low resolution such as: Bad Bolts The type of bolts you may encounter are at least to a degree region specific and you should familiarize yourself with whatever you are likely to come across. Safer Cliffs Australia has a Bolt Guide with lots of pictures, as well as a page of photos of some of the terrifying stuff you might come across. 

I am going to approach this question differently. Since the question is marked with the rock-climbing tag the use of a 7.5mm Technora escape rope that AM_Hawk's answer focuses on seems unlikely. Also, the method by which he arrives at a minimum Prusik cord size doesn't address certain issues. Cord diameter All else being equal a smaller cord for a friction knot, such as a Prusik, will grip better than a large one. I have seen several guidelines, such as use cord no larger than 70% of the diameter of the rope being ascended, but truly this is only a guideline. A stiff and slick cord will have much less purchase than a limp and rough one, therefore maximum diameter is determined pragmatically by what will grip. There are cords made specifically for friction hitches, and these typically limp cords will work better even in larger diameters than will stiff accessory cord not intended for the application. For example, BlueWater 8mm Dynamic Prusik Cord is limper and will grip better than their 6mm Accessory Cord. As far as minimum size, there really is none from a friction standpoint as the smaller cord grips better; it is entirely possible to use a shoelace, paracord, a string from your chalk bag, etc., so long as it can hold your weight. One would be a fool to have these thin cords be his only attachment to the rope of course. You can protect the ascent by progressively clipping in to loop knots in the rope, as AM_Hawk described, or you could use a non-toothed progress-capture device such as a Petzl Shunt. (Please don't implement a system without a full understanding of the devices, failure modes, and risks involved; this is merely an example.) Perhaps you are seeking a minimum size of friction hitch that is safe as a primary connection point. That is hard to answer. One possible failure mode is burn-through; that is, if the knot slips the friction will melt through the cord long before you deck. Hypothetically a smaller cord, if the loop is appropriately sized and the knot well dressed, might be less susceptible to this as it should be less likely to slip, but a larger cord stands a better chance of arresting the fall before it melts or tears through. There is also the consideration of fusing. Several test reports describe the friction hitch fusing to the main line after slipping; while this is less immediately terminal than burn-through it could still leave you stranded. Resources I was unable to find dynamic (drop) testing of small diameter Prusik cords. However, here are some resources that seem relevant. 

Fletching is used to stabilize an arrow, stopping it from tumbling. A heavier arrow needs more fletching to help stabilize the arrow. This is usually accomplished by lengthening the fletching rather than broadening it. However more fletching adds drag, and it also has the potential to add more error into the mix, as a beginner you should use arrows that are recommended by your outfitter. As you gain more experience, you can start to tune your outfit to better suit you, your styles and skills. The questions you have been asking here are all well and good, but they and their answers are all theory until you have some good practical experience. It's smart to get as much info as possible, but in the beginning you really need to trust your outfitter. What you learn here can get in your way as a beginner. 

Often times you can take a photo of the bird and the ID tag if you are able. With fishery tags anyway you can usually search the tag number and you'll get a list of potentials to contact.