1, 2: "Electrolytes" is just a fancier word for salts, which you will get in large amounts through your diet, especially if you eat a typical western diet. Unless you're exercising for two hours or more, the only one who's benefiting from your electrolyte drink consumption are the companies who sell them. 3,4: Total amount and distribution throughout the day is much more important when it comes to protein intake, than proximity to your workout. Some people consider EAA and BCAA (protein components) to be worth consuming before, during and/or after a workout, but afaik there isn't really much science on wether it helps or not. If you eat protein in all your meals, you will most likely always have amino acids at the ready to re-build muscle. I would recommend eating something more than just oats (a few eggs perhaps?) for breakfast, and make sure the other meals are good as well. I would also try getting some more sleep. Also, be critical when reading articles about fitness online, most of it is either unfounded bullshit or only applies to professional athletes. Follow the money. We all like to think that there is some quick fix to solve our problems (feeling tired, sore, not getting the gains you hoped for, etc), or to get significantly better results, by spending money. In reality, as long as you have a gym to go to, healthy food to eat and a good bed to sleep in, you will get 90-95% of the results you could ever get. 

It's important that you understand what a "toned" body is physiologically, it's easy to get a lot of bad/fuzzy/cute ideas, like that high number of reps -> toned, few heavy reps -> bulky, forget all of that, it's bullshit. It's all about the amount of fat and the amount of muscle tissue. The first layer of the body to consider is your musculature, your muscles can get thicker or thinner, meaning stronger or weaker, you can't really affect the length of the muscles, that's determined genetically. Muscles can not be/look toned. On top of the musculature is your fat layer, without this you would basically look like a redder version of the most extreme body builders, i.e. lots of veins and the muscle fibers being visible. The more fat you add, the smoother you look, first the veins and fibers disappear, then the separation between muscles disappear, so you can no longer see for example your bicep bulge. If you add even more fat you'll start to look like a molten cake, fat hanging on top of other fat and so on. What do we need to achieve the toned look? You will need some muscle mass for the musculature to be visible at all, most females have too little muscle mass to achieve the toned look. The best way to increase this is the workout basically like a male body builder, it doesn't matter that your goals are different, your direction is the same but the distance is different so to speak :) Stop when you have enough muscles, this will take year(s). Second, you need to adapt your fat amount, you need a moderately low amount of fat to achieve the toned look, not body builder low, but certainly lower than the average person. Your fat amount is determined by your diet and lifestyle, consumer fewer calories than you use and you'll lower the amount of fat. 

You might have to make a slighly restart because you're set back a miniscule amount mentally and physiologically, but you're not missing any opportunity, only delaying it. Novice gains exist because of the (mostly neurological) differences in performance between someone who is actively working out and someone who isn't. 

It seems [1] that the fitbit charge hr does base it's calorie consumptions figure on heart rate. So I guess it will work in your case as well. I would send an email to them and ask. Regarding metabolism, there have actually been studies made on peoples perceived metabolism and eating habits, the result was that thin people over-estimate their eating and their metabolism, while fat people do the opposite. So basically, thin people have to eat more and fat people need to eat less :) On top of this, nature also works against you, if you're naturally thin, eating more will in fact increase your unconscious activily level, for some people, this effect is very noticable. If I were you I would set an ambitious calorie goal, make sure you eat at least 500 kcal more than you need to, to make sure you're not burning too many of those precious calories. Eat more food with high calorie density, and food with combinations of carbs and fat. Some people find drinking their calories easier. [1] 

There is no definite science on this, what we know is that maltodextrine (glucose) is much less likely to be stored as fat in and around your liver (abdominal, visceral fat) than fructose (50% of table sugar, 55% of high fructose corn syrup) (1), and that kind of fat is much more strongly linked to metabolic syndrome and diabetes type 2 than subcutaneous fat is. In fact it's possible that such, normal fat is completely healthy. I think this quotation is very interesting 

It's really, really hard to assess the impact of your lifestyle changes. Lets say you unintentionally spend 100 kcal less per day on activity, this is equal to a short walk or bicycle trip per day, or some household work. 100 kcal per day is 36500 kcal in a year, one kg of fat is about 7000 kcal, which means you may add 5 kg in a year. It's even more difficult to assess the amount you eat, 100 kcal of food 1/3 of a regular mcdonalds fries, 30 grams of candy or one soda can, a very small amount. Your basal metabolism will decrease as you get older as well. So there are many possible reasons why one might add weight without making any conscious lifestyle changes. Most people have no problems keeping a healthy weight until about 20, then they start getting fat (me included :) ), I don't know your height, but 60 kg could definately be an appropriate weight and nothing to worry about. 

You're not telling us how much you weight, but pushups require you to push a quite large portion of your body weight, my own unscientific measurements with my hands on a scale in pushup position tell me ~60%. Doing 13 kg in bicep/tricep workout doesn't really tell us anything. Different types of exercises vary a lot in how heavy they are due to the different mechanics of the exercises. I can deadlift about 160 kg, but I'm struggling with 8 kg in standing shoulder flies. Regarding compound lifts, the fact that they use more muscles doesn't mean that the muscles share the burden, it means that the movement is more complex and requires a larger amount of work in total. It's like a chain, every link has to be strong enough, that's why they are popular. My recommendations would be to do pushups on your knees, negative pushups (just do the lowering, first half of the movement, slowly, you are 40% stronger in the exentric phase than in the concentric so it should work better), dumbbell presses and planks. 

Sorry guys, I know most of you know flexibility as the ability to flex, but in this thread I want to have answers regarding the other, less popular type. There are tons of exercises that will strengthen your posterior chain, I think I have these down pretty well. Walking with good posture, straight back, eyes forward feels uncomfortable though, it feels a lot more natural to walk slightly hunched, looking down. This feels lik a typical case of being inflexible, and flexibility is a complicated matter. Does anyone have any good exercises I can do to make it feel more natural to walk with "good" posture? 

You should give a keto diet a try, I used to eat low carb a while ago while losing weight and I felt like even if I got hungry, I didn't get worn out mentally like you often do. Could be that your blood glucose levels don't fluctuate as wildly on a keto diet, but that's entirely speculative. Give it a week, the first days you'll feel like you can't focus at all, but you'll feel normal again in day 3-5. 

Don't worry if you don't feel sore, most people don't feel sore after every session, especially not if they are accustomed to exercising. Both soreness and muscle rebuilding is connected to microtears in your muscles though. What you might want to try is to increase the focus on the eccentric phase (lengthening) when working out, so if you're bench pressing, push the bar up explosively and let it take two seconds from the top to your chest, soreness is caused by the eccentric phase of a lift. Also make sure you rest enough and you're challenging yourself in every workout, if you can have a neutral face, it's too light. Regarding fat loss, what method are you using? If you're counting calories, you might be exaggerating both your basal metabolism and the number of calories used when workout out. Most calculators used exaggerates a lot since A. Some basal metabolism formulas are based on people living in the 1910's, and they had a lot more lean mass than people do today. B. Calories per hour calculators include both the "extra" calories used in the activity and the calories from your basal metabolism, so if a calculator says you used 700 kcal during 60 minutes, you'll have to subtract 100 kcal since those are already included in your basal metabolism. All in all, decrease your calorie intake and you WILL see fat loss eventually. 

Ok, day-to-day strength. What you want, or rather, what you want to avoid, is the kind of exercise some people do to look strong, i.e. workout arms, abs and chest. There's nothing wrong with strong arms, but strong arms don't do much good without a good back. No matter what workout you do, even if it's rather light, I'd recommend not doing it two days in a row, so either split your workout or do it 3.5 days/week. What you could do is alternate between stamina and strength, i.e. run mondays, workout strength tuesdays, and so on. Here's a workout for strength, without gym equipment: 

What exactly do you mean by energy levels? Accept the fact that your body will sometimes fail you, just let it rest and get back to work as soon as you feel well. Any muscle loss due to not being able to eat and train properly for such a short while is miniscule. 

No. You're confusing the look of people who've gone to the gym for 10 years with the effects of going to the gym. If you're naturally skinny, you won't pack on huge amounts of muscle, in fact, no one does, but especially not skinny people. Getting big takes many years. 

Eating large volumes of food will increase the size of your stomach temporarily, one of the many things that affect hunger is stomach emptiness, which will be the state of your stomach after eating a lot the night before. 

I believe so, but unless the person in question is benching themselves, you can't expect them to stay around to spot you for more than one or possibly two sets, so your best bet is to find someone else who is benching at a similar weight and take turns. 

Sounds like an incredibly bad idea. Unless you have an extra long barbell, it'll be hard to both get a good grip, and what's going to happen when your friend suddenly drops the barbell halfway through a deadlift? Is risking permanent, severe damage to your back worth it? People who injure their backs through improperly performed deadlifts often have pain on and off permanently, and not just pain when lifting but constant pain, the kind of pain that will make it hard to concentrate on doing your desk job. In addition to being risky, it'll also be much worse as an exercise since you won't have the control to push yourself as far as you can when lifting on your own. And no, it's not common, I've been lifting for 5+ years and I've never ever seen anyone try either. 

Something else that worked remarkably well is eating a strict keto diet, I got hungry, but my mind didn't get as fuzzy as it does when eating a regular diet. Give it a try. It takes a week to get used to. 

As 0.18 grams per pound of body weight is a very small amount, it's probably just a typo. 1.18 makes sense. 

A lot of people find it easy to lose weight with a keto (lchf) diet, but it doesn't work for everyone, you'll have to find what works best for you. The type of people that seems to have most luck eating keto are the ones with disturbed carbohydrate metabolism, i.e. those with high insulin resistance, i.e. often those with lots of visceral fat, those who are pre-diabetic (or diabetic) (only type-2 diabetes applies btw!), etc. It sort of makes sense to me that if your permanent, non-acute insulin levels are high, eating more carbs will tend to lead to fat accumulation, but I'm neither a doctor nor a dietician so I don't know for sure wether that is true. Ketosis is not really that important imo, some people put things like coconut fat in their coffee to increase their amount of ketones (a by-product of fat metabolism when you avoid eating carbs), what a surprise their ketones increase when they eat more fat! Ketone levels are not a sign of fat loss, it's a sign of fat metabolism, which may be due to burning your own fat or ingested fat. The main point of keto diets is to decrease your glycochemic load and replace it with other foods, which might have metabolic advantages for insulin resistant people, and to give you a good reason to not eat crappy carb-loaded foods like cookies, white bread and soda, which saves you quite a lot of calories. 

No, as long as you maintain proper form, it's not dangerous, the only back problems you'll have is "how can I find clothes that my huge back fit into". Every exercise put a strain on some joint and could thus be potentially dangerous. To me, it's a lot easier to maintain a neutral back while doing dumbbell rows than during a deadlift.