I think you're right first of all to think of the problem not in terms of whether a meritocracy is intrinsically or essentially right, but whether it may have an advantage over other systems. Your question seems to be couched mainly in terms of 'fairness' so I will try to do the same. For me there are two major potential drawbacks to distributing power according to 'merit'. The first is that the term itself may cover a number (some might say any number...) of different meanings. Is merit a matter of intellectual ability? Is it prowess in combat? Is it the ability to dispense patronage, or a measure of your commitment to god? Is it a combination of some, or all of these 'qualities'? I anticipate that anybody wishing to make a serious proposal towards meritocracy would first have to answer the question of what characteristics are meritorious, in much the same way that utilitarians who advocate 'the greatest good' must first offer some clear definition of that good. Furthermore, I would argue that your perception of such a system's 'fairness' would largely be a factor of how far your definition of 'merit' accords with society's as a whole. Secondarily, I think you could make something like a public choice critique of 'meritocracy'. For instance, if we as a society were to decide that 'merit' (insofar as your suitability to a position of power) was principally a matter of your ability to make rational, empirically grounded decisions, then we would still have develop reliable institutions for assessing and delivering suitable candidates to positions of power. But such institutions would then themselves become obvious targets for abuses of power, both at the level of design and implementation. Hence, many of the historical examples of ostensibly meritocratic systems, which you allude to yourself, are notable above all for the way that genuine merit was subverted or even suppressed. I think one of the more instructive illustrations of a meritocracy in action is afforded by the civil service examination system that operated in China until the early 20th century. Here you had a definition of merit that largely revolved around an individual's knowledge of the Chinese classics, which, while arguably a more suitable vector of aptitude for the civil service than ancestry or private wealth, was nevertheless highly fallible, and not necessarily any fairer per se. Moreover, those that did pass the examinations then became invested in the continuation of the system, even at the expense of its own suitability for the purpose intended. Regarding comparative advantage, the crucial point for me is that while a meritocratic system may be nominally fairer than a dynastic or plutocratic one, it still suffers from the same democratic deficit. That is to say, you allow a small group of people to make decisions in a society, including the decision about who should be making the decisions. Unless you have absolute trust that your societal metric for merit is correct and complete, I feel that this is inherently risky. I would also observe that many governments or societies exhibit meritocratic features in conjunction with hereditary and/or plutocratic ones. Indeed, part of the leftist critique of centre-right ideology is that it confuses wealth for merit (such and such a businessman is wealthy because he was smart, not because he was lucky, or because he exploited an unfair system). You might be interested to read something like Cathy O'Neil's 'Weapons of Math Destruction', about how algorithms designed to reward meritorious behaviour frequently reproduce the (decidedly unmeritorious) biases of their creators, leading eventually to the entrenchment of societal inequalities. Or you could read about the concerns surrounding the contemporary Chinese government's plan to introduce a 'Social Credit System' by 2020, by which a citizen may find herself rewarded for good behaviour (keeping her appointments, paying taxes on time), or else punished for 'anti-social' activities. Already, as a result of the pilot scheme, several million Chinese have been restricted from taking international flights due to their low merit. 

What is true of words denoting one sort of concept is not always true of words denoting other sorts of concepts, even if they are generally considered to have the same 'part of speech'. For instance, the progressive is X-ing construction sounds just fine when used with some verbs (John is running, Kate is writing), but odd, if not downright ungrammatical, with others (*Melinda is believing his story, *Steve is knowing the answer). The word is is likewise compatible with the progressive only in some contexts: both José is silly and José is being silly sound okay (albeit not equivalent), but between That is my car and *That is being my car, only the former is acceptable. In a broad sense, we can categorize words into three semantic groups: words referring to objects, words referring to properties, and words referring to actions. While these three groups generally align with the commonly used parts of speech terms noun, adjective, and verb, an approach based on semantics and actual usage rather than prescriptive rules makes a finer-grained classification possible. Just as we have three basic semantic groups, we might propose three basic sorts of usage. We may want to make outright reference to a concept, or we may want to invoke one concept to modify another, or we may want to predicate (or assert) a concept. The three semantic categories are not limited to specific sorts of usage, but there is clearly one sort of usage where each is best-suited, or prototypical in a linguistic sense. Objects, like DOG, TABLE or CAR, are usually time-stable — they persist from moment to moment in a way that properties (e.g., SHORT) and actions (e.g., JUMP) do not. They exist out in the world and can usually be counted. They're prototypical referents. This prototypicality is reflected in the wider range of grammatical options available to them in the reference function. We can refer to property words and event words, but we have to mark them explicitly. We have to add a noun-making suffix -ness to refer to the property word dark (Darkness is unpleasant), and the suffix -ing or the infinitive marker to to refer to the action word run (I like running / I like to run). We don't need any such modification for more prototypical object words — in fact, there are additional linguistic strategies available when referring to object words: we can make them plural, for instance, or use articles. Compare I like dogs with *I like darknesses or *I like runnings — only the first sounds okay. Again, while we can usually make a plural of a non-prototypical referent, it takes more effort, and the meaning won't necessarily be the same: I like several sorts of darkness. Properties, like YOUNG, FAT, BLUE, likewise show a preference for one sort of construction: modification. No special marking is necessary to indicate that a property word is serving a modifying function: the red car, the young girl. Object words and action words can be used for modification, but they need to be marked for that function by additional linguistic form. For example, possessive 's is one way to mark an object word for modification (the man's car), while -ing can signal that an action word is modifying a referent (the sleeping girl). In both cases, words denoting non-prototypical properties need extra marking. (In linguistics this sort of extra marking is called 'structural coding'). Similarly to how only more prototypical object words can inflect for plural number in English, more prototypical property words also have additional 'inflectional potential' available to them when serving a modifying function: they can inflect for degree through suffixation: young, younger, youngest, fat, fatter, fattest, blue, bluer, bluest (or through suppletion: good, better, best). Less prototypical property words can still mark the comparative, but they have to do it with a separate word: nuanced, more nuanced, most nuanced, not nuanced, *nuanceder, *nuancedest (stated another way, these property words demonstrate the greater inflectional potential of property words in a modification function, but at the same time they need greater structural coding to express that potential). Object words and action words used for modification can't express this inflectional potential at all: *the man's-est car, *the car most of the man, *the sleepingest girl. Considered in this light, the word is is a verb in that it is part of a predicating construction, but both its function and its range of 'inflectional potential' and 'structural coding' differ greatly depending on the semantic class of the word it occurs with: 

I am from India, and I have heard many stories and also there is a TV serial based on him, I saw it partially when I was a kid. His original name was Vishnugupta, He was famous with name Chanakaya which means Son of Chanak, and was called Kautilya because he was from 'Kutil' class present at that time. A little his known of his childhood but I read that he was born as a Kerala (a state) Brahmin ( Top class in Indian Racism system), Impoverished , lean, and unprepossesing. Another story says He was born as North Indian Brahmin and studied at university of Taxila and came to Patliputra (the magdha dynasty) to earn laurels in Philosophic disputation. He was known for his proficiency in Three 'Vedas', in 'mantras' and skill in strategem, dexetrity in intrigue and policy, but also known for his physical ugliness, disgusting complexion and deformity of legs and other limbs. According to buddhist, his parents noticed that he was born with full set of teeths and which was a mark of future king, but his parents did not want that, so they got them removed thus making him more uglier, but later He did become 'King-Maker' instead. He went to the kingdom of king 'Dhana-nanda' to display his knowledge but got insulted by arrrogant king as king said he leave him feast after he had started eating, then Chanakya vowed not to tie his forlock knot again untill he had destroyed the Nanda Dynasty root and branch. He wandered disguised, searching for a suitable person for the place of king when he got his eyes upon the boy Chandragupta, a boy of royal line, but fostered by cowherd, playing with his companions on village grounds. The boy was acting the role of king , dispensing justice and giving orders to the 'ministers'. On ascetic beeseching him for alms, the 'king' grandly gave away a herd of someone else's cows! The chanakya was so impressed with the boy, he he bought the boy then and there for 1000 panas, took him to taxila and gave him the education of future king. Later on, together they attacked Nanda dynasty, and a legend has that when they were getting unsuccesful, the right tactics to destroy powerful kingdom came to them when they saw a woman whom they had taken shelter to scolding her son "You are just like chandragupta" because he had burnt his fingers starting to eat from the centre of a hot dish. They changed their tactics and began the conquer from the frontiers. That is what I have read on his history and remember from serial. Yes, He did meet Alexander too at that time, I do not remember what exactly happened, but Ii do remember towards the end of TV serial alexander was there, I am not sure of conclusions but yeah , a scene I remember that when alexander was leaving from India after winnig so much of world, he saw a sadhu dancing in a forest, and he asked why are you dancing on one feet (something like that) and sadhu's reply was, no matter what or how much land you own today, when you will die, you are only going to take 6 feet of land, thats all. Now $URL$ is a link to a comprised version which only states the statements, his policies and laws, from original version, If any one is interested. I am more Interested in what was his philosophy, economic policies, how effective were thy, a guy with economic and political knowledge can answer it better, all I know is history and legends. Thanks!