Artifacts are natural substances with accidental forms. Accidents exist in another, not of themselves. But a clock is not just a form all by itself. Only matter-form composites have existence. So, although a clock has no intrinsic principle urging it to change from non-clock to clock—this accidental form has to come from an extrinsic, efficient cause, e.g., from a clockmaker—a clock is a substance because it is able to preserve its being a clock; it does not corrupt into a non-clock after the clockmaker stopped giving it its accidental form. Here's what Aristotle says at the beginning of Physics bk. 2: 

My conception is my existence, and existence is not extrinsic to myself. My form is what makes me actual, just as the form of the Statue of David is what makes it actually the Statue of David and not a formless lump of marble. cf. St. Thomas Aquinas's short work (opusculum) De Principiis Naturæ Commentating on Aristotle's Metaphysics book 5, St. Thomas Aquinas shows (Sententia libri Metaphysicae lib. 5 l. 3 "All Causes Reduced to Four Classes" [785]) that there can a hierarchy of causes: 

Capecchi's 2012 History of Virtual Work Laws §3.1.2.1 "Proof of the law of the lever" (p. 48-50) concludes on p. 50 by mentioning ancient and modern criticisms of Archimedes's proof. Mach considered Archimedes's proof circular (The Science of Mechanics p. 13-14): 

St. Thomas Aquinas shows "Quod anima sit tota in toto et tota in qualibet parte" ("that the whole soul is in the whole body and in each of its parts") in Summa contra Gentiles lib. 2 cap. 72. He shows that the soul is 

Thus, why do Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., and those who follow his legal philosophy think that all law is positive law? 

Etymologically, the word for "wave" is connected to that of "water", so it would seem to go back to Thales. Latin unda comes from the Sanscrit "to be wet". The Greek word for wave is κῦμα = "anything swollen" (or hollowed out). 

That work also discusses angels extensively because of the importance of the existence of immaterial beings for metaphysics to be a real science (as sciences must have real objects of study).Also, see Réginald Garrigou-Lagrange's The Essence & Topicality of Thomism, which discusses all this concisely. Although all analogies break down at some point, it could be thought of this way:matter : form :: essence : existence. Lumbreras gives this explanation of the 7th Thesis: 

Are mythological stories scientific explanations? {It would seem so because Zeus, for example, was as early explanation of lightening.} Or are they stories/rhetoric? Or is story-telling or rhetoric identical to scientific explanation? {It would seem so because the Big Bang theory, for example, is a story about the development of the universe.} 

source: my answer to HSM.SE's "How did Aristotle influence Euclid?", with extra emboldening of terms 

cf. also his commentary on Aristotle's Ethics bk. 1, which is on happiness Your question seems similar to Objection 3 of St. Thomas's question "Whether one man can be happier than another?" (ibid. q. 5 a. 2): 

No, because resurrectionists and reincarnationists assume diametrically opposed anthropologies. St. Thomas Aquinas teaches that a human is an inextricable composite of a body and soul; the human soul begins to exist when the body does. This is different from the view of the reincarnationist Platonists, who think human souls exist before the body and that man is a “soul clothed with a body.” St. Thomas Aquinas, in Summa Contra Gentiles II cap. 83, gives some philosophical reasons against reincarnation. (cf. this answer to "How are the soul and the body 'related' to each other according to the RCC?") 

St. Thomas Aquinas, who was a follower of Aristotle in many things, has 32 questions on happiness (felicitas) in his Treatise on Man's Last End (Summa Theologica I-II qq. 1-5) or purpose, which he says is twofold: 

What did the Greeks call the "trial and error" reasoning process? Bruce Aune's review of Wilson's Peirce's Empiricism: Its Roots and Its Originality claims "The name 'empirici' is in fact traceable to a Greek verb meaning 'to make trial of.'" 

Where does Aristotle say that it's better to know a little bit of higher things (e.g., metaphysics) than a lot of lower things (e.g., physics)? It would seem this would be somewhere in his Ethics or Metaphysics. 

Did Plato also study classification itself? It would seem the study of classification is part of logic, since logic is the art whereby we organize our thoughts, and this is exactly what classification does. 

This would imply the only red things are balls. But "red" could certainly be predicated of "ball," as in 

At least in Scholastic philosophy, "speculative" (speculativus) is synonymous with "theoretical," as opposed to "operative" or "practical". 

What is the philosophical study of classification called? Taxonomy? Taxology? "Category theory"? "Classificology"? Logic? And which philosopher(s) studied exactly what it means to classify? How we classify? What classification tells us? Whether classifications are explanations of what they classify? Whether there are true and false classifications? Can we judge the goodness or badness of a classification? If so, how? etc. I'm not looking for how philosophers have classified things (e.g., the Tree of Porphyry or Aristotle's Categories), but exactly what classification itself is. The answer here says 

cf. also Edouard Hugon, O.P.'s commentary: Les vingt-quatre theses thomistes or Garrigou-Lagrange, O.P.'s short The Essence & Topicality of Thomism. 

Why is the principle of non-contradiction indemonstrable? Commenting on Aristotle's Metaphysics, St. Thomas writes (Sententia libri Metaphysicæ lib. 4 l. 6 [607.]): 

What is the difference between correlation and causation? Pirates and Global Temperature Example For example, how do we know when we're dealing with correlation only and not also causation here? 

St. Thomas Aquinas's Summa Theologica question "Of the Accidents Which Remain in This Sacrament" should help. Relevant to your question "Is transubstantiation faithful to Aristotle's categories?," its article "Whether the accidents remain in this sacrament without a subject?" contains an objection that cites Aristotle: 

Expounding on this, St. Thomas Aquinas delineates the proper order of learning (Sententia Ethic., lib. 6 l. 7 n. 17 [1211.]): 

Atheists deny cosmological proofs of God's existence (e.g., St. Thomas's) based upon sense experience (e.g., that change exists in the world). What are atheists' proofs of God's non-existence, based upon the sense experience, besides that evil exists in the world? And what is evil besides a privation of the good? And what is good without an Absolute Good? Thus, it seems atheists are dogmatically opposed to theism, just like relativists are dogmatically opposed to absolute truths. (cf. Edward Feser's The Last Superstition: A Refutation of the New Atheism, which speaks of "dogmatic fiat" etc., and his Five Proofs of the Existence of God) 

This general principle applies here: Something cannot give what it does not have. Thus, a more complex organism cannot result from a lesser complex organism alone because the latter cannot give what it doesn't have (i.e., complexity in this case) to the former. The complexity has to come from somewhere because complexity is something positive (not a privation or negation). Whether you call the origin of the complexity a "higher directive principle" or "evolution" or "natural selection" is another question. 

It doesn't seem your counterexample works. Do twin primes and prime numbers differ conceptually? St. Thomas answers his objection in Disputed Questions on Truth q. 1 a. 1 ad 3: 

The denial of "Give us this day our daily bread" leads to Marxism, in which one ultimately trusts the State to provide his material needs, not God. 

Ancient & Modern Classifications Compared Modern, mathematical physics is a "mixed science" or "intermediate science" (scientia media), taking its material principles from physics (natural philosophy) and its formal principles from mathematics. The science in Aristotle's time that did this was astronomy; thus, 

St. Thomas commentated the following works of Aristotle, roughly ordered here below according to the order in which St. Thomas says it's best to learn them: 

Source: "The Semiosis of Angels" by the prominent semiotician John Deely (author of the bestselling The Basics of Semiotics) 

A very relevant question is whether natural law can change. If it can, then what is religiously valued centuries ago (like that marriage is between one man and one woman) is not necessarily so today. This is moral relativism. However, as is said in the Decretals (Dist. v): "The natural law dates from the creation of the rational creature. It does not vary according to time, but remains unchangeable." So, since humans today are of the same species or nature as our ancestors, the natural law for us is the same as it was for them. Note: In everything below the horizontal line I am only considering moral values. Dogmatic truths, which could be considered "values" in a broader sense, are immutable because God cannot contradict himself. The "values" upheld by the eternal, divine law are immutable because, by definition, the divine law is eternal, participating in God's eternally unchanging nature: "every knowledge of truth is a kind of reflection and participation of the eternal law, which is the unchangeable truth," as Augustine says in De Vera Relig. xxxi (source). 

Classification of the Modern Sciences C. S. Peirce (1839-1914), the greatest American philosopher-scientist IMHO, did some excellent work on the classification of the modern sciences (cf. this). 

His argument hinges on the real distinction between being and essence, which he overviews in, e.g., De Ente et Essentia. 

The "butterfly effect" appears to be a modern variant of the ancient philosophical axiom "Parvus error in principiis, magnus in conclusionibus" or "Parvus error in principio, magnus est in fine": 

Predicates A predicate (prædicare = "to assert") is, according to the Dictionary of Scholastic Philosophy (p. 95), 

Yes, logic should be studied first because, as St. Thomas Aquinas says (below), "logic teaches the method of the whole of philosophy." Before doing philosophy, you must know its method, as you cannot simultaneously do philosophy and invent its method along the way, as Aristotle says.**Metaphysics 995a13 [174.]: "it is absurd to seek at the same time knowledge and the way of attaining knowledge!" St. Thomas Aquinas, considered one of the greatest commentators on Aristotle, describes in his Sententia Ethic., lib. 6 l. 7 n. 17 [1211.] which subjects and in what order boys must learn: 

James and Dewey were students of Peirce. Peirce opposed their pragmatism to such a degree that he thought it necessary to term his original pragmatism "pragmaticism," distinguishing it from their simple positivist pragmatism, which is compatible with nominalism, as superior to it in three ways: 

Some philosophers have denied the philosophical axiom "Agere sequitur esse"* ("'To act' follows from 'to be'"). What reasons do they give for thinking that action precedes (logically? ontologically? temporally?) being? How can there be action without there first being a being that acts? *cf., e.g., Contra Gentiles lib. 2 cap. 35 n. 4: "effectus naturalis agentis sequitur esse agentis" ("the effect of a natural agent follows the being of the agent") Also, it would seem Heraclitus and neo-Heraclitians like Bergson might think "Esse sequitur agere." 

from William A. Wallace, O.P., “Thomism and the Quantum Enigma,” The Thomist 61 (1997): 455–468. (my emphasis): 

See also this SEP article on Ockham by the Catholic logician Paul V. Spade Also, Ockham is known as the Venerabilis Inceptor ("Venerable Beginner") because he was a drop-out who remained a bachelor, never having obtained a higher degree. Modified from my Christianity StackExchange question "Was William of Ockham the first sedevacantist?" 

See also: the juvenile books by Matthew Lipman of the Institute for the Advancement of Philosophy for Children 

This is the closest I've been able to find in St. Thomas, where he discusses whether truth is immutable (Summa Theologica I q. 16 a. 8 ad 3): 

Philosophical Physics by Vincent Edward Smith discusses (ch. 6: pp. 181 or PDF pp. 98 ff.) how elementary particles have less being than, e.g., a human; hence, they are more indeterminate. Wolfgang Smith's Quantum Enigma (cf. his related article) discusses the relation between what he terms "corporeal bodies" (what we sense with our external senses) and "physical bodies" (what modern physics conceives, e.g., atoms). Werner Heisenberg recognized in his Physics and Philosophy that the probability wave concept in quantum mechanics "was a quantitative version of the concept of 'potentia' in Aristotelian philosophy" (p. 41) and that the "concept of the soul for instance in the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas was more natural and less forced than the Cartesian concept of 'res cogitans,' even if we are convinced that the laws of physics and chemistry are strictly valid in living organisms." (p. 80). This discussion of hylemorphism and modern science might help.