Don't think of it in terms of "corporate" vs "startup." There are "corporate" jobs with that same atmosphere, and the troubles you have with it in the "startup" environment are simply amplified a thousand times over. Instead, think about the environment in which you work best, then find jobs that fill those requirements, regardless of whether the company is a "corporate" company or a "startup." Here in the US, at least, when a company gets sufficiently large, individual departments start becoming "startup-like," rendering most of the assumptions about large companies incorrect (I've personally seen this with Google, Chase, and Wendy's). Also, don't just look at the catch phrases like "family-friendly" or "work-life balance," make note of actual policies and culture that indicate work/life balance, such as generous PTO and parental leave that people actually use (even if you don't plan to personally use it). A (true) "results-oriented/only work environment" will also tend to be more flexible and appreciative of one's personal time. I recommend having a look at companies that are largely or entirely remote (this allows you to have your own office/working environment), and that work on a single, mature product (so you're largely just working tickets). As others have mentioned, short term contract jobs often have similar to what you're looking for (and if they don't fill all of them, they can be short enough to live with). 

Perhaps you should first ask yourself why it bothers you so much? Why do you feel undermined by the fact that your boss knows about the conversations you're having with your team? Ask yourself what the underlying message is from that team member. If you can't see it, then simply ask that person why they do it. A simple, "hey, I noticed you've been CC'ing {boss} on our conversations and was just curious as to why?" should suffice and shouldn't come off like a jerk (hopefully; it's possible your past actions have already tainted the water). From a worker's perspective, I am more likely to CC a third party when I feel I'm being stonewalled or misinterpreted, or I feel that something isn't being run right, and that my concerns are stopping at my immediate manager and not reaching the people who could really make the changes I believe are necessary. Since you mention that these conversations are about things he thinks you should be doing differently, it's likely he feels the same way. Of course you're going to disagree with him. You manage the way you do, because that's how you feel is right, given the pressures put on you. Having someone telling you you're wrong is going to put you on the defensive, at least at first. Perhaps, too, take a little more time and consider where that person's concerns are coming from and see what merits they have and if there's anything you can do to at least meet them in the middle. If you can't budge on their concerns, then see where you can be more transparent in your communication to them about why things are the way they are. People are a lot more accepting of things that seem nonsensical when someone has explained the reasons for it (and, ideally, acknowledged that it is kind of weird). Also, avoid using "that's just how things are" as a reason, especially if you work with knowledge workers. "That's just how things are" isn't good enough for most people, least of all those hired for problem solving roles (after all, they see a problem and are driven to fix it). If you give that as a reason to that type of person, then expect to find someone new to fill that position, because that person will very likely leave sooner or later (and the more he feels stonewalled, the sooner that will be). Part of being a good manager (and good leader) is recognizing when, where, and how you've failed your team (and how they feel you could be more successful). (You're human, it's going to happen.) If one or more of them has felt the need to CC your boss, then they feel that you've failed somewhere, they're trying to fix that failure point before it becomes a larger problem, and they feel you're not listening to them. How you go about it will depend in part on what feedback they're giving you, but as it stands, you are very likely losing that employee's trust and respect, and when you take sincere steps to regain that trust and respect, he will be less likely to CC your boss when he has future concerns. 

What is the nature of your personal projects? Are they paid freelancing gigs, volunteer stuff for non-profits, open source contributions? Do you have anything released on the Android Market that's at least reasonably popular? Do/did you do side projects for any of your last jobs that used these technologies in a production environment? If they're anything of that nature, then they're fair-game resume-fodder not only for your list of skills, but also for your experience/projects section. If they're not, then it will be harder to display that you're actually competent in the technologies you list, but still doable. Even if you don't have it open sourced, making your code available to review by your prospective employers will go a long way to them considering you, despite your lack of formal experience. You can provide the code easily through sites like GitHub (it may also be worth annotating with something like DocBlock or Docco, and explaining why you did certain things the way you did). When it comes to software development, what you know and have used -- and your ability to demonstrate your knowledge -- is more important than how you learned it. To developers, it's generally a given that you taught yourself the vast majority of languages and technologies that you use (it's part of the personality that's expected of good developers - the ability to learn and find resources without a formal structure or a teacher). 

Look into your company's reimbursement policy. That alone can handle your concerns over Internet requirements and overtime meals. Most companies already have in place a means of reimbursing meals eaten while working overtime. If you really want to make use of it, simply order in, so you have a receipt to show for reimbursement. If the company doesn't already have measures in place to handle Internet reimbursement for remote workers, then help them build it. It's not uncommon to reimburse at least part of the Internet bill for full-time remote workers. Even a partial reimbursement can be enough to upgrade your Internet to something faster (and after you consider the number of people using a given connection, you may have more bandwidth at your disposal than you did in the office). If they still won't do it, then look into seeing if it's a tax write-off. The same goes for any equipment that you use primarily for work. You can also look at the Internet thing a different way -- you're now able to use what you're paying for, thereby getting more value out of the money you're spending, anyway. The same goes for gas, electricity, etc. Those are what businesses refer to as fixed costs. Fixed costs are costs that have to be paid regardless of whether the business is actually open. For a physical location, this includes heating and cooling, electricity, maintenance, etc. As an individual, you have them, as well. The actual dollar value may vary, but you have to pay those costs regardless of whether you're in the building. As for the "pantry snacks," I personally find them to be a disadvantage. Most "pantry snacks" are candy, pretzels, etc. Those are things I can easily overeat and so try to avoid. Sometimes, there will be fruit, but it tends to go quickly. I snack less when I'm working at home than I do at an office, so the "cost savings" of better health, not to mention the better selection for when I do want a snack, far outweighs the opportunity cost of having the company provide them for me. In the end, though, I think the biggest thing that needs to happen is for you to look at the situation a little differently. No, you're not getting free food, or you have to use your own Internet and equipment, but you are gaining the freedom to work wherever you choose, potentially on whatever equipment you choose (which usually works in your favor, since the company will likely provide the bare minimum), possibly whenever you choose. You're also saving not only gas money from your commute, but also wear and tear on your car, stress from making the commute, and time away from your family. You will see even greater benefits in a few years, when your child is in school, because you don't have to have child care. Instead, you can be home for your child, and if you still need to work, have them play quietly, read a book, or do homework. Trust me, after 5 years of paying what amounts to a second mortgage or car payment in child care costs, you'll be jumping for joy at the day you no longer have to pay them, especially when it comes nearly 5 years earlier than for parents who work outside the home. 

Unless you actually got fired, which it sounds like you didn't (otherwise you'd probably already be out of a job), just tell them the same thing you've said here -- the owning company went bankrupt and you got laid off as a result. It happens, it's no big deal. No one's going to dock you for it (and if they do, you probably dodged a bullet anyway). For "proving" that you got laid off, I've never needed proof. They can easily contact your old employer, but unless you give them a reason to doubt you, most people will trust you're being honest. 

The numbers alone don't really tell you anything, even about how they treat their customers. At the very least, look at the content of the complaints, and how they were resolved. Then, use that as a basis for more research, if needed. Some good examples can be found in this article. In the opening, it specifically talks about the interaction between Southwest Airlines and a customer. More generally, it talks about how the author feels it's important to stand behind one's employees than to appease customers (when the employees have done the right things, of course). In the Southwest example, it's quite likely that the customer may have filed one or more complaints with the BBB. Likewise, customers who are jerks, and then "fired" from the company, may file complaints as well. These probably aren't valid complaints, and even if they are, it doesn't accurately reflect on how the company treats its employees. In fact, using your method of judging, it actually shows the complete opposite from reality - the company pissed off one or more customers because they defended their employees. If you look at the content of the complaints, you can get a general idea of the nature of the complaint, and whether employee treatment may have even factored at all into the equation. It will also help you better gauge the company's overall ethics, especially if there are themes to the complaints (for example, I probably wouldn't want to work for a company that has a high proportion of complaints about breach of contract on the company's part). Even then, it's not necessarily going to be an indicator of how the company treats its employees. It might give you leads to follow up on, but your best bet will be to talk to people who actually work(ed) for the company. Very often, word travels about who treats their employees badly and who treats them well. 

IT is a huge field, so it depends on a number of factors, including your role, how many are also in your kind of role, and the company culture itself. Your Role Some jobs are inherently going to have on-call in some form or another. Developers, systems administrators, and some higher level help desk usually have to be on call at least intermittently, because, let's face it, things don't just break during the 9-5, and sometimes, you have to do a rollout or maintenance in the middle of the night. Such is the life of running critical infrastructure. However, some jobs don't have on-call at all (or only do as a formality). The manager of a deployment server farm, for example, may not need to have on-call, because the nature of the setup or the business requirements allows a downed server to not be an issue that can't be handled during standard working hours. Likewise, some help desks have strict hours, and business needs that don't require anyone to be on call. How Many Others Are In Your Role The more people you have on your team, doing a similar job to yours, the less you have to do the de facto 24/7 on call thing, because there are others with whom to share the load. If you're the developer and the sysadmin and the help desk, then you're stuck on 24/7 on call. However, if you're one of a team of 10 developers and you have dedicated sysadmins and help desk, then you might have to do a week of on-call once every three months, and unless you happen to get it during a roll-out of some sort, you're not likely to actually be called. Company Culture Poor project management and planning from the managers can create overtime where there needn't be any. Some companies even expect people to work more hours as part of their culture (it's not poor planning, but rather a cultural thing; they plan with the extended hours in mind; these are the "burn and churn" type companies). Conversely, many companies specifically frown upon extra work time and make a point to encourage a typical 9-5, or even fewer work hours. Likewise, some companies in which on-call is a necessity allow for "comp time" (this is particularly the case for employees that don't get overtime pay). That is, time spent actively working on-call hours (ie - actually fixing an issue) can be taken out of the regular work day. For example, if you spend 3 hours one night fixing an issue, you could come in after lunch, or leave before lunch on another day. Company Country Of Origin As part of company culture, where the company originates from heavily influences its view on number of hours employees should work. Traditional American corporations, for example, often expect 40+ out of their people, whereas Dutch companies typically frown upon more than 32-35. Some newer American companies have been implementing such policies as unlimited paid time off, and even minimum required paid time off, so we may see this culture change in the coming decades in the US. How Do You Find The Company That Matches Your Ideals? First, write down your ideals. You can't seek out a match until you know what you're looking for -- and for what will drive you away. If you're just getting started, you might have to try a few places out, first. In the job posting, there are often certain key words that you learn to look out for that are red flags to the type of environment the company fosters. For example, "fast-paced" is often code for "tight deadlines with no or even negative slack" and unless you're a really fast worker, will often result in overtime. "Silicon Valley feel" is usually code for super open floor plans in which there aren't even cube walls between you and your coworkers. Have a look at their benefits, too. Are the extent of their benefits things you'd typically expect, or superficial things (like ping pong tables)? Or do they mention things like more than 2 weeks paid time off (or, better yet, unlimited, or mandatory minimums), paid maternity/paternity leave (particularly in the US, where it's not required), 20% time, etc? Ask about remote working, too. Even if you choose to work in the office, I've found that their attitude toward remote workers says a fair bit about their culture, overall. If they tout flexible hours, ask about it, too. Is it "flexible" in that you can come in anywhere between 9 and 9:30, or is it flexible in that you can work any time you want, as long as you have a few hours overlapping (or, even better, any time you want, period). At the interview, ask for a tour of the company (if it's a physical location). Many places are happy to do so. Keep an eye and ear out in the environment in which you'll be working. Look/listen for key things that turn you off or on to the company. (Also, if something like a ping pong or pool table is touted as a perk, see if/when it actually gets used. If you can, ask the people working there that aren't interviewing you.) Ask how they measure productivity. The mention of 80 tickets in 40 hours vs 40 tickets in 80 hours only applies if the skill requirements of the tickets are the same. A help desk peon might be able to close even 200 tickets in a 40 hour span, while a Tier 3 person may only close 10 tickets in that 40 hour span. Is the T3 less efficient? Not likely. The T1's are probably most password resets, while the T3's are downed servers and hardware failures.