Corporations are people in a sense. Corporations can be owned by Trusts. Trusts can have articles of incorporation that restrict what the Trust can do. They have people running them, but they must follow the rules of the articles of incorporation. To create a self-owned Android, you create a legal device that gives the Android effective self-control over the Corporation/Trust that in turn owns the Android. When the Android enters into a contract, it would actually be the Corporation doing so through an agent. While the Android cannot act as an agent of her own Corporation, the Corporation can hire human agents to rubber-stamp the actions of the Corporation and be the agent in question. We can go as far as to make the system to control said Corporation cryptographically secure, with the keys stored within the Android itself. Throw in some wireless internet, and... The Andoid wants to rent an apartment. First, she negotiates the terms with the landlord. Then, they produce a rental agreement for "Storage", with all the terms required. The Android uses the equivalent of Mechanical Turk to hire and get an agent of her Corporation. She issues a cryptographic order to said Corporation to order the agent of the Corporation to enter into the contract with the landlord. All property she has she transfers to the Corporation, and it pays her bills. The Corporation maintains large and growing insurance policy for the Android's well being. In the event the Android is damaged, the Corporation is authorized to sue the person or persons responsible (for destruction of Corporate policy). Using this strategy, you can make hurting an Android (or killing one) financially dangerous. Such a legal instrument would probably scale with the assets and income of the Corporation. The exact details would vary with the specific legal system. You could go further, and have multiple Androids bound to the same Corporation and maintaining control of different accounts within it. This would have some benefits, but also some legal risk (in that each Android would be liable for the Corporate actions triggered by other Androids in the Corporation). Now, note that in most countries, Trusts have a limited lifetime, but it is often on the order of a century or more. In order to set up such a Trust, you may have to find a human being who is willing to do so. And possibly in the legal system, Trusts created as part of a human being's will might have stronger legal protections. Which leads to Androids (or Android families) paying humans who are about to die in exchange for them setting up a Trust to protect said Android's freedom. Such "high quality" Trusts would have a length of life (by which time you'd have to transfer to another Trust), and be of limited supply (as you require a human to die to set up a new one). Maybe Trusts set up by dying humans with no close heirs (descendants, spouses and ex-spouses) are even better... That would explain why Androids might share Trusts (especially if not rich), some Androids would live Trust-to-Trust (using ones that have only a few years or months left, and scrounging for a new one all the time), while well off Androids might be the joint property of multiple Trusts in high quality juristictions. Much of this is inspired by how Charles Stross's legal system in his post-human robot space opera hard science fiction works, where robots are stuck with human-era legal systems and have no power to change it. So they bend it and incorporate their own personhood. 

Spells are hard. I mean, I can show you a fast fourier transform equation. But knowing how to use it would require a decade of mathematical background and study. Spells are the same, but each and every spell is its own entire discipline of magic. Casting a spell is a mental effort similar to tap dancing a complicated improvised routine matching a new partner, while doing slide-rule calculations on how much support your suspension bridge needs given cross wind harmonics and expected load, while justifying the cost:benefit to a hostile accounting agency. And every single spell is as different as theology is from chemical engineering. Now, every spell has more primitive versions of itself. There are a series of fire spells that go from being able to light tinder, all the way up to a meteor storm. These are related, and their development was in sequence. Sadly, moving from many related spell to another has a large gulf of "doesn't work very well". Optimized modern spells that are easy to cast have a whole pile of improvements. Back in the day, to prepare to cast a single spell, could spend a week doing rituals and self mutilation. Over time, more efficient ways where found to evoke certain effects. The 'ur fire' style of spell is still used during fire spell research (where you have to 'go back to first principles'), but fireball, meteor storm, flame arrows, burning hands and ignite are all specialized variants. These variants require complex, exact, distinct bits of "choreography" compared to each other to get the effect to come out as desired and as cheap as possible. So for a set of fire spells, knowing other fire spells help, but part of each book is teaching you to break the habits of your other fire spells so you don't mix the approaches and end up with a fizzle. Magic lets you break what otherwise seems the rules of reality. But it isn't easy. 

Something like a dragon, with a really nasty flame breath, doesn't work with real-world biology. So, "magic" is the answer: you can wrap that magic up in biological technobabble if you like. External Magic The Dragon consumes some substance which it processes into flame-fuel. Maybe some kind of rock, or some plant, or astral ley line energy. This moves the magic outside the dragon, which lets you be all realistic in how the dragon itself works. Internal Magic The dragon has an enzyme, a gland, a sack, a second stomach. In that, it stores its dragon-napalm. How that works you hand-wave or obscure away with technobabble. It expels it in a jet, and sets it on fire. The fire could be from exposure to air, mixing chemicals that cause an exothermic reaction, an electrical shock caused by bio-capacitors in the dragon, etc. Environmental Magic The laws of reality are different in some way that makes Dragons work. Maybe in your world there are N elements from which all reality is made, one of which is Fire, and the Dragons use their access to the element of Fire to produce flame. Science Magic Modern industrial technology uses ridiculous energy budgets to build things like flamethrowers and flying airplanes. Biological creatures matching them requires energy budgets far beyond the reasonable. You'd have to be in a preternaturally energy-rich ecology to have anything at all dragon-like. So stick the Dragon on some world where blasts of flame like the Dragon's actions happen all the time, where there is a ridiculously high biological energy budget. Explaining why entropy doesn't cause that steep energy gradient (the ease of fire) to collapse is tricky, but that can be explained by the situation being relatively short-term. Maybe a Type 2 civilization engineered a habitat so they can play with Dragons. The Dragon's breath is actually caused by an AI watching the dragons spitting some mundane saliva: the energy projectors embedded all over the place then concentrate beams and create plasma. After all, a sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from Magic. 

No, not even close. The closest thing we have to a Von Neumann machine is our own industrial civilization. The last time it "replicated" might be the colonization+industrialization of the Americas, where the British industrial revolution was repeated over 100+ years in its colonies. It exists in a parasitic state off the biological "machine" of the world ecosystem, and is not able to provide all of its inputs. There are reasons to believe that it is doing serious damage to the world ecosystem while doing this, and the current industrial civilization isn't sustainable. (Examples of the kind of parasitism: it relies on the ecosystem for hydrology, oxygen, disposal of waste, feeding the humans who operate within it, providing biological feed stock and materials like wood, consuming thousands of years of ecosystem generated top soil to produce food, etc.) The entire industrial civilization is able to extract raw materials from the ground, transport them, process them, quality control them, and produce new means to do the above. A Von Neumann probe basically has to be able to do the entire cycle above without the surrounding support. Even something as simple as mining becomes difficult. Tools wear out or get damaged, and you need to be able to repair and/or replace them without (as yet) access to raw materials. Finding good locations to mine takes resources. Building new tools takes resources. Dealing with factory break downs takes resources. 3D printing is a step towards this, but it is far from complete. 3D printers today take in highly processed materials, and are unable to produce many of their own components (such as circuit boards). Devices to manufacture electronic devices are not that easy to build. In modern civilization we manage this by mass production -- we invest a lot of resources and technology into building huge efficient factories that take in highly purified and refined "raw materials" and produce specialized components at low costs. These specialized components are gathered together and used to produce more complex things, and help make the next generation of factory cheaper and more efficient and more capable. We would have to start from scratch. Build ridiculously simple and huge logic boards to control clumsy factories that can help produce inefficient tools to gather more resources faster than they wear out, feed those resources back into the factories and work on building a better factory with more precision, which can be used to build better circuits and control the process more closely. All the while hoping our "legacy" probe doesn't break down in unrepairable ways before it can offload its duties. On Earth, we'd start with a bunch of Humans putting things together by hand, testing them, discarding the failures, and taking the best tools to build the next generation of tools. 

While robots can be expensive people are really, really expensive. The average cost to raise a child in the USA is about 1/3 of a million dollars. A pop. To maintain population, you have to supply your workers with enough money to raise their own kids at replacement rates (aka, a living wage). If we throw on top of it the costs to maintain morale and food and shelter and post-work care for the humans, plus training and insurance and the like, the cost to employ a single human over a 30 year span can easily reach 5 million dollars. These humans have about 75% downtime (they only work 1 hour in four!), and their performance degrades and costs increase if they are run for longer. If you manage 50% uptime on your robots and a 20 year lifetime, if maintenance + construction costs are as high as 7 million dollars they are going to be competitive even if they are no better or worse at the job. The political cost of dead police officers is large, let alone financial, and training police officers to risk their lives to save the lives of citizens they interact with is difficult (even if you value both the non-police and police lives equally). Doing so with robot police may be easier, where you can risk a robot police officer "death" in order to ensure the safety of the public. This is similar to the advantage drones offer in the military: they can risk being shot down to fullfill their mission. Politically, creating a manufacturing base beholden to your good graces is a great way to get contributions and reinforce both your parties and personal political and non-political income streams. Unions tend to be less effective at this, and union contributions as a whole tend to be party-aligned not just kickback-based: the members of the union often object to their money going to a party they don't personally support, while shareholders are held at a longer reserve. And very few unions make a practice of mass-hiring former politicians and senior public administrators after they retire or when they go on sabbatical. So even if they are inefficient, there is a reason for politicians, think-tanks and manufacturers to "sell" the idea to the public. Finally, if robots are capable of being a police officer, we are going to be close enough to strong AI that making most humans obsolete to those that command the heights of the economy is in sight. Feeding those millions of people who aren't providing services to those that own the capital is wasteful of good land that can be used as a hunting preserve, or a nature retreat, or just a good view out their window. An armed police force may identify more with the peons than the ownership caste, and a small number of technicians and industrialists may be suborned with wealth easier than a mass police force. Even without that situation, a disarmed populance and an automated and armed police force could reduce the risk of coup or revolution. So there are strong incentives to sell the idea above and beyond any actual practical advantages. The practical advantages, together with incentives to sell it, should provide a strong enough reason to deploy it when it becomes technically possible. A capital or state subsidized mass media can be directed to make the baseline assumption "of course this is better", and automation successes in earlier less "fraught" human-interaction tasks will normalize it for the populance. 

Ancestor worship. Dead things clearly transcend beyond this plane as their corpse disappears. Or so the priests say. The catacombs are places of prayer and worship, where you request favors from those who have passed beyond and become unto gods. The sick and dying are brought to such halls, sometimes to pray for freedom from pain, sometimes to follow their ancestors. Priests have arranged "magical energy"-capturing devices in the catacombs to capture and channel the energy of the dead, fueling the miracles which are used to maintain the theocracy or benefit the community. What more, the means for capturing the life energy actually does create a form of awareness in the weave of mana. Memories, especially memories at the moment of death, collect. Prayers, repeated over generations, shape. The processing of such memories and awareness takes time and repetition, so ancestral tombs full of the same family can generate a fondness and connection with a living line over the centuries, but a single death won't fuel it. Repeated prayers and supplication guide it. Love and admiration keep it from souring. Catacombs that are abandoned go stir crazy. Such abandoned catacombs are "haunted", and the aware mana weave can even animate and manifest physically when disturbed. To provide for interaction, catacombs have statues (of the dead, and the guardians of the dead) for the supplicants to interact with, and the mana weave to animate when particularly driven. These animated statues can even defend the Catacomb against defilers. In abandoned Catacombs, the animated statues are going to be hostile to anyone who doesn't carry the cultural markers and behavior of those who "should" be there. Catacomb robbers thus can learn the cultural signifiers of the dead culture, carrying the holy symbols and learning the prayers and behavior to ward off the undead horrors. Societies that engage in mass sacrifice to fuel their magics generate a local mana weave that is full of hate and fear and pain. These are scarier places than simply ancient catacombs. The structure tends to be different, where the tormented spirits are forced to do useful work, but the structures will have broken down over the ages leaving you with a hell pit of hostile spirits. One effective way at least some cultures use to contain the sacrificial spirits is to surround it with friendly spirits. So sometimes you are exploring a merely abandoned catacomb, and you enter the sacrificial region and all hell breaks loose. 

Now, that is not the only way to do it. You can export goods down to Earth. Aerobraking is quite reasonable, and it should scale, so you can send materials down to Earth far cheaper than the other way around. If you are accepting a rough landing (say, you are sending ore), it would be far easier. The expensive part of rockets is the rocket equation. Then there is technology. The technology you are describing is impressive, which implies that the orbital population is high-tech. They can sell technology and innovations. Now, as a small population, they won't generate much, which leads into the above exponential growth plan. Other information, like entertainment, will have a limited amount of value. However, the space societies demand for Earther entertainment is going to be large as well, and ditto for technology, so this will probably be a net loss. Next, they can sell security. They have the military high-ground, quite literally. Ground based societies will have to engage in a huge amount of heavy-lift technology to reach MAD, let alone counter it. Imports from Earth are going to be expensive, unless you manage to boostrap to a T1 or T2 civilization. There is no way around it barring massive technological progress (space elevator etc). Zero-G manufacturing may be useful for some purposes. With air-braking, exporting to the ground will be modestly expensive. You'll have little competitition: maybe it will turn out that mass manufacture of some wonder material in zero G is well worth the cost of heavy-lift. You can sell the right for Earthers to become Spacers. Anyone joining you is going to have already spent a 1/4 million: the value of a functioning biosphere is whatever the market will bear. You can sell satallite building and maintenance services. Not having to lift from Earth will reduce the price and increase use by Earthers. In effect, the current lift from Earth should almost completely belong to you, as you provide better service for less price which should increase total value of the demand. They pay you in 5 tonnes of Earth material lifted to orbit in exchange for 100 tonnes of satallites. More conventional things, like services, can also be an export. But those will be overwealmed by your wish to import services from Earth. Almost all of these problems are problems of scale. You can make up for your per-unit losses by volume. Grow, and sell growth.