If you are doing outriggers, then do not plane the boat. At those speeds, catching a pontoon on an outrigger can either rip it off, or twist the boat hard enough that occupants go flying. If you want to keep the boat stable, then the pontoons have to be IN the water, not above the surface. They don't have to be submerged, but should be reasonably close to their maximum cross section. There used to be a brand of canoes that had 4" foam floats just under the gunwale. Useless of course, and they didn't give any floation until the gunwale was 4 inches from the water. (Worse than useless: They moved the shaft of the paddle 4 inches further from the centerline, decreasing paddling efficiency nd increasing the torque turning the canoe) A v-bottom hull tends to have low primary stability, but great secondary stability. A flat bottom hull the opposite. It's easy to tip the boat some, but as you tip it, the part in the water becomes less like a log and more like a plank, so stability increases. Good canoes are shallow v bottoms. It makes it easy to lean the canoe to get higher performance turns. Also makes the bottom more rigid with less material making the canoe lighter. The problem with v-hulls is why triple v hulls are popular. Edit added after question revision. Caveat: I have zero experience with Starcraft. We have a lot of Lund aluminum boats that sound similar. They strap nicely on the support struts of a Cessna 180 (a.k.a. Far North Pickup Truck) The most common size is 12 feet long by around 4.5 feet wide. Everyone uses them with 9.9 hp Evinrudes. (You don't need a license for a boat under 10 h.p.) My experience with these boats is that they are virtually un-tipable. I've certainly seen many people standing in them casting. In fly in fish camps,the usual use is 1 guide, and two fishermen. I have never seen one with pontoons. 

Seed fluff: wild clematis, milkweed, dandelion, thistle, salsify... Birch bark: Shred into narrow pieces (1/16 wide Cedar bark: shred. Nettle fibers. In general google anything that could make rope or twine. 

I have tried paracord, and don't like it. True paracord is kernmantle construction, with a braided sheath and linear core. The sheath wears too fast. The hard braided nylon cord works well. You may want to buy a variety of sizes. 1/8 is hard on hands. 3/16 is too fat for some eyelets. 5/32 is my preferred cord. You can sometimes get cords in really interesting colours which make it easy to find your boots in a pile by the door. You can buy aglets at some fabric/sewing notion stores. Crimp them on with pliers. Other ways to keep the end from fraying. 

If you pitch your tarp too low, you will have condensation where your sleeping bag touches the tarp. I have found generally that I will stay drier with a tarp than I will in a tent. Most of my camping has been in either the Canadian Rockies, or the Pre-Cambrian Shield. Below timberline, not in established camps. My companions had to make compromises to find locations for their tents. This resulted in rain getting into the tent. With a tarp, I had a much easier time setting up in a spot that would remain dry, plus the advantage of a dirt/grass/moss/gravel floor meant that water that did get in was more likely to sink than to soak. (I carry a groundsheet too, but it has a much smaller footprint than the tarp. This is much less true if it's snowing. 

It's harmless. Rinse out anything loose. If you want, add a handfull of gravel, a cup of water, and shake for 10 minutes to get stuff out. A thermos is going to be food grade metal. So the alloys will not be exotic ones with chromium or vanadium in quantity. In passing: a 1 or 2 liter bottle with a pair of heavy socks pulled over it works nicely as a cheap thermos. I've used this for coffee on all day orienteering in winter, and even by day's end the coffee is at least warm. 

Many internal frame packs have compression straps on either side. Sometimes you can find pockets that can be attached by running the compression straps through them. Make a set of panniers for your pack. Take a dead pair of nylon pants, sew the cuffs to make each leg a bag, and cut along the back of the waist leaving about a 6" strip about the crotch. Sew up the ends of cuts so that it won't tear. In use: put stuff in either leg, keeping them balanced. A sleeping bag doesn't work well for this, as it's too big to go in one leg, and you probably don't have anything else the same bulk/weight. Food items work well, if in bags that won't soak up water. Fuel bottles are also ok. Socks, camp shoes, misc non-bulky clothing. When you pack up, let the panniers drape over your pack before you cinch the top hat down. Secure the midpoint of each leg to the middle compression strap. 

I have not seen this protracted to the scale of weeks. This is a common effect in my experience, but I've never seen an effect beyond a few days. I used to do dog sled expeditions in the Rockies, and east of Lake Winnipeg on the Canadian Shield. We sought out trappers/rangers cabins every 3-4 days, as it was a time to get everything really dry. We found that after spending time in the cold that the cabin was too hot. Even when my parka zipperpull thermometer said 50 F guys were in their underwear/without shirts. The basal metabolic rate increases when you are in cold weather. In my experience it will go back to normal within a few days of getting back to 'civilization'. 

Some bags have an adjustment where you can set the upper attachment point of the straps. This often isn't obvious, as you have to un thread the plastic triangular attach point, run the central strap under one or more horizontal straps on the back of the pack, then rethread the attach point. If it is pulling you back, I suspect that the attach point is too low, allow the bag to sag backward. Some bags have straps that run from the top of the bag to the front of the shoulder straps. Tightening these can keep the top of the pack from flopping around. You may also find that the perceived weight varies with how you load the pack. If I'm in rugged terrain, I like the centre of mass low, as it keeps me more stable. However this means I have to lean further forward to balance. On smooth terrain, a higher load allows a more relaxed pace. If the bag is "thick" front to back, and you have too much volume, then the load moves into the bottom of the pack. More work. Use compression straps to make it thinner so that you are using at least the entire pack that is in contact with your back. 

You are correct: Mittens work better than gloves, but are usually harder to find. The best mittens come as separate outers and inners. 

I would never recommend 5 finger type footwear (any almost barefoot type footwear) for a first trip. The almost comes about because I'd consider it if you were doing your garden work barefoot, routinely walked on gravel driveways barefoot. I don't recommend new footwear for any hike. ANYTHING you are going to wear on a hike that is harder than what you are used to should be worn daily for at least at least a week prior to the event. If you are going on a trip that is on rough trail, then you need to get your feet ready for it. Buy your boots at least 2 weeks ahead of time. Wear them for 8-10 hours a day. This is what you will be doing on the trip. At home, you won't be walking as much, but at least your feet will start getting used to the boots or shoes. "But wait! I only have 3-4 days!" In that case, get a pair of ankle high (over the ankle bone) boots that are mostly fabric. These are a lot more flexible than the "boots of iron" leather boots. They also don't provide as much support. Wear two pair of thick socks when trying them on. Many people's feet swell from trail abuse, and some mornings being able to reduce the sock count make make them a lot easier to put on. My preferred footwear for hiking are rubber soled neoprene water boots. They are flexible, and let me feel the trail, without bruising my feet too badly on rocks. However they are unsuitable for scree, and don't have enough traction for mud, so also have a pair of walking shoes. This combination is a good compromise. Note too: I run a tree farm, and except when I need to bounce on a shovel, I am barefoot most of the day. Your mileage may vary. At one point in my past I ran 'newboy' hikes. The new students (highschool) would depart for a week in the rockies the day after arriving. We found that our best strategy was to provide a cheap pair of canvas high top sneakers, and a pair of their own shoes. The sneakers were a known quantity. They gave some ankle support, were easy to dry, and if sized to go over two pairs of sock, warm. Most boys elected to wear the newboy runners (as they were called) during the day, and use their own sneakers for camps shoes. Having two pairs meant that if one was giving blisters, they could change to the other. 

It's still not a sidewalk or park trail. Allow 20% slower speed. Allow half speed for the last 6 km. Carry gear for the worst seasonable weather. Alpine weather can be capricious. At all times you should have an alternative in mind for complete loss of visiblity (rain or snow) or thunderstorms. (You don't really want to be on a ridge when lightning is crashing around you. 15 minutes in, stop for clothing adjustment. Many people overdress for the start, and overheat, leading to dehydration. Little people don't adjust automatically. Put your hand under their clothing to check for sweat. Add a layer when stopping for more than a couple minutes, and give them a chance to remove it a few minutes after going again. First rest stop do a foot check for forming blisters. Do another check in early to mid afternoon. Stop and feed every couple of hours. This is the biggest factor in getting little people to cover ground -- they burn off energy and need refueling much more frequently than an adult. At high elevation you dehydrate faster. Be sure you have enough fluids to cope. This affects little people faster than adults. Water, juice, whatever. Dress the kids in bright colours. If you have any areas of rocks larger than a toddler, they can vanish. There is merit in a harness and leash for toddlers. This is much better than holding their hand over their head for hours. A leash allows them to stoop, and pick up a pretty rock, look at a flower etc, and also prevent them from wandering over a cliff. If you have doubts, do a practice walk of this length or a bit longer in a situation where you can quit, and grab a bus or taxi. A practice run can also teach the kids the routine -- clothing adjustment, foot checks, eat, drink.