Everything else being equal, a human fetus in utero for 21 months will be dead. So, it is not reasonable. How could you make it "reasonable"? Slow down the process by a factor of 21/9, obviously. That would require changes in the infant's genetic code or some sort of (wave hands, queue in the smoke and mirrors) stasis (low temperature hibernation?). Why would we want to do that? Well, only reason I can think of is to either do a quality control of the kid's genome, or to add/subtract to it. Based on the little I know about neural development, this would be a very very bad thing for the kids brain...again, unless something was done to 'fix' the deficit caused by an enormous decrease in stimuli starting at 9 months. Keep in mind that the brain is undergoing a gigantic construction project at and in the months immediately after birth and without the "right" stimuli, the resulting structure will not have been constructed correctly. I can't really see any good reason that this could be useful. 21 months is just waaaay too long. Also keep in mind that at some point, a placenta just will not be able to keep up with the body's demand for nutrients and oxygen... and guess what? that happens at about 9 months. So, even if you slow it down, you shouldn't expect a more developed newborn, just the opposite, you'd expect a LESS developed one (since it will necessarily have been deprived of critical nutrients). 

I don't see how this, even remotely, qualifies as worldbuilding. Anyways. Your question seems to be a question about leather. I'm not an expert, but I've never seen thin leather behave close to what human skin does. I guess you'd have to remove all of your hair and then glue it on. What would happen to all of your sweat, IDK. Of course, your nails, ears, and orifices would be a real problem. Take eye-lids, for example. Yeah, tough to replicate them. (Ears are a bit easier, you'd just cut yours off, and replace with plastic ones, or less extremely, just use make-up around the mask's ear holes to hide the edge between the leather and your ear.) Lips? Forget it. Could you fool the police? At a distance of 300 yards for 0.5 seconds? Sure. Across the table in an interrogation room? Not so much. I wrote about leather, above, but you probably know that silicone is much much much more commonly used in movies. There is a reason for this. The same issues would surround it. The real problem would be your face. (And your male genitals, as applicable.) Since your skin is constantly shedding, the glue you used would have a very limited lifetime before it began to fail, and your "skin" no longer moved the way real skin would. --You got more specific. Good, I guess. So, how are you going to find a person which is an exact match for you except just a half size bigger? Ridiculous. Making it out of pieces? More ridiculous, absurd or delusional more like. I should also mention, that your sweat will build up under the leather and in like half a day, you'd be a smell-a-thon (I don't know if antimicrobials would work, I can't envision how you'd dose yourself effectively with them.) But lets say you're ok looking like a burn victim who has been thrown through several windows (and has the scars to prove it), who has long hair, a beard, and wears dark glasses. As long as you smell as bad as you probably will, I don't think many people would pay enough attention to you to notice your fake skin. 

Your post first claims the issue you have is bias and then mentions motivation and annoyance. Which is it? How do you fix all three? Random selection, large enough pool, large enough court, and a carrot large enough to be motivating - say $10,000,000. for a year IF they pass a competitive exam. Maybe as determined by a panel of judges from lower courts chosen at random - that is: both an ("unbiased") academic test, as well as a reality-tv type contest. I'll point out the obvious. There's no requirement that you have to be a lawyer to be a justice on the SCOTUS but the issues are fundamentally legal so few examples exist of someone who hasn't had a formal education in Law. Let's say, 3 yrs of Law School at 6hrs a day, 6 days a week, 50 weeks a year. That's 5400 hours (and that AFTER a bachelors!!!). Or lets take the low side: 3 hrs a day, 4 days/wk, 40 wks per year for 2 yrs. That's 960 hours- again after a BA.Your 40 hrs is risible. Why bother? Continuing to point out the obvious, the justices have been filtered by years of actual experience. Both their intellects and their conduct has been visible for decades. The idea that most Joe/Josephine Blows will possess the mental/emotional skill set necessary is a pipe dream, imho. 

I don't accept either of your premises that 1) Humanity will spread from the Solar System or that 2) that it isn't possible to have 1E12 people on Earth. I encourage you to do some simple math. Solar irradience at the surface is about 1000 W/m². The Earth shadows the Sun over an area of about 1.3E14 m². This gives us about 1.3E17 Watts per year (without pollution and clouds, together they will reduce that considerably). According to Wikipedia Global Power Consumption was (estimated) 1.2E13 Watts in 2013. Say this is for 7½ billion people, or ~1650 Watts per person per year. That is about 1% of what's available to us on Earth from the Sun. OK, say we need to increase per capita power consumption by a factor of 5, so we're using 5% of impinging solar energy, ok so lets limit it to the visible spectrum, and that's 20% - for a trillion people. Yeah, the planet would be drastically different. It couldn't support 1 trillion peeps and all its current flora and fauna, but then again we've got fission power and geothermal power now (along with a little tidal power) and who knows about fusion. I do agree that 1 terapeeps would be a daunting challenge, and perhaps isn't possible, but perhaps it is... 

Common Basilisk lizard. The ones you've probably seen in videos running on water (on their hind legs). imho, you need to free up their front paws, which will domino into larger brain size. Our path was probably use of forepaws in the trees followed by going down into savanna and finding them useful to hold weapons. If you don't get them off their forepaws, you're unlikely to get tool use, imho and so unlikely to get intelligence. 

You need to be a lot clearer. When was "the beginning of the computer era"? Let's see: The antikythera is believed to be the first known example of a mechanical analog computer (circa 100 B.C.E.) Mechanical analog 'computers' which solved differential equations were attempted in the 1820s and were successfully built in the 1920s. Digital electronic 'computers' were built and used during WW2. The first recognized computer programmer Lady Ada Lovelace was active in the 1840s working on Babbage's differential machine. Von Neumann detailed his architecture in 1945. The transistor was invented in 1920s (but only constructed in the 1940s). TTL logic - 1960's. Vacuum tubes 1904. Turing wrote about programmable computers in 1936. Any of these are reasonable "start" dates...I guess its possible that the plastic - the principle structural material of all these devices - could last "thousands" of years, but I wouldn't bet on it. It's also not clear what you mean by "cryptic name" - if the letters are recognized as such (ie. glyphs) which anyone not a complete moron would be able to do, then keyboards will obviously be recognized as some sort of device which accepts information (in the form of key presses). Of course, if the keys are all frozen, then it may be assumed to be some sort of cultural or religious statue. A physicist would recognize that inside all of these devices are circuits. A reasonable assumption would be that these devices DO something. A TV was first built in the late 1920s but Cathode Ray Tubes were around 30 years earlier. So, its reasonable to think that a "sufficiently" imaginative person might think that these things are computational, communicational, or informational devices. Assuming they'd need the use of electron microscopes (1930s) to see the transistors on the chips, if their technology is similar to ours of 1940 or 1950, then they would be able to eventually figure a lot of it out. But this is a guess. If they didn't have the theory to suggest the utility of such devices (why not? need a good reason), then it might be quite difficult. I'd guess the chips would be the biggest problem. Disassembling them is a significantly difficult problem. 

"culture"? I'll assume you meant "alien civilization", but who knows. Let's take a exponential growth model where P is population at time t, and P° is today's population. Here's the equation P = P° + P°*e^(t/k). Oh, and k is 1E+876 with t in seconds (or nanoseconds, it doesn't really matter). Yeah. If you haven't, I suggest you read a primer on ecology. If two species do not compete for resources, then they shouldn't have any influence on each others growth. It takes competition and cooperation to impact growth. Another source for analogy is our gut biome. The bacteria (viruses, fungi, etc. etc.) are competing with one-another, and to some extent with us. Some people are hurt (ulcers) by their biome, we think we're all helped by them (symbiosis). The ONLY reason I can think of for two (inherently resource competitive) alien civilizations to cooperate or to compete using rule-based agreements is because the cost of non-cooperation/non-compliance would be too high. Given a sufficiently large difference in technology, it seems to me we're talking about indigenous peoples vs the conquistador. You do know what "conquistador" means, right? But your question seems to assume that either "fast" growth will prevail or "slow" growth AND that these rates are internally determined rather than by external competition. This seems to me to be contradictory. If growth rate is internally determined, then no significant external competition has occurred. In our guts, the balance is maintained by a heck of a lot of competition. I suppose you don't happen to know how much of our fecal matter is dead biome? What do you suppose would happen if our immune systems totally shut down? We'd be dead in hours. There's a lot of evidence that our biomes have a strong influence on what we eat, and when we want to eat. Our survival is of only secondary concern to those little nasties. 

If they are mentally "similar" to humans, then they will require people authorized to use deadly force. It isn't clear to me why this question needs asking, perhaps some of your assumptions haven't been made explicit? Perhaps a question opposite yours would provide clarity: Give a single example of a (historical) situation in which 50,000 people have lived together for years without weapons. 

Most of the answers dance around the real issue, I think. If I break "a component" of a computer, when will the computer stop working? Well, obviously it might stop immediately, it might stop after a couple of minutes, or it might not ever fail. It depends on the component, right? So, if instead of me breaking it, it "fries" due to EMP, do you think the possible range of behaviors are any different? As said, the currents created in conductors due to an EMP are immediate and quickly over. The damage may be so severe that the circuit is then shorted or it may have damaged the circuit so that it will soon fail or the damage may be marginal so that, for example, instead of a mean time between failures of 100,000 duty cycles, it's been reduced to 1,000. Or perhaps its been damaged so that the next time it sends current to a particular device, it shorts. Keep in mind that anything which absorbs the EMP (which has to happen to do damage) will also (to some extent) shield other devices in its "shadow". Perhaps you've seen the photographs of Hiroshima, where people's silhouettes have been burned onto walls and roadways? Those same pictures show some buildings still standing when most everything else was flattened. My point here is it's neither all-or-nothing, nor is it gradual. To some extent it will be random (depending on what the device is doing at the instant it happens and where exactly it is (as well as what is around it).) Consider it to be a statistical thing. Let's say cell phones. There will be some distance inside of which everything will surely fry. Beyond that there will be distances with decreasing probability of failure (average failure rate will decrease with distance as 1/r²) until at some distance there's a low probability of damage. A very important qualification: Most nuclear weapon EMP scenarios include the interaction between the initial EMP and the Earth's ionosphere which can distribute the EMP over a very wide area. In that scenario, the damage would be literally hit and miss and hit and miss... 

Ridiculous, huh? Check out Wikipedia Henri Giffard. I don't disagree, but the problem is the exhaust, imho. Your pictures seem to neglect the enormous problem of smoke, soot, embers, and sparks. Take a look at any photo of a steam powered coal fueled locomotive to "get real" here. Some reason the steam couldn't run a turbine with very small (negligible) losses? Even a very 'clean' combustion machine - like modern internal combustion engines, can 'back-fire' and start fires. But, seems to me that coal power isn't out of the question, with proper exhaust (and exhaust pre-processing). 

No. . . . Simple as that. A government ultimately derives its power from the force it is able and willing to use. You know of any police force not entitled to use lethal force? Without 'an army' (or equivalent) to protect it, its "rights" will be subject to the whims of the political leaders around the world. Now, the real question is: what would be "equivalent" to a standing army? KGB type department? Would have to have immunity around the world (either in fact or by custom). Would have to be tolerant of setbacks, of its entire organization in some countries being eliminated. Would need to be able to bribe/corrupt leaders all over the world so that they had no better (for them) alternative paths to fame, power, and money. And would have to do this without making any powerful enemies (or at least rapidly identifying and silencing them). And it would need near ideal internal loyalty. The leaders would have no self-serving agendas. What I'm basically describing isn't characteristic of humanity. So, perhaps my categorical "No" that I started with should be qualified to "No, not if it is run by people."