I recently read that Lance Armstrong used EPO to win cycling championships. I wish to improve my ability to run long distances quickly. Will taking EPO be good for this, and are there any negative side-effects? 

Background Information: I recently began a running/walking regime that lasts for 30 minutes. I think I run about half the journey and walk the other half of the journey. There are 2 very steep hills, and numerous medium hills on the journey. I tend to walk up the 2 very steep hills. Question: On my walk I noticed that some other people walking had very large/bulky (although doesn't look fat) looking legs. My observations of endurance athletes are that they have quite lean legs. I am weather my regime will turn my legs bulky, or if they will remain lean looking. (I would prefer if they don't become bulky, how can I prevent this?) 

Roger Federer, a professional tennis player, spends time in his off-season training in the dessert of Dubai, where temperatures can be extremely high. What physiological adaptations does the body make in response to this training, and how do such adaptations enhance performance in cooler conditions? 

Yes. Sparring IS HIIT training, of course depending on the intensity you go. But it's pretty well known that more and more martial artists are doing HIIT training to prepare themselves for more and more rounds. Personally, as an amateur boxer, I get do HIIT training once a week by running sprints. 2km warmup, then 10 x 100m sprints. Then 2km run back home. Other than that, my training sessions by themselves, for example intense intervals on the heavybags, is also HIIT training preparing for fights. For sparring(I don't know your sport?) you need a good base of condition. I'd rather suggest you to cut a session a week of martial arts and then do 2-3 jogs a week and then 1 day of sprints like suggested above. Then once you reach an adequate level of fitness, cut it down a bit and tune up your martial arts. 

Your diet is like 85% carbs. I mean yeah you can gain weight like that, but it's just fat and bloat. From your diet, I take it that you're indian. Indian cuisine(it's a big country, I know) is generally terrible for your health since it's carb-based either on rice or some kind of bread(like chapati, as you eat quite a bit of). Your protein intake is slim to none; a little from the veggies and milk, but it is perhaps 5-10% of your intake whereas it should be 30-40% if you want to build somewhat lean mass. 

I have learnt from this site that weight training that involves lifting few repetitions (e.g. 6) of heavy weights will result predominantly in muscle strength increases, where as lifting many repetitions of lighter weights is useful for muscle hypertrophy. Naturally I would think that for weight training for improving power in the sport of tennis, one would be more concerned about strength than hypertrophy and therefore perform less reps, but with greater weights. In tennis however, muscle endurance is also important, which leads me to think perhaps more reps will provide benefit. I wish to improve my power in tennis, should I focus on max weight and less reps, or medium weights with more reps? 

Any diseases that causes excess water retention could cause you to put on weight (which include many diseases)or any disease which causes bowel obstruction. These are two examples. Also, perhaps the liquid sarcoplasm in your muscles has increased. No calories are required to increase the amount of water stored in your muscles, which will also add to your weight. Elevated exertion is responsible for sarcoplasmic hypertrophy the same as for myofibril hypertrophy. Basically, your body compensates for the extra stress by increasing the size of capillaries feeding the muscles so that they receive more fluid and, therefore, more energy. When such reoccurring periods of trauma occur, such as during regular workouts, the body triggers the sarcoplasm to retain and store more glycogen and ATP for future use as energy to meet such demands. 

You can do a lot of core exercises on these. Examples: Pullups/chinups on the high bar. On the two low parallel bars, you can do different variants of dips. Usually, there'll be a very low bar to lock on your feet - so you can do situps. And the ground layer is soft and nice(but firm), making it really good for pushups(rather than on concrete). Nothing too fancy, no. But a good amount of core bodyweight drills can be conducted with that setup :-) 

It's quite normal to feel "weak" on a ketogenic diet, at least compared to one with a normal amount of carbs in it. You need energy from either fat or carbs. Fat is stored for longer and the energy "lasts" longer(but spikes less), whereas carbs spike quite fast and drop off more steeply. From the sound of it, perhaps you aren't getting enough good fats in your diet? What I used to do when I did keto + running was to eat a good handful of nuts about an hour before I went out to run. It helped greatly. Same thing with certain fruits that aren't that bad in carbs(like a pear or an apple) to also get the spike from fruitsugar helped me. 

Let us assume that we have two people. The first person starts exercising at 20 years old and continues to do so for the rest of his life. The second person doesn't exercise in his 20's, but when he is 30, begins exercising and continues to do so for his life. Assuming both people survive to 60 years old, will the first person have any advantages over the second, for example improved life expectancy or better metabolism etc? If possible can you please provide references to back up your claims. 

It is estimated that about 36% of deaths from CAD in men and 38% of deaths from CAD in women are due to lack of physical activity. To produce the maximum benefit the activity needs to be regular and aerobic. Aerobic activity involves using the large muscle groups in the arms, legs and back steadily and rhythmically so that breathing and heart rate are significantly increased. It is recommended that adults should participate in a minimum of 30 minutes of at least moderate intensity activity (such as brisk walking, cycling or climbing the stairs) on 5 or more days of the week. 

Do both, and see what you enjoy? Something inbetween could be doing a bodyweight workout before/after running and incorporate both. Just remember to start slow. 

Recently(3 months) joined gym, I am following diet and doing workout (mostly cardio). Till date i have lost 5-6 kg(85kg before), mainly following diet. That's decent weight loss and progress. Keep it up? Does i have injured my knee forever? Don't know. Go see a doctor. Also i have query whether i first lose weight then gain muscle or both goes hand in hand? Generally, you'd have periods of "cutting"(losing weight) and "bulking"(gaining weight). With the first, you aim at a calorie deficit, however not too big(because then you will lose muscle). On the second, you aim at a calorie surplus with a good macro balance(proportion of protein, good carbs and healthy fats) 

As a new person to fitness, forget about it. Yes running 20-40km in one session might deplete your levels and burn off muscle, but for most people, this doesn't apply at all. 

I have recently read on this Q & A site that the rule of thumb that 37 000kJ is required to burn 1kg of fat is incorrect. I have been down-voted by some for quoting this figure. Is it true that the above relationship is a rough estimate of fat loss, or has it been shown to be untrue. I'm interested in seeing any studies you can give that indicate your point of view. 

Suppose one wishes to start an aerobic workout routine. Assuming one is young and without illness, is a 30 min a day workout (approx 15 min jogging and 15 minute walking intermittently) a reasonable workout routine, or should rest days be initially scheduled? If rest days should be scheduled, how many per week would be recommended? Would you recommend the number of rest days being reduced over time? 

Your doctor is correct, see this website: $URL$ After about day 5, the energy taken from fat stores is the greatest. If you continue to fast longer than 5 days, the proportion of muscle burnt begins to increase. 

You can't target specific areas of the body for weight loss. You need steady weight loss, and it'll come off your intended area at some point. For workouts, if you aim at losing weight, the obvious choice is to burn it off by doing cardio. What you should do in the gym(or out of it) is up to you: Do you like running, cycling, rowing? Then target those machines. As a vegan you should focus on your macros(proportion of protein,carbs and healthy fats). Vegan food can be carb heavy and lack protein(which saturates a bit - and is therefore good for weight loss). You need to learn which vegan foods are good in protein(green beans for example) and ramp it up there. 

My answer to you comes as an amateur boxer who has done both training to cut down body fat percentage, but also training to get in better shape to perform HIIT(which a boxing fight essentially is). would like to know the difference between cardio workout and fat burn workout. What is preferable in which case of training? Fat burn workout will have you working consistently over a longer time, but at a lower heartrate. It works the aerobic system which should burn fat. For example, if I want to lower my bodyfat percentage, I'll do long runs of maybe 10-12km every other day, at a steady pace(but quite slow, at least for me). On the other hand, cardio workouts are the opposite - you have a high heart rate and therefore work on the anaerobic system. This can be interval training(i.e. sprint 100m, jog very lightly next 100m, then spring next 100m), constantly pushing your heartrate to the maximum and calming down afterwards. Anaerobic exercises are so short in bursts that they do not per se burn fat, but rather carbs. Which is why, for example, a ketogenic diet is a nightmare for anyone doing sports that include HIIT exercises - you simply gas out almost instantly. To answer your question - if you want to burn fat, do aerobic exercises(long workouts at low heartrate). If you wanna improve anaerobic capability(HIIT capability), you do short bursts of intervals - it could be rowing, running, boxing.. Anything, really. And if it is preferable for someone with low body fat trying to build muscles Not that relevant, this is for conditioning purposes mostly. Muscle comes from either weight training or bodyweight exercises. Either aerobic or anaerobic training can support both. Depends on your end-goal. 

I have heard that weight training can be a good strategy for reducing body fat. If one's goal is to reduce total body fat, should one's weight training program be aimed at muscle hypertrophy or building muscle strength? 

My long term goal would be to lose about 10 kg of fat, but I would also like to gain more muscle mass. I am about to begin a training program. I have seen on this forum that it is difficult to lose weight and gain muscle at the same time. In light of this, do you think I should focus on first losing the 10kg of fat, followed by gaining muscle mass, or instead focus on gaining muscle mass, and then lose the 10kg of fat? Some of you might be critical that these two suggestions are too simplistic, and if you would prefer a more complicated mixture of the two, I welcome those suggestions as well. 

What you need to do is eat less, and exercise more. Eating less is far far far more significant a factor for weight loss than exercising more. If you fast 1 day a week, you might burn about 8000kJ (check out a metabolism calculator for your exact daily metabolic rate). If you want the same results through exercise you'd need to run 30 minutes, every day, for a week at medium to high intensity. So what's easier, fasting 1 day a week, or intense running 30 minutes a day for 7 days? Clearly both could be done, but reducing calories is a much more efficient way to lose weight. In addition to fasting 1 day a week, you could cut your calories in half every second other day. This would lead to a calory deficit of 20 000kj. Add 1 hour a day of running to your routine and your deficit becomes 36000kj, which is approximately a 1kg a week loss of fat.