So the question is which statement is closer to the truth? What mimimum time should I invest if I want conditioning benefits? How much active rest is allowed? 

I happen to have a a screw with an eye sticking idly in my living room ceiling, and I'm thinking about using it to hang a rope for bodyweight rows etc. The screw is 8mmx50mm (thread x length of anchor). The TRX ceiling anchor seems to use 2 screws with 10 mm thread, so I'm a bit concerned about using my screw as is. On the other hand, the TRX product may be vastly overengineered and I have hung my 100kg from my screw a few times. Now my question: Is the setup described above (2 screws, 10mm thread) typical for sling trainers? Are there experiences with using something closer to my thread size, one screw, in a concrete ceiling without the whole thing crashing down? Note for imperialists, I mean folks unused to metric units: 8mm is 0.314 inch, the closest thread size in imperial units is probably 1/4 inch. 

As long as your form is good, then you are more unlikely to injure yourself. For rows, some 'body English' is fine to help drive progressions, especially since it is not a competitive movement, so being strict with momentum isn't inherently necessary. If doing Pendlay rows (as advocated by Mehdi), you can have a bit of thoracic extension to aid with getting the bar off the ground. Controlling the eccentric portion (the decent) of the lift will help with strength gains as well. Glenn Pendlay Teaches the Pendlay Row Alan Thrall's "How To" Barbell Row For normal bent-over-rows, since you don't reset the bar between reps, there will be more emphasis on the eccentric portion of the lift and you can make use of a stretch reflex at the bottom of the eccentric which will help following reps. Scott Herman's How To: Barbell Bent-Over-Row As for presses, those are a bit more technical (more-so than a lot of beginners believe initially). Improving form on the press can usually help with progressing again, but not always. You also have to consider that the press utilizes a smaller set of muscles than the other common compound movements. It is very common to see slow progression with the press. For instance, it recently took my about a month and a half to put only 10 lbs on my press. Presses can also benefit from a variety in the rep ranges that you use to train it. One training session may involve a max effort 3x5 barbell press, and then the next session may involve a 3x8 dumbbell press for hypertrophy. It may take some time to find what works well for you. Brett Contreras: How to Military Press Don't worry about the trainers, as long as your form is correct. Proper nutrition, rest, and technique will all help you progress in the gym. Squats are literally a full body exercise; they involve a lot of muscles. It is very common for them to feel taxing, which is why eventually a lot of people transition to squatting with less frequency per week (which you don't need to worry about just yet). However, if you are finding recovery too difficulty with 5 straight sets, you can try squatting 3x5 instead (which is actually done in Starting Strength). But you need to be honest with yourself and not go that route simply because it seems easier, but because you're having issues with recovery. I'd recommend sticking with the program until you plateau 2-3 times on either your squat or deadlift and then move to a more intermediate program. It's hard to say without more information, but you may also find an increase in caloric intake to be helpful. A caloric surplus will help with building muscle, which in turn will help with your strength gains. 

Edit to add: I do this occasionally, with 10-12 reps per set and leg. I try to be anal about form (feet pointing forward, weight on heel, tight abs) and so far my joints don't complain. When I'm not strict about form something feels wrong immediately. Possibly the pistol is inherently safer. Another possible downside is that it's easy to cheat oneself out of the full range of movement. You need to flexibility to squat deep (ass on heels), balance is easy. All in all I still think I stumbled upon a valuable exercise. 

I do muaythai and want to do something in between my (infrequent) training session to help my conditioning. I have a conceptual question about what works: 

It mostly depends on your style of training (high volume vs intensity). Certain things might be more difficult due to already accumulated fatigue in muscle groups you've already hit. For instance, if you were to start with squats and then did an upper-body movement, followed by deadlifts, you might find that breaking the bar off the ground might be more challenging, as that's the most quad-intensive part of a deadlift. As long as the main muscle group is different, or you're using a lighter (if you already went heavy, or heavier if you previously used a variation that required a lower intensity) intensity, you should be fine. Anecdotally, I frequently start my session with cleans or snatches which then progress to front and high-bar back squats. Depending on the day, I'll follow those with deadlifts (sumo). The only time I avoid performing squats and deadlifts in the same session is when I do low-bar squats, as I can squat substantially more that way than high-bar and therefore it negatively affects my deadlifting performance. As long as you are aware of what is getting fatigued and in the manner in which it's getting fatigued, you should be able to manage it to allow multiple compound movements back-to-back. For example, if you perform military presses in the beginning of your workout, you will be able to bench press afterwards, but perhaps not at an intensity that you would have been able to use had you benched before doing military presses. When going for a higher volume approach, I find that it's often easier to string multiple movements that hit the same area, but in slightly different ways without having to have a separate exercise in between (pull ups and rows for example). In this case, rest between sets becomes more of a factor. 

I can tell you what my physical therapist advised as exercises after a lumbago. If this is really adequate to your needs, I can't know. However I seem to suffer from a weak core also. I can do 100 crunches, but completely fail at a plank. I was advised to do the following exercises - Ithink they are fairly safe even with previous injuries, because there is so little movement, but I'm not remotely a medical professional. 

No source since this is hearsay - apparently one japanese judo school has a yard where they tied bicycle inner tubes to trees and posts. The wrestler will cricuit between the posts and mimic throws by grabbing pulling those tubes, to get a strhength (or strenght endurance) training very specific to their techniques. 

There are two ways to approach this that can work together. Diet Your body's size is largely dependent on how much you eat, followed by how much of what you eat, and then by physical activity. The key point here is how much you eat. If you eat at maintenance, your body weight will remain the same (you might lose fat over time). You can also eat slightly lower than maintenance (no more than 10%-15% below). In this case your weight will decline, most of that weight will be fat loss. This also means that if you frequently eat above maintenance (once in a while won't hurt you) then you will gain size whether that's from fat or muscle. Note: After a while, eating at or below maintenance may affect your ability to continue getting stronger. In this scenario, it may benefit you to eat above maintenance for a while to increase strength further and then cut back down. Training Training for maximal strength tends to revolve around lower reps per set and a lower overall volume. If you are a beginner, then following a beginner's program is your best option at the moment. If not a beginner, structuring your training around a lower rep scheme will provide more benefit for your goals. Sticking to around 5 or fewer reps per set will provide more stimulus for your body to neurologically adapt to moving heavy weight (that's what strength is: your efficiently using your muscles). Following a good powerlifting program or Olympic weightlifting program (doesn't mean you have to compete) will also provide you the training you seek to increase strength. As long as you don't eat everything in sight, your size will remain more-or-less the same. A final note: as you lose fat you will appear to get bigger even if your size hasn't actually changed. 

Hip does not bend, hip flexors are worked isometrically only, movement extends only as far as this is doable. As seen in this youtube viseo and on exrx Highly similiar to the first in the outward part of the movement, but the guy actually advises to slightly crunch in the inward part. As seen here. 

My observation is that when extending too far, I cannot do the backward portion without a slight, active tuck from the abs. For me, as I have lower back problems, I will do the first version and probably use a door or something to limit range of movement to something managable. Better safe than sorry and all that. Ultimately, which version is safer, which is more effective and why? 

Your best option is to start slowly and take small, sustainable steps to also small goals that you can reach relatively soon (so you don't get discouraged). Quitting drinking is a major step (and success!) towards a healthier you. It wouldn't be surprising if that causes some weight loss on its own (depending on how much / frequently you drank). When it comes to losing weight, diet is, by far, the largest factor in determining your success. You don't need to exercise to lose weight, it just helps put you into a deficit or eat more food while still losing weight. To lose weight you should calculate your TDEE (total daily energy expenditure) and aim to eat 10%-15% less than that in order to lose weight in a sustainable way that won't burn you out. Increasing protein and fiber intake are both good for increasing satiety (so that you can go longer between meals without getting as hungry). In terms of exercise, weight training (or any resistance training) can have the largest effect on your physique. I would personally recommend a beginner's strength program (StrongLifts 5x5, Starting Strength, Ice Cream Fitness, etc). In the beginning you might be able to lose fat while gaining some muscle (after a while that becomes really hard to do simultaneously). You should try to stick to a beginner's program until you stall out of it. By that time, you can continue with a more intermediate strength program, or look into a hypertrophy (muscle building) based program. In general, it's a good idea to exhaust your beginner gains on a strength program, as it will allow you to establish true one-rep maxes which will allow you to use a hypertrophy based program more effectively. If you start a beginner strength program with just the empty barbell, you shouldn't have much trouble with starting too fast. You'll progress quickly with the program, but you'll also adapt to the stress of the program quickly too. 

I'm not sure if there's much you can beyond practicing (Unlime others here I'm skeptical about meditation), but make sure to practice a lot. 

In addition to strength training, I was advised to stretch the lower back and the front tighs. If you want to trust a random stranger on the internet, look at those exercises (and others that will hopefully be suggested). A workout can be quite brief, maybe 10 minutes. Especially one and three are quite taxing, a good thing perfect if you bore easily. Or you may weant to talk to a professional, given your previous injuries. Your call. 

With knee supported pushups, you lift with a shorter lever. So your arms and chest have less force to deliver. Apart from that, the exercise is identical. Depending on how fit you are, you may want to start with pushups from the knees anyway. Once you outgrow this version, you can try to place your lower legs on a padded bench to leave the weight of your toes and still do a full range pushup. 

For starters, I usually train specifically for maximal strength gains. As my strength has increased, I've trained to lift maximally using a belt. Unfortunately, I recently injured a couple of my floating ribs. Wearing a belt is now intolerable, so I am unable to train specifically for my goals. However, since I'm also currently in my bulking season (thank you, holidays), someone suggested I look into hypertrophy-specific-training. The basics of that protocol (from my understanding) is to perform each lift (or for each muscle group) more frequently, but to have a lower volume per workout (but an equivalent volume for the week). Is this protocol enough to maintain current maximal levels of strength (or minimize their loss), or is there a better protocol to achieve this goal? Note: I have seen a doctor for my injury. I was told to merely avoid things that cause pain (so no belt) and to be mindful of my lifting habits. I wasn't told to stop lifting until my ribs heal.