Overview A: Very hard! But not impossible... You can use a magnet to make electricity, and you can use electricity to make a magnet, but you always need one to make the other! Obviously, an electromagnet is out of the question, since electricity is the resource you are trying to obtain. And we agreed that naturally occurring magnets are very difficult to come by. So you are left trying to create a permanent magnet from scratch. Process If you have basic metallurgy available, you can heat an iron rod and expose it to a magnetic field. You might as well use earth's magnetic field, since it's "free", but it also helps if you have any other magnet at all, including a weak lodestone (or any magnets in your laptop! like the one in Mac power plugs ;). With sufficient practice, it should be possible to make stronger magnet than you started with (the heat frees the magnetic domains to be re-oriented, and any induced magnetic field will orient them in the same direction, statistically speaking). You can also use impact force from a hammer to free the domains, but this is probably much less effective than direct heating. Cool the heated rod, and the new domains will be "frozen" in place. You now have a new permanent magnet. Get another rod, do the same thing, but now use your more powerful newly created magnet to induce a stronger magnetic field in the new rod, and you should be able to make a magnet as powerful as this technology allows. The limit would be how many magnetic domains you can liberate in the heating process, and how many you can orient using the induced magnetic field. The more magnets you have, the stronger a field you can induce in any newly created magnet. Conclusion Even with no permanent magnet at all, you can still create one with just iron and a fire hot enough to liberate the magnetic domains within. This is because we live on top of a giant dynamo which conveniently provides a life-saving magnetic field. Without it, you would be reduced to bootstrapping the process with an electromagnet, which might be possible using static electricity, but would surely be very painfully tedious to construct. 

Make: the name of the laboratory, company, manufacturer or brand who engineered the creature. Model: whatever name the manufacturer finds suitable to describe the creature. Release: to designate the iteration of the process of development of this creature. It could be a chronological marker (e.g. a year), a SemVer (major.minor.patch) version number, etc. 

In the binomial nomenclature, the first part of the name identifies the genus to which the species belongs; the second part identifies the species within the genus. The concepts of Genus and Species apply to Species and individuals sharing an ancestral taxon or common ancestor. For creatures engineered using DNA from a single natural species, the binomial name of that species should be used, followed by "var. something". From engineered creatures whose DNA doesn't match any natural species, but which share ancestry with species from a natural genus (or family, order or class), the genus name should be preserved, and a species name should be invented to describe the new creature. For engineered creatures with no obvious natural ancestors, a distinct nomenclature should be used. I propose the following nomenclature: 

Conclusion As you see, there are a lot of settings where magic, in one form or another, is known and accepted. People grew up with it in some cases, which is the easiest way to install acceptance. In other cases, magic was to big to ignore. In some cases, magic is just too strong to allow a long lasting society, if it isn't watered down in some way. 

What defines a human? When someone lost both arms and legs and get them replaced with prostheses, he still counts as human, no? But what if he gets replaced more, so that only the head remains? Would that still count as human? Surely many would say "He is just a head!" (as they said earlier "He is just a cripple!"). Are additions to the human make the humans inhuman? When a third arm is inhuman (and people grow third arms occasionally), why isn't the sixth finger on a hand (this also happens, humans are weird)? 

IMHO, both concepts of "religion" and "god" in such a world would be very different to what we imagine/know as such. To worship, for example, would be less about faith and belief (on an unseen/indirectly experienced higher being) and more about allegiance (towards a very visible individual). The legal system of societies developing in such a world would also be very different, with some societies being tied to the worship of/allegiance towards one or several gods, other societies giving their citizen complete freedom and responsibility over their choice of gods, and others simply not taking any stance. It would depend a lot on how strong the relationship can become between an individual and a god, and the nature of the gods themselves. For example, in a "Gods Need Prayer Badly" scenario, the gods would be as interested in maintaining a strong following as the people would be in keeping this god's favor. Other scenarios would put the people more or less at the mercy of the gods' whim, although god-challenging heroes may be a possibility. Of course, some people may take a third option, and flat out refuse to worship any visible, moody, aspect-limited, one-among-many, flawed "god", only willing to offer their souls to a believed One Supreme Being that would be above all gods and all creation. Maybe. 

Funny. If that would work for people, our governments would be run by scientists instead of people which most powerful weapon is phrasing things and dodging questions. But aside from that, there are several reasons why magicians would not do that. Which apply depends on the setting and working of magic. Examples 

Given all the examples above, as a human, a simple thought comes to mind: "Wouldn't humanity be better of without magic?" Currently I think "Wouldn't humanity be better of without nuclear weapons?" This is a clear yes, but even if I would be able to make nuclear weapons undone, there is no way I could prevent people of inventing them AGAIN! Now, assume you live in a world where real magicians exist, but you don't know how they work, physically. It is not unreasonable to assume that magic may came from somewhere, but since then was genetically embodied in people. So if you would kill all people which show signs of magic, wouldn't you be able to remove magic from the world? If faced with no consequences, people can do bad things to people of other factions they don't like. If you, additionally, have no idea what magicians are capable of, you could be really worried about your world. Fear about getting attacked can make you want to attack first. So finally, in a world where magic is not widely understood and where magicians are not organized, it is likely for them to be prosecuted and blamed for all the bad things, because that's sadly how humanity works. They have to hide to survive. In other scenarios, it could work out better, as the examples above show. 

"However, if a creature is swinging its tail around at an enemy, especially a tail with a heavy weapon on the end, wouldn't that knock it off balance?" Tell that to the scorpion! Obviously, scorpions aren't human-sized, but there's nothing intrinsically limiting about their body geometry to make their offensive tail ineffective at human scale. And this is a piercing attack rather than a blunt force attack, but again, I don't see anything which would prevent it from using it as a club instead (other than the fact that whatever weight is used to give it heft would be useless drag outside of combat). You might say that the scorpion is cheating because it's using 6 legs for balance, but I'm pretty sure it would be fairly effective with just 4 as well. Bees and wasps not only use their "tails" offensively, they can do it while flying! How awesome is that?? A bipedal human-sized creature with arms and a prehensile tail like a monkey could simply use the tail like a 3rd arm, although, one would wonder why it doesn't just use its arms. If the tail were stronger than the arms, that would be one reason (maybe it has T-rex arms). If the tail is longer, it can create a greater moment swinging a mace or hammer, but only if it is correspondingly stronger. This could be another reason for using the tail instead of an arm. Of course, technology can make a hammer really long too, so if I were such a creature, I would use the tail in addition to my arms. Say, two swords and a dagger/spear/mallet/buckler/use-your-imagination. That could make for some very interesting techniques. 

Given names are not quite random; they reflect in some way the cultural heritage of a society. Many names reflect things we hold dear or that evoke characteristics that we want to convey to our children. Many are inherited from the names of famous or historically important people. Many Germanic names hold meanings related with war, power, wealth, fame and nobility. Traditional Christian names come from the names of saints, apostles, prophets and other Judaeo-Christian religious figures. Chinese names vary greatly in theme, but most convey auspicious concepts, positive personal qualities and wonders of nature. There are also some naming systems that are more systematic in nature. For example, some of the most common names for Japanese boys merely mean "nth son". There are also the often cyclic generation names of some traditional Chinese and Korean families. You may either take inspiration from real world naming systems or even design your own. Whatever system you devise, consider how it makes sense in that new world you're building. Some names may be very popular locally for a short while, while others may have a more universal appeal, other names may be considered old-fashioned, stigmatized or even ridiculous. 

Others have given the best answers to why any humans would pay for or go on this mission, but an important consideration is whether it even succeeds. After all, your world may have the technology to spot potential farway homes, but that is not the same as colonizing them. Some worlds may be duds. Some colony ships may like space so much, the idea of landing is actually unappealing. Some might decide to camp out in the middle of nowhere, setting up a rest stop on the interstellar highway in anticipation of all the future traffic. After all, if you have a ship big enough to sustain generations of humans, you have a complete moving world all by itself. The first generation will grow weary of the confinement, but the second generation will never know the freedom of a full planet. By the third or fourth generation, the idea of living on planets may become a full-on heresy, on all the colony ships. This idea was lightly explored in Larry Niven's Footfall. 

Because of a recent question I ended up reading through the Painkill-discussion on meta and in the linked question the_OTHER_DJMethaneMan wrote in a comment 

The problem is more of a philosophical one than a legislative one (yet). If all atoms in your body are replaced one after another (this actually happens over time), are you still the same person? If your "native U.S." atoms are replaced with "non-native U.S." atoms, are you not a native U.S. citizen anymore? That would mean a U.S. citizen who lives most of his/her time out of the U.S. would at some point become non-native. While I believe that some people really think that way, this isn't currently the shared opinion in court, as I believe. Now what happens if you replace the atoms faster or larger chunks at once? Does this change the reasoning. If so, then there must be a line. The court will have to draw the line, if necessary, but it is really a blurry thing. For example, you explicitly wrote 

Hopfield Networks Your best bet is to look at Hopfield networks. They are auto-associative artificial neural networks (ANNs) which model some aspects of human memory. That is, the behavior of Hopfield networks under certain learning rules is similar to the performance of certain human memory (the kind that would end up in the frontal cortex as opposed to, say, the cerebellum). Like human memory, Hopfield networks do not exhibit "perfect" recall for all input vectors. However, the recall will be strongest when the input is closest to the recall vector. Sometimes, a Hopfield network will converge to the "opposite" of the intended recall vector (something which doesn't seem to happen to humans, possibly because of additional filtering circuitry rejecting such recalls...or perhaps, this does happen, but manifests itself in subtle ways). The size of the vector stored in a Hopfield net is equal to the number of nodes in the network. That is, the nodes themselves represent both the inputs to the memory and the manifested outputs. This may or may not be similar to the way parts of the human brain are organized. If it is indeed similar, then we can derive a few bits of performance data. Performance The number of "storable" vectors in a Hopfield network appears to be about 14%. So let's say you have a network which stores the names of people and places you know. In order to reliably store 1000 names, you would need about 7000 neurons. Pretty good, huh? Now imagine you need to store their faces. Uh-oh. The human retina has more than 3 million photoreceptors, which is about 1 million pixels, accounting for color. If you tried to store images at full resolution, then, you would need a network of 3 million neurons. Then you could store about 400k distinct images (assuming the vectors are sufficiently different). However, it is very likely that visual memories are not stored in the brain in this way, due to the fact that the higher brain only has access to the output of the visual cortex, which does a tremendous amount of pre-processing (edge and segment detection along multiple angles, movement detection, etc.). So how many neurons do we have to work with? The raw total for humans is about 86b. But much of the brain is control circuitry (for operating your automatic functions like heart rate, digestion, etc., skeletal muscles, other organs). If we limit ourselves to the cerebral cortex, which is where "higher order memories" are most likely to be stored, we are looking at about 21b neurons, or about a quarter of the total. Definitions At this point, it could be tempting to work backwards, and say that the human brain could then store about 3 billion memories. But remember that a Hopfield network stores vectors which are the length of the number of nodes in the network, so these "memories" would be ~3 GB each!!! And we know by the wiring of the cerebral cortex that it cannot possibly be a single Hopfield network. A Hopfield network is also fully connected (every node connects to every other), and the cortex is highly layered. On average, human neurons connect to about 7000 neighbors. Thus, if the brain contains any Hopfield networks at all, they are likely to be fairly small. In the limiting case where the entire cortex is composed of Hopfield nets (not plausible), we would have ~3 million networks which can each store about 1000 vectors of ~1 KB each. Although that is still 3 billion total vectors, we now have the challenge of mapping these vectors onto memories. We must thus ask: "What is a memory?" The fact that Americans celebrate Thanksgiving day in November might be considered a memory. And the fact that they tend to travel to be with family might also be considered a memory. But what about last Thanksgiving? Is the smell of turkey a memory? How about the smell of turkey + sweet potatoes + apple pie? Are those distinct memories or pieces of the same memory? Is the football game part of the "last Thanksgiving" memory, or its own memory? The fact that memories are inherently fuzzy does't help matters any. They do not have crisp boundaries, and they can be hierarchical. Can you remember which part of the bird you ate? Light meat or dark? Which family members were present? What they said? How many of these questions are answered because you stored discrete facts vs. recalled an image and queried it? For these reasons, the very question of memory storage density is ill-posed. But if we agree that there is some smallest unit of recall for the human brain, then this would almost surely correspond to a vector in a Hopfield-like network. And as you can see above, the upper bound for those units is about 3 billion, for the average human brain. It may be that images require many such vectors to store, and that they are always stored with many vectors, making the total number of distinct "memories" much smaller. And some folks may object that humans can "only" store 3 billion distinct items in their head. So let me address that briefly. Implicit Knowledge Do you play tennis? How about ping pong? Can you make a complete novice into a good player using just words? No. At the very least, the novice must actually "go through the motions". The programming doesn't happen in the ears. It happens in the cerebellum. And while some folks will think of bodily-kinesthetic programming as a functional wiring of motor control circuits, there is definitely a memory capability involved. Someone who has learned to play tennis will have a leg up learning ping pong, and vice versa. That is partly because the control circuits will be wired to make similar motions, but also because the players will have memories of specific trajectories and responses which are activated in particular circumstances. When new players play against each other for the first time, they will often perform worse than they would against a familiar person of the same skill level. That is because skill is ultimately an ad-hoc covering of the state space for the game. If the other player spins the ball or attacks in a way that hasn't been seen before, your control circuits will not have a pre-made response, even if you were physically capable of one. The conscious brain is too slow to act decisively in competitive sports. Even if you know the appropriate response cognitively, if the cerebellum has not executed the program which covers that part of the state space (including your relative position, balance, momentum, etc.), you will likely fail to produce an adequate response. Much of competitive sports boils down to remembering the best move for a particular state. Low-level programs control fine details like which muscle fibers to activate, but high-level programs like "move right while swinging across the body" must be practiced to store to memory so that it can be activated automatically in the right circumstances. These kinds of memories generally cannot be named, and would not be thought of as discrete. They are implicit in the programming which constitutes "athletic skill". In the same way, verbal behavior can also be implicit. For instance, most English speakers can finish the phrase: "See you ____." They will generally not say "catfish" or "pulverize" or "flavorful". The fact that most speakers will finish the phrase in the same or similar way means that this bit of behavior has more to do with the mechanics of language than the personal memories of the speaker. Thus, this information is likely not stored in the pre-frontal cortex (because we know that language facility is primarily handled by Broca's and Wernick's areas). In the same way, athletic "memory" is most likely stored in the cerebellum. I presume that you mean to exclude these kinds of "implicit memory" in your calculations. If so, then limiting the analysis to the PFC is appropriate. Otherwise, you will also need to consider the "functional" areas in the remaining portions of the brain, which is much more difficult, given that we don't have any really good models of how these work. Conclusion So, I would say that it's safe to assume that humans can "remember" much less than 3 billion distinct [personal] memories, and that the smallest chunks are on the order of 1 KB of information. That puts an upper bound of about 3 TB of information that makes you a unique history of a human. Sobering thought, huh?