Is that claim true? Is the majority of serotonin that's used by the body found in the bowels and not in the brain? 

Industries were there are no laws for patent protection Black market industries that operate outside the rule of law. 

I don't think there a way to answer this question definitely. For ethical reasons it's not really a phenomena you would be expected to be well studied. The heart is a bit autonomous but it's possible to effect it via thought. People can learn to affect their heart rate through biofeedback. What the hurdle when you want to stop your own heart or lung? If you have a lot of CO2 in your blood it increases the activity of your sympathicus. Sympathicus activity increases breathing rate and depth. It also increases your heart rate. I don't know of a way to block this process. Instead of stopping your heart there's however also the possibility to speed it up. If your heart beats at 300 beats per minute it can't fill itself fully before the blood get's pumped out. Sympathicus activity would rather raise the heart rate then lower it. Tachycardia where the heart beats too fast already happens in some people with unhealthy hearts in nature. If it's fast enough and the heart stays too long at that level of activity people die from it. There are a lot of factors involved that might prevent someone from killing himself this way but I wouldn't discount the possibility. 

Is there scientific evidence that people who read a list of cognitive biases in a psychology book or in Wikipedia improve their reasoning abilities. Is there evidence that they will less likely fall victim to the biases they read about? 

Provided the technology can actually release the hydroxyl, does this make the air healthy for humans? 

As far as (1) goes, the commercial success of timeline therapy indicates that individuals are willing to pay money to get those experiences. As far as (2) goes, there's a lot of anecdotal evidence but to my knowledge there no study that investigated whether the claim is true. As far as (3) goes, I don't know of an reliable experiment that demonstrated such an effect. I don't even think that there a reliable demonstration of any real-experience-memory from the first two years of life. As far as (4) goes cognitive memory isn't the only kind of information storage. If we get ill our body stores information about the antigen's of the foreign virus or bacteria. The information storages matters but it's nothing that we can access like an memory of an experience. The Dutch Famine of 1944 illustrates that our bodies remember conditions of starvation that happened during pregnancy and thereby increases the likelihood of obesity. This process of "remembering" gets likely facilitated by DNA methylation. DNA methylation is however a quite simple process that doesn't allow to store complex information about experiences in a way that's similar to how neurons can store it. 

Is that an accurate description of what we know about the correlation between happiness and intelligence? 

While women do have something like a monthly cycle it's not linked to the moon. The mean cycle length is 29.1 days while the moon cycle is 27.3 days. Even if there would be a monthly cycle among men it's therefore unlikely that it would sync with the moon. It would make much more sense if a possible monthly cycle would sync with the cycle of a nearby female. 

South Africa's fate after the end of the apartheid got determined by AIDS. In 1990 the HIV rate among pregnant woman was 0.8% and in 1993 it was 4.3% in 1997 it was 17.0%. The high point of South African lifespan was in 1992 with 62 years. By 2005 AIDS had killed enough people that average lifespan declined to 52 years. That a lot. If you look at the effects of world war two on French lifespan, French lifespan was at 60 years on 1939 and at 65 years on 1949. If you however look at GDP/person. It declined before end of Apartheid. In 1981 it was at 8800 and it's low was at 7150 in 1993. This was partly due to trade embargos against the apartheid regime. After apartheid ended it rose. In 2003 it was at 7850. That's not a high amount of growth but it's better than the economic decline that happened in the previous years. AIDS kills people in their working years. If AIDS didn't kill that many people the economy would have grown much better. In total you could say that the stuggle for the end of apartheid produced a lot of problems for South Africa in the years before apartheid was abolished. If South Africa wouldn't have been torn before they ended apartheid, they might have responded more effectively to the threat of Aids and also had economic growth in the 1980th. Even after apartheid was abolished the topic of AIDS didn't get enough attention and the situation worsened through the 1990th and early 2000ths. Former South African president Mbeki did question whether HIV causes AIDS. If South African political leadership would have been more open to the views of the Western scientific elite on AIDS, fewer people would have died in South Africa and the economy of South Africa would be better off. The ironic think is that the goal of achieving equality didn't succeed. Inequality rose from a Gini index of 59 in 1993 to 63 in 2003. Even through the leader of the struggle against apartheid had a goal of economic equality the opposite happened. Naomi Klein gives a good description of how the struggle for equality got effectively abandoned due to calculations of realpolitiks. 

The basic idea of GSM is that a mobile phone scans for base stations and that are applicable and then syncs with the base station that has the strongest signal. In 2010 the relevant equipment cost 1,500$. The server can tell the phone to disable encryption. With intact encryption, GSM encryption can by cracked by open source software: 

The European clothing industry is a case of an industry that operates without patent protection. It still produces enough innovation to have a new line of fashion every year. The Iraqi IED industry is a good example for an industry that's capable of fast innovation without patents. On the other hand there are existing industries that have patents. One of them is the UK's electronics industry. Christopher Thomas el al wrote a paper titled "The economic impact of the patent system: a study of the British experience" where he found: 

Is this an accurate discription of the situation. Is there an international arrest warrant from Spain and France against Henry Kissinger out there? 

Robert Cialdini writes in his book Influence about a principle he calls "Commitment and Consistency": 

Kuuk Thaayorre is a language of natives of a tribe in Australia. Instead of left/right it uses cardinal direction. It is claimed that as a result it's speakers are much better at navigating. That skill is claimed to work even inside of unfamiliar buildings well enough that it's speakers are much better at navigating inside them. Is there research to back up those claims? 

Jess Staufenberg of the independent writes in More women think shaving pubic hair is 'hygenic' despite greater health risks: 

Reiki is a framework that the Japanese Buddhist Mikao Usui developed in 1922. In Mikau Usui own account he didn't find it through empiric investigation but says that the Reiki methology came as a vision to him. In basic Reiki a practioner puts his hands on a patient and then visualizes specific symbols. Those symbols are then believed to create qi flow into the patient. Qi that's not supposed to come out of the energy of the practioner but that's channelled from a higher source. Reiki teachers generally proclaim that they either practice Reiki as taught by Mikao Usui or the practice it intuitively. There's no systematized empiric process that evolved the field of Reiki. That means that it might be an art but it isn't a science. Mikau Usui taught Reiki in three stages. The first stage is supposed to allow the practioner to do basic hands on treatment. The second stage supposedly give the ability for distance treatments. The third stage is about the ability to teach Reiki itself to other people and initiate them into the usage of the symbols. Mikao Usui itself didn't talk about auras to the extend that you find today Reiki practioners who talk about auras it's because in modern New Age concepts blend together. After being clear that the Reiki isn't a field that focuses on scientific progress the next question is whether it works. There are positive trials of Reiki like Olson et al A phase II trial of reiki for the management of pain in advanced cancer patients (2003) On the other hand there's not enough evidence for meta-analyses to conlclude whether or not it's effective. Lee's at al (2008) comes to that conlucion in Effects of reiki in clinical practice: a systematic review of randomised clinical trials.