EDIT: Burning down my house? Did I go mad? No, not at all. First, the Stone Age in the title caused me thinking that the population of the humanoids is really low. So, basically, there have to be big unhabited areas - perfect spot to burn them down. Obviously this strategy has some downfalls, but, I am in anti-hippie mode. So stop hugging the trees and burn them :) EDIT 2: But you would not burn down your house, would you? No, I would not burn down my own home. And I do not expect the tree people do the same. I am just expecting them to provide some space for themselves. See this quickly drawn picture: 

Both Czech Republic and Slovakia are recognized by UN. Both countries are in European Union. Because both agreed on Schengen treaty, the borders are now just on the paper. And once Czech republic adopts monetary agreement, both countries will use the same currency again. Of course, by following this example, no new land was taken. Although we could say that both Czech and Slovak republic were "new" on map, they made agreements on how to split historical duties. And after that, even the domain was gone ... 

In my imagination, this is system which should make prefference on these who pay to the system. While rich people can have some influence, lots of rich people avoid paying taxes. But I feel this system is flawed and cannot figure out why. So, what woud be implications if everyone followed this system? 

Anything between few generations to forever For instance, in my super secret "Evil Overlord" lab, we managed to crosbreed velociraptors, which understand (and fullfill) all my commands. Wha... What? They are loose again? Excuse me for a moment... Now, on serious note: What kind of animal is it? Looking back on Human history, we were more lucky with the herbivores than with the carnivores. In other words, domesticating "space cow" is easier task than domesticating "space dog" How intelligent the animal is? I dont want to say it should be dumb as a sheep but truth to be said, somewhere I heard that sheeps were actually the first ever animal to be domesticated. How big and strong is it? Yeah, we managed to domesticate even the Elephants, but still it is easier task to domesticate "space hamster" than trying the same with "space whale" And, last but not least What does make animal domesticated? We still go to the sea to hunt for the fish. But also, we breed some fish species in controlled area to get meat. One example is Czech traditional "Christmas" fish, the Carp. Does it make the fish "domesticated"? The same could apply to dears or to the boars. We keep them breeding and then we hunt them for meat. Sometimes we breed them in controlled area "just for meat". Does it make them "domesticated"? Or do you just really want also "pet velociraptor"? What? They are loose AGAIN? Who taught them to open the cages? Uh... you are one clever girl 

Humanity must completely vanish in order to make story believable In bigger stores in Czech Republic, it is pretty usual, that every store has some limited electric produces. Namely radios and cell phones. And pre-paid SIM cards. So, you can unpack cellphone sold here, stick a SIM inside and make call. And bonus, at least in EU, you should be able to call 112 even from phone without a SIM card. You can unpack radio, load it with batteries (in case of power outage) and search for any broadcast. You can even try the TV in case of enough power. You can also move in "back office" area, where even more supplies will be stored. If there is no one around and no answer I believe you could spend about 10 years without being hungry 

1 From my understanding, Cage is supposed to be seeing the future, not experiencing and rewinding it; but the story plays the same either way and matches what I'm thinking. 2 The actual game mechanic is that they continue to propagate forward in time as you rewind. This works great for the game, but doesn't make physical sense in the real world. 

Even if you think this is achievable, you have to do it twice: India's Mars Orbiter Mission has a resolution high enough to see a the crater that would be left, and the instruments to verify Mars Express' "detection." MOM communicates via India's own IDSN network, which is physically located in India. Also: you wouldn't want to. 

We've actually already solved most of these problems: we send computers into space! They can be extremely small, with low power requirements, and can handle extreme conditions of temperature, vacuum, and acceleration. Since there are no assets to capture in space (no resources [that would be economical to obtain] or cities [see, space is a bad place for people, above]), space combat will likely be all about destroying your opponent's spaceborne assets (weapons platforms and intelligence-gatherers). For this task, only one form factor makes sense: an anti-satellite missile. So to answer your question... (tl;dr) The closest equivalent to a space fighter would probably be slung under a real fighter, carry no people, and spend less than five minutes in space before exploding. Hey, you asked for realistic, and reality is disappointing. Sorry. (Realistic spaceflight is only fun for hardcore space nerds like me, handwave away the problems and let yourself have fun with it instead!) Update: Star Wars celtschk makes a good point: if space fighters don't make sense for offense, maybe they make sense for defense? To answer this, let's take a trip back in time to the 1980s; no, not for movies, for the other Star Wars. At this point in history, something like antisatellite weapons already exists, called ballistic missiles. Antisatellite missiles existed too, but ballistic missiles were the bigger threat. Lots of people were figuring out ways of stopping said missiles. Typically you can't stop the missiles in their boost phase, before they leave the atmosphere, since this would typically entail having weapons in your enemy's airspace, which they don't really like. It's also hard to stop the warheads when they reenter, since they're moving very fast. Therefore the only place to stop them is in space. Since explosions don't work in space, you'd stop a warhead (or antisatellite missile) the same way that an antisatellite missile would destroy a satellite: just before impact, explode into a cloud of shrapnel that strikes the target, ripping it to shreds. There is no defense against this, especially when the closing velocities are tens of kilometers per second. Here, the same disadvantages for humans that I mentioned above are even stronger. You want your weapons to be extremely small and light so that they can be put on an intersecting orbit within seconds. If Star Wars systems were ever deployed, they would have been completely automatic, as having a human in the loop makes the response too slow to be effective. You also need your interceptors to be inhumanly accurate and expendable (see, "explodes into shrapnel," above). A plausible defense system consists of IR and UV cameras aimed at the Earth (both detect heat from the exhaust plumes of missiles, but UV has the advantage of not penetrating the ozone layer, so you only see spaceborne sources), and a constellation of kinetic kill vehicles that coordinate to intercept and destroy each of the incoming warheads. These systems were called Brilliant Eyes and Brilliant Pebbles, respectively. Why are these systems not in place today? You run into a scaling problem. Your enemy can release not one, but dozens of warheads from a single missile. All of them but one are inert. Since they are basically cans, they cost almost nothing to add to your missiles. However, you can't distinguish which ones are which, so you have to deploy enough interceptors to destroy all of them. The catch is, none of your interceptors can be duds! They all have to be fully-functional, expensive systems. This is why laser systems that destroy missiles in their boost phase before they can separate their warheads are so attractive. However the same issues of detection, targeting, and speed come into play, so any laser weapon would be computer-controlled. You might stick a person on board to deactivate the system in case of a false alarm, but then you need all the support equipment for that person, making you a huge target. Beyond The Infinite There is one change that could make space fighters plausible: reactionless drive. All spaceflight under known physics is fundamentally limited by the rocket equation: $$ \frac{m_f}{m_p} = e^{\Delta v/v_e} - 1 $$ This equation comes from the fact that momentum is conserved, so in order to change your momentum, you have to emit something with momentum opposite the change you want to make. The reason this equation is so bad is that the change in speed is in the exponent, meaning that the required fuel mass fraction increases dramatically as you increase the amount of maneuvers you can make. But what if: $$ \frac{m_f}{m_p} = 0? $$ A reactionless drive doesn't require any propellant to be expended. This would change the whole game, as now spaceflight is no longer a mass-minimization exercise. You can put anything in space that you want, and move around as much as you want once you're up there. This invalidates most of my arguments against space fighters, although it requires breaking the laws of physics to do it! 

Now, the last two give me troubles. I need to come up with good identifier system which could be believably used in fantasy setup by "turkey plucker" (commoner with really low IQ). Yes, I could steal IP protocol from our world, but it looks too much tech and it assumes that you can count to at least 255. So what would be good addressing system to allow me easily use the mirrors? Such system should be able to hold at least million addresses, preferably one billion unique addresses (magic mirrors are very common and one person can have more than one mirror) 

To add on two great answers: Personal space and greetings: Imagine I am arriving to business meeting quite hungry and unintentionally send that message to you through ordinary handshake. Keeping me on meeting as long as possible would bring you good advantage (I would be willing to commit for something just to leave for lunch break). So wearing gloves would be normal and greeting would be possibly more on Japanese style. Clothing style As stated above, you would see more clothed people, because accidental touching by handing a burger to you could also bring you knowledge of "I hate my job, but they force me to smile" Pornography and prostitution Oh my. I am not going to describe details of it, but just imagine a porn market of sexual experiences... Sexuality in general In my young age, "first base" was kissing. In your setup it would be "touching skin on skin" Religion You can actually pass the original ideas of your prophet. No more discussions about "what would Jesus say about gay marriage". If you are Christian, you already know 

You gotta admit. That roguish guy you just met at space bar looks cooler with cig in his mouth. Not only he always shoots first, but also he manages to do so while puffing awesomely looking clouds of smoke. The problem is obvious. This is not galaxy far far away, nor long time ago. It is our solar system, circa 2100 CE. Even bigger problem is, that in year 2016 we know that smoking kills. No matter how cool you may think you are going to look, its not worth the lung cancer. And it does not stay here, inside European Union we are putting really awful pictures on cigarettes: Warning, graphical content below. Proceed at your own risk! 

Did planes make water based travel obsolete? Well, yes and no in the same time. Before the planes were invented and able to cross Atlantic ocean, the only way to get from Europe to America was to board a ship and spend more than two weeks on the ocean. Did ships vanish after we invented planes? Well, kind of. Cargo ships are still in place, because they are really cheap. Cheapest way to get goods from China to America (or from Europe to America) is to load in on ship. Yes, you can use plane, but its costly. Passenger ships are still in operation, but their goal is not to get you from place A to place B. Rather, current passenger ships aim on holiday passengers who want to visit several holiday destinations and then get home. So, to answer your question: The ocean ships will be still around even if we travel to stars