Here is a WWII fighther plane that crashed in the Sahara. It's pretty well preserved, which bodes well for your spaceship. The cockpit was not filled with sand, so it appears that this Kittyhawk P-40 has not been covered completely by the sand only to be uncovered later, but has faced 70 years of sand erosion in the open air.. 

Reactor-battery using elements from the fabled Island of Stability The "Island of Stability" is a hypothetical collection of very heavy atoms, which are believed to be stable. They are heavier than say plutonium, yet not radioactive. A small speck of this material can be bombarded with neutrons or gamma rays so as to be rendered unstable and then quickly decay into the familiar plutonium and other transuranium elements, providing power. The amount of inherently radioactive material is however much smaller than what you'd find in an ordinary reactor. Electricity could be produced via a small thermoelectric generator that fits inside a robot. 

Humans would find a way to compensate. Take your airplanes example - why would airplanes have to be limited to wood? What about composites? Wood can easily lead, through a different technology path to materials like graphite. Pona wood from the Amazon has a cross-section and properties that are practically identical to graphite. And there are plenty of other metals that are ductile enough to make wire, but even without wiring, I can see technology going down a different path. Rather than transmitting electricity, what about skipping the whole electrical network technology, and going right to self contained devices that require no flexible wiring. Electricity and magnetism are such ubiquitous, useful, and powerful forces/fields/concepts that we'd find a way to make them work. Now, take iron out of the equation and you may have something. Taking iron out would probably also take Nickel out, at least any significant deposits of it to be mined. Nickel is found, in mines, mixed with iron, likely because of the way stars and worlds form. So that takes out the two most common ferromagnetic materials. Take out the ability of an intelligent race to interact with magnetism, and you've just handed them a very intractable technological hurdle. 

There are a lot of good counter-arguments here, but plotwise it might work having the waves separated by ice ages. 

Depends if you're writing for TV or a book. On TV, you are pressed for time and would typically be observing the reaction from outside. Then something dramatic, resembling an epileptic seizure with their hair catching on fire is appropriate. You can also go with the matrix-style download, where seizure is followed by a sudden revelation. In a science fiction book on the other hand, the author will typically focus on the first-person experience of having your brain over-loaded. Or if written from an outside perspective, at least make it more drawn out, like a prolonged illness. It's not uncommon to describe reactions akin to hallucinations and fever-fantasies, where the person is babbling about things the others around him can't see or does not understand. Fred Hoyle's "The Black Cloud" employ this strategy, where the overloaded person is bedridden and eventually dies from the massive re-organisation his brain is undergoing. A change in personality is another common trope in this situation. You could also go with a more heart-breaking angle where the person feels overloaded and where taking in and processing the information is at the expense of other tasks, like remembering to eat and dress yourself, find your way around a town or being unable to retain personal memories of the day. In short: You portray the onset of dementia. Again from a strict story-writing perspective, I think you have to first ask what you want to accomplish with the scene where the person is overloaded and where you want the story to go, and only then do you select the proper symptoms of overloading. 

Must have - windshield. I have eaten beetles and ants, and believe me, it ain't no picnic. You do not want to be eating (or wearing) that many bugs on your way to a dentist appointment. Also a must have - altimeter and computer controlled altitude. The computer controlled altitude is government regulated. The computer calculates the altitude as a formula of direction (degrees from true North) and speed, to maintain safe flight altitudes so people going in the same direction and speed are all travelling at the same altitude. But hackers make a business of bypassing the regulated controls so people can do drag-races down the Grand Canyon, or the Redwood Forest or downtown New York. 

The Raccoons Originally a North-American species, it has dexterious hands and thumbs, can stand upright not unlike a meerkat, is an omnivore, good at problem solving and has a complex social life. These are all traits that have been proposed as crucial for the development of Homo Sapiens. Without human existence, present-day North America is full of large herbivores, with descendants of mammoths traversing the arctic from Scandinavia through Siberia and Canada. The Raccoons spread north and live on a mixture of scavenging on large prey and hunting down smaller or weaker prey in packs. Without human interference, the next glacial period arrives when it should and allow the Racoons to cross the Bering Strait. From there they spread rapidly throughout Asia and Europe. In Europe they become a terrible invasive species, decimating birds, amphibians and other mammals just as they have done to a lesser extent in real-world Europe today. A line of Racoons radiate out on open grass-land, either in central Eurasia or Africa and develop a truly upright posture, to better survey the land for prey and predators. This frees up their already dexterious hands and sets off a feedback-cycle between tool-use, more dexterious hands, brain development and hunting techniques. One sunny day, a million years from now, a young inquisitive racoon is left back in camp while her family hunts. Out of curiosity or boredom, she grabs a piece of flint and slams it against a rock laying in the dry grass... 

The thing is that you have to realize that there is no such thing as a 2d object. Even sheets of paper, no matter how thin, are 3d. Looking at it from a 3d perspective, we live in a 3d world and all objects in it are 3d. 1d and 2d are theoretical constructs that we use to incrementally understand our universe. So then, when you start thinking of our universe in 4 dimensions, you realize that nothing in it would have zero length in that 4th dimension. Say you think of time as that fourth dimension. If an object had zero length in the fourth dimension, it would exist for 0 seconds, i.e. it would never exist. Ergo, no such object can exist, and it should not be hard to see how this would extend to any dimension (1st or 2nd or 3rd or 4th or ...). Here is another thought experiment to help you think in terms of four dimensions - Our perception allows us to look "backwards" through that time axis, so we can "see" an object projecting back in time. I can see my car out in the parking lot, and I have a vivid memory of it when I was getting into it in my garage. But our perception does not allow us to look forward, so we do not see the extent forward of an object in that time axis, but that is ok as a backward look is sufficient for this experiment. Now, look at your computer; it's there. Then remember it at a time before, and realize that you are looking at a 4d object. As far as filling a 4d hypercube with 3d cubes of water, realize that there is no such thing as 3d cubes of water. They are 4d, because they exist in a universe that has more than 3 dimensions. If your 4th dimension in your 4d hypercube is a real dimension that exists in the same universe as those 3d cubes of water, for example "time", then those "3d" cubes of water are going to have some sort or extent along that dimension in order for them to exist in that universe. Therefore you could extend their length or stack them, end to end, along that dimension and fill that hypercube. 

Gazing out at the azure ocean, we turned around and suddenly found ourselves on Lanzarote, one of the Canary Islands. 

Physics: If there's a black hole nearby which is spewing out a powerful jet, the civilization could "just" redirect that jet to compress the cloud. By flipping the black hole sideways or setting up a ramscoop as proposed by Dan Smolinske. Chemistry: The cloud is not collapsing because its pressure counteracts gravity. A "death star size" machine produces a cloud of particles which reacts endothermically with elements in the cloud (possibly as a catalyst, to reduce the amount of material produced). This cools the cloud, reducing the pressure. Alternatively, the new molecules have new degrees of freedom so that radiation can be absorbed as say rotation of the molecule, or they are able to radiate heat more efficiently in the infrared frequencies in which the cloud is transparent. All this reduces the kinetic energy of the cloud particles, reducing pressure and allowing it to contract. 

My first thought was what Burki mentions - biofeedback kind of thing. Read "Starship Troopers" and that is a great example of just this sort of thing. But the problem with that is that you then end up limiting the robot to the physical limitations of the pilot. If the pilot gets tired of running, and can't run anymore, the robot is stuck. Plus, how do you handle other functions like flight and firing the robot's eye-lasers? So, I would go with something different. If I remember correctly, we have something called mirror-neurons. When we imagine ourselves running, the same neurons fire in our brain that would fire when we actually run, but mirror-neurons keep the signal from actually going out to our limbs. You could have an interface (helmet? telepathic? brain implant?) a-la Avatar movie, which allows the pilot to "imagine" the actions he/she wants and the robot would do them. The interface can induce an imagine/day-dream state that allows the pilot to do everything they want to do, in their mind, without it actually translating into any motion. This allows for total control, and if the interface is sophisticated enough, control could even include flight and use of other non-human capabilities the robot may have - pilot, day-dream away. 

In 1984, Professor Alexander Demandt published a survey of the reasons historians have given for the fall of Rome. [1,2] The list numbers 210 reasons, ranging from lead and mercury poisoning to public baths and polytheism. Rome's alleged killers are as varied a barbarians, bureaucrates, feminists, hedonists and militarists. Personally I lean toward the systems thinking school, which states that it's a fallacy to assume that large effects have large causes. The monumental event that was JFK's assasination could have been the act of a lone loser, it does not need to be a conspiracy of proportional size. Similarly, if we could trace the cause of the fall of Rome, there may have been one or a multitude of events too insignificant to remember, that could yet have turned events on their head. Maybe a chance meeting between an influential backer and a now forgotten senator, that could have become an oustanding emperor? Maybe some years of slightly worse harvests in Germany would prevent it amassing the barbarian army in the Teutoburg forest? Perhaps some minor innovation in early Rome, which gets multiplied as its culture spreads over the centuries, to make the provinces more profitable or robust to changes in climate. That Rome lays in the distant past does not excuse the many fanciful explanations. Everyone reading this answer were alive during the 2008 financial crisis. We were there as it happened, but the theories as to why it happened keeps increasing. It has been explained through a commodities boom, a peak-oil scenario, the theory of scale-free networks, reactionary gender roles, weakened legislation, an error in a mathematical formula, the dot-com bubble, the postwar baby boom and a number of arguments for why "the system" is set to produce regular booms and busts without outside intervention. I can count about 40 reasons in wikipedia articles alone. Within our lifetime, the number of explanations for the financial crisis may well rival that of the fall of Rome. As for story-writing, I would love to see someone write a story from the systems thinking perspective. Maybe the protagonist does one little thing, which through unforeseen consequences escalates until he's watching helplessly, as his civilization crumbles around him. It's a tantalizing idea, that the seed of a glorious future or the end of civilization as we know it could be buried in the small and mundane around us. Or perhaps the real literary wonder is not found in explaining the fall of empires, but in how they sustain themselves for centuries. Unlikely islands of orderliness in a sea of chaos. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

Fry his brain before he knows it, but without killing him. Set up a trap to microwave part of his brain or give him a lobotomy. Just enough to not kill him but turn him into a mindless person who does not know that he needs to reload. And then put him in stasis. The question is, when he dies, does his disembodied mind initiate the reload, or is it an automatic thing? If it is automatic, forget it. He will eventually die and you have no chance of stopping him. If his disembodied mind initiates the reload, but that disembodied mind resets to full mental health at death, again, he will eventually die and you cannot stop him... But with the 1 year time limit you added, hope is reborn. You turn him into a mindless idiot and hold off his death for a year. No matter if he dies, the best he can do is return to being a mindless idiot waiting to die. If the reload is initiated by his disembodied mind, and that mind remains what it was at death, then you lobotomize the guy and kill him. His after-death mind remains an idiot and does not realize that he needs to reload. 

0.8 tons of water is 726 litres, equal in volume to a cube with sides of length 90cm (35inches). This is more of a water "mast" than a "tower". Far simpler than lifting a house, but still only a tiny bit of energy. Conclusion: We think of "lifting a house" as a gigantic effort, but cooking your dinner takes more energy! 

I have made contact with the natives. They are receptive to my messages, but appear to be controlled by some kind of hive mind. 

TL;DR: Don't worry, your ship can handle this. Where are the dangers: Sunspots, solar flares and coronal mass ejections all occur most frequently around the equator of the sun. It would therefore be preferable to park a ship near the poles. In practice, one would use a polar orbit which only visits the equator for short periods of time. But what is the potential damage?