or some set akin to that as your fitness level in the pool increases. And if you really get hooked, contact your local swim club's masters (adult swimming) coach, and make your weekly session one together with other enthusiasts. 

It'd be interesting to know how well your learning turned out. As an answer to the original question, first of all, it is actually a good idea to augment a once-a-week swim class with practicing on your own (or with a friend from class). Your instructor would probably agree. As for equipment, you should be able to borrow the most common equipment at the pool. They probably have classes there too and thus will have noodles and kickboards. Use the kind of stuff, and the kind of exercises you use in the class. Don't try to experiment until you have learned proper technique. When you advance, do learn freestyle. Breaststroke is a lifesaving technique. If you know it, you can keep your head over the water, and also have a good sense of how to tow another person. But for exercise, freestyle is superior. And, oh, much more important than kickboards or pull buoys are proper, well fitting goggles. Proper breaststroke puts your face in the water. 

Since you describe yourself as a sprinter in another question I'd like to add explosive exercises like Olympic lifts and box jumps to the advice you already received. I would also recommend a short swimming session after a hard gym session, if your gym is at the pool. It feels so much better afterwards, I promise. 

Swimming 1000m straight is nuts. Even seasoned swimmers like myself only do that when we have to – that is in preparation for a race that is that long. ;) Here is an easier way to keep track of how far you've swum, and one that will give you better training than just doing it straight: 

Yes. Since the workout names five types of drills right after saying 5x50, I'd interpret that as one 50 of each. The interpretation of the second set is also right, especially if you take time to use equipment in the pull and kick. But you could of course divide that 400 as four 100s, eight 50s or even sixteen 25s. If your coach is not on deck, you decide, I'd say. Good luck on getting more fit in swimming, and don't be hesitant to contact the local club (you've probably seen them at the pool) to see if they can help you or if they have a masters group you can join so that you get some company working out, wich makes it so much easier. 

I guess your avatar means you normally play curling? That means you might want to get the benefit of swimming to strengthen your core muscles. You don't mention what kind of strokes you know, more than freestyle ("front crawl" I suppose) and backstroke ("back crawl" I hope?). Either of those will, when executed properly, strengthen your core by the rotation that the body makes by each stroke. The answer to your question, though, is yes, do both. And stop doing "laps". Do 50s and 100s and, as you progress, longer and longer distances. You could try, for example: 

All the other answers are good to, but really: 2'20" per 100 in a straight 1000, by someone who only swims 3000 over 3 sessions per week is not at all "bad". As an aside, swimmers don't count "laps", and if they do, it's the same as "length". Swimmers count metres (or in the US, yards). And if you want to get better than the current state of "not too bad", you should do more metres, and do them in a way that is more effective than just doing a straight 1000. Here's a set for you: 

Oops, that turned out to be 2000, which you did without getting bored and definitely without getting lost about how far you swam. But if you really do want to do 1500's in practice, counting on the clock is the thing. Know your 100 m pace and look at the clock at every turn. That is, during the first 500 or so, look at the clock to se how fast you swim each 100, multiply your 500 time by three, and keep track of that you get to 1500 in around that goal. 

If you are serious, do contact your local swim club to join their masters (adult swimming) group where you'll learn all the strokes and how to design a proper swimming workout. It is practically impossible to get the full benefits of swimming if you only go about it alone, with no-one to train with and no-one to show you the ropes. Having said that: even if you do go at it on your own – only reading advice from triathlon websites – you will get some benefit from swimming, enough to motivate the time spent on it. You could always replace one running session per week with two swimming sessions and get better for it. 

As long as you work out on the level you describe, there is no reason to worry about this one way or the other. Take a day off if you like, if that makes it easier for you to keep to the habit. Work out twice a day if you feel that is right for you. Like any other swimmer, I've done fourteen swimming workouts a week, and two swimming sessions and one weights session in the same day, and survived it. "Rest days" we're days of only one swimming session and slightly shorter than the normal two hours. For a non-competitive person with a considerably less intense schedule to worry about rest days feels a bit silly, and probably comes from some philosophy in bodybuilding, which I assume you're not doing. So do what feels right for you, and enjoy it. That is the most important part. 

To clarify some of the points made by others: Yes, you do breathe out through nose and mouth simultaneously to exhale most effectively. If you haven't finished exhaling, your inhale will be too late and your stroke will suffer. Alternating sides, taking an odd number of strokes between breaths, is good for balancing your stroke. If you breathe to one side only your technique is more likely to become a bit sloppy. Particularly the arm on the breathing side may shorten its stroke, and the other arm is likely to cross the mid-line. Thus you should strive to breathe on both sides. This can be done even if breathing every two, by simply changing sides regularly. No, there is no specific number of strokes you are "supposed" to take between breaths. In fact, a good drill is to swim a number of 50s while increasing your breathing within the 50 from every three to whatever number you can manage, or to increasing the breath interval by 50s eventually doing the whole 50 without breathing, whichever you prefer. And swimmers who race use different patterns all the time. When I raced properly, my 50 was without a breath, but my 100 was consistently every three. These days I have to use every two when I race anything longer than a 100. Breathing on every stroke is only used as a drill. That said, breathing every three is the standard for most swimmers in practice. 

Since you say 500 and you're European, I assume the race is open water? That assumption is strengthened by that it is the first leg of a team triathlon. In that case, I'd say you worry for no reason at all. Without the turns you get in the pool, your mindset will be so different anyway, there's no way you'll sprint hard enough to not finish well. On the other hand, in open water swimming, you do want to get out ahead before the first buoy, so "sprinting" a bit at the start actually is something you do want to do. And being a properly trained sprinter, you have enough stamina to finish such a race – and definitely faster than any non-swimmers in the triathlon crowd. In short: just do it. 

The fifties are there to get your pulse up properly, and the following distances are there to build stamina. And this set, and similar ones, is a good way to trick oneself into swimming a 2000. But, as other answers already pointed out, technique is key to increasing speed in swimming, so use both increased milage (yes, sorry, we count metres and yards, but refer to them as miles) and improved technique. Good luck! 

In addition to the two previous answers by Amanda R. and JohnP, here's another very important point: Keep your head down. Body position is extremely important in swimming, and your saying that you get out of breath already after less that a 50 tells me that you probably have your legs sinking behind you – as a result of your lifting your head out of the water. At 185 cm and 75 kg you probably do not have much subcutaneous fat to float on, so every bit of your head that comes out of the water diminishes your buoyancy. If you lift your head, your legs sink, and when your legs sink, drag increases a lot. Try consciously shoving your head under the water and you'll see that you can float horizontally at the surface with almost no effort. Bring that experience into your swimming. 

I'm a bit bewildered that you say your problems started after you started wearing goggles. Were you able to see the bottom of the ses before that? Or did you just close your eyes? If the latter is the case, I would say you should try using goggles, but closing your eyes like you used to. You see, one great obstacle in both open water swimming and scuba diving is that all mammals, including humans of course, have a diving reflex. When we get water on our face, we instinctively close our epiglottis. In the pool you have long since overcome this, but in the ocean it comes back. It comes back to me every open water season. (Where I live, open water is not a year-round activity.) And it usually takes some getting used to when you practice at taking off your mask and replacing it during scuba diving. With that said, I think you should have an easier time getting past it in a rather clear ocean, than we do over here in murky lakes. So I'm confident that you'll do fine after some practice. 

Since freestyle and backstroke makes you rotate about the spine, and breaststroke hyperflexes the spine to the back, you're left with butterfly. And since that is not practical for plain exercising you're seemingly out of options. But depending on the nature and position of your disc problems, you might be able to find a way to strengthen the muscles around the site to compensate. Or perhaps learn proper technique – freestyle should not stress the spine much at all if done in a relaxed manner. Use your own judgement, and consult your physician. Then contact the local swim club to see what they can offer an adult who wants to learn to swim better.