Assuming the question is about the Shelf Valley, Butman et al. (2003) provided a thorough explanation of the origin and features of the valley. Here is their discussion: 

The IceCube is a particle detector at the South Pole that records neutrino interactions. It has lead to many fascinating new discoveries in the field of astrophysics (e.g., 1, 2) and it was awarded "Breakthrough of the Year 2013" by Physics World. My question is whether the process of installation and operation of such an extensive array has provided any new knowledge of the geophysical characteristics of the Antarctic. 

The explanation for the wind effect on water level at the coast is basically the same as for upwelling circulation. In an upwelling situation, the winds flow parallel to the coast and generate upwelling dynamics: surface Ekman balance is setup (in deep enough waters) with water transport being to the right (left) of the wind in the northern (southern) hemisphere; this causes a deficit along the coast that needs a compensating flow in the deeper part of the water column bringing cold water to the surface. The deficit along the coast and the resulting sloping density levels create a geostrophic balance and that causes the surface water level to drop near the coast (wind set-down). A good diagram of the processes at play is available from Csanady (1981). Source: EOS In reality, the Ekman balance-geostrophic balance combo is a better approximation when the shelf is narrow and there is a stronger connection with the open ocean. In shallower areas, the wind that matter most is not the along-shelf wind, but rather the cross-shelf wind: 

Water pressure on both sides of the continent makes sure that all horizontal forces cancel out. So water pressure will not move a continent to the left or right because the pressure on the other side exerts the same force just in the opposite direction (assuming equal water depth). But the water pressure puts the continent under compression and will push the two sides of an ocean apart (putting the oceanic plate underneath under tension). In total, however, these forces are far too small to have any impact on plate tectonics. 

@kwinkunks already gave a good answer on the short time scale. On long time scales, mantle convection and plate tectonics redistributes large amounts of mass, and the conservation of angular momentum requires that the direction and speed or rotation of the Earth changes accordingly. (This is independent of the fact that the orientation of Earth's axis may stay put but continents may move over it, changing the "apparent" location of the poles.) Changing mass distribution because of mantle convection also indices torques on the Earth due to coupling with the rotation of the moon around Earth, and the Earth around the Sun. This, too, over time leads to changes of the Earth axis's direction. Both of these effects act on time scales of tens of millions of years. 

Yes it is possible to build a structure similar to what you describe, and this is exactly what some researchers use to study cloud formation and the processes that operate within them. The other answers and comments have established that re-creating full-scale weather systems is probably out of the question, but meteorological cloud chambers exist for recreating certain weather phenomena. You ask about "preferably consumer grade" examples, but since all of these types of apparatus are effectively custom built to an extent, you could potentially create a "consumer-grade" version (just don't necessarily expect research grade data from your efforts!). From a research point of view, they are used mainly for studying microphysical processes within clouds: condensation of ice nuclei, chemical interactions between molecules in clouds, snow formation, ice-crystal riming, thunderstorm electrification, and so on. As you point out in the question, the down-scaling issue means they aren't suited to reproducing large-scale weather features, although the limit is as big as you care to build it I suppose... Here's a link to a research grade ice cloud chamber, used at the University of Manchester, UK. There are some excellent photos of how it is put together (unfortunately I don't have permission to put them here). Essentially it is a 10m tall steel chamber, which can be cooled down to about -55 centigrade. The pressure can be lowered to simulate conditions in the upper troposphere (about 50hPa). It has been used on occasion to reproduce the conditions in thunderstorm electrification. Here's a video of a home-made cloud chamber in action (again, it is imitating small scale features and processes in clouds, not weather systems per se.), and a simple diagram of how it is set up: Alcohol is used here, since it evaporates and condenses much more readily than water. The dry ice at the base cools the lower section of the chamber, creating a temperature gradient within the chamber. The alcohol droplets will evaporate from the strips forming a fog (cloud) at the top, then condense as they hit the cool air, forming gentle rain droplets nearer the base. Here's a link to more detailed instructions. Something in between these kind of set-ups is the closest you will come to re-creating 'real' clouds at home. They won't have the beauty of a towering cumulus over a mountain range (although some say there is beauty in cloud microphysical processes.) Annecdote 1: At the EGU 2014 Annual Conference in Vienna, the organisers created a series of rooms that you could walk through and experience being inside a cloud. Annecdote 2: Incidentally the first person to create a 'weather chamber' was CTR Wilson, trying to reproduce the cloud formations he had seen on Ben Nevis in the Scottish Highlands. His invention actually led to the discovery of ionizing radiation. $URL$ 

There is no good reason. It's simply a convention that someone started a long time ago and that stuck. Like the question whether an hour is divided into 60 minutes and a minute into 60 seconds. If you go to Australia, you will find plenty of maps for tourists that show Australia at the top and Europe at the bottom. 

You can just think of this in terms of energy. To leave a mark in the geologic record, you have to use something that is at least as strong as the forces that are shaping the world around you: erosion, melting, tectonic forces, wind and weather. These are all very energetic things that are happening around us all the time, and for long time spans. If you want to compete with this, and leave a recognizable, permanent mark on Earth, you have to have something that is at least as energetic. That is difficult already for humans to achieve (though we do -- we have significantly accelerated erosion, and our moving of rocks and earth will clearly be distinguishable for a long time to come). But think of what it would take to do this from several light years away? Even a well focused laser beam would be far larger than Earth at these distances, meaning that you would have to send your laser beam with a far larger power and duration than the processes on Earth, just to leave a bit of a mark. This is clearly not possible. 

If you are looking for a dataset going back a bit further, but still sticking to satellite and radar data, GPCP (Global Precipitation Climatology Project) goes back to 1979. The limitation of certain TRMM datasets, in addition to the relatively short length of the project, is that they only cover the tropics and so you lack data in the mid-latitudes and higher for a proper global analysis. Some TRMM datasets extend up to 60 degrees latitude by incorporating radar and other sources into the final product. If you want to go back even further (to 1901 globally) the GPCC (Global Precipitation Climatology Centre) is a good place to start. Anything before the launch of TRMM in 1997 will likely be a collation of various data sets, so the comparability between regions is occasionally questionable, although there are robust ways of correcting for this applied to the datasets. This is a truly global data set, according to their spatial coverage description (90.0N - 90.0S, 0.0E - 360.0E) Beyond that, the datasets are patchy between different countries. You would have to collate your own global dataset from the various national meteorological archives. The UK precipitation archives (Armagh Observatory), for example, go back to about 1795, but I'm not aware of them being included in many (any?) global collations. N.B. Almost all of this data will be in some form of Cartesian or geographic co-ordinate format, so you probably won't be able to look up individual places or countries, but will need to extract latitude and longitude bounded regions from the data. Link to the GPCC download site: GPCC gridded data download 

If you have a sufficient number of sensors, e.g., land-based or ocean-bottom seismometers, in the vicinity of where strong earthquakes typically happen, then it will take a few seconds for seismic waves to reach them, and a few hundred milliseconds for the electric signal to get to a place where a warning could be triggered. On the other hand, the gravimeter would provide essentially instant warning. So you save a few seconds. At the same time, it takes many many seconds for earthquake waves to travel to the places where the warning would matter. In fact, the earthquake rupture itself may be many many seconds long. And it will take minutes for tsunamis to reach shore. In other words, what you gain in advance warning time is not actually very large, and it may not be worth the effort. I would also not be surprised if it takes tens of seconds or minutes to actually see the change in gravity in noisy gravity measurements, and/or to take the same amount of time to just process the data. 

Apart from the fact that only a few tropical cyclones follow a more southerly route (a list bellow) after going around the North Atlantic, I think the main problem is that tropical cyclones would weaken significantly after landfall in the Iberian Peninsula. An example of this is Hurricane Raphael in 2012. Source Weather.unisys.com. There is no "easy" path from the Atlantic into the Mediterranean for a system the size of a tropical cyclone. Other examples that followed a similar path but never made it the Mediterranean: Gordon (2006), Jeanne (1998), Ivan (1998), Frances (1992), Bob (1991), Arlene (1987), Chloe (1967), Carol (1965), Dolly (1953). While the cyclones at the point of approaching the Iberian Peninsula are still tracked as tropical depressions, their characteristics are often similar to other extra-tropical storms. 

A recent article by Yu et al. estimated that 28 million tons of dust from the Sahara fall to the surface over the Amazon basin per year out of the 132 million tons that remain in the air when the dust reaches South America. The deposited dust is rich in phosphorus and contributes 22,000 tons of P per year, which is about the same amount lost from rain and flooding. The question is: how important is this phosphorus to the biological production of the Amazon basin? Also, considering Yu et al. reported very large interannual variability, do we expect to see any variability in the production at annual to decadal scales? 

You will want to look at the GPlates program and its references to where it gets its data from. It is probably the most widely used repository to show plate motion information for the current time as well as far into the past. As far as the "...relative to the African plate" part is concerned: If you are sitting somewhere on the moon, and look for long enough time (let's say, a few million or tens of millions of years), you will see plates move about over the surface of the earth. But because you only see the surface of the earth, you cannot distinguish the following two cases: (i) all plates move westward, (ii) the earth just rotates a wee bit slower than you thought. That's because you don't have a coordinate system that is anchored "in the Earth" (e.g., rotates at the same speed as the Earth core) with respect to which you can determine what moves where. As a consequence, all we can do is describe relative motions of plates. One convenient way to do this is to choose a coordinate system in which one of the plates remains stationary (e.g., the African plate) and all others move. 

On the synoptic scale (thinking along the lines of cyclones, weather fronts etc.), then that's a pretty significant drop in that amount of time. A bomb or explosive cycogenesis in meteorological terms is defined as a drop of at least 24mb in 24 hours, so your observation easily fits this description of being a significant rapid pressure change. There's a list of similar events here. You ask what the significance would be at the surface, and only 80m up, which makes me think you might be talking about smaller scales (perhaps?), in which case @naught101 is right in suspecting small scale eddies from buildings could be causing the surprising readings. 80m isn't really going change the significance of an observation that much on synoptic/meso -scales. Sources: $URL$ Synoptic-Dynamic Climatology of the "Bomb" 

I think the naming difference is largely qualitative and even arbitrary in some cases. There are lots of 'islands' that are technically connected to a larger landmass by an isthmus of some sort, which would make them peninsulas technically, and not islands. If you take the definition of a peninsula to be a body of land surrounded by water on three sides, then yes, the island in question could technically be called a peninsula. Local names of landforms are often linked to cultural or historic influences, just as much as they are to their technical description. There's no 'threshold' of isthmus-width (as far as I'm aware), where once crossed, a peninsula-like island becomes an island-like peninsula . If there was it would be entirely arbitrary. 

Photosynthesis has not stopped. It happens all the time, splitting water and carbon dioxide, and producing oxygen and carbohydrates. Likewise, organic matter rots and decomposes all the time, requiring oxygen and releasing carbon dioxide. The Keeling curve actually illustrates this quite nicely: most of the land mass where this happens lies in the north, and during the summer photosynthesis dominates whereas in the winter, decomposition dominates. As a result, CO2 concentration in the atmosphere decreases in the northern summer and increases in the northern winter. Your question about using up all of the oxygen in the atmosphere by burning all fossil fuels is a good one. If indeed you could get hold of all of the carbon that, over the past 2 billion years, has been separated from the oxygen by photosynthesis, then you could do that. But the carbon is not accessible: only a small fraction is actually in the form of fossil fuels. A much larger part is simply dispersed in the form of organic matter in the sediments of the earth (both on land and in the sea), and it may not be concentrated enough to actually burn by itself. For example, soil has a significant fraction of carbon, but it does not usually burn. More carbon has been subducted in sediments through plate tectonics and now resides dozens or hundreds of kilometers down in the Earth mantle. (A fraction of it will eventually come back out as carbon dioxide in volcanic eruptions). In other words, most of the carbon that has resulted from photosynthesis is no longer accessible for burning, and consequently not available to react with the atmospheric oxygen.