Short answer. When the Earth is closest to the sun in January that softens the seasonal variation in the Northern Hemisphere and it increases the seasonal variation in the Southern Hemisphere, so for now, in the Northern Hemisphere, the Summers are colder than they would be with a circular orbit and the winters are hotter. The opposite is true in the Southern Hemisphere. Overall the eccentricity variation doesn't change how much solar energy hits the Earth by much, so it's not the total solar energy. It's when combined with precession, and the effect on the seasons, that the global effect can be significant. If we had a perfectly circular obit then the only Milankovich cycle that would matter would be axial tilt. Ice ages would either be on a 41,000 year cycle - very neat and tidy, or they wouldn't happen at all cause the orbital variation wouldn't be enough to get ice ages started. Other factors, like solar minimums could play a role and over longer periods of time, continental drift and variations in plant life, so, maybe not that exactly that, but I think it's likely. Too long answer: Hotter summers and colder winters (or the opposite) is a form of climate change that accompanies the orbital cycles. All the orbital cycles change climate at least by seasonally. But if I'm reading your question right, you're asking about global temperature, not just seasonal variation. Eccentricity has an effect because the two hemispheres are quite different and because it amplifies the effect of precession. Oceans tend to be a temperature buffer. They circulate and they warm up slowly and they cool down slowly so they don't get too hot in summer or too cold in winter. Land can vary in temperature significantly more. This buffering can be seen in this average temperature chart of the two hemispheres. 

It's gone from the 8 million square miles plus range into the early 70s into the 4s and 5s millions recently, dipping below 4 million in 2012 but rising back above that 2013-2014. 2015 we haven't hit the minimum yet so it only goes up to 2014 for yearly minimum. If there's a mechanism that helps retain ice, such as cold water currents near the pole or a weakening of the warm Atlantic gulf stream, that could extend the ice quite a bit longer. It could also happen quite a bit sooner than 40 years if we have a few more years like 2012 or 2007, each year showed a significant and unexpected reduction in minimum ice cover compared to previous years. A rather famous sea ice prediction was done by Professor Wieslaw Maslowski who in 2007 predicted we could see an ice free arctic by 2016 plus/minus 3 years - which Al Gore later quoted and said "there is a study that says we "could see" an ice free arctic by 2013 and the deniers have loved referencing and misquoting that quote ever since. I think Maslowski's predictions moved later a few years shortly after, but nobody remembers that. Everybody remembers 2013, though he actually said 2016 plus/minus 3 years. Ironically, we could still see a big sea ice drop by 2019 and in that case, Maslowski wouldn't be far from wrong, but his is still one of the most made fun of predictions in all of science. Maslowski's estimate was more aggressive than anyone else, but that doesn't mean he did bad work. I've never looked into the specifics, but there's a ton of articles, some less friendly than others, on his 2016 plus/minus 3 years (which some people simply refer to as a failed 2013 prediction) Here's one Also an ice free arctic in late summer means sea ice will still form in fall and stay through the winter and spring, so Polar bears will still likely have some sea ice to hunt from long after the "ice free arctic" happens, but the warming in general makes their survival more difficult and that's likely to continue and get worse. As far as flooding cities, sea ice doesn't raise sea level, so that's a different subject. That has more to do with the melting of glacial ice on land, primarily Greenland and Antarctica. The melting of entire glaciers is on a whole different timescale and the melting of all of Antarctica might never happen, even in worst case global warming models, at least, it might not happen until Antarctic drifts off the south pole into warmer waters, but that's several million years away. Parts of the Antarctic glacier could melt and parts have already melted, but only a teeny tiny percentage so far. The IPCC forecasts for sea level rise includes both melting glaciers and warming and expanding oceans and they predict maybe 2-3 feet by 2100 (or 1-3 feet, depending on who you ask). Compared to that, if all the glaciers melted, we could expect a sea level rise of about 230 feet, so clearly, nobody is predicting glaciers will melt completely anytime soon - not for many hundreds if not thousands of years, but those predictions are even more difficult. But like sea ice predictions, glacier melting predictions are hard to estimate by trend cause the ice can give way more quickly or more slowly depending on a variety of factors. Precise predictions are enormously difficult and not guaranteed to follow trends from the past. 

This was covered above, but Uranium, in small amounts, is in lots of different places. The Rocks were always (mildly) radioactive. 

Source: $URL$ Snow-cover is considered an important factor in climate change study, so it's tracked pretty carefully. There's probably a specific average minimum date out there somewhere if you're really interested but I didn't see it. Judging from the chart, somewhere around mid August. Sea ice cover is later, that reaches a minimum in September most years, but oceans are slower to change than land and air, so that should be expected. The hottest day on average, if you care about that, is July 24. $URL$ 

Mountains are a little unusual in terms of water vapor capture. Temperature drops with elevation so some mountains have ice-cover even in summer and/or even in warm latitudes. Mountain ranges tend to block air-flow and if there's a prevailing wind direction, it's not uncommon for for the other side of the mountain to be desert. This is called a rain shadow. Death Valley is an example of a rain shadow with mountain ranges on both sides. The Atacama desert is another. Rain shadows aren't part of your question, but the point is that Mountain ranges are especially good at pulling water vapor from the air and in cold enough climate, or if the mountains are tall enough, they're very good at creating localized glaciers that ebb and flow with the seasons. I disagree with the sentence in the other answer of glaciers have been receding for the last 15,000 years. While somewhat true, given that you asked about mountain glaciers, that's a tricky assumption to make. Sea-level studies suggest that glacial melt, significantly slowed down to a very gradual sea level rise by about 6,000-6,500 years ago. If we assume (if I may speculate), a steady but gradual increase in East Antarctic ice, there has been some steady glacial melt globally over the last 6,000 years, but not a huge amount and whether mountain glaciers contributed to that is unknown. 

Think about what animals need to travel between Islands. It's very difficult unless the water between the islands either drops or freezes over (Deer, for example, have crossed from New Jersey to Staten Island when the Hudson River freezes over), but the ocean doesn't freeze near the Wallace line. Or, during ice ages when sea level falls as much as 410 feet, Islands can be joined as sea level drops. Japan, for example, a land-bridge formed through Hokaido to mainland Asia. Likewise, the UK connects to France and the Bering Straight becomes land as well. There's nothing particularly remarkable about the water over the Wallace line other than it being too deep for any land bridges to form during ice ages. The relevant geological feature for land bridges is shallow oceans/seas/bays/straights/channels, etc. The Java sea is sufficiently shallow that all the islands Northwest of the Wallace line are joined when sea level falls. It was pointed out that it's rough water too, but that's not the primary reason. The primary reason is simply the ocean's depth and width. Animals have little incentive to try to cross any fairly large body of ocean. Animals sometimes migrate across raging rivers, but in that situation the other side is clearly visible. The islands on each side of the Wallace line, even with the sea level drop, would (I assume), appear very far away to the eye, if they could be seen at all. 

Past those mountains, the air needs to fill up again with water vapor, sometimes called recycled water-vapor or secondary source water vapor. This secondary source comes mostly from rivers and plant transpiration, but as CO2 levels rise, plant transpiration decreases, so you have a double whammy effect, air that can hold more water, and less water vapor returned to the air. This means, by the time the air reaches the Rocky Mountains, there's often less, not more water vapor in the air, combined with a shorter winter season, and the glaciers can shrink significantly. Regions that rely on secondary sources of water vapor, such as rivers and transpiration, can be especially vulnerable to climate change. Add to that, a decrease of snow melt from shrinking mountain glaciers upstream and you have a potentially serious water shortage issues . . . but I digress, as your question wasn't about water shortages. No two mountain ranges are alike, so the details should be studied individually for each mountain range or region, but specifics such as where the wind that blows past that mountain gets it's water vapor from is very important, in addition to any variation in the time that mountain glacier spends above or below freezing. That warmer air holds more water is true in general, but it's not globally true as a result of climate change. Some parts of the Earth are becoming dryer as a result of climate change. There's no shortage of articles that indicate that mountain glaciers are rapidly shrinking. Mountain glaciers that rely on secondary sources of water vapor are the most vulnerable. 

Speaking strictly for the geological record, it's not directly measured, but estimated by the methods discussed above, looking at geological records of old shorelines and land that was once under water and working out an estimate. Sea level from the center of the Earth is mostly done for modern measurements. You can measure sea level against the land, but land can rise and fall, or it can be measured from the center of the Earth, independent of land shifting. I don't think that's particularly relevant to your question on geological estimates of sea level. That probably needs some cleaning up, but it's a fun subject. I thought I'd give it a shot.