It probably depends. It might be possible for some types of fusion reactors, but you're really focusing on the wrong problem. Getting tritium or deuterium or whatever fusion fuel you have hot enough to initiate fusion is not hard. Sustaining the reaction and extracting energy from it is the hard part. As observed in other answers, and basically the same question on the Physics Stack, the limitation of a lens is that it cannot heat anything beyond the temperature of the body it's focusing light from, and the surface of a star is not hot enough for a sustained fusion reaction. Having said that, one type of fusion we humans have explored (and are still exploring, to my knowledge) is called inertial confinement fusion, and basically uses lasers to generate shockwaves in a fuel pellet, compressing and heating it enough to generate a (brief) fusion reaction. 

A Pair of Snipers With knowledge of the two second cooldown period a pair of crossbowmen can situate themselves in good sniping positions. First crossbowman fires a bolt, which gets frozen in time. The Dark Lord, savvy to the nature of crossbow bolts and knowing they take longer than two seconds to reload, steps aside and causes the bolt to miss. But the second crossbowman, with a keen eye on the look out for the Dark Lord suddenly teleporting out of the way from his perspective, readies his own shot. The second the Dark Lord does his time skip a second shot is fired and hits it's mark before the two second period is up. It doesn't have to be crossbows of course, but the idea is the same. Two assassins. One to trigger the spell and another waiting to take the Dark Lord out once the spell ends. Trap Him Wait until the Dark Lord is smelly and in need of a nice, warm bath. Once he has submerged himself use a magical assassin to transmute his bath water into iron. It shouldn't trigger the spell because he is in no immediate danger, but it will completely immobilize him and leave him at your mercy. You can then make him your prisoner and use him as a nice yard decoration. Certainly quite the conversational piece at your next party. Just as before you don't need to use this exact plan. Simply find a way to capture him that won't cause any harm to his person and the spell shouldn't trigger. Once he's captured you can execute him at your leisure. After all, if he stops time but can't move he'll just be trapped in place until he dies of dehydration. 

He doesn't, obviously. He can time travel, so instead of bringing back a sword from the 21st century (what an odd time period to pick to locate a sword in, by the way), he brings back a planetary annihilator from the 31st century. Much more effective choice than any sword. Seriously, the idea of time travelling to bring back a sharp hunk of metal is beyond absurd. But he's a magician, so he doesn't need time travel, he uses magic. A spell of "remove moisture" or "prevent rust" envelopes the sword, keeping it in pristine condition throughout the ages. You're way-overthinking the story about a magical sword and the person with the magical ability to remove it from the stone that's magically holding it. 

Projectile weapons like bows or javelins would be incredibly difficult to use from the back of a flying creature. Not only would you need to calculate for your own speed and the speed of the enemy, you'd also need to account the much higher wind resistance, relative height of the target, and hope you don't turn the wrong way and end up staring right into the Sun. You also have a massive blind spot directly beneath you, and run the risk of accidentally shooting your mount in it's wing if you can't sync up with the flapping motion. Physics wise the creatures you talked about, eagles and pteranodons, would also be almost impossible to saddle like a horse and sit upright on, since their wings connect to the body and there'd be nowhere for your legs to go, and sitting on the neck would throw off it's center of balance. You'd have to sit on your knees to fire a bow properly, and that would reduce aerodynamics. A crossbow might work from a laying position but you'd be limited to shooting forward. If a rider could somehow overcome all this then the combat would involve trying to fly under your opponent and shoot up so they can't return fire. Another option is a light lance. Hold it forward and go for natural swooping strikes to penetrate your opponent or their mount and take them out. This works well for a sitting up or laying down position, and would be significantly easier to train soldiers and mounts to do. There's also no risk in injuring your own animal and falling to your doom. Regardless of which main weapon you pick, the secondary should probably be the net. It's very easy to use. Just fly over the enemy, loosen the net, and drop it on the enemy. If they get snagged in it they'll fall to their deaths, and if not it's not too big of a deal because you can carry several nets without incurring significant encumbrance for your mount. 

To be a bit pedantic, the simplest thought I can come up with is the number 1. It takes a single bit to store that thought, so there's your answer - one bit. Anything beyond that, though, and you bump into how fundamentally unanswerable this question is. It's like asking how long a book is. Well, it entirely depends on the book. The world's longest book contains almost 2 million words long, and the shortest books in the world literally contain no text (if you don't like that, you can find any number of children's books that contain dozens of words). So it is with thoughts. It's possible to conceive of a thought that takes only a single bit to store, and it's possible to conceive of a rambling stream of consciousness that would require vast arrays of storage media to completely record. 

Advantages at the biological level can help alleviate disadvantages at the societal level. The wolf people could breed faster than humans with the trade off of having a shorter life expectancy. Humans produce a single child at a time while the wolves produce four or five in small litters. While the human population would have a much higher cap due to the superiority of agriculture over hunting, the wolves would be able to bounce back from major population loss much quicker than the humans could. It also means that while their population density is lower, they are able to propagate and spread across a much wider territory faster than humans can. Wolves have fur. It might not seem like much, but fur is what allows other mammals to thrive in the wilderness without need for housing. Humans are extremely vulnerable to the elements, where as the wolf people would be able to survive fairly comfortably in the wilderness even during winter. No need for buildings means their entire society is mobile, which makes hunting them down much more difficult. Humans have incredible stamina, but we sacrifice sprinting speed for it. The wolves, while not as fast as real life wolves due to sacrificing speed for bipedalism and tool use, could well be faster sprinters than humans. This would potentially make them better at hit and run tactics, rushing in to wound enemies before quickly escaping into the woods faster than humans can keep up. Wolves could also have superior tracking senses. Better smell, stronger eyes, and better hearing. All things they'd need as a hunting species, and all of which provides a strong logistical advantage when maneuvering troops. If the wolves are nocturnal they gain a significant advantage over their human adversaries at night without losing much during the day. Humans deal with nocturnal predators by shutting our doors at night, but a nocturnal predator that can open doors or windows becomes much more dangerous. All these traits lend the wolves well toward a specific type of society. Raiding Culture The main thing holding the wolves back is the inefficiency of their food production, but there is one significant food source available that grows it's own crops and has a tendency to all congregate in single areas that can be spotted from miles away. Humans. Humans make a fine food source for the wolves. So do the humans' cattle and other livestock, and it's extremely difficult to defend farming communities from a dedicated band of fast moving, nocturnal predators that can plan as well as a human can. Furthermore, it would take significant effort to hunt down the small nomadic tribes through thick forests in an attempt to find bandits that don't necessarily need to set up camp. Humans will develop technology faster, but the wolves can steal it. Wolves shouldn't have an issue stealing more advanced gear and figuring out how it works, as well as how to make their own. The human population will find it hard to expand into new territories because wolves are already present there before the humans can set up their infrastructure. The human population has a harder time growing out of control because they have intelligent natural predators keeping them from expanding, and any battle that occurs that the humans don't win 5 to 1 will end in a long term advantage for the wolves because they rebound faster. So long as the wolves avoid large scale, open field battles they should be able to survive by preying on the fringes of human society and making it all but impossible to expand deeply into their own territory with constant raiding. This lifestyle can be further enhanced with good ships and/or horses to improve mobility even further. 

Clearly, they didn't naturally evolve glands on or near their claws, because of practical issues that naturally select against evolving fragile and dangerous glands on areas of their bodies that they use for running, climbing, and poking holes in innocent furniture. Your cats with toxic claws are, therefore, the result of bio-experimentation gone wrong. Some mad scientist clearly decided he wanted an army of venomous cats, for some reason (maybe he got tired of his guard dogs chewing his shoes, maybe he just really liked cats, whatever). Evidently, he succeeded in engineering and breeding a decent number of these cats by figuring how out to splice DNA from some other venomous animal into cat DNA and code them to develop poison glands at the base of their claws. Then, predictably, things went bad. He was celebrating his genius, petting one of his new toxic cats when it returned his affection and started kneading its claws on his lap. After his death, his army of toxic cats went out into the wild, and thanks to their poisonous claws, they thrived and multiplied. Other species of cats and even dogs were quickly killed off or displaced, and thanks to their poisonous claws, these cats were able to take down big game like deer. With no effective competition and an abundance of food, this species underwent explosive population growth. Now, mere years or decades later, we have yet another cautionary tale about the dangers of covert biological weapons research and the inherent perils of raising felines. 

Ice skates. Or more specifically, bladed boots. In aerial combat it would allow you to slash at enemies below you without compromising your flight stance while leaving your hands open to carry some sort of buckler to defend against the attacks from others. With your arms free you could double the foot blades up with heavy darts to use as a thrown projectile. Your opponents have a big frame due to their wings, and you just need to damage the wings to make them plummet, so killing power isn't necessary. You can also drop the darts from overhead before engaging with the blades. Combat would involve a lot of drops and swoops as the two fighters attempt to get on top of and behind their opponent to slash at the unarmored wings (placing armor on the wings might make them too heavy to fly). Because the blades are on your legs your wings won't be easily reached by your opponent to retaliate without them doing an awkward flip or carrying a spear that might bump into their flapping wings and make them fall, and you can answer the spear by dropping a dart on their head. It might make landing more difficult, but not impossible. You'd just have to remove them after the battle is over similar to taking off your armor. 

I would advise considering the real world. Education (or knowledge or learning or however you want to put it) is time consuming, powerful, and forms the bedrock of society. Yet, there are places where women's access to education is highly restricted, and even places where women are killed for trying to attend school. Even in those places, or arguably especially in those places, women are far from irrelevant - they are valuable as commodities and useful for functions that don't require an education. It's not a good deal for these women, of course, but unskilled labor, having children and romantic or sexual relationships are all roles held by women in these real-world, misogynistic societies. And make no mistake, these societies would not function without the same women they oppress, mistreat and ostensibly hold in such low regard. You could simply flip the gender roles - powerful female mages spend their fortunes amassing harems of men, common families pay dowries to marry off their sons into higher status families, men who can't make it as boy toys toil in unskilled, non-magical professions to make a living, and so forth. Even a magical world is going to need ditch-diggers and maids and sexual relationships, after all. And of course, that's based on the most extreme real-world examples where deliberate, extreme discrimination is the norm. You could also take the model of Western societies from the early and mid 20th centuries. Because of the lack of opportunities afforded to women, they were extremely under-represented in positions of power, and the best paying prodessions, but they were nurses and secretaries and waitresses and clerks housewives and so on. Again, no reason you can't flip that script. Non-magical men can't expect to be business executives or congresswomen or anything powerful and important, but they can certainly make a living wage and be an essential part of society as a common working stiff. 

Making the Humor Funny Others have done a good job explaining why things can be funny, so I'll focus on how to make your non-human humor amusing to the audience. I think the best way to go about it is to find a way to get the audience to laugh at the alien's sense of humor, rather than with. The audience most likely won't get the joke, either due to a lack of understanding of the societal relevance of it or because the joke falls outside of the person's idea of comedy. However, you can still make this scene humorous. Have a human-like character interact with the aliens and have them comically misunderstand the joke, or have them simply not get it and let the aliens poke fun at the human for not understanding what was said. The reverse also works. Drax from Guardians of the Galaxy had no understanding of human figure of speech, but his serious reactions brought about by the misunderstanding was very funny. His own attempts at being humorous, by contrast, would also be funny for the viewer because watching someone fail can also be a form of comedy. Maybe the alien gets annoyed when their attempts at humor are disregarded by their human companions, or when they fail to understand the comedy of the human's jokes. Because of our love of subversion and humor that plays on the discomfort and confusion of others even a character who doesn't understand puns and thinks a metaphor is a type of bird can still be hilarious. 

Since you asked for a reality check... this is not possible. We currently have civilian small arms that can put a round through steel plates and concrete blocks. (To say nothing of military small arms that are classified as anti-materiel weapons, which are designed for use and against, and are effective against "light" armored vehicles.) You are simply not going to be able to create a light fabric that can sustain an impact with that much kinetic energy. And even if you could, you'd just succeed in changing what type of projectiles are fired from guns. Currently, firearms generally rely on propelling a blunt projectile at high speeds to apply crushing force trauma to their intended target. Kevlar and similar materials are good at dissipating and defeating this type of force, but even so they have their limits - most armor piercing rounds work on the same fundamental principle (high speed crushing force trauma), just using harder materials and higher velocities. Of particular importance, though, is that these materials only hold up well against crushing force impacts, not, for example, sharp force impacts. You want to kill someone through a Kevlar vest, you can do that easily with a bow and arrow, for example. So even if you manage to somehow create a fabric that blocks all crushing force trauma, rendering current bullet designs ineffective, you have the problem of dealing with sharp-force trauma. It would not be difficult to design projectiles to be razor-sharp at the tips, which would shred your fabric. More problematic is that simple crushing force or sharp force impact is hardly the end of the line for projectile weapons. We have incendiary rounds and explosive rounds for various small arms, and even have specialized small arms that can deliver chemical agents into a target. (Not firearms in the traditional sense, but there's no reason we couldn't do that, if some miracle fabric arrived on the scene that made it beneficial to put a chemical payload into a bullet.) So bottom line, you can't do what you're proposing, realistically, and even if you could, you'd just succeed in changing what type of bullets are fired from guns. Ranged combat is just too much of advantage to give up. (There's even a theory that we humans owe our status as apex predators to our preference for ranged weaponry - other predators risk injury and death when engaging prey in melee combat, but our use of ranged weapons has largely eliminated that risk, at least as it relates to the food chain, so that behavior is so vastly beneficial, it's just not going to change.)