Today I suddenly became aware of how the term "discount rate" are frequently used in two different contexts: 

My question is motivated by thinking about the prospect of attracting FDI into developing countries. Since developing countries do not have high skilled labor or better financial / governance institutions, the motivations for FDI are either 1) cheap labor force, or 2) local market. The first advantage (cheap labor) will gradually wither away as developing countries develop. But it seems that the second advantage will go away too if developing countries engage in trade liberalization and open up their local market. Is it true that trade openness would reduce market seeking FDI? If so, is there any reason for FDI investors to bring to developing countries anymore? 

Am I correct in thinking that these are essentially two distinct phenomena subsumed under the same term? Or there is actually a deeper connection between them? 

When people prefer to have something now rather than in the future. The reason is supposedly human psychology. The discount rate in this case is inherent to the individual. The same amount of money now is more valuable than in the future. The reason is that if one has that money now, he can invest and earn interest. The discount rate in this case is the real interest rate, determined by the market. 

I work in Political Economy, and a lot of the models include "innocent" control variables such as population, inequality, colonial legacy, etc. so that the author can claim unbiasedness on their independent variable of interest. But if any of these control variables are endogenous to some omitted variable, doesn't this contaminate the unbiasedness of ALL the independent variables? If that's true, then what can we do? Leave those control variables out and they lead to omitted variable bias themselves. Include those in and they will contaminate everything in the model. Example: A researcher wants to know if inequality leads to violence, and he controls for a few things: \begin{equation} Violence = Inequality + Growth + Development + \epsilon \end{equation} Seeing that Inequality is likely to be endogenous (because of the omitted variable Level of altruism), he will try to find a instrumental variable for Inequality. But aren't Growth and Development likely to be endogenous (i.e. correlated with Level of altruism) too? This example may look silly, but my point is in Political Economy / Development work, there are so many factors at play (yet omitted) that I'm afraid many variables included on the LHS are endogenous. Yet often, the researcher only looks for an instrument for his pet independent variable only. 

In my understanding, allowing ISP to throttle sites that use a lot of traffic is just price discrimination. The ISP will charge sites like Netflix, which will then pass the cost to Netflix consumers. So basically people who use a lot of data will get charged more--seems perfectly fine to me. I understand the argument that in practice, the ISP won't build new infrastructure but simply put up roadblock to slow down the current speed. However, this seems like a problem only in the oligopolistic market of US internet providers. In a competitive market, putting up roadblock will cause an exodus to competitors. So, am I correct in thinking that preserving Net Neutrality is not important in a competitive telecom market? Instead of fighting to preserve Net Neutrality, may be the correct fight is to encourage more ISP to enter the market. 

Fear and uncertainty. Stock markets have plummeted. Currency has plummeted. Noone really knows what is going to happen and hence economic future development is very unsure. Thats whats driving the price at the moment. 

They don't include anything. It is the pure price for 1 MWh. Edit. The producers have been paid the tariffs, which lowers their short run marginal costs quite a lot. There has not been added any taxes to the consumers at this point, however. 

You would have trading teams who work shifts like any other 24-hour business areas. The power market is open 24-7; many companies have around-the-clock trading teams. A lot of analysis and other work that can be done in the daytime is still done in the daytime. A major source of income during nighttime - in the power market - is just being there and executing trades - when other people are not there. I think that is the main change, that liquidity would shrink and give more arbitrage opportunities. 

In most of Europa the physical price for electricity is determined in day-ahead spot auctions. Essentially it is a free market, where anyone can buy and sell power, given you that you can fulfill the regulation set forth by the different national power exchanges and system operators. This means that every day before 10.00 - 12.00 AM all producers and consumers must have told how much power they wish to sell and buy. From 12.00 and to around 12.42 a number of welfare optimization algorithms are run. After this, the different power area prices are published, along with the supply and demand curves for almost all countries. In essence it is a where supply meets demand. This is complicated a lot by different bid-types, power connections across borders, physical constraints on cables and so on, but you can download the newest curves from Germany and France each day from epex.com if you want. Because there is a lot of competition, you will mostly see power producers selling their power at their marginal costs. Because of subsidies this means that renewable energy sells as low as -300 euro pr. MWh - yes, they actually in some cases pay people to take their product. Nuclear and lignite power is around 10-18 EUR, the comes cheap coal and hydro (depending on season), the more expensive coal, gas and finally oil. From the price you can more or less tell which kind of production is running in any given hour. 

Barry Eichengreen is one of my favourites for this period. So, I am just going to let him explain it. From : $URL$ 

The most obvious answer is: What is the alternative? To do nothing? If you do the best you can - with the best knowledge you have at the time, it is hard to fault people for wanting to change something they think can be done better. Second part - When the Lucas critique was published - it was part of a movement towards micro-economic models - which is great. However, these models where all/mostly based on an assumption of rationality. As behavioural economics have show - homo economicus is a horrible way to model actual human behaviour. Basically, You should use rational assumptions to see how your model behaves in the most simple settings. Then see what happens - stepwise - when you let real-world behaviour influence your models. This was not the aim of the Lucas critique. But it should have been. Also, there is so much inertia in the economic world. It seems that most of the current professors where educated in the 70-80's, and most economic students have to study many years before they meet something else than strict rational assumptions. Or actual just have to stumble out into the real world :) And in the real world there is pressure from the politicians to actual do something about the economy - probably the real answer to your question. 

Based on my understanding, Hotelling's Rule is a pretty good first step. Like many first steps, it doesn't perform particularly well empirically. I would expect that when technological change is considered, in the very long run, it isn't too bad. There are a few extensions of this model which are popular. -Exogenise extraction costs The standard idea is that extraction costs increase as the resource moves towards depletion. Something which isn't included in the standard model is that technology is changing, making some previously unprofitable reserves cost effective. At the same time, exploration can uncover more reserves. Whilst the total amount of non-renewable resource doesn't change, the amount available for extraction isn't static. - Account for substitutes The demand for oil for example is constantly growing, but it must remain competitive with substitutes. A rise in prices make substitutes more attractive. This is a phenomenon we have seen with ethanol and into our petrol. This pdf provides a broad overview of such extensions. It also provides references for further reading. I borrowed heavily from it above. I'll list a few 

Also in this article there is a reference to Australian property as a haven for laundered funds. I'd imagine that impacts appetite for risk and return requirements markedly. 

All thing considered, the author of this report seemed pretty happy with the outcome. There were some issues impacting the data. Since it was a localised study, there was a fair bit of migration towards the treatment area. The long term impacts are not yet known as well. Additional resources: Haarmann, Claudia; Haarmann, Dirk; Jauch, Herbert; Mote Hilma et al 2008. Towards a Basic Income Grant for all. Basic Income Grant Pilot Project. First Assessment Report, September 2008. Windhoek Kameeta, Zephania; Haarmann, Claudia; Haarmann, Dirk; Jauch, Herbert 2007. Promoting employment and decent work for all - Towards a good practice model in Namibia. - Research Paper - Presentation to the United Nations Commission for Social Development. Windhoek Haarmann, Claudia; Haarmann, Dirk (ed.) 2005. The Basic Income Grant in Namibia. Resource Book. Windhoek 

Inflation $$\frac{P_1-P_0}{P_0}$$ Where $P_t$ is the price level at time $t$ This formula is just the percentage change in price. GDP Growth From Investopedia: 

I came across this presentation which attempts to model something very similar to the question asked. Here is the full article It uses the VAT instead of the GST but they are basically equivalent. Abstract 

There is a lot to be gained for stated preference data. Stated Preference data has enormous application in economics and in many cases is a better source to tackle certain problems. 

I refer specifically to this article in which Andrew Critchlow paints a pretty dire view of the Australian economy. The line which challenged my priors was: 

The HO model has been generalised. Vanek does a good job of it. Instead of only two countries, there is an index of countries. 

A point I am trying to make here is that exponential growth is really just the size of something as a function of itself in a different state or time frame. If you want exponential growth over a longer timeframe, it makes sense to extend the model. What if $r$ was endogenous to the model? As Y gets larger, r gets smaller. Still growing exponentially, and the size of the economy in $t+1$ is still dependent on the size of the economy in $t$.