If it prints out the correct grid definition, then everything is fine. If not, you need to correct the definition of your lon-lat grid. Please have a look in the respective section below for details. The is a file, in which the target grid is described. If your target grid is a nicely defined grid, you can write this file by hand. E.g. it could look like (copied from the HTML manual of cdo): 

Species that impact visibility We 'need' the gaseous air pollutants to form secondary aerosol particles. The reduced visibility during winter and summer smog events is caused by these secondary aerosol particles (they scatter the light and, by this process, reduce visibility). The gaseous air pollutants might contribute to reduced visibility but their contribution is negligible compared to the aerosol impact. Contribution of different aerosol species The composition as well as the size distribution of the aerosol particles is important to determine the aerosol's optical properties. If you look into mass concentrations, a given mass of fine particles extincts more light than the same mass of coarse particles. If you look into composition (inorganic components), nitrate extincts more light than sea salt and sulfate. The extinction of organic aerosol depends on their composition (I have no idea which factors/species are relevant there). If you are interested in further literature on the impact of the particle composition on the light extinction you might look into Pitchford et al. (2007). I didn't find a publication which quantifies the contribution of different particulate compositions/species to light extinction for smog. However, Pitchford et al. (2007) deals with light extinction for calculating the optical thickness from model data. 

Thats a rare colored type of basaltic glass or volcanic obsidian. Its blasted out of volcanic erruptions in broken blobs. Volcanic glass is another name for it. Its a really nice piece, i know that blue rough obsidian comes from montana and a few other places. 

The picture isnt in focus to well but it appears to be quartzite crystals if you look at the top part and can count 6 facets or faces on a unbroken crystal thats what it might be. 

What you have there is called uranium glass. Its glass that has added to it in molten form up to 25 percent powdered uranium in the 40's and 50's. Its a retro-era collectable. 

That is most likely cornelian which is flesh or red-brown type of chalcedony. That looks like the colored variety which exhibits strips. Can't tell from picture but if color distrabution is cloudy then its the natural variety. 

I also mixed Longitude and Latitude until I heard someone saying '... at high latitudes.' in a conference talk. In my mind, the picture of the Earth shows the Earth with the North and South poles at the top and bottom (or reversed, doesn't matter). High describes a vertical orientation. Therefore, the latitude changes in North-South direction. Additionally, because the horizontal degree scale has a discontinuity at 360 degree (0 degree), it does not make much sense to distinguish high and low values in horizontal direction. Hence, high values are in vertical direction (= latitude). 

NO2 uptake by plants It has been observed that plants can lead to a reduction of atmospheric NO2 concentrations [Breuninger et al, 2013]. Currently, it is assumed that NO2 is taken up through stomata of plant leaves when the atmospheric NO2 concentrations are above a certain threshold. However, when the atmospheric NO2 concentrations are below this threshold, plant leave stomata act as sources for NO2. Therefore, this process is not fixation in the sense as N2 is fixed by legumes. See Breuninger et al. [2013] and refernces therein for details Canpoy reduction Plants do not only take up (excess) NO2 actively but they decrease the concentrations of several air pollutants by providing a lot of surface for dry deposition as Christoph stated in his comment. After deposition they may revolatilize or be washed down by rain. See e.g. Grundström and Pleijel [2014] for details. Impact on air quality The presence of plants/trees in urban environments can reduce ambient NO2 concentrations. However, this effect is not due to NO2 fixation but due to the canopy reduction/enhanced dry deposition rate, which also yields a reduction of other air pollutants. See e.g. Grundström and Pleijel [2014], Yang et al [2005], or Yang et al. [2008] for details. The canopy reduction is also considered in recent regional modeling studies - see e.g. Arndt et al. [2016] (Disclaimer: I was member of that working group until recently). It can be seen like increasing the surface roughness. 

That maybe garnet and not gemmy but what is refered to as industrial garnet which is used in abrasives for its hardness. Are there any facets or flats on any side? You can try a hardness test by trying to scratch a metal file or other steel surface with the mineral. If it can scratch steel its a good chance its garnet 

Thats a collection of green mica called fuchsite and the parent rock quartzite and hard to see in your picture but also feldspar. 

That is jasper which is a form of chalcedony which is composed of microcrystalline quartz. That is quartz only seen through a microscope. If the sample was agate it would be cloudy but translucent but it appears to be opeque. This mineral has some quartz in the middle part. 

is a text file. interpolate data I assume that we do a bilinear interpolation. This is done with the operator via: 

The meteorological input data files for AGNPS model (Agricultural non-point Source Pollution Model) are actually called climate input data, although the files contain short term meteorological data. All the provided programs are Windows executables. 

Now, we extract time and space slices again (figure below). Green and blue indicate the slices, again. Here we see that the space-slice will be much easier/faster to extract then before. However, the extraction of the time slice will take more time. 

This is quite a good question. There is no simple solution for it. Prime Meridian Nowadays prime meridian is still in Greenwich but it was slightly moved from the original 0° 0' 0'' position (shifted by 5.34 arcseconds). It is denoted as IERS Reference Meridian (IRM). The prime Meridian should be on a plane, which splits the Earth's mass into exact halves. Due to higher resolved data on the Earth's shape and mass distribution, one realized that this was not the case for the 'original' prime Meridian. See Malys et al. (2015) [doi: 10.1007/s00190-015-0844-y] for details. Movement of Tectonic Plates As you say: the continental plates move. Thus, a global perfect map from 1985 would differ from a global perfect map from 2017. If we keep our lon-lat-coordinate system constant, some real world locations move with respect to their geographical coordinates. At this point a 'reference datum' comes into play: one fixes the coordinate system on a specific date and for a specific tectonic plate. Examples are the North American Datum 1983 (NAD83) and the European Terrestrial Reference Frame 1989 (ETRF89). Thus, using NAD83, a specific building in New York did not 'move' between 1985 and 2017. With respect to ETRF89 it would have moved. Further problems: shape of the Earth We need to assume a defined shape of the Earth to map coordinates to geographic places. The simplest assumption is: the Earth is a perfect sphere. However, this is not the case. GPS coordinates are based on the World Geodetic System of 1984 (WGS84). It uses a ellipsoid is shape for the Earth and the IRM as reference meridian. The English Wikipedia article is quite detailed. If we assume another shape for the Earth but the same zero-meridian, most geographic locations will be projected on slightly different coordinates than they currently have. In order to maintain consistency of lon-lat-coordinates, standards like WGS84 and data like NAD83 were defined on an international level. 

It appears to be plagioclase feldspar, the white part of the sample, with smokey quartz inclusions. This is a igneous rock. See if a knife can scratch the dark mineral, if it cant its most likely quartz which is common in this type of rock. Look close at the dark material is it glassy if it is then most likely it qaurtz. 

It appears to be chert or in your case flint, as the darker type is called. There are two ways chert may form either by the growth of silicon dioxide microcrystals within softer sedament which may form limestone. The other way and the most probable for your stone is biological in origin. The glass like silicon skelotons of ancient diatoms a one cell animal which is found in shallow seas and in oceans, died and sank depositing layers which redisolved and formed chert or flint 

Interpolate data with cdo without considering grid cell size cdo provides different operators for interpolation. for bilinear interpolat, for nearest-neighbor interpolation, and so on. They are listed in the manual. I use here as an example. 

I made some pictures on my tablet to explain everything a bit better. Sorry that they are not that nice. Shuffle If we do not us shuffle, we store on value (float, double, integer, short integer, ...) after another. Thus, each variable itself is stored contiguously in memory. The first bit of a second value follows the last bit of the first value. If we use shuffle, the first bit of all variables is stored contiguously in space, followed by the second bit, and so on. 

I can see how you believed that this is a luniate as they are called. Its the white clasts and perhaps the green mineral that may have gave the impression of a moon rock. Its takes a trained eye to distinguish the difference between moon meteorites and terrestrial rocks. With this said, you may take a closer look at documented offical luniates on $URL$ Now theres only a slight similarity between your stone and what is called a lunar regolith breccias which contain anorthositic white and dark clasts. Terrestrial rocks also may contain them. There is a lack of a fusion crust on your rock. You may try running a magnet over the rock which if from the moon will not attract. Its doubtful you have a moon meteorite fragment but for your peace of mind you can use a diamond cutting wheel on a dremel tool and cut off a 5-10g piece that you can send for identification on several meteorite testing labs found on the web.