It is worth nothing that if you have a cooking system and the extra fuel you can prepare hot water and place the hot water bottle between your legs to help you keep warm. If you have extra food, eat a high-energy snack before going to bed. Other things that comes to mind are: cover your head, use what you can as bottom insulation, make sure you don't overheat and sweat. 

What type of cookware you choose depends on what type of cooking you do. Titanium is certainly the lightest, and it's great if all you do in your pot is boil water to add to dehydrated foods (Lipton noodles, Mountain House, homemade boil-in-bag meals, etc.) or to make beverages. I've never seen or heard of a titanium pot shattering at low temperatures. However, any super-thin, uncoated pan will have trouble distributing heat evenly which leads to hot spots and burned food. A titanium mug works great for me, but then, I prefer to keep my meals as simple and no-cook as possible when I'm backpacking. If you enjoy backcountry cooking, you may be disappointed in ti cookware, especially considering the price point. If you plan on doing anything more involved, such as eggs or pancakes or stirfry, take a look at hard anodized aluminum cookware, such as the MSR Aplinist or GSI Pinnacle series. Hard anodized aluminum weighs only a little more than titanium, is cheaper, and offers several advantages over other aluminum pots. It is durable, offers excellent heat distribution, and is easier to clean as it possesses some nonstick properties of its own even without a Teflon coating. Some hard anodized pans are sold with a Teflon finish, so if that's an issue for you, shop around or examine them in person before buying. If you do go with nonstick cookware, be sure to use bamboo or Lexan utensils to avoid scratching the finish. I use hard-anodized aluminum pans from Calphalon for home cooking and I love them. They heat very evenly and are virtually nonstick. The material is much less reactive than plain aluminum (e.g. it doesn't turn the sulphur in your cauliflower yellow!), and leeches virtually no aluminum into your food. For perspective: there are about 50 mg of aluminum in an antacid tablet; if you do all your cooking in uncoated aluminum pans, you'll consume about 3.5 mg of aluminum per day, and with a hard anodized pan that number is even lower. Bon appetit! 

I've backpacked in places that have raccoons but I've never had a problem with them. Squirrels and a number of birds can also chew/peck their way through a bag to get at your food. I don't know what kind of birds you have in Michigan, but here in Idaho, Clark's Nutcrackers and magpies can be a nuisance. A mesh bag will probably allow them access to your food. When I hang my food, I've used a simple burlap bag with no problems whatsoever. One time, I forgot my bag and then got real lazy and hung my food in plastic grocery bags. Huge mistake. The nutcrackers and squirrels chewed/pecked through the top and ate everything they could reach. To be on the safe side, since squirrels sometimes carry contagious diseases, I threw out a good portion of what was left! Another option is to just hang your food in a backpack. When I load my backpack, I try to group items into ziploc bags. It helps with compression and keeps things organized. It also makes it easy to empty what I need into my tent and then hang my backpack in a tree with the food and cooking/eating tools still inside. 

You are likely talking about eye flies. They feed on lachrymal secretion which your eyes produce. When they get too intense, if hiking, I either walk faster and away from wet area or use a good head net. Peter Vacco have good information on flies and also happen to make really good head nets. 

I don't think it is a huge problem for most people. In a certain sense it is flawed by design; at least if you are concerned by weight saving. You could use a top quilt. If you want extra insulation, you could also get a down-filled sleeping pad such as the DownMat UL. Some bags will have variable filling with less down underneath for that exact reason. If you always use a sleeping pad, some sleeping bags (e.g. Spoonbill UL) will simply have no bottom down fill based on that assumption. 

I asked Arc'teryx about their technical down to confirm that it was, in essence, regular down. My question: 

What is technical down? I assume it is some sort of hydrophobic down. If yes, how does Arc'Teryx technical down differs from other hydrophobic down technologies? 

One option is to ask the land owners. In an attempt to answer your question... According to the Outdoor Magazin: 

If you're using a campfire, some foods, like fresh-caught fish, don't require cookware. Just wrap in aluminum foil and cook in the coals. Fish or biscuits can even be cooked directly on the coals: scoop some ashes over the coals so they're not TOO hot, then place the food directly on the ashes. After it's cooked, just brush off the ashes. You should probably try this at home a time or two before you do it for real in the woods - personally, I find the gritty taste of ash (that didn't brush off) to be un-appetizing. Obviously, this won't work very well if rain is falling on your campfire. For cooking on a stove, check your local thrift store for a wide, medium-sized aluminum pot with no lid. Your food can easily pack into this so it takes very little space in your backpack. Use a sheet of aluminum foil for a lid. 

Notice the list of items that Zeke carried after three days. Obviously, these are what he considered to be an essential equipment list. But he didn't start with them! He had the knowledge to make them from what nature offered. Mr. Olsen and Mr. Sanchez are modern survivalists who thrive in the outdoors. Other survivalists that immediately spring to mind are Hugh Glass, whom you already mentioned, and John Colter. Hugh Glass (The Saga of Hugh Glass: Pirate, Pawnee, and Mountain Man by John Myers Myers) was forced into service on a pirate ship, escaped off the coast of Texas around 1820, was captured by Indians, escaped after two years (he learned a lot from them), then hired on with a fur trapping outfit heading for the Rocky Mountains. En route, Glass was mauled by a grizzly and left for dead. (The company was in a hurry and two trappers were left behind to help Glass recover or bury him when he died. He wouldn’t recover or die, so the two trappers finally left him for dead. They took everything but his blanket.) He somehow survived, recovered on his own, and traveled hundreds of miles, alone, without supplies, driven by vengeance to find those who had left him for dead. He eventually explored all over the American west for about 20 years, almost always alone, before finally being killed by Indians. Hugh Glass had the attributes of a survivor in addition to knowledge of how to survive. Another explorer of considerable note is John Colter who first went west with the Lewis and Clark Expedition in 1804. (This expedition was well documented with at least three members keeping journal records throughout. Lots of mistakes, equipment failures, disasters, and lessons learned. Try The Way to the Western Sea by David Lavender.) He was an invaluable aid to the expedition, often hunting and exploring on his own. After spending two and a half years exploring the Missouri and Columbian Rivers, the expedition floated down the Missouri River, back to civilization, without Colter. He remained in the wilderness for four more years, sometimes alone and sometimes in small groups. His two most well-known expeditions include (see John Colter: His Years in the Rockies by Burton Harris): 

If you are looking for a cooking system for backpacking the Caldera Sidewinder Ti-Tri have the option of using a titanium floor for this exact purpose. 

During the fall season, fallen leaves from deciduous trees such as maple, oak, etc. can be found in abundance. Dead leaves can be gathered and placed under your sleeping system in order to sleep more comfortably and presumably warmer. How much R-value does a pile of leaves provide? This is of course dependent on the type of leaves (or composition), quantity, dampness and other factors. Considering the possible variation, what level of R-value could you expect by gathering dead leaves? 

Fixed length non-adjustable trekking poles have the advantages of being lighter, comprise of less failure points and sturdier (especially for cheap poles). On the other side of the medal, transporting them by airplane is more costly and they can be inconvenient when hitch hiking to/from a trailhead. I have used slightly longer fixed trekking poles in order to be able to use them with my shelter system. I personally did not mind adjusting my hand on the long handle depending on the inclination of the trail. In fact, if they would have been non-fixed I would seldom adjust them as it takes time. I prefered fixed length poles because of their weight and not having to adjust them every time I setup my shelter. I do not use loop handles so this wasn't a problem for me. If you prefer quick adjustment and fixed-length; an interesting compromise are the Black Diamond Z-Pole Series trekking poles. They are fixed and collapsible for the most part. The top-most section allows you to adjust it to your liking. 

Just imagine bending forward and taking a high step to the side (by swinging the leg back and up) with the second leg following in an identical high step. Remember to move slowly and maintain your balance. If a barb snags your clothing, stop, reverse directions and move back a few inches, lower that portion of your body a little more (or raise, depending on which wire snagged you), and try again. If the wires are strung too tightly for you to easily spread them sufficiently to fit through, then you cannot safely cross between the wires. Then try option #2 below. Option #2 - Crawl under the bottom wire. Follow the fenceline, first one direction, then the other, looking for a low spot beneath the bottom wire. When you find one that you think you can squirm through, then lift your gear over (same as in Option #1 above), return to the depression, get on your belly, and crawl/scoot/squirm (whatever works for you!) under the bottom wire. If neither option will work for you, then do not cross the fence! Look for a gate - while looking for a gate, keep your eyes open for a spot where Option #1 or Option #2 might work. 

In Canada, you will need a hunting license depending on the province (or territory) and type of game you wish to hunt. Typically, a safety course is also required. For example, moose requires applying for a draw which is valid for a certain zone as determined by the department of natural resources. 

If you can settle on purple Nunatak and Feather Friends have good sleeping bags in those colors. One option could be to get a custom made sleeping bag from the cottage industry. Many will accept custom orders although they may not have something available in pink. 

The answer is no, you may only camp in designated areas. Camping is only allowed in designated areas at Jasper park. If you contact the park directly by e-mail the answer is the following: 

When at a shelter, there're usually short strings with a tuna-type can to prevent the rodent from accessing your food bag. One can use those instead of hanging the food. See picture from 'Marks AT walk' journal: 

In the article "Is that newfangled cookware safe?" no special mention is made for titanium. Titanium is not commonly found in cookware other than backpacking because it is simply terrible for any cooking tasks other than perhaps boiling water and it is expensive. Many backpackers are willing to pay the extra money for extra weight saving. According to naturalnews titanium is the safest: 

You have more time to spend doing other things. Meal preparation time can vary, for example, boiling water for some quick oatmeal is much quicker than making enchiladas or wild strawberry pie in a dutch oven (yes, I have known two backpackers that carry small dutch ovens and eat like kings). But still, it takes time to open your pack, set up your cooking gear, cook the meal, clean up, and repack. If you are busy doing other things, such as hiking or watching wildlife in the evening, then maybe this is a chore that should be eliminated. Not taking cooking gear reduces weight and gives you extra space in your pack for other things. However, this might be cancelled by the increased bulk and weight of the food itself, mentioned in con #6 below. Preparing your meals so that you can eat all day means you will be less hungry. Instead of having two or three big meals and a couple snacks, you can simply eat whenever you feel like it. Often, I feel a lot better when I simply snack all day. Buying a stove, and cookwear, and the just-add-water meals can get expensive. Not buying them and preparing simple foods at home can save a good deal of money.