In the wake of the seemingly renewed post-race examinations for 'mechanical doping' by the UCI, I was wondering if anyone has experience with the motors in question (like the Vivax Assist - thanks, Kibbee). More specifically, would they be able to contribute to a pro rider's effort at race pace or is there an upper limit to where they're able to contribute? Personally, I think the whole mechanical doping 'issue' is rubbish, but I'm curious. Taking Cancellara's attacks during the 2010 Spring Classics as an example, at the time when he supposedly turned on the motor, he was imaginably already doing several hundred watts. Would a motor, small enough to be hidden in one of the bike tubes, even be able to contribute to that effort? Is it the case that if I had one of these motors in my seat tube and I was riding at 300 watts, would turning on the motor bump my output up to 400 watts; or is there a point of diminishing returns? 

Yes. There are a number of different ways to initiate a paceline via hand signals, but the most common one I've seen and used is to make a circle with an upwards pointed finger. Watch Peter Sagan (white jersey, yellow/red helmet) do this in the following video. 

It sounds like you have a slow leak, either from the valve or from a tiny puncture in the tube, like Batman mentioned in the comments. An easy way to fix this is by simply changing the tube in the front tire. If you've never done this before, this video may help or you can take your bike into your local bike shop and have someone fix it for you. If you choose the latter of the two, ask if they can teach you how to change out the tube, since this is an invaluable skill to have. 

Background: I recently competed in the Tour of the Catskills in New York. Unfortunately, this year was the last year that this event will be held, due to financial stresses. I'm not very familiar with the costs associated with hosting a multi-day stage race - about how much does it cost to put on a similar stage race? By "similar", I mean a 3 day stage race, consisting of a time trial, two road races, chip timing, leaders' jerseys (GC, KOM and points - at least 63 total @21 jerseys/stage) and multiple category races (5, 4, 3, P/1/2) for both men and women. I'm having a difficult time finding resources online that give any sort of estimate for the costs of organizing bike races. I found this site which gave the numbers for a one day race (~$3K), but not only was this post from 5 years ago, it didn't look like the race had timing or leaders' jerseys and is not a multi-day event. What's a typical cost (estimate) for this type of event? Edit: I'm not looking for an exact number. I just want a ballpark answer; something to give me an idea of the financial resources it takes to run one of these events. For instance, even saying something like, "I ran a road race last year with chip timing and it cost us $X. We didn't have leaders' jerseys, but a custom jersey costs about $Y. Therefore, for a stage race, you could expect to spend about $3X + $63Y" would be really beneficial to me and anyone looking into hosting a stage race, since this information seems to be very difficult to find for cycling races. 

Turns out the oft-cited study from 1987 that many use to say that leg hair doesn't affect aerodynamics was performed in a miniature wind tunnel using a fake leg with or without hair glued onto it. Hardly comprehensive, but only recently challenged. Interestingly, shaving your arms could save about 19 seconds over 40k, while shaving the beard will only save about 1 second. 

Regarding handlebar selection, aero bars are only allowed in the pursuit (individual and team) and time trial events (1km TT, etc). All the other track events are drop bars only. Wheel selection is a little more dependent on the rider's preference, though this is regulated as well; dual discs wheels are allowed for track time trials (essentially the same events that allow aero bars), while a deep section front wheel is always allowed. 

Many cyclists apply embrocation cream to their legs in colder weather because it makes them feel warmer. I understand wanting to have an extra "weather-barrier", in the form of the oil(s) that make up the majority of embrocation. However, the ingredient that causes the "warming" feeling in embrocation cream, capsaicin, is a vasodilator. In the long run, wouldn't that lead to colder legs, seeing as it would expose more blood to the colder temperatures at skin level? Wouldn't it be better to just use oil (without capsaicin) to get the "barrier" effect, instead of embrocation cream? Are there any studies indicating that embrocation (or topical capsaicin) improves performance in colder weather? 

He's joking in this situation, but note that his fellow sprinters all know that he's referring to starting a paceline, which is why Greipel (green jersey) checks the gap to the rest of the peloton. 

Decided to answer my own question (with the update), since none of the previous answers specifically addressed the solution (through no fault of their own). Following a group ride last week, we looked over the bike in a last ditch effort to solve the creaking. Things seemed in order, but the mechanic greased the seatpost clamp and the bolt attaching the front brake to the frame. He also noticed that the stem bolts (where it attaches to the fork) were stripped. Following the greasing, I briefly rode the bike, with no change in creaking. The next day I replaced the stem with a newer one and went for a ride. The creaking persisted at the beginning of the ride, but disappeared partway through the ride after an extended climb out of the saddle. >170 miles later and the creaking hasn't returned. I'm not sure which of the last three solutions finally did it (greasing the seatpost clamp, the front brake bolt or the stem) or whether the grease just needed more time to filter in, but I'll take it. Hopefully no one runs into this issue in the future, but if they do, I hope this answer saves them the trip down the rabbit hole. 

Honestly, whichever feels most comfortable to you is the one you should go with. Take both of them for as long a demo ride as the shop will let you and don't pay attention to how the fit "looks" in the mirror. Whichever frame you decide on, be sure you get a fitting from a reputable source - ask other cyclists you know to see who has the best reputation in the area. 

The Tour de Trump (later Tour DuPont) was run from 1989 to 1996 on the East Coast. Information regarding the details of these events seems to be sparse, especially the earlier editions. Does anyone have maps of the stage routes for each of these events (1989-1996)? 

If the indicator is able to be completed inserted into the chain (case #1), then the chain is worn and may be prone to slipping. Worn Gears: To quickly check the gears (the chainrings, cassette and pulleys) for excessive wear, look for "shark fins". This is where the teeth of the gear has been worn to the point that the top of the tooth looks more pointed than flat, reminiscent of a shark's fin. This is a sprocket that is very worn: 

General Notes: The freehub and bottom bracket definitely come into play if you're trying to move from Shimano or SRAM to Campagnolo (or the reverse). Aside from that, it's mainly an issue of if it works for 11sp (in the freehub's case) or does that company make a crankset in the correct BB spec (for the bottom bracket). Specific to the 2010 Tricross: You should be able to get either a 10- or 11-speed Shimano 105 groupset for this bike and have it work fine, provided you: 

For road racing in the US, USA Cycling has women divided into four categories (4,3,2,1) and men divided into five categories (5,4,3,2,1). The procedures for category upgrades for 4-3, 3-2 and 2-1 are the same for men and women, but only men have this extra "category 5", where the typical way to upgrade 5-4 is to simply finish a certain number of mass start races. Women don't have an equivalent "experience-only" category. Why don't women in the US have a Category 5, like the men? 

A "wallet friendly" entry level bike should weigh as little or as much as your wallet allows. The key here is entry level. For the vast majority of people in the market for a entry level bike (and most racing cyclists), the weight of the bike is not the limiting factor. All things considered, 8.5kg is not absurdly heavy for a bike, it's actually a shade lighter than my current racing bike, which is more than capable on hilly and flat races. Bottom line, lightweight and wallet-friendly are usually mutually exclusive when it comes to bikes. Don't worry about the weight, and enjoy the ride. 

Like another answer pointed out, there will be a difference in how the transition between gears feels; assuming they have the same number of sprockets, shifting from one gear to another on the 14-28 should feel "smoother" than on the 11-28. From a performance standpoint, the 11-28 will give you the option of more speed, by virtue of you having smaller sprockets available. However, you asked whether these things are noticeable, to which I would say: it depends. Here's why: If you are a commuting or more recreational cyclist, the answer is likely no. Many commuters don't spend much (or any) time near the bottom of the cassette. If you're more of that style of rider, you may only get to the bottom of the cassette during a steep descent. Many of the commuting cyclists I know have about as much use for 11t cassettes as they do 53t chainrings. On the other hand, if you are a more of a competitive or racing cyclist, you will most likely be able to notice the addition of the smaller sprockets; both on descents and flats, depending on ability. Some of the racing cyclists I know regularly find themselves near the bottom of their cassettes, during hard efforts. If you're a racing or aspiring racing cyclist, you'll probably notice the advantages of the 11-28 cassette.