Philosophy is a rare field where self-definition is a major topic within the field itself. The definition you proposed and the one you cited have been promoted by those who practice some prominent variants of philosophy. To the extent that they are widely accepted, they appear to affirm those schools of philosophy and delegitimize the others. As you might well expect, however, such definitions are controversial, and highly contested by those who practice other kinds of philosophy. The word literally means "the love of wisdom." It is surprisingly difficult to produce a good working definition of philosophy-in-practice that is objective, and free of any hidden agenda, but based on common intuitive understandings of philosophy, we might say that it typically deals with large, general principles, questions that start with "why" rather than "how," interdisciplinary concepts, and what we might call "meta" questions, those being questions about a field rather than of a field. In short, while many rationalist philosophers support a definition of philosophy that only includes their work, the term as more generally used covers a much wider range of deep thinkers, including existentialist figures like Kierkegaard, Sartre and Camus, and also non-Western, non-rationalist philosophers such as Lao-Tzu or the Zen Buddhists. 

As you can see, these two arguments no longer have the same form. They also have to be evaluated for validity in a more complex manner involving a domain of discourse --see here for more. The biggest question is why your tutor is skipping propositional logic and going straight to FOL, which seems like an approach guaranteed to confuse a beginner. 

For centuries, at least within the Christian tradition, the definitive list of metaphysical arguments for the existence of God has been Thomas Aquinas' "Five Proofs". These are largely arguments for what is sometimes called the "God of the Philosophers," the eternal and unchanging unity of all perfections, and not necessarily for God as commonly personified. Several of the arguments are of the same form; that there cannot be an infinite metaphysical regress (it cannot be "turtles all the way down"). 

This isn't a fallacy, but rather an example of what Sartre and deBeauvoir identified as "bad faith," which is when a human being denies his or her freely willed agency in the world. That agency manifests in the inescapable necessity of making choices. 

In a much simplified gloss: P1: There exist things in nature (call them N) that lack intelligence. P2: Those same things in nature N act to serve a purpose. P3: Anything that serves a purpose must be guided by an intelligence. P4: In order to be guided by an intelligence, things must either have intelligence or be created by an intelligence. C1: (by P2 and P3) N must be guided by an intelligence. C2: (by C1 and P4) N must either have intelligence or be directed by an intelligence. C3: (by C2 and P1) N must be directed by an intelligence. Aquinas then states that the intelligence that directed N is what we call God. NOTE: There exists an atheist counter argument, most notably favored by the biologist Richard Dawkins, that accepts the same argument largely as given, but identifies the "intelligence" as evolutionary forces instead. EDITED: In light of comments below. 

The question of a double major always comes down to whether you can personally do both majors well. If you don't feel you can handle majoring in math on top of philosophy, then drop the second major --it doesn't mean you can't still take math courses. The benefits of a second major can be considerable, but they'll never outweigh the disadvantages of doing poorly as a result. 

Hume claims he feels a natural compulsion to do philosophy, and that doing it brings him pleasure. He admits that he feels the practice of philosophy improves human affairs, but is careful to insist that he does philosophy because he wants to, and enjoys it, and not because he "ought to." One might well accuse him of being disingenuous with this answer, but he's clearly aware of the issue you mention, and trying to address it. A Treatise of Human Nature 14.7.12 

There are a number of possible fallacies that cover this, but two apt ones are "false dichotomy," where something is presented as an either-or choice, but doesn't exhaust the actual possibilities, and "hasty conclusion," where a conclusion is reached on inadequate premises. Like all informal fallacies, it draws its power from its similarities to a strong argument form. In this case, if there actually are a demonstrably finite number of possibilities, and the others have been legitimately ruled out, then what remains, as Sherlock Holmes said, must be the truth. 

I would argue that mathematics is indeed value-laden. One of the central ideas in statistics is that the individual case is not important, it's the aggregate of a large number of separate pieces of data that carry significance. Conversely, in chaos theory, a central concept is that an arbitrarily small change can have an arbitrarily large impact. I would call these value-laden perspectives. If you choose to analyze a given situation statistically, it implies a value judgement about what kind of things you'll chose to take as important, and what kinds of information you're willing to discard. For a real world example, many schools are shifting to a data-driven approach to learning, based on statistical analysis of educational outcomes. However, one might argue that the really important things to pay attention in education to are the outliers --the successes or failures that lie outside the realm of statistical probability. Even in the early days of mathematics, the very idea of evaluating things quantitatively and making comparative estimations of value based on number surely had a profound psychological and philosophical --and thus moral --influence. In more recent times, modern mathematics and logic have discarded the notion that "you cannot argue with an axiom" --many axioms are a matter of choice and preference, and choosing one over the other is surely value-laden, although the moral implications may be obscure. 

The force of the "Pascal's Mugger" argument seems to be aimed at illuminating what is judged as the arbitrary nature of the alternatives. In the original wager, Pascal presumes that the alternatives are Christian belief or atheism. "Pascal's Mugger" parodies this line of argument by inserting arbitrary alternatives and following the original reasoning. Ultimately whether the arguments are distinguishable, and whether one is more persuasive than the other, depends on your judgment of the plausibility of the alternatives. Pascal's wager still remains effective for someone who feels roughly balanced between faith and atheism for some given definition of faith, but not for someone who finds the entire concept ludicrous. 

A paraphrase can be helpful, but don't assume it's correct. Any commentary on philosophy is unavoidably a philosophical work itself, with its own perspective. This can often be useful (it might give you insight you would never have gained on your own), but it should never be taken as definitive. Philosophers can seem very different in different eras (or through different eyes), simply because different aspects of their work are highlighted or ignored. As Benubird noted, if you've read only Y's paraphrase of X, you shouldn't consider yourself to have read X, no matter how good Y is. As far as which to read first, I would personally recommend starting with the original, and reading the paraphrase in parallel if the original proves too difficult or obscure. 

I share an interest with you in this topic, but unfortunately I haven't been able to locate the kinds of resources on it one would expect. The problem is that, as with most assumptions, no one notices the assumption of linearity until it is challenged. So your best bet is probably to look at references focused on nonlinearity to see how they reconceptualize "smoothness." Even with that approach, you'll need to keep in mind the fact that nonlinearity is still a new and underdeveloped discipline. Although I personally find it a very philosophically fertile topic, the philosophical literature on the subject by respected authors is almost nonexistent. It looks like you're already familiar with chaos theory. James Gleick's "Chaos" remains a good general introduction to the field. You might also look into "complexity theory" and "catastrophe theory". 

The obvious answer is to go with Epicurus: $URL$ . You'll get a big boost by starting from the premise that pleasure is the highest good, and then all you'll need to do is demonstrate that limiting sex to consenting adults is a practice likely to avoid pain and harm, and thus contribute to the greater total amount of pleasure. The requirement for a committed and/or loving relationship might seem a little less Epicurean, but all it really requires is to argue that maximum pleasure is found in a long-term, monogamous relationship. This is essentially the argument of Kierkegaard's Judge William in The Aesthetic Validity of Marriage (Either/Or). It's also a position advocated by many modern evangelical Christians, among others (for a contrasting modern take on the same concept, compare also the book/movie High Fidelity). 

I believe you just use the standard symbol for consequence, the credulity is implied. This should work, unless you happen to be working in a system that actually requires three differentiable types of consequence (skeptical, credulous, standard). 

I think in a very general sense this is true. Philosophy is essentially about the big picture questions, and this is as big a picture question as you can get. You get back to it eventually, whether you take a theistic or non-theistic view. If you say "God created the universe, and that's why the universe exists," then the next question is "Why does God exist?" If you say "the Big Bang created the universe, and that's why it exists," then the next question is "and why did the Big Bang happen?" Why is there something instead of nothing? As far as your analogy, I wouldn't agree with it -- you might try this instead: 

Existentialism and rationalism are basically different orientations towards the world. Existentialism is among a wide family of philosophical approaches that might loosely be called irrationalist because of a general disbelief in the whole idea that the world can be fully conceptualized in a way that makes consistent objective sense. Existentialism in particular emphasizes subjectivity, and individual experience and personal choice. In principle, one could potentially take your middle road, and take an existentialist approach to human nature, and a rationalist approach to the universe. You would in that case, however (at least to my knowledge) be an innovator. In general it seems that thinkers who believe the universe is rational have advocated for rationalizing human nature, while those who gravitate to existentialism in the human realm have viewed that as decisive for the universe as well. 

This was a main topic for the analytic aesthetician Monroe Beardsley. In general, the philosophical work done by focusing on the "aesthetic experience" rather than the "aesthetic object" is that it relocates the aesthetic qualities in the experience of the viewer rather than in the object. This move was prefigured by Kant, who did not use the actual term "aesthetic experience," but who considered the key feature of a aesthetic object to be the fact that it inspires/necessitates a "judgement of taste" (which is arguably the same thing, or at least a close cousin). This opens the door for the resolution of aesthetic paradoxes such as the existence of "found art" --objects that only appear to be art within the proper context--, or the fact that two people can judge the same piece of art very differently. If it is the experience rather than the object that has aesthetic qualities, then these problems are less damning then if the aesthetic qualities are held to physically inhere in the actual art object. The main difference between the terms "artistic" and "aesthetic" is that the first is a term from natural language, while the second is intended to be a technical term with an exact philosophical definition. In practice, however, neither term is well-defined. Beardsley's own definition holds that an aesthetic experience is the gratification experienced upon correctly and completely experiencing an aesthetic object. However, this definition is arguably circular, or at the least, dependent on some prior definition of aesthetics. 

"Epistemically necessary" is a technical term used in systems of logic and philosophy. "Known" is a term from natural language, which is sometimes also used technically. Therefore it isn't entirely coherent to ask if they mean the same thing in natural language. If "epistemically necessary" can be said to have a natural meaning, it's one derived from its technical sense. It's probably accurate, however, to say that the concept of "epistemic necessity" is an attempt to formalize at least some aspects of the natural language concept of "known." As to whether they are equivalents in a technical sense, that would depend on the particular system, and how it defines those terms within it. 

There are so many philosophers who have tackled these topics that to attempt to list them all would be an exercise in futility. However, I'd recommend researching the Stoics and the Existentialists in particular as offering differing perspectives on how to approach life in the face of death. It's also explicitly the subject of most of the Biblical book of Ecclesiastes: $URL$ 

How to proceed in a world with no inherent, external meaning is the central question of the philosophical movement we call Existentialism. Different "flavors" of it are often termed "Christian" (Kierkegaard, Dostoyevsky, Marcel), "atheistic humanist" (Sartre, de Beauvoir), "absurdist" (Camus) and "nihilist" (Nietzsche). (It's worth noting that, perhaps because of the existentialist contempt of labels, none of these thinkers would likely have embraced either the title "existentialist" or the secondary modifier applied to them --Nietzsche, for example, considered himself anti-nihilist.) Existentialism, however, does not deny the existence of free will. For a Sartrean, for example, all that can really be said to exist is free will. For the closest attempt at a direct answer to the problem that shares your assumptions, I would try Camus. His The Plague is a stunning fictional exploration of a group of people struggling to survive in a world of arbitrary fate and meaningless doom. If you prefer to be challenged in your assumptions, I would go with Kierkegaard instead (or possibly Ecclesiastes). 

For a good layman's discussion of the topic that summarizes the evidence, but remains neutral on the conclusion, I highly recommend Incognito: The Secret Lives of the Brain by neuroscientist David Eagleman. In general, the best evidence is that physical changes to the brain can demonstrably change things like personality and moral commitments that we traditionally think of as residing in an eternal soul. But Eagleman does address possible responses that a dualist could make. This article criticizing Eagleman also has a good rundown of the argument on the Churchland side. 

This question, it seems to me, is conflating two ideas. One is generally known as the Library of Babel, after Borges' famous story of the same name, about a library containing all possible combinations of letters. If such a library could exist, then it follows from the premise that somewhere in the library is a book with ultimate wisdom in it --just by random chance. Theoretically, an irrational number like pi is a Library of Babel, containing all possible combinations of numbers (which can be translated to letters with a simple substitution cypher, such as "A = 01", "B = 02"). Like the oeuvre of the infinite monkeys with the typewriters, this library will supposedly contain all works of literature somewhere within it, but in a wholly un-indexable manner. With that said, it is entirely possible for an infinitely long, non repeating number to not include all possible numerical combinations of all lengths --I'm not aware of whether it has been proven or not that pi does in fact contain all possible combinations (and without that, the entire concept collapses). The other idea is superficially similar, but actually quite different. There is a cryptographic method that can theoretically reproduce a message of any length with a single mark. The concept is that you translate the message into a decimal less than one, using the same kind of substitution cypher as described above. Then mark a rod or some other object at the point corresponding to that exact ratio. The desired target of your communication receives the object, and measures the mark to reconstruct that number. Of course, in practice, the method is limited by the level of precision of the measurement, so it really only works for extremely short messages. In this second case, a single number can convey a large amount of information, but it is only the information that the message sender has deliberately encoded in this manner. 

Unless I'm missing the point, none of your axioms offer any definition of proof or state that all true statements in your system must be provable. Given that, there's no reason a statement might not be both true and not provably true --or, for that matter, false, but not provably false. In my opinion, your axiomatic system would need a formal definition of proof, as well as a definition of what kinds of statements belong in its domain of discourse, in order for this question to be meaningful. You're basically retreading ground that was covered at the dawn of modern symbolic logic. You may want to look into the work of Tarski, Russell and Godel to see how these questions originally arose, and how they were handled. 

In a formal system of logic, "truth" is a technical term given an absolute definition based on the structures of the system. Generally, true statements are those which are fully consistent with the axioms of the system and the givens of the argument. In as much as one speaks of "truth" in mathematics, it is much the same as in the world of logic. Mathematical truths are statements within the world of mathematics that are fully consistent with the previously determined mathematical truths, all the way back to the basic mathematical axioms. Among philosophers, however, "truth" has many different definitions, depending on whom you ask. For many philosophers, truth expresses a correspondence with the factual details of the world, but for someone like Plato, truth relates not to the everyday world as we experience it, but to a deeper level of reality beneath the one we know.