If it happens completely quiet then it probably your freewheel (cogs) that broken and should be replaced. If you hear a skipping sound it is either your chain is too long or stretched, or (again) your freewheel is worn out. 

Thou it almost unnoticeable, it exists. It mean, the wheel will last for some (decades) thousands of kilometers until it get very bad. Than you will need a new wheel. If it worth it, take it. 

Basically MTB and road bikes have different brand parts (like deore / XT; Sora / Utegra etc). What are the main differences between the 2 types, that will make it incompatible? Are there things that do differ, but not affecting the whole system, so I can change only one of them to improve my commute? 

I would say on this bike you can install any cheapest aluminum crankset, cheapest front derailleur and a friction (non indexed) shifter, where the crankset will be the most costly part (about 30$) and a few dollars for derailleur and shifter (each). So if you able to do the work byself you will end under 50$ for all that upgrade (but those should be done well), however if you want LBS to do the work it should cost about 20-30$ more (I don't really know the work costs in other than my regions). EDIT: As Batman mention in the comment, your BB can be too short for triple crank. If it is, the upgrade can't be done without replacing the BB too. I didn't include tools cost in my answer. And to get this work done you have to have appropriate knowledge. As bikes have different width seat tube, your derailleur must fit it. If your frame tube is thin (and it looks that this frame has thin tube) you can take a little wider derailleur and put a holder plates between it and the frame. Of course you should check that the derailleur will be compatible to your crank teeth count. It may seem difficult, but in LBS will be done easily. But you should compare it's cost, and cost of a new bike of same quality with front gears. 

Take a little bit longer housing (about 10mm) for the cable and let it a curve to bottom. It should fit perfectly. 

The worst amount of damage is, that you will can not get the BB out of the frame, therefor you'll have to change the whole frame (thou I never saw a BB that can't be pulled out). Yet your bearings are surely already totally destroyed, and maybe the axle too. As soon as you will replace them, it's better and it will be easier to do. About the matter of it. You should check for loose in your BB from time to time. Maybe it wasn't screwed well or something, and with the time and lots of riding it's unscrewing. When it's a little unscrewed it begins to damage itself from inside and the more you ride on it, the more damage it will do in future rides starting by destroying the bearings, then beat out gaps in bearing cups (that's why they so hard to unscrew) and gaps on the axle. Worst with loosen cranks. The cranks must be tighten very well. If a crank isn't tight enough, it will unscrew, and the damage there much worst. The pedal will fall, and the rider can really fall down in mid of street and can be damaged by traffic up to death. 

Every theory in science can be discussed. No one can say something absolute - even things, that looks now like "the only truth", can be overridden the next year (or even before). Sheldon Brown was a great bicyclist, that knew the theory and physics of bikes. He also was a rider with lot of experience in it. He wrote his own feelings and practice. His opinion may be discussed (especially in such subjective things like saddle), and it is in some books. Yet his posts are highly honored by many cyclists. 

Additional cable, to tie the bikes, to hold them better. It's better to do this, while if you don't probably nothing special will happen. Typically I like to tie the front wheels, to prevent their movement during the journey, and keep the handles from scratches. 

Basically it's doable, but as mentioned in comments to question, it's very hard to make it good. However there are tools that you can make yourself, see $URL$ There you have also a good guide to build a wheel. I'd suggest to replace any damaged spoke. 

I guess You have cheap bike. Sealed bottom bracket should not become loose. And mid quality bikes comes with metal pedals. It sounds like a 21 speed bike with freewheel, where every bump can bind / break rear axle, and it's bearings become loose immediately. 

As Mike answered, mostly the chain slips when the cogs are worn, thou, as he pointed, it's common to start with some gears, not all of them. Only one time I saw a cassette worn out so it was slipping on all the cogs. Second thing to check is the chain. When the chain is worn (or not proper length) it can slip also. But if it happened after only after a service in bike shop, I'd guess, it's bad tuning they done. But yet maybe you had the problem with components a little bit worn, and now you just feeling it more. 

On a non-single speed bike, rear cogs are pretty pricy, and when chain measure tool showing 1.0 it's probably already affected cogs. At 0.75 it's probably didn't affect the cogs yet. So it's preferable to change the chain before. On a single speed bike it will not greatly affect cogs. Thou it sensible when riding and you should feel the ride better with new chain. Personally, I don't use this tool, but a meter. As @kisp brought from wiki, if every 2 half-links equals 1 inch (20 half links are 10 inches), if those 2 half links become 2.56cm, it's up to change the chain. It's a bit hard to measure 2 half links, but when you take 20 it become easier. Yet, if you have a ruler with inches, it's very easy to measure 2 half links. 

Bikes with 1 front gear comes with a "guard" on the chainring that prevent chain from falling. When this guard broken up chain will easily fall at the extreme gear position, usually when you turn the pedals back. 

I would replace the chain at such condition (if there are 3 or more places or if there are multiple links). About the cassette it's another question, and if you can't decide yourself, it should be checked in LBS probably. 

Very easy! Get a good cutter and slice the derailleur cage. (Without a picture can't say it for sure, but I bet your derailleur isn't repairable if it bent so much that it prevent your crank movement). 

You state that you adjust rear while front is on the 3 (largest) chainring. That's what causes your problem. The derailleurs and the chain are not supporting this combination of gears. All adjustments of rear are basically made while front is on the 1 (smallest) chainring. Other problem that may be in your case (but usually it will not cause your issue) is that you cut new chain to match the length of the old one, but your old chain is stretched therefore it's too long. When putting new chain, it measured by number of links rather than overall length. As it's hard to count the links, there are other ways to check the length needed like this one (youtube). 

Last: Cheap bikes (with unsealed bottom bracket and a freewheel), will have all these problems if you ride a little bit aggressive or with rider that weights more than 70-80kg. Better bikes supporting riders up to 120kg. If someone tells you that you can't get a bike without all those problems, it sounds very inaccurate. 

Basically you can't tell the difference between most BMX "brands" as all of them made in china (exclude of aluminum BMX that are pretty expensive and therefor pretty rare). The major difference in BMX bikes is quality of their bearings, spokes etc. - things that you can't see. The only thing you can check (and it is very important to do) is the assembly of the bike. The pedal axle and the fork must be tightened well. If there is play in them, it says that it's assembly wasn't professional (or it was ridden much, if the bike is old). To save the bike in good condition for long time, it's have to be set up. 

Maybe too cheap parts, or bad assemble, or maybe your weight/force applied to those is too much. I disagree with @kifli that these bolts can become loose 3 times per 18 months. 

There are several reasons for bad shifting to happen: 1. cable is rusted or dirty or bent inside the housing. - need cable replace 2. housing is damaged or low quality. - need to replace housing 3. different number of gears on the shifter and the cogs like @Chris wrote. (doesn't apply if you have 6-7-8 gears). 4. cassette is worn out. - need to replace cogs 5. chain stretched or not the right length. 6. derailleur is weak and shakes.- should replace it 7. derailleur or it's hanger is bent. - commonly hanger can be repaired. the derailleur is harder to repair. 8. axle is bent and the cassette is shakes. 9. cable and derailleur aren't adjusted properly as @PeTeH wrote. - you can find on youtube videos how to adjust it. The most common are 1, 4, 7, 6. The 3, 6, 7, 8 are easy to see - the derailleur must be in strait line with the cogs. You can also easily check for cable condition. Chain and housing sometimes need some expert to check. Cassette condition you probably will not identify, but in LBS they will easily tell you. 

Most of times the axle is broken when not accurately jumping with bike (the same is with obstacles on road like holes and speed bumps). Wheels with freewheel are more exposed to this because their bearings (i.e. the place where wheel touching the axle) far from the place where the bike touch the wheel, therefor it have more moment to brake the axle. To the question about worth repair. The only available repair of this - is to put a new axle, that means it will be like a new wheel (if you do not have other problems in your wheel). If you going to replace the axle, examine the bearings cup if it have any deformation. If it have, in most cases the wheel must be replaces. Examine also the cones. 

It is indeed a broken rear axle. If you nave no proper tools (freewheel/cassette remover, cone wrench 15mm, wrench 17mm, new QR axle, 2 rings of new bearings), get it to an LBS to replace it. It's also recommended to check the wheel bearings cups for defects, it maybe a good time to replace the wheel - all depends on the shape of other parts, and the cost to bring it to proper state. 

As LBS mechanic, I also would recommend to repair - the cost is sufficient. Your bike will be almost as new. So if it's a bike that worth repair (like mikes mentioned), and your tires and derailleurs are in good condition yet, go for it. If you know that you should replace tires or derailleurs soon, better is to buy a new one with all parts new and a warranty. Edit: if you will anyway buy a new bike soon, you should consider whether you want to do all this repair, or a part of it will be enough. 

There are 2 screws you can see at right side of the brake. the bottom one is just above the pad screw - it's one that holding the cable. Open it a little. Check if the cable is going smooth (if not, you should oil the cable or even replace the cable, and maybe the housing too). Check the pads, that they are not wear, nor dried on sun. Then pull the cable (be sure that the cable going well at the lever), push the pads up to the wheel from both sides (to add tension), and tighten the bolt. The upper screw is to add more tension if needed.