Ah entropy, whether you hate it or love it, it's here to stay (at least until someone responds to this question). What I mean by Entropy Reversal: Let's say you drop a cup containing coffee, now. In normal circumstances you would just have to accept the fact that your cup is broken... HOWEVER, since you have an Entropy Reverser™ you can restore you "broken" cup to it's prior form. My question: How can I scientifically explain Entropy Reversal (within a 2 foot circular radius of the device) I am well aware that Entropy can be slowed down. But what about reversing it? (or bringing it to a halt? I'll go with either). 

I'm currently working on a short story in which the main character has received a device from an anonymous individual. This device appears to function like a regular phone. Until he realizes that he can send text messages up to 1 hour back into the past. My question being... How would such a device (theoretically) function? Note: Handwaving is allowed but do NOT make your entire answer one big handwave 

A lot of the answers seem to be focusing on the amount of energy required to launch a seed to escape velocity. However there is another possibility to consider. Light gasses such as hydrogen and helium naturally escape from the Earth's atmosphere all the time without needing any sort of explosions. A combination of the lighter than air nature of these gasses and the average speed of individual molecules in these gasses contribute to this. This suggests an alternate possibility. Perhaps you have a plant which grows a seed which is a large balloon-like structure filled with hydrogen gas. Better still, not just a single seed but thousands or millions of tiny seeds. It is not unreasonable to expect a plant to evolve which can split water into hydrogen and oxygen, venting the oxygen to the atmosphere and slowing filling a balloon-like cavity with the hydrogen as it grows bigger. At a certain time in its growth cycle the seed balloon would be released and float through the atmosphere to a new location. The natural course of evolution would of course dictate that most of the time the balloon would release its seeds before ever leaving the atmosphere, but sometimes this would not be the case. Perhaps the mechanism which regulated when the seed balloon separated occasionally was faulty and it continued to grow and accumulate an excess of hydrogen until its excess buoyancy exceeded the tensile strength of the vine it was attached to. There are many possibilities. Once this seed had cleared the atmosphere it could continue to float into space. Perhaps the vacuum of space would degrade the skin of the balloon and eventually it would pop, ejecting various seed pods in all different directions, some of which would eventually reach another planet. Now as far as re-entry it is easy to imagine something like dandelions, where re-entry would be slow and gentle due to the seeds having something like a parachute preventing them from falling too quickly. Update: Doing a bit more research on this, it appears that the issue of the balloon making it out of the atmosphere can be overcome if the plant-material can stretch enough to allow the balloon to expand a great deal so as to allow the interior pressure to continue to exceed the (tenuous) external pressure. In addition, at a high enough altitude, the solar wind and possible interactions with the planet's magnetic fields could provide an assist, with the enlarged surface area of the balloon capturing the solar wind like a sail to propel it away from the sun and out of Earth's gravity well. So having the balloon actually pop due to pressure wouldn't be beneficial, instead this should occur due to a slow natural breakdown of the organic material after an extended exposure to space - perhaps in the atmosphere this breakdown would occur due to passing through storms or over longer periods of time, creating a lengthy gestation period of many year similar to cicadas. 

The Year is 2019, and thanks to a series of random events the act of Insider Trading has been legalized across the globe. How is the Global Economy affected? Do small companies/nations collapse due to this? and more importantly... how does this affect the stock market? 

(Note: I am WELL AWARE of the fact that I am asking for an explanation of an inherently unscientific concept. But the members of this particular Stack Exchange are so wonderfully intuitive and so ingenuitive I was hoping that you could answer a question among the lines of this). Whilst many early Science Fiction franchises were more "pseudoscience" than actual "science" they DID in fact introduce a concept that I believe has been able to intrigue intuitive/scientifically analytical minds for years... Stasis Beams. According to Wikipedia, Stasis Beams are: "confined areas of space in which time has been stopped or the contents have been rendered motionless" Objects within a "Stasis Beam" are render (near) Indestructible. My question is... How could I scientifically explain Stasis Beams? (you can even take out the Indestructibility part if it conflicts with science) 

Some of the other answers mention what seems more like analog computers (e.g. integrators) or seem to involve complicated water pathways to emulate logic elements. However, really all you need to implement a water based computer is a water switch. This is an element in which water flows or doesn't based on whether or not there is (water) pressure on some kind of control input. A visual representation would look almost like a transistor, which is the solid state equivalent: 

I'm going to say Yes. The joke will be deadly to anybody who reads it, whether silently or aloud. It will even work whether or not they understand the langauge it is written in. They will find the joke hilariously funny no matter their sense of humor, and they will laugh themselves to death. How? A couple of closely related possibilities. One is that the joke is written in a primitive language intuitively understood by all humans. Like the virus in Snow Crash it will infect any mind that is exposed to it with a powerful neural meme which will trigger a reaction in the brain to try to rid itself of it, with the side effect being a powerful giddy sensation, feelings of mirth, and uncontrolable laughter. Once infected, the person will perish in short order as the virus takes over the mind, driving the person insane with laughter until they die from asphyxiation or apparent suicidal behavior. A similar possibility is that the words themselves are a kind of back door in the universe, a kind of hack which triggers a garbage collection algorithm on the reader's brain, causing the person to die in a fit of laughter. Whether this hack is due to reality being a simulation like the Matrix ("sudo gc self") or because of the existence of magic where spoken words invoke power (making this joke basically a spell that the reader unwittingly casts upon themselves) is up to you. 

Let me pitch you a setting: The year is 2015 and a team of scientists are trying to create a device that allows a person to "Save" right before a major event (in this case, a job interview). Let's say the job interview resulted in you not being hired. Normally you would have to accept this fact and move on. HOWEVER if you had a "Save Drive" (name of device that gives you the powers of "Saving" and "Loading" If you don't understand what I mean by "Saving" and "Loading" please refer to these links: $URL$ $URL$ Note: A person in possession of a Save Drive can save ANYWHERE and is not bound by the concept of "Save Points" So, to restate my question: How do I scientifically explain the concept of "Saving" and "Loading"? 

Me and my friends were brainstorming campaign ideas earlier and we came up with a setting. Essentially it's our universe but with one BIG difference... Humans can use magic. The ability to use magic has been around since the first lifeforms formed (protozoa, bacteria, virii, etc.). The Magic System relies on (some) of that human's metabolic energy . The humans (in this world) have "nodes" scattered across their bodies. These nodes absorb ambient energy within the environment and store it within capacitor-esque cells (like fat cells that DON'T make you fat). When you cast a spell, some of your metabolic energy (and some of that "capacitor" energy) is expended (essentially Magic is like a muscle, use it and it's strength grows, don't and it atrophies). "Flashier" spells require more energy than "Simple" spells (an exmaple of a "Flashy" spell would be a Lightning bolt or a Wrecking ball-sized fireball. Whilst a simple spell would be a baseball-sized fireball or generating a lightsource). Note: Here are the Node locations: Chest, Left Hand, Right Hand, Left Foot, Right Foot, Brain (in rare cases), Blood cells (blood cells contain weak nodes that are about the size of mitochondria). Note: Nodes cannot be removed or destroyed Think of the nodes as the M-R Nodes from Aberrant: here's a link:$URL$ Note: SPELLS CANNOT ALTER REALITY So my question is... would the scientists of this universe still call "Magic" Magic? (or would they come up with a different name for it?) 

Dragons haven't always been dragons. Think about it, when in a movie have you seen an actual dragon take loot? They pillage and breathe fire and burn stuff. But where did the dragon come from? You never see two of them in one area, so there can't be a mommy dragon and a daddy dragon making a family of new dragons. No, dragons were originally another kind of creature, one that walked on legs and had arms and hands that could carry stuff. That creature acquired lots of treasure, and as it did so its greed grew as did its fear of losing its treasure. So it hoarded it all away somewhere safe and over time the magical transformation began as it guarded its treasure in the dark, it morphed into a fearsome creature whose sole purpose was to keep its precious hoard from other, coming out only when provoked, or occasionally to seek sustenance. 

Let me pitch you a setting... The year is 2017 and economic unreast is everywhere and a gang by the name of "Fukdahrooles" is trying to cause societal collapse. My question being... how could Fukdahrooles cause the collapse of society and make America a free-for-all brawl for terrority Note: here are the limitations. 1: The only source of income they have is the Drug Trade and odd jobs. 2: they are widely hated and are considered a Terrorist Organization (like ISIS). 3: THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO NUCLEAR WEAPONS. my question is... How could Fukdahrooles cause societal collapse in the easiest way possible? 

I'm currently working on a Sci-Fi story. Many of the super-materials in my story are composed of "Neo-Matter". List of Neo-Matter particles: Up-Neotron, Down-Neotron Neo Matter is essentially like regular matter except with a few unique traits 1: Neo Matter can interact with particles that cannot interact electromagnetically (ie. Neutrons, Neutrinos) 2: all Neo Matter particles have a neutral charge and are their own antiparticle 3: Neo Matter particles have the half life of a neutron. 4: Neotrons are the smallest unit of Neo-Matter and cannot be divided into anything smaller. 5: Neotrons are as big as neutrons. 6: Neotron atoms do NOT contain electrons My question being... Is it possible to scientifically explain "Neo-Matter" and if not... what can I change to make it scientifically explainable? Note: If Neo-Matter IS scientifically explainable then could you explain how Neo-Matter Molecules could form? Note: the ONLY force Neo Matter interacts with is Gravity $URL$ If you want an example of something similar here you go. 

I would like to focus my answer on one of the problems mentioned by others: namely that Bob has an overwhelmingly high probability of being born poor. The answer to this is simple. By being born with all the knowledge of all his previous incarnations, all that is necessary to bypass this problem is to have one lifetime in which he amasses enough wealth to control an organization of people, such as a corporation, which he founds. And with multiple lives of experience this ability to amass wealth should increase, as all the trial and error in previous lives is carried forward each time. The organization will be laid out with stipulations of how his succession works. Nobody need know anything of Bob's secret, and nobody need know all the pieces of the puzzle, ensuring that only his reincarnated self can claim the lead next. Furthermore, Bob can have "decoy" successors whose appearances are not well known, to give the appearance that he is grooming his replacement among a list of potential candidates, to eliminate any suspicion of some unknown suddenly showing up. And furthermore, precautions can be take to deal with the fact that after Bob's death there may be a delay of 18 years or more before his next self takes over. There may in fact be layers of protocols involved by which other people act as trustees or temporary stewards of various aspects of the organization until all the pieces for the next true successor fall into place. Now when Bob is reborn, there is naturally the annoyance of having to wait 18 years to reclaim his organization. But no matter where Bob is born, in what conditions, if Bob has any kind of cleverness he will realize that he can just play dumb, not letting on to his real nature, and wait for the opportunity to make his way across the world to wherever his base is. I would argue this is totally doable for any person in the world - given the clear goal and payoff in sight - no matter what their situation and upbringing - one can play along with their environment for the first 15-16 years, there are many ways they can find to make a one-time relocation to another place in the world, whether it is joining a merchant marine, or stowing away, or even just hiking if on the same continent. Once Bob is able to grow his organization enough, then it is a simple matter of building more bases, one on each continent at least, so that he can eliminate the need to cross an ocean at the start of every life time. To summarize, the key pieces are: 

First of all, even if the cure IS destroyed Immunologists could still develop some sort of cure (or a vaccine for those nonimmune people that STILL haven't contracted the disease). Narcissists across the globe would mentally break down as their ONLY redeeming qualities have been "stolen" from them. The global suicide rate (if that's even a thing) would increase to heights never-before-seen (If teens are willing to commit suicide just because they're being bullied or if someone tells them that their fat then just IMAGINE what this would cause). Racism would still exist (if you were wondering) as people who were affected to a lesser degree would berate and demean those that were "hit harder" by the disease. The clothing industry would increase in profitability as people would want to cover up their "ugliness". Some people would even go as far as to wear masks in public. I hope you enjoyed my answer! 

Basically the idea is you have some pipes and they are filled with water to some pressure. Similar to electrons in a wire, the water in the pipe doesn't actually need to flow very much; it is the pressure that carries the signal. The water switch can probably be implemented in various different ways, for instance there might be a spring to force a blocking element (valve) out of the way between the water in and water out, but the total pressure is provided was less than the water pressure. Then, if water pressure is introduced to the control input it overcomes the spring pressure and slides the value shut, blocking off the water from the input and sending the pressure at the output to 0. Once you have this water switch, everything else can be implemented the same as digital circuits are implemented from transistors. It is of course going to be a lot bigger even with miniaturization because you will run into issues with things like capillary actions and such at much larger scales. 

You want a giant tortoise that is screwed over by the Square Cube law if I understood your question correctly? Well I have numerous propositions for your. No. 1: The turtles live in an environment with enough Oxygen to sustain gargantuan-sized life forms. The bigger an organism gets, the harder the heart needs to pump in order to get oxygen to every cell in the body (if I am not mistaken). So maybe you could increase the amount of Oxygen within the water, Or you could say that their hearts are more efficient at pumping oxygen throughout their bodies (or you can handwave and say that they don't need oxygen) No. 2: The Turtles are nanotechnologically enhanced. Okay here me out on this one. WIthin the Nanotech community there's a thing called a Respirocyte. A Respirocyte is essentially a artificial blood cell which can store up to 236 times more Oxygen than a regular blood cell can. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ No. 3: The turtles are robots meant to confuse biologists This one is pretty much self explanatory. Anyway I hope you enjoyed my answer!