The first three moons are locked in an orbital resonance with each other, which produces enormous tidal forces, which are responsible for heating up the moons, and producing volcanoes and other phenomena. There is therefore a rich source of geothermal energy on these moons, without the need for solar cells which would be very ineffective this far from the sun, (or nuclear technology, which is probably a requirement for extensive space travel, but should perhaps be conserved for when it is most needed.) Delta v's for transfer between Jupiter's various moons are very reasonable, see the bottom right corner of $URL$ 

According to thermodynamics, more ordered states are favoured at lower temperatures, so essentially what you are looking for is a system which increases in volume as it becomes more ordered, which is unusual. As mentioned in another answer, this happens when beer turns to ice, but the volume change is quite small. Another process is as follows: Hydrogen sulphide generated in oil refinery desulphurisation processes is converted to sulphur by the Claus process: 

With increasing temperature, we get increasing disorder, so it would be very strange for a substance to solidify with increasing temperature (unless water vapour or or other liquid is driven off as mentioned by Kingledion.) However such substances do exist, as mentioned by Mrkvicka. Similarly, and equally counterintuitively, ice gets denser when it melts. The thing that must increase as temperature increases is disorder. In the case of the density of water/ice, it just so happens that ice's most ordered structure has a lot of empty space in it, which explains why it is less dense than the more disordered liquid form of water. As you asked for an "element" or alloy that solidifies when heated, it is worth mentioning pure sulphur, which comes close, in a way. It has a vast increase in viscosity as it is warmed. It starts off as an ordered crystalline solid of S8 rings, which melts into a runny liquid of S8 rings. At a certain temperature, these ordered rings break open and a highly viscous polymer develops, with lots of different chain lengths. On further heating, this breaks down into a runny liquid of formula S2 and finally into gas. Mrkvicka's example is similar in that molecules have an ordered sysem of intramolecular hydrogen bonding at low temperature, which becomes a disordered system of intermolecular hydrogen boning at high temperature. However there are also big differences: In Mrkvicka's example I understand the ring itself is not disturbed, and the bonds broken are hydrogen bonds rather than covalent bonds. Another interesting and counterintuitive property is found in sulphur produced by the desulphurization process of the oil industry, which has hydrogen sulphide dissolved in it. The hydrogen sulphide caps the polymeric chains, so this sulphur does not become viscous like pure sulphur. But what is interesting is that when it cools and forms a more ordered structure of S8 rings, it expels the hydrogen sulphide. Thus it "boils" when the temperature is reduced! All the transformations mentioned here are reversible which I assume is what you are looking for. Unfortunately, these properties are due to the molecular nature of the substance, so as metals do not generally form molecules it would be much less likely to find such properties in a metal. That said, it is concievable that a zintl phase could have the properties you are looking for at some temperature range. These are compounds containing positively charged alkali metal ions and negatively charged ions consisting of clusters of silicon, tin or lead atoms. Being ionically bonded they are not conductive in the solid state. It is not out of the question that there could exist a zintl phase where heating to some (very high) temperature could cause the molecular negative ions to break down into a more disordered polymeric state. But the atoms in negative ions are not behaving like "metals" so to call this an "alloy" would be a bit of a stretch. $URL$ 

If Eragon taught us one thing about magic, it is that killing by magic is laughably easy. No fireballs, no big effects. Just a rupture of a blood vessel in the brain, or cutting a few nerves -> instant death. Combine this with the magic power that is normally portrayed by the big spellcasters in such scenarios, and you get a dead army, and your mage hasn't even broken a sweat. If you don't like this answer because the area of effect of such magic is too big (although the required energy is kinda low), then some kind of magic-induced disease that is highly contageous, deadly, and takes a few days for incubation would at least seriously diminuish the army. Take out the rest while they bury their fellow soldiers. 

But this is fiction, you could just say: We found these things, they don't allow for time travel, so all this Relativity stuff wasn't 100% right after all. What's the problem with that? 

Don't confuse the goods with currency. Goods are the things the people want to trade. The currency is only the mediator. It doesn't have to be a valuable thing. In fact, it shouldn't be a valuable thing, especially in intergalactic trade. Why that? Consider our situation now. For some time, there was the gold standard, which was the promise by the US bank system to trade in gold for money. This keeps currencies rather stable, i'd say. However, there is a problem: Once the money that's around surpasses the available gold, you can't hold to the promise. That's why we the gold standard was dropped (as far as I understand, and without the historical context). So, the value of the generated goods far outpass the gold value available to back up the money. If we kept to the gold standard, there would be shortage of money. You can't trade, although you have valuable stuff to sell and want to buy other valuable stuff. This problem becomes even bigger the more you scale your system up. What do you think how much value is produced in an intergalactic society? I can't imagine, but it is certainly too much to make one specific valuable thing the currency. Not even the spice is THAT valuable. 

A large habitat is going to have a water cycle Humans, animals and plants all cause considerable evaporation of water. This will condense on the coolest parts of the habitat and run down till they reach the "lowest point" (or in the case of habitat rotating to simulate gravity, the widest point.) All this water should run down and collect in a single large lake, where it can be stored and reprocessed. The lake can be used for recreation, too, just like earth reservoir. Untreated water is drawn from the lake and reprocessed prior to pumping into the purified water supply, just like on earth. Care would have to be taken to keep this separate from the sewage system (just like on earth...) 

Firstly, Lerite sounds like a mineral, not an element, so I think if you are going to invent an element you should give it a more appropriate name. Some elements have more than one name (columbium is now called niobium for example) so it could be an existing element. Dysprosium (element 66) has been mentioned in another answer, but I don't see it as particularly significant. All the Lanthanide series are quite rare, but Samarium (element 62) is used in powerful samarium cobalt magnets. If you're looking for an element with weird properties, try Technetium, element 43. Despite its fairly low atomic number, it has no stable isotopes so it must always be prepared from other elements and is highly radioactive. Similar levels of instability aren't seen again until you get past Lead (element 82.) You could handwave a stable form of technetium, I suppose, though it's not physically possible. The other possiblility is a compound or composite. If you want to call it lerite, it could be a mineral like Superman's kryptonite. There are many minerals formed of very mundane elements that have very distinctive properties: lapis lazuli / lazurite, opals, zeolites, and asbestos to name a few. If you want to invent something new that is magnetic, it could be an organic compound, either synthesized by humans or other inteligent life, or by biological processes. for example you can have "plastic magnets". There are microbes that swim in a certain direction according to magnetic fields, and no-one knows how they do it. 

Since it seems that these grasstatos are EVERYWHERE, this means that food is incredibly cheap - even more so if harvesting can be brought to industrial scale. This means the kingdom will export cheap grasstato products, especially food. This will lead other countries to focus on other goods, maybe even becoming dependant on grasstatos themselves, or even suffering economic collapse. An easy remedy is charging customs for import from the grasstato kingdom, which means trade with other kingdoms is expensive and limited. 

Disclaimer: I'm not a physicist. That begin said: Short Version: From what I understand from the various expeditions in the world of Physics.SE FTL-questions, I'd say any kind of FTL travel or communication will allow causality violation. Longer version: There are a few potential problems I see with your description: First of all, how can points belonging to the same network share the same inertial reference frame, and still move relative to their respective stars? Check with your trusted physicist, but as far as I understand, inertial reference frame means no relative motion between each other. Also, I don't know what being in the same inertial reference frame, but far apart, would do, and if it matches your expectations of having a well-defined "now"/"simultaneous"/"instantaneous". Typically, violating causality goes like this(crude explanation, look at the many answers on Physics.SE for a better one): Move from point A to point B at superluminar speed. Now move back. You end up in a reference frame at position A but before you left. Remember that "simultaneous" is something very unintuitive in Relativity (not sure whether that's General or Special Relativity), and depends on the observer (=is relative). 

Peoples skills are already not the most important part of a modern weapon system. Humans, for ethical reasons, still are in control and decide when and who to shoot, but where are human skills in guided missiles / other guided weapons? Mind you, those are likely also the ones that will be used in space combat. You probably don't even need very complicated AI for a reasonably good weapons system. However, what about maneuvering? AIs would be really good at predicting the opponents moves, thus there would be an arms race between guiding AIs and evasion AIs (supposing that evasion is actually possible, which is not so clear, even less with energy weapons / laser). Maybe humans are less predictable? (Note that I wouldn't bet on this IRL...)