I came up with a list of things that good music communicates. I'll repeat it here: Beauty Emotion (or drama) Imitation (of nature) Bigness (or awe) Virtuosity (of the performer) Practical social functions (like dance or work songs) Unifying social functions (like anthems) Memory (or recognition) 

Your question is common. Just do a Google search for "what's the meaning of life?" and you will find many answers from many authorities, from the religious and the secular, humanitarian, self-fulfillment, relational, and on and on. And every successful person will be asked to tell news reporters what makes him or her tick, why he or she did what he or she did, and how happy they are. And the tabloids are plastered with stories of how sad some of these movie stars and sports figures are later in life when they're no longer "the talent"! The choice of what will make you happy is personal. There is no scientific research that will make this decision for you. But there are many people who will tell you how to do it... because that's what will enrich or empower themselves! People differ and it would be impossible for the public to idolize and enrich the best person, since nobody knows for sure what the best is, so I do not suggest seeking recognition as a life-plan. Being able to discern what is good and what you want is a major benefit of clear thinking. And those who can't see clearly can at least ask their friends for help. 

The question: "Is it proper to speak of non-existent objects? ... Anyway, what I am really asking is, are there any philosophers who think that talk of non-existent objects is merely a language game?" Talk of non-existent objects is much more than merely a language game. Please refer to the following where I motivate my answer. It seems the metaphysics of mathematics with regard to the question, relate to cosmology, The "set of all sets" and Parmenides's "One" as opposed to Descartes's ontological view below. 

Reference: BUDGE, E.A.W. 1895. The book of the dead. (New York: Dover, 1967) From: Africahead on 10 Sep 2017 

It seems Socrates was a real person and was hermeneutically followed and quoted by Plato. That means two distinct persons with different views existed. It was opined that, in The Laws, the Athenian gives Plato's views. 

Cosmological arguments, for the existence of "God", like those of Aquinas, are functionalism and materialism. They are functionalist, i.e. because they usually focus on the singularity of "God", which is false, due to the weakness of singularity. They are materialist, i.e. because materialist empiricists, usually appreciate Aquinas's 'proofs'. Ontological arguments on the other hand use definitions and are more objective. Here's another ontological argument for the existence of God: God are "the Creator", therefore God exist because creativity exists. 

In the nearby Q&A on "scientism", folks at StackExchange identify this kind of position with the word "scientism" and say that since scientism is not empirical truth, adherents to scientism proclaiming loyalty to empirical truth make a false claim. That's because this policy doesn't result from evidence, but is taken for some other reason. Such a person may do well to acknowledge that in addition to scientific verification, the discipline of philosophy may help a person identify empirical truth, or at least help to justify this stance about evidence. 

By skipping to the end of this thought, we interpret "getting rid of" as being possible by either annihilation or exaltation. How annihilation works is pretty obvious. So in what sense are we rid of someone whom we have exalted? We are rid of him because prior to being exalted, he was one of us, only better. That sucks, because now we can clearly see how messed up we are by comparison. But if we say he was a god, then of course he is better than us: he is supernatural! Our feeling of inferiority can be assuaged; it's not our fault that we aren't as good: it's because of our different nature that there is such a difference between us! Also, we aren't obligated to take his advice or heed his warning because he doesn't really know what we know about what it's like to be one of us. This is why effective leaders take pains to avoid that separation. 

Altruism and pity can be used synonymously in the context of utilitarianism. Non-profit organisations, being vehicles of pity and altruism are the results of utilitarian maximum profit. It is thus part of the same system, which should change in total. Nietzsche described the problem as follows: "The hour when we say: 'What good is my pity! Is not pity the cross on which he is nailed who loveth man? But my pity is not a crucifixion.'" (Nietzsche 1997: 7) Rousseau promoted pity as follows: "It is therefore certain that pity is a natural sentiment, which, by moderating in every individual the activity of self-love, contributes to the mutual preservation of the whole species. It is this pity which hurries us without reflection to the assistance of those we see in distress; it is this pity which, in a state of nature, stands for laws, for manners, for virtue, with this advantage, that no one is tempted to disobey her sweet and gentle voice: it is this pity which will always hinder a robust savage from plundering a feeble child, or infirm old man, of the subsistence they have acquired with pain and difficulty, if he has but the least prospect of providing for himself by any other means: it is this pity which, instead of that sublime maxim of argumentative justice, Do to others as you would have others do to you, inspires all men with that other maxim of natural goodness a great deal less perfect, but perhaps more useful, Consult your own happiness with as little prejudice as you can to that of others. It is in a word, in this natural sentiment, rather than in fine-spun arguments, that we must look for the cause of that reluctance which every man would experience to do evil, even independently of the maxims of education." (Rousseau 2004:21) References NIETZSCHE; F. 1997. Thus Spake Zarathustra. Hertfordshire: Wordsworth Editions Limited. ROUSSEAU; J. 2004. Discourse on the Origin of Inequality. Mineola: Dover. 

Without addressing your bolded question, I will address the title question by proposing a few arguments against suicide other than the one that was proposed. 

The most famous speech given by Jesus is the "sermon on the mount", which is recorded in the Gospel of Matthew chapters 5-7. In order to provide the best authoritative insight into what perfect behavior is, Jesus analyzes boundary conditions for well-known commandments, such as "do not murder." He demonstrates that the intent to commit murder, or even a person harboring ill will toward somebody else, is contrary to the commandment. Jesus finishes Matthew 5 by commanding, "Be perfect, as you Father in Heaven is perfect." This is an impossible standard. Because Christians have an impossible standard, they must depend on something other than their own perfection in order to be accepted. The Apostle Paul analyzes this tension in his letter "to the Romans", chapter 7: 

Well, here are a few assumptions that influence, but seldom appear, in just about every science textbook and article: 

"Heraclitus of Ephesus on the western coast of Anatolia in modern Turkey (535-475 BCE) posited that all things in nature are in a state of perpetual flux, connected by logical structure or pattern, which he termed Logos. ... The Eleatic School, called after the town of Elea (modern name Velia in southern Italy), emphasized the doctrine of the One. Xenophanes of Colophon (570-470 BCE) declared God to be the eternal unity, permeating the universe, and governing it by his thought.[7] Parmenides of Elea (510-440 BCE) affirmed the one unchanging existence to be alone true and capable of being conceived, and multitude and change to be an appearance without reality." (From: $URL$ on 12 Sep 2017) It could be argued the most ancient view in history is related to the Eleatic view about the One unchanging cosmos because change was frowned upon by despotic leaders. Aristotle regarded the First Mover, his Absolute. The First Mover moved. Socrates regarded "hesis" ("kinesis"/movement) supreme and stated God revile(s) "stasis" (constance). Jesus died, partly because of his kenotic rejection of the life giving force of movement. He did not leave Jerusalem, but could. Socrates, as well, died, partly because he did not decide to move to Crete. Plato, according to Popper, wanted to "arrest all change". Marx opposed new ideas and called labor "the creator". Marx, according to Adorno's summary, could have been more in line with Plato than Socrates. The Socratic book, The Republic, however has been presented as a communist text, partly because of communal property, promoted in it. It's complicated and I do not claim answering the question, but knowing of the two ancient views ("hesis" and "stasis") of divinity, resolves some thoughts, regarding the question. "Hesis" meant "a going forth" or leaving a place. "Stasis literally means “standing” or “taking a stand.” In Classical Greek the word denotes disagreement, dispute, internal conflict, civil strife, and even civil war. References to stasis abound in Greek literature, from the Homeric epics through to Hellenistic times." (The Encyclopedia of Ancient History, $URL$ on 12 Sep 2017) Most people prefer constant circumstances when financially secure, whilst others who are not financially secure, prefer change. Marx regarded technological change negatively because new technology, caused by new ideas, replaced labor. 

I think that Descartes did a good thing when he said "if the Evil Demon deceives me, there is still an 'I' to be deceived." It sounds like the Buddha asks you to throw this away, since I is "no-thing". There seems to be an inconsistency in thinking that "I" can attain emptiness, if emptiness means non-existence... clearly, if it takes work to do, then there is me, doing that work. Emptiness of own-nature then has a peculiar meaning that I have difficulty understanding. Still, I think that each of these approaches provides an effective self-fulfilling prophecy: Descartes claims to exist; but a buddha has acknowledged (or attained) "emptiness of own-nature". Non-existence has the same power as solipsism ("only I exist") against various logical objections. Since neither claim seems to be refutable, we are simply left with a choice! I prefer Descartes for two reasons: first, I am skeptical that my interests could still be preserved if I let go of my own nature in favor of nothing. Second, because under Descartes' thinking I don't have to submit to objections like "if you try too hard to understand the doctrine, you will not understand the doctrine." This is not to say that there is no place for a thinking person to submit. But it is better and more comforting to submit to a person who is worthy of submission than to submit to nothingness. 

Your question basically: "If something cannot be defined using outside references, does that mean that such a thing does not exist? For example, Totality (supposed to mean absolutely everything including this statement)" Thinking about your question and Totality: A good definition for Totality is "everything". "Thing" is an accepted outside reference and "every" is an accepted concept, therefore Totality is acceptably defined. Thinking about the first part of your question with regard to existence and definitions using outside references. The question was: "If something cannot be defined using outside references, does that mean that such a thing does not exist? The answer is no, because "If something cannot be defined" means something exists. The answer relates to materialism and idealism. Where do things originate from? Do material things originate from ideas or do ideas originate from matter? I do not really know whether ideas or matter existed first. Did ideas exist before humans or did humans exist before ideas? It is not advisable to prioritize idealism or materialism, because the two philosophies are interrelated. Matter influence ideas and ideas influence matter, without a doubt. Let's say ideas and matter have always existed and they are both "outside references". I could, i.e. say intequities, the new idea exist. Another person could ask, what intequity is. If no defining follows, it will affect the existence of the new idea intequity. The word intequity (capital of ideas) was first used for research about Accounting of ideas, by combining the words 'integrity' and 'equity'. After that, "intequity" was used in business names. Using the word as names, did not define the idea, but without a doubt the businesses exist. Using references to matter and ideas thus seems to ease the defining of something new. 

Well, one way that great musicians and artists have survived has been to receive commissions from wealthy people who value their art and desire either to have it for themselves or to provide it somehow for others. This sidesteps the issue of what should their role be; they now have a market role that doesn't require "marketing" anymore. I suppose that pop music itself is sort of a new phenomenon, and sprang up with the consumer products of albums and concert tickets, as well as radio advertising. I don't really have an answer to "what role outside of the market should artists and musicians have", but maybe this provides some helpful insight into what the market does provide. 

Following Ayn Rand's model by gaining influence outside of academia isn't an insult to professional philosophers unless you make it out to be that way. To get the attention of academics, maybe you should simply start speaking up. "Look at this, Dr. ___! Wouldn't it just make more sense if ___?" If you approach them quietly, they may not give you credit, but they will give you friendship. If you are actually right and you make them look dumb, then you will get credit but not friends. It's up to you! If indeed what you propose is really good, maybe the best thing is to go for it: use it to write about stuff or to give speeches, build things, sell things, start clubs or associations or schools, form political parties, create exchange-traded funds, run for office, or do whatever else you think would be a great application for your new kind of thinking. Writing academic papers is hard, and is a specialized task that takes a lot of training to accomplish. If you don't have what it takes to do this with lots of references and no mistakes, just skip it... write stuff that comes easier: op-eds, short stories, songs, or films. Also, many academic papers look like papers but are really a shadow of something that happened already in a conference. You need an invitation to get heard in this context. No matter how you do it, it's going to take a lot of time and you will need friends and boosters, money, willingness to travel and willingness to work. In my opinion, a philosophy is little more than a person. If that person writes much, their ideas can be bound and published as "you-ism". If not, then maybe you will be remembered for a good example, paradox, analogy, etc... but it won't put you on the shelf next to Plato. Good luck!