In an editorial titled "Should journals stop publishing research funded by the drug industry? " in the British Medical Journal the authors make the following claim: 

The drugs that lower cholesterol you're asking about are called Statins. There is a recent Cochrane Review1 (also discussed by Steven Novella on Science Based Medicine) that discusses the use of statins for primary prevention. The conclusion of that review is that there is a small but significant reduction of cardiac events and deaths when treated preventively with statins. The effect in secondary prevention, preventing a second heart attack, is larger, as reviewed in another Cochrane Review2. There is clear evidence that lowering cholesterol via statin-treatment can prevent heart attacks. It gets much more complicated if you ask how high exactly the cholesterol level should be before treatment is advisable. And there is some debate, also from the authors of the first review, whether the small effects in primary prevention are significant enough to warrant routine treatment with statins. 

As pointed out by Catharina from the Just the Vax blog, the paper also contains an error regarding the german vaccination schedule. The German Childhood Vaccination Schedule recommends additionally Hepatitis B from birth on, as well as MMR and Chickenpox vaccinations starting at 11 months. There are other studies that examined the association of SIDS (sudden infant death syndrome) and vaccinations, a meta analysis concluded that vaccinations help to prevent SIDS 

Criminal profiling is very popular in fictional crime shows, but also used in reality. A profiler uses the known data about the case to create a profile of the person that commited the crime. This profile is used to focus the investigations and track down the perpetrator. Does criminal profiling work? Are there any studies that evaluate the success rates of profilers? 

The citation for this claim is the book "Deadly medicines and organised crime: how big pharma has corrupted health care." by Peter C. Gøtzsche, one of the authors of the editorial. The number of deaths mentioned in this claim seems extremely large to me, and I wonder how the authors arrived at this number and how credible it is. 

The Glyphosate Task Force is obviously not an impartial group, it is composed of companies that produce or sell glyphosate like Monsanto. They cite a report by EFSA, the European Food Safety Authority that shows that the maximum residue levels for glyphosate were not exceeded. The practice of applying glyphosate before the harvest exists, but that does not necessarily mean that the conclusions from that in the linked article are true. 

A recent article in the New York Times (limited paywall) claims that the North Korean nuclear program is funded in part by gold farming in South Korean Massive Multiplayer Online Games. According to an article in Kotaku 

The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) which evaluates those claims has published a report on their decision. Scientific Opinion on the substantiation of health claims related to water and maintenance of normal physical and cognitive functions (ID 1102, 1209, 1294, 1331), maintenance of normal thermoregulation (ID 1208) and “basic requirement of all living things” (ID 1207) pursuant to Article 13(1) of Regulation (EC) No 1924/2006 They conclude for the first claim: 

When I saw the graph on the right with the grouped data I was suspicious as I could not see any reason to arbitrarily group the data. It looked like a cheap way to make the plot look better, not like an analysis that would actually provide more insight. David Gorsky shares my suspicion and notes 

The conclusion is that the higher rate of preterm infants explains a large part of the higher infant mortality rate, but not the whole discrepancy between Europe and the United States. The following figure shows the IMR comparison if you exclude births earlier than 22 weeks, the US rate is significantly lower, but still higher than in most european countries. 

It is true that the announcer Robert Lee scheduled for the game in Charlottesville was switched to a different game by ESPN. From a New York Times article on the subject: 

It is possible to consume a lethal dose of salt, especially for small children. There has been at least one case where an adult died of a salt overdose. In this case 45-60 grams were consumed, but the lethal dose is estimated to be lower. The lethal dose is also far smaller for children. 

There is a third, older study not mentioned on the website that reportedly did not find any difference in Vitamin C absorption between Ester C and other products: Comparison of the absorption and excretion of three commercially available sources of vitamin C. Unfortunately this one does not have an abstract and the article is not freely available, I have to rely on the second-hand reporting for this one. Those are pretty small studies (15 persons in the first one, 50 in the second one), I don't think they can settle those questions on their own. The absorption claim in general is not validated by the studies, except for the leukocytes. The better tolerance of the calcium ascorbate seems to be supported by one of the studies. 

Lower concentrated solutions (around 3-8% H2O2) are used to bleach hair, that should give you an idea that this is a pretty reactive chemical. The Hong Kong Center for Food safety says the following about ingesting highly diluted solutions of hydrogen peroxide 

I'm not sure if that means you cannot advertise that or that it isn't a medical claim and it doesn't fall under the regulations. There probably is more history to the whole thing, I could imagine that there were some disputes about the exact terminology. The document is published in April 2011, so it was available when the article in your question was published. 

If you're young and healthy you might not benefit that much, but your grandmother or your child cousin and anyone from a risk group you get in contact with is probably grateful if you vaccinate. Your point that both sides claim to be backed by scientific studies is also adressed 

I knew that meat consumption is said to contribute to some health conditions, but I haven't heard about the association with cancer yet. Is there solid scientific evidence to link the consumption of meat with a higher risk for developing cancer? 

There is a published study called "A Question of Accuracy: How Journalists and Scientists Report Research on Hazards". They state in their conclusion 

Ballistic fingerprinting has been used as evidence in US courts and elsewhere. In this method found bullets are compared based on markings the firing gun left on them. This should allow to prove which gun a certain bullet was fired from. I've heard about several forensic techniques that were widely used but were not substantiated by evidence, e.g. a certain way of determining if a fire is arson. In the linked article it is also mentioned that some lawmakers want to abolish the database of ballistic fingerprints as it is claimed to be ineffective. How good is the evidence for ballistic fingerprinting? Specifically,