Earth experiences pretty significant tidal forces, and it doesn't seem to affect habitability too much. The crust flexes, the oceans rush in and out, and we're fine. Some life actually relies on it. Io, a moon of Jupiter, experiences significant tidal flexing, enough to generate serious heat and geological activity. So, it seems entirely possible for tidal forces to be strong enough to effect habitability. Constant volcanoes filling the air with ash and toxic chemicals, serious earthquakes moving dirt around and preventing plants from taking hold. So, you're question really boils down to "How strong are the tidal forces experienced by horseshoe moons?" Which is a very difficult question. The strength of tidal force is mostly based on distance, and it can be very difficult to predict how close these moons get to each-other. To get extremely close together, they would have a large difference between the innermost and outermost radius of their orbits. They would approach each other at a higher velocity. They would swap quickly. They would repeat their swaps more often. (relatively, we're still looking at several orbits to complete the swap and several hundred orbits between swaps) A horseshoe orbit that never gets very close is pretty much the same thing, but slower. The two moons are always close to the same distance from the planet. The swap places at a greater distance from each other. Since they interact with each other more weakly, the swap takes longer. It might be tens of thousands of orbits between swaps. tldr; It can probably be whatever you want, but the details are hard. 

An acre per person is the general guideline, but you might be able to squeeze that to as low as a quarter acre with fertile soil, a good climate, and intensive scientific farming techniques. There are 640 acres per square mile, so you have 820 billion acres available. That's only a bit less than an acre per person, so I think you'll be fine. 

The main thing you'll need for such a society is for there to be nowhere else that disaffected citizens can realistically go if they don't like their assigned role. It needs to be a closed society. Otherwise, it will fall apart. 

A neonatologist (doctor who cares for newborns) I talked to recently pointed out that a larger percentage of babies need serious medical care after being born. This change came about about a generation after some serious improvement in the way we care for premature and sick babies in the 70s and 80s. He concludes that the genes that make it impossible to give birth without the help of advanced medical infrastructure are already spreading in our society. If you take this doctor's assertions to the (possibly ridiculous) extreme, you might imagine a race of highly advanced being with no reproductive organs at all who are only capable of reproducing by combining genetic material in a lab. You and your partner both swab your cheeks, pay the fee, and in nine months the lab calls you in to make you parents. 

What follows is complete social collapse. If it can happen once, it will quite likely happen again, so there is no longer any point in saving or investing. So no companies can be funded, no one has money for their retirement, and so on and so forth. 

Yes, with no caveats. The stars in a binary star system can be extremely far apart, and if they are sufficiently far apart then an Earth-like planet in orbit around one of them will not be disturbed by the presence of the other. To pick a nearby example, if Alpha Centauri B did not exist then a planet around Alpha Centauri A would not be bothered by Proxima Centauri aka Alpha Centauri C, 13,000 AU away (about a fifth of a light year). It would just be a faint (magnitude 5) red star with a very fast proper motion. 

Or Flat Jupiters, maybe. I'm imagining a space station with a large population orbiting very close to a gas giant. The horizon stretches away in all directions and an infinite variety of cloud patterns wiz by below. Some individuals get it in their head that they are flying over an infinite flat plane rather than going around an impossibly large sphere. Assume that, like modern Flat Earthers, they reject information from authorities outside of their social circles and measurements from equipment they can't use themselves. These people also wont or can't (perhaps for economic reasons) leave the space station to view the planetary system from a different vantage point. Is there something about their situation aboard the station that would make it plainly obvious that the planet they orbit is spherical and prevent this idea from spreading? 

Just make the Netherlands be part of Germany, and they can keep speaking the exact same language, but it will be called a dialect of German. It’s no more different from “standard” German than the Scots dialect is from standard English, and if Scotland was an independent country then Scots would be a language rather than a dialect. 

As well as the other points raised in answers, society would be very much more religious, since there would be daily proof in everyone's lives of some kind of God or other supernatural entity, causing miraculous deaths with no reasonable biological or evolutionary explanation. 

One option is to use stirling engines. They work just as well on cold as on heat. Or rather, they work on a temperature gradient. One of these toys will work if you place it on a cup of hot water or on an ice cube. You might also look at thermal electric generators, or TEG. These create a small amount of electric power from a heat gradient, and so also work with either a heat source or a 'cold source'. 

To give your question a sociological answer rather than a geographic one, I think it's possible to have planets with multiple biomes which are, none the less, known as single biome planets. For example, take Africa. How many distinct biomes, cultures, and governments exist in Africa? And how often do people think of or refer to Africa as a single, homogeneous place? It's far away, and we don't consume very much media that is produced there. It takes a lot of effort to have a nuanced view of Africa. That tendency to simplify places which are foreign to us is going to be so much stronger in a galactic empire. Every planet is going to be reduced to a tag line. Desert planet. Ice planet. Jungle moon. Lava world. 

Regardless of the incorrect percentages in the question, there's not enough nitrogen. There's less than 1% as much as in the Earth's atmosphere, so there's going to be nothing like enough available for plants. Earth animals might survive, but only if you import all their food from off-world. 

The limit on their sophistication is not caused by their lack of a written language, but rather vice versa. They have to be sufficiently unsophisticated that they don't just invent a written language, which doesn't need a high degree of sophistication. It may well be that they could get much more sophisticated without a written language, but there's no way they would actually do that. 

Filters will never fix this problem. The problem is getting oxygen into your blood. Humans can live down to about 40% of sea level pressure. (356 millibars) That's called the Death Zone in mountain climbing. (~8000m on earth). With an oxygen mask, you can survive down to the Armstrong limit, at about 6% of sea level (47 millibars). So, your medieval civilization needs to produce pure oxygen, bottle it and distribute it. That does not sound like medieval technology. Maybe someone with modern understanding of chemistry would be able to do it with medieval tools, but I would still call that modern technology. 

The whole point of relativity is that there should be no way to tell how fast you are travelling, because there is no absolute speed. There can be no effects from travelling fast, because if there were then relativity would be violated. 

We have plenty of real-life examples for this, that are isolated from each other by time rather than space. Modern Greeks can understand some Classical Greek, with a 2,500 year separation. Modern Icelanders can easily read and understand 10th century Old Norse. A few hundred years will be no problem. 

Banks. You don't bring a tuck load of bottle caps to buy your house, you bring the seller of the house to the bank where your bottle caps are kept and with the help of the banker, transfer ownership of your bottle caps to the seller of the house. The banker is also happy to store a record of the transaction in case the ownership of the house is ever called into question. In fact, it's been years since you've actually laid eyes on your bottle caps. What if the bank doesn't actually have your caps anymore? Does it even matter? Maybe it doesn't matter. And BAM! you have a Fiat currency.