While possibleWorld's answer suggests that the basic Utilitarian response would be to save the cubes because this saves more people in the end, I would suggest that this is not necessarily the case. There's an important ambiguity in John Stuart Mill's Utilitarianism that has plagued the theory since then and is difficult to resolve. While the basic point of the theory is to "maximize happiness," there's a root problems here. First, it's not clear whether that is making an effort to maximize happiness or achieving maximal happiness. In other words, is it enough that I tried or do I have to succeed to behave morally? If success is the criterion, then this leads to bizarre consequences such as say stabbing someone randomly maximizing world happiness because of unknown consequences. If trying is the criterion, then something that does not at all increase happiness would be moral on a view that ostensibly thinks happiness = good. This problem can be restated as a problem with the future for utilitarian and consequentialist views. (Consequentialism more broadly does not restrict the value to happiness so we can substitute "life" or some other good). In the data cubes versus woman scenario, I want to suggest that the authors of the game are invoking a variant of this such that the actual gains of the woman not dying are valued more highly than the possible future good of saving many using the data cubes. For Kantians, humanity (with a meaning that extends to other rational creatures) is the top value. As Kant explains, this has worth and other things have price (*Groundwork 4: 431–34). This means the value of rationality is for Kant something that is not tradable and you cannot thus place a data cube as of more worth than a person. Whether this would work for Kant's other tests of the Categorical Imperative is less clear. Since it seems that you might be able to universalize the choice to save many lives over the choice to save one, and that you subjectively would prefer this outcome even if you were one of the lives to be lost. (N.b., however that this hinges again on seeing the data cubes as actually saving lives rather than a potential that occurs afterwards. For virtue ethics, the question would be what sort of moral character this develops. It seems like it develops the sort of moral character who trades one life for potentially helping many lives. It thus weakens courage and strengthens a sort of cold calculation. Conversely, one could argue that it produces a moral character that pursues the greater rather than lesser good. (One challenge for "virtue ethics" is that there are several different species with different accounts of the virtues; a second challenge is that, on for instance Aristotle's version, the only people who could know what the virtuous act is with certainty are phronemos (i.e. the practically wise)). 

This is often thought of it in a backwards way in the sort of introductory logic and critical thinking classes that exist. In other words, 

A target is harder to hit with a bullet the smaller it is. A bullet has a harder time hitting a target the smaller it is. Therefore, if we scale down both the bullet and the target, the target will be that much harder to hit. 

There's quite a few more (limiting ourselves just to people who write about Hegel in English), but this is just to mention some famous philosophers who are working on Hegel. If we're looking at people who directly do Hegel work, then: 

(I could expand the list if necessary). But a recent challenge is how accurate these renderings really are to the Chinese context. This is an open area of debate, but part of why it matters is that the Jesuits saw the potential for a synthesis between Christianity and Confucianism but not Christianity and Taoism. Moreover, the definition of all of these terms is something where Taoists make interesting claims. For instance, they deny that ren should be understood in pedestrian terms. Similarly, they see de as referring to the power to influence. Interestingly, you can reread Confucian texts with these definitions and they still make sense. 

The problem is that it's not clear what "negating a true implication" means here. Negating a true statement yields a false statement. If you look, ¬B → ¬A is not the "negation" of A → B. Given the relation A → B, there's at least three distinct possible operations: 

Given that your goal is ⊢ ((AvB) -> C) -> (A -> C) , you have two different ways of getting there: (A) Assume (AvB) -> C assume the left side of your conditional and get to your end point via CP (B) Assume ~ ( ((AvB) -> C) -> (A -> C) ) negate the entire of your object then do RAA] In this case, I think you've made the right choice: 

You seem to raise some issues with that. The second issue seems to be a confusion about how first order logic works. There's no "evaluation" step in truth-functional logic. The entire proof is considered to happen instanter such that every step occurs in logical but not temporal sequence. Consequently, there's no waiting to evaluate even if there's pesky filling in. This is a feature (or maybe bug?) of basic truth-functional logic. There's contemporary work being done to work with multi-valued logics or logics that can accept fractional values etc. but all of that comes after understanding the basics. 

As far as I am aware, the term comparative philosophy refers to the task of comparing two philosophies across different traditions rather than making comparisons simpliciter or say looking at the relationship between thinkers in one tradition. I'd try looking at a paper by Ralph Weber who is an expert in this area. 

The slave is better suited to move to the next level because the slave is accessing the universal whereas the master is accessing the particular. But the ultimate unity is a particular that is universal and a universal that is particular. This, for Hegel, turns out to be the state -- with civil society and the family serving as intermediate vessels (this is the main topic of the Philosophy of Right). 

I was just reading a volume edited by Jean Bethke Elshtain, The Family in Political Thought , which includes this useful quotation on the topic: 

Shane's answer is great overall on what to read, but reading your title and question body again... you asked what to skip. Skip his Biology in its entirety. There's quite a few texts in there. Mostly interesting only on an anecdotal level (nearly all the primary texts here $URL$ I'm not saying that it's completely worthless -- just that it will only matter if you want to study a particular subfield in history of philosophy of science. All of some sections of the Politics can be skipped. Particularly, the lengthy discussions of each political system in the Greek world (BK 2 sections 8-12). Some of them are worthwhile so consult a contemporary commentary that should give you the highlights instead of trudging through the descriptions. Also if you will read both Nicomachean Ethics and Politics, you can skip the second half of NE Book 8. 

I could probably give a better answer if you gave a reference to a text (though it may not be all that clear in Epicurus' writing style if memory serves), but generically the need for food and the need for sex are pretty different. The words "natural" and "necessary" can have several very different meanings. I take "natural" in the context of Epicurus to mean that which we have without any external imposition, i.e. things he things humans just have. For "necessary" in this context, I take it to mean that without this thing an individual person (n.b., the inclusion of the term individual here) will not be able to live. In other words, that which is necessary here is that without which I will die. I then take the two following sentences to be true: 

We can also look at your question in terms of a virtue theory approach to moral decision-making. The word "virtue" can be confusing in meaning due to its long history. In this type of approach, the goal is to maximize your human potential and through this to flourish (the Greek concept is eudaimonia). In order to do so, you must be committed to some idea of human potential. Thus, you would need to look at where your specific abilities lie and how you could maximize your humanity through them. This would not be limited merely to your mental abilities. In other words, on this perspective, it matters if you would have to be an unhappy but effective doctor versus a highly effective and happy computer systems analyst. Moreover, you need to look at whether you are flourishing not just in areas you want to but in others like generosity and friendship. Moreover, depending on the type of virtue ethics we are referring to, your goal might also need to include the flourishing of your community. On such a perspective, if concerns about whether you would enjoy such a life weigh heavily, you are probably better off not being a doctor -- as there's no specific requirement that you flourish in this way. (Save that you live in an obscure community where its flourishing requires you to become its doctor). 

But the sentence can also have another meaning: A second longer version with the same tautological meaning: 

On a trivial level, it's saying something self-evident. Bowls and pots are useful because they are objects fashioned to contain things. For instance, this morning, I ate a bowl of cereal, but the bowl only works because it can hold things, but it can hold things because it as a space. What it means a on deeper level is going to be open to debate. The Daodejing is a constructed text. It's not the continuous sayings of anyone and Laozi is probably not a historical person. So, we have to ask what this meant to the original writer and to the compiler. As to the original author, I've got no idea. As to the compiler, the text may have been compiled as a kind of counter-text to either Mohism (sometimes called "legalism") or Ruism ("Confucianism") which suggest a different vision of the Tao. For those views, the Tao is going to be or involve some human project and its completion. In this context, the point may be that the Tao is not to be found in the positive construction but in the space it opens for freedom (possibly wuwei). This would put the compilation at this point partially in line with the Zhuangzi as the value of non-action and deformity over and against ideals of the individual and the state. Working with the basic framework of the yin-yang from the I Ching (accepted by all major schools by the time there are major schools), it's an assertion that the Tao is not merely composed in the positive and actual but in the negative passive and non-actual. Most of this is regrettably speculative but there's not much else to go on. 

On this immediate definition, there's actually an ambiguity as to whether what you said qualifies as a lie hidden in the word "untruth." The question is whether "untruth" means that you (a) know something is true and state the opposite or (b) state something that is not true or (c) whether the phrase only works as "intentional untruth." If "intentional" and "untruth" are separable than what you said is not a lie since it won't meet the condition of being an untruth. To see whether they should be separable, we need a theory of why lying is wrong (assuming it is). If we look at Kant's theory, we would hold that lying is wrong because it does not give what is due to a rational being (the truth for their decision-making process). On Kant and similar theories, what you did still seems to qualify as a lie, because you intended to leave the recipient with misinformation (see MM's definition of lying). Before stopping there, however, it's important to realize that it might still not be a lie in the moral sense on Kant's picture (or on Hegel's for that matter). To understand why we have to look at Kant's quodlibetal questions about lying. Here, we'll find that Kant doesn't think you are lying when you engage in social niceties like telling someone they look okay when it's socially the correct thing to do. Here, we can distinguish between a friend or acquaintance bumming a cigarette from you and the cops asking if you have any cigarettes. Presumably, the purpose of the former question is "do you have any cigarettes that I can have?" and the latter is more a question of the true fact of the matter. Given this qualifier, it may not be lying even for Kant to say "no, I don't" when the real question being asked is whether or not they can have one. The analyses for lying will work out differently for other common theories. Virtue ethics would seem disposed to say that you are "lying" insofar as your dispositionally harming your character by gaining a pattern of not being truthful.