If you end up being unable to figure this out on your own, talk to your manager. Most managers tend to have weekly or bi-weekly 1-on-1 conversations with their employees, if you dont have one, ask for one. or simply walk by his office if he has one. If your manager doesn't have either of these. As in no weekly conversations or personal office. Then I'd still try to catch him somewhere in private. I wouldn't feel comfortable having other employees weighing in on this topic. Furthermore, While you might be in off-hours. You're still available at work. This in itself is quite valuable for the company. They dont need to pay you for being available, which is in their own benefit. You know, in case they need to ask you a small question. 

If your boss needs to know what you've done in order to let others work on similar projects and to make sure the work doesn't overlap. Then I understand why he tries to call you. It'd be unusual but not unheard of. If your boss simply calls you outside work to ask what you've done. Then this is very weird. Outside working hours you do not have any obligation to work unless it is expected from your job. In order to handle this, you could simply update your boss before leaving. You could write down what you've done and leave that at your desk. Basically a working log. Most companies tend to "schedule" these things in either a weekly or bi-weekly fashion. They simply get together for 5 minutes and talk about what has been done since the last time you got together. In my own case, this is every other Friday. This would fall under "monitoring progress". If you don't want to leave an update every time you leave the job, you could ask him to schedule these monitoring progression meetings. If for some reason you or him missed one, you should simply have one on the next available day. If he keeps calling you after working hours after all these suggestions. Then you should talk to him about it. You should tell him you don't mind being called, however it's not something that should become the norm. 

Talk to your HR and talk about your experiences with him. However I would not try to downtalk him. Talk about your experiences with him at the previous company and how you worked together. Since you became friends I'm going to assume that you co-operated ok together. Even if he's weaker than you, he may still be a valuable asset to the company, consider him as such. Do you think he'll be able to contribute to the company? If yes, by how much? Simply saying he's able to contribute to the company should be a good reccomendation from you. You don't need to play him up to be as good as you are. Talk about how good you think his skills are, etc etc. Please talk to HR. If you don't inform HR about anything they will assume you agree with the reccomendation. When he screws up it'll be reflected on you. If you talk to HR about what he CAN do, then they will have a more realistic view on what he can and can't do. 

This was my first answer. Since you clearly don’t wish for this I'll elaborate on the more risky approaches. Here's a list of "moments" in which you could announce your 2 weeks’ notice. This goes from safe moments to less safe moments. 

I'm currently graduating from school and I'm currently on my final internship that will finish my studies. After my studies I'd like to continue working for this company. However I'm not sure how to promote myself towards the company, telling them that they could really use my expertise. At this moment I'm interning as a Business IT specialist in a company that doesn't have any IT employees. I've heard my manager talk about the company wanting to expand in the IT department. Specifically in the area that would be perfect for me and would be close to being my dream-job. I'm very introverted so I tend to be quiet unless I need information for my project. In which case I could talk for days. In other words, I'm not shy. So sucking up the my manager is out of the question. Currently I'm doing a project for the company and at this moment the manager seems impressed at what I've designed/made so far and I intend to show off many more of my skills during this project. Even though my manager has signaled to expand towards IT, it is currently outside the expertise of the company. So even in this regard I feel like I could help to give them information. I know I'm inexperienced, but I feel like I would be able to make great improvements to the company. As for the company culture, it seems to be really open. Always innovating and looking for constructive feedback to improve themselves. So I feel that no matter what I say, as long as it's constructed I cant seem to offend anyone. I'll still tread carefully of course but this is the impression I seem to get. So how can I promote myself towards my manager/company to convince them that they desperately need me? 

If you have no obligation to work at your previous company but you are still on vacation or holiday I see no reason why you couldnt work earlier at your new company. UNLESS there's a rule where you cannot have 2 jobs at the same time. If I want to have a second job next to my current job, I can. This could be doing a paper round after work cause I enjoy it for example. In my country I can do this without any problems. In fact, having multiple jobs is quite common. If your previous job says you can't have a different job because the time you work at your new job is during the same working hours. then that's bullshit, at most you "may" be forced to return to your previous company to work due to some emergency (like, you being in IT and a server fails). But even then it would need to say that in your contract that you have to be available outside of working hours. Because vacation is outside of working hours. Now, the main rule here that COULD prevent you from working elsewhere is the following. Some contracts have a rule where you are not allowed to do the same kind of work in a different company for as long as you are employed at their company. This is a fairly rare rule that companies add to their contract, but it's one of the few that is lawfully binding. Again, I'm not a lawyer so I don't know for sure. But if you're allowed to have a paper-round after work, then there's nothing really stopping you from doing a different job during your vacation. 

If your manager says no after this, I wouldn't pursue this anymore. At that point it's either your job or your trip. It would also be possible that you would not be paid for that month either if you manager were to somehow agree with you to give you a month unpaid vacation. I'd call yourself lucky at that point. 

Do you wish to risk it? Right now the HR is risking you accepting their offer by simply paying you less in stock options. This is simply a change from what you had previously agreed. If you're OK with this reduction in stock options then that's fine. If not, you can fight it with a counter proposal. I remember reading somewhere that every proposal that asks a higher compensation is an indirect threat to the company that you might leave. No matter how nicely you were to ask a company for a larger compensation it's a threat. That's why companies offer you raises to reduce this threat. You yourself should know best how valuable you are towards the company and whether you can afford to push back or not. 

I can assume that there may be more reasons, but as I read your question, this seems to be the most prevalent one. It's important to keep asking questions about the PID. The PID is the core document to which nearly every question should be answered in. If the answers are incorrect or inaccurate your project will have a crooked base and may go into a unwanted direction. If you have a good PID, then any questions you may ask should be easy to answer and to defend in case you ask for her to elaborate on it. If she insists on keeping it as unstable, ask her if the goal of the project is to make the project more stable, rather than more reliable and to reduce risks. If nothing works, ask for a second opinion from someone else in the company. possibly even your manager. Worst case scenario, she will be as stubborn as an ox and tries to present it towards your manager. At this point it's 100% out of your hands. But I suspect that responsibility for the PID will shift towards you instead if it comes to it. As a contractor you're hired to show your expertise and are expected to provide results. If you were to accept this PID you would be unable to show either. If in the end the manager still were to agree with her on the PID and the project were to fail due to this. You should have this documented that both she and the manager take responsibility for this part of the PID in case it goes wrong. (risk log entry) 

Make a good and proper constructive case for each of the tools you would like to request. Managers, CEO's and other leading positions often only see money. If you can make a case where you can increase efficiency by adding these tools, and therefor can increase profit or decrease overall costs. Then you will get their attention. Give them an estimate. You can make these estimates over the course of several months or years. It's possible to increase efficiency by 4 or more times just by getting a proper editor to replace notepad. This on it's own would translate into employees being 4 times as efficient when they are coding. Even when calculating this vs the minimum wage of employees, you would most likely be able to write away the costs of the tool within a month. Each passing month from there would be pure profit for the company. The above is just an example and doesn't have to be 100% accurate. However I'm sure you get what I mean. Give them numbers. They usually just care about facts and money. If you can prove to them that these tools can significantly increase productivity. They will be more than happy to provide them to you. If they are not, then there is not much you can do about this. 

I'm sure you can think of better reasons than me. But since he was hired by HR with the explicid request to keep wearing those specific headphones, it'd be either him or your client. And that'd be way too much of a reaction just for some headphones. 

Right there I violated the first 2 donts already. However it was mainly focused on what you did there and how you applied it. Try writing it in such a way. Possibly try writing towards competencies. Where you explain how well you communicated and took initiative to ask questions. Don't explain the results of your efforts, explain the efforts themselves. 

I have not often heard of interviews be done in groups. However I can easily see it be done in some rare cases where they might be double booked or don't think it matters as much. Regardless I find this very strange. We tend to value individualism, so interviewing as a group defeats this purpose. The exception to this would be if you were to apply with multiple people from the same referral company. Even then, it'd happen very rarely and only when you know the other interviewee. (As in 2 employees from company A apply as a group for company B) 

I'm European myself so I can answer your question a bit more accurately. To clarify, Interviews differ greatly between European countries. However where I'm from they do ask personal questions. Seeing as you are asking about the US and western countries. You should note that American ways are vastly different than European ways. Europeans get more personal and look for the right personality for the job rather than the right expert for the job. The exception to this would be if they were to hire external help. For those instances the company would look exclusively at your skills and expertise. Mainly because you wont be working there for very long. Note, My answers are based on Europe. The Netherlands to be specific. 

If customers walk around the company and see you playing games, that leaves a bad image to the company. While the customer may/may not care, your superiors absolutely will. At this point they wont care if you were on break or off work ot not. Of-course the break room is an exception. In a more strict 9 to 5 company they will not enjoy having their employees making weird hours or doing non-working activities. In those cultures other employees will often try to copy such behaviour and possibly lower productivity. In a less strict company, employees coudln't care less what you do during and outside of your working time. Mainly because it doesn't affect them. In such a culture you'd be able to play games whenever you want, for as long as you end up making the hours. (I doubt this is the care for your company) As suggested before, going for the break room would be the 100% safe solution. I've only seen a few companies that have an xbox in the break-room but whenever anyone were to play on it on their break, all managers and other employees would give you weird looks. Again, it depends on the company's culture. 

First you'd always need to ask your boss, but you'd need to know what to say and what you're doing to keep it operational. Let’s take the IT departments for example, they need to maintain the servers and clients from breaking down, making sure everything is operational. If everything works, they basically sit on their asses doing nothing. (well, not nothing but you get my point) Quote from the comments below: