Nothing will really happen. Most secure system have a 2 party login, your bank have a token, where you need the token and the password to get in. Every time the token changes so you have to make the right guess at the first try. Lets say you could make a qualified guess with the right algorithm, you still would only have a limited amount of attempts before the account is closed down, because the intrusion counter measures kicks in. Then the next step would be to try and kick in the door. Well, unless you are able to pick out the data and move it physically to your device, then the bandwidth of the unit stored on it (High end PCI harddrive makes about 250.000 operations per second) would make it a major slow down. Doing this over the internet would be even worse, asuming you had the bandwidth you would just make one HUGE DDOS attack on the world. My conclusion is: Unless you have the data directly on your device (and it could take months to transfer, because of this google even fedexed nasas website to them self), it would be useless, and if you have access to the raw data, well you don't need a fast computer to break in to it. It would be like have a F1 car on the Faroe Islands. (More about fast cracking computers and its problems here) 

It's good to stab the ground for traction, but only up to a point. If you sink in far you are wasting energy. Once you've got traction you want the sinking/stabbing to stop, so you need a flare like the end of a ski pole, that is flat and wide to resist sinking any further. The stabby part probably wouldn't need to be very long. If the moss is more mushy, you want a multi-pronged or thicker stabby part. A longer stabby part just adds more friction and gets you stuck in the goo. 

As you can read the heat and pressure is pretty impressive, you just need to increase the size of the shrimp - make it human and give it super powers, combine it with the XKCD - WHAT IF, and then you would have a pretty good idea. The math i will leave to someone more capable. 

In most stories, the path traveled is often associated with the nether regions, hell, or some other terrible place. In Event Horizon the ship goes through a terrible place that affects the peoples mind. And in games like Warhammer 40k the warp is a place of chaos, that can contaminate people even if shielded. The question Is there any documented, either religion based, scientific or theoretic description of what would happen if you goes below sub-space plane to a deeper plane. In an attempt to make the travels even shorter as a shortcut (or to travel greater distances). Or would it mathematically be so close to the point that there in theory would be no space left? 

So we know that a government can, through the methods used on the B-2, create a technology that no one else knows much of anything about. Why they would do that for fusion is up to your story. I can't tell you why people in your story make choices, but if you are looking for inspiration, there are a couple possibilities: Dominance through simple energy superiority and independence: Countries succeed by leveraging resources. Sources of energy have become one of the most important resources. Fossil fuels are a big deal. Countries that have it or can get it prosper. Those who can't fall behind. If your country has fusion but others do not, you race ahead of them, making yourself a dominant power. You can make fusion-powered war machines and they can't. Your electricity is so cheap that manufacturers start moving operations to your country, boosting your economy. They wouldn't make that move if fusion will soon be coming to their current location. Your street lights and electric trains run for almost free. Your citizens can charge their electric cars for almost free. Your GDP would explode. If you share this tech, then the world advances together. If you withhold it, then you pull far ahead of the others. Keep control of the reactors, but sell the electricity for money and political or strategic deals. The superpower that has the fusion tech under government control could make deals to sell the power output, but not the tech itself, to other countries. If another country wants to be able to buy the cheap power, they have to give the superpower some land (of the superpower's choosing). The superpower will build a reactor and also a military base on that land. The reactor will be on super-power sovereign territory, and protected by the base, but the small nation's power grid can connect some power lines to the output. This is a sweet deal for the superpower. They get to build new military outposts and also sell electricity. Since the small nation is now dependent on the electricity, they are close to being a vassal-state of the superpower, who can threaten to cut the power if they misbehave. 

Change charging culture, i assume most of us charge our cellphone at night. Charging your cellphone, laptop and electric car during the day so the power last most of the night. Maybe even distribute storage. (1 HUGE government power-bank = expensive, 10.000.000 personal power-banks is more expensive but only for individuals) the power banks would be charged during day and used during nights, fail-over power would be available during night in case the power-bank would run out but at a higher cost. I see where you are going, but i would like to point out that having eco power could also include wind-power, checkout french tree turbine and tell me it isn't awesome. 

Based on your assumptions, the fusion reactor was probably a gray project, contracted through companies that were legally bound to keep the research and development highly classified, similar to classified military tech like the B2 Stealth Bomber: From Wikipedia: 

There's a significant advantage to holding a sword with two hands, and your four-arms guys could do that and still hold a shield (or two shields). The advantage of holding a sword with two hands instead of one is leverage, which gives much greater strength and control. It either allows wielding a longer and heavier sword with the same strength and control as a shorter one in one hand, or allows wielding a more normal-sized sword with more quick movements and better leverage than one-handed. Your four-arms guys have all the advantages of a two-handed swordsman but not the main disadvantage: the lack of a shield. So oddly enough I think your four-armed men would do very well going into battle with a single large sword or mace held with both the arms of one side, and a shield or shields on the other side. Although you'd think using the conventional setup would be a waste of their unique traits, that wouldn't be the case at all. They'd wield the sword and shield with much greater strength and agility than other men. They'd be extremely hard to face by a man with two arms. When going up against a two-handed swordsman, you can't sword-fight with them, because their sword blows are just much stronger than yours. You try to catch their sword on your shield and then stab when they're exposed (because they have no shield). But your quad-arms have that same two-handed sword advantage...and also a shield. An even deadlier setup might be a greatsword in the two right arms, a shield in one left arm, and a light stabbing sword in the other left arm. Swing the greatsword, they get knocked hard, but catch on shield, they thrust with their sword, you deflect with your shield, and finish them with the stabbing weapon you had tucked behind the shield. 

This would be the first thing i would look for. It is a small tent trailer, it is so small it can be drawn by 2 humans easily, one horse, cow, donkey, 2 large sheeps or goats, it can be drawn from a scooter, snow scootter, motorcycle - you name it. 

I see where you are going, but i'm trying to find a way to make the "war" happen. The first thing i'm wondering about is in both Egyptian, Roman and Greek mythology the gods came from heaven. And in times where religion was the thing to hang on to, i think most people would assume they were gods (kind of like the STAR GÅTE thing) For the war to happen there would have to be some reliable person say priest or the like who starts to claim that they have to be false gods. Or the uneducated would just assume that the gods came back to claim their rights and the commoners would submit wiht out any resistance 

You should narrow down what you want. The answer to "is there a way for a monster to turn any creature to stone/permanently petrified?" is probably "no" because the physics aren't very plausible, and if this creature is evolved, not magical, then other creatures will have evolved to counter any physics-based ability it has. But if you narrow down what you want to happen in your story there are some options: If you want there to be some kind of monster that is real, that inspired the legend of the basilisk, then you could go for temporary petrification. There could be a monster that kills things that don't hold still. Perhaps it doesn't want other animals on its territory, but doesn't recognize things as alive unless they move. The other animals that live near this monster have evolved to recognize it and feel an urgent visceral instinct to freeze perfectly still when the monster looks at them. So the petrification is actually an evolved behavior by the animals being petrified. They may stay holding still awhile after the monster looks away until they calm down and realize the threat has passed. A hunter who observes this interaction could re-tell the story without the benefit of evolutionary insight, and think the monster has the power to make things freeze. If he doesn't see the animal un-freeze (or takes the opportunity to kill it first) then he might think the freezing is permanent. That could work as a 'real creature behind the legend' thing. If you want the power to work on humans, then perhaps humans have evolved the freezing instinct too? If you don't want the freezing to be an evolved behavior, then another option is venom. Your monster could inject venom that causes all muscles to tense. This would cause something similar to the fencing response in its victims. If the effect lasted until rigor mortis set in, then the petrification would be permanent. How does the venom get injected by eye contact? I suggest that it doesn't. The creature injects the venom inconspicuously, like with tiny barbs that numb as they go in so you can't feel them. Why do people think the eye contact causes freezing? Because the monster stares into the victims eyes just as the poison is starting to work. To check the progress of the poison. Your eye muscles are the last to be affected by the venom. The monster looks into your eyes and waits until your eyes stop twitching and hold perfectly still. Then it knows you are totally immobilized and it is time to feed. 

If the fauna would allow it, dire waterstriders as pack animals would be a possible solution. A mechanical machine that mimmic the waterstrider, maybe pedal, clockwork or steampowered. 

Is it possible to have a planet where the atmosphere is mostly water vapor instead of mostly N + O2 with solid ground, so not a gas giant? In the sense - how close to the center star(s) should it be for water not to exist in greater bodies of liquid water or in any solid state as a result of water freezing below 0 degrees? What effect would that have on the other parts of the planet ? The planet is thought of as earth sized +/- 10% (not set in stone). Where the people lives in domes and have humidity extractors to produce water for fields and oxygen to breathe Could it be possible for people to exit the dome and survive just for lets say 20-60 seconds (beyond the time you can hold your breath) or maybe even longer? If so what would the effects be (such as water in the lungs?) This is for a space-goth roleplaygame, roguetrader. So any mechanics or inventions can be advanced but should be kept in range of the universe as much as possible 

They would definitely take on some morphological changes. After thousands of years of breeding that is inevitable. You asked about the attempt to domesticate Foxes. Although the foxes in that attempt had unpredictable coat colors, that attempt to domesticate was not active nearly as long as "thousands of years". A chaotic gene expression would certainly be smoothed out and predictable after thousands of years of breeding. On a meta level: What is the purpose to making your story so accurate in this way? Nobody except a few experts has memorized knowledge about the specifics of Seal genetics. You can really do whatever you'd like with seal genetics and no one except those few experts will have their immersion broken. If you want to have problems with the genetics in your story, that's fine. If not, that's fine too. I should also mention that Harbor Seals are not very agile on land. They could be bred to have better land mobility, but there is an alternative critter that is already well adapted to both land and water: The Sea Lion