To glitch physics doesn't depend on the glitch but on the universe. The movie "The Matrix" is the prime example. It looks like the real world but once you know it's actually a program simulation, you can change the code to do things normal people couldn't 

This was covered in "The Expanse" During combat, the crew wear space suits because they know the ship will end up with holes in it. If a ship gets shot while full of air, you have the immediate problem of no atmosphere for the crew but you also have the problem of the air escaping acting like a jet causing the ship to shoot off and/or spin in unknown directions like a balloon being let go. Once combat is over, the crew can patch the holes and re-pressurize and then remove their suits. 

It's a case of not putting all your eggs in one basket. When faced by a nigh on invincible god monster/s, small ships are the answer. Each family would have it's own boat that is fast and maneuverable and as such would just try and avoid the creature. You'd also have the added bonus of being able to pull the smaller ship up onto land to avoid the monster should they trap you in a harbor. If someone gets caught, all you lose is a couple of small boats and crew instead of a huge boat and hundreds or more people. To actually fight such a monster, poison is the only real answer. Just dump it in the water between you and the creature and flee like crazy. 

This is similar to the above. If we're talking about forming your own identity or dealing in rarity, then maybe. Otherwise, a lot of daily experience seems like it would be valued as trash. tl;dr: As laid out, I don't see why people would use qualia as currency if they had other options, as the subjective value of different experiences would leave qualia with wildly diverging values. It would be more like a bartering system than a currency. Answering the question of why people would choose to use qualia will set the stage for the actual use of the currency. If you're set on this system, the society in which it operates will have to be molded to fit, and that involves arbitrary choices on your part. 

Rare and precious experiences maybe, but outside of novelty of experience or self-identity construction, why would people value these so highly in most cases? 

There's no real reason that a long day-night cycle would make it difficult for life to exist or evolve. Consider: there are animals that live in deep caves and deep oceans for whom there is no day-night cycle of any kind. But even for regular surface-dwelling life the major issue (to my mind) would be related to temperature. This could be a problem with things like frigid temperatures at night and reliable water sources evaporating during the day or baking soil. These have a lot of ordinary meteorological solutions-- I've experienced plenty of warm nights and cool days, and it's always possible that life can only develop in a narrow climatic region of your planet (even if life forms migrate elsewhere later on). You could also have an atmosphere conducive to heavy cloud cover, mitigating the sunlight substantially, as long as there is enough gravity/atmosphere/ozone (or equivalents) to keep water from escaping into space. Or there could be geographic regions that provide for a reliable amount of shade during the long days, like a fortuitously positioned valley among mountains such that there is always significant shade cover. And water itself could be stored in huge, deep oceans large enough to withstand evaporation processes during the day or in underground aquifers (where even if the temperature were high enough to evaporate the water it would quickly condense again). 

The easiest way is to have the effect non permanent. You can do this two ways. Either the item can only store so many abilities so to take a new ability means losing an old ability. The other way is the ability fade over time which means it has to keep eating new abilities to replace the lost ones. 

Your knight would be better off with leather armor. It's still resistant to biting and scratching but it's a fraction of the weight and a lot quieter. He'd be better of trying to sneak around the zombies. He will die of exhaustion if nothing else trying to cut down 125K zombies while walking 50 miles. He still needs to eat, sleep. 

In a very advanced world, quite likely people would no longer bother with the nuts and bolts as AI systems would handle it. As the level of complexity increase, it would become harder and harder to understand it all and as such people would develop systems to help to automate development. Programming using an AI development tool would be talking to the computer describing what you want to do and guiding the AI's solution. In all likelihood would be done using natural language. Software programming is already one of the jobs slated to be replaced by AI Sure people could dig into the nuts and bolts of it all but it will be highly unlikely and more than likely a hobby or personal interest. People will be unlikely to do so professionally because an AI will be able to the job better and faster. 

The company apparently has unlimited resources, but are there any constraints on them at all? If not, there would seem to be a lot of options. Deployable nets? Electric current, like electric eels? Mesmerizing color patterns, like cuttlefish? Baiting the whales with a chemical or physical lure but moving faster than they can catch, leading them into whale pens? Superheated or explosive chemical discharge, like bombardier beetles? Concussive blasts based on water pressure, like pistol shrimp? A paralytic or deadly toxin? A toxoplasmosis-like infection that makes whales attracted to capture areas? 

Absent it's supernatural qualities, I'd be pretty skeptical that something like this is literally possible. But as as science fiction element, there are plenty of examples of creatures that live in space. I wouldn't worry about plausibility, as you're likely past that right from the start. Ancient and unimaginably excellent design will do the trick, but will defy your efforts to explain the organism in much detail. And with its supernatural qualities you can just assert pretty much whatever properties you want, in which case plausibility is a non-issue. 

I'm not sure such an economy would work. To the extent that it might, that's probably going to be about social structure and values, not economics. I realize that may not be the most worldbuilding-esque answer, but as I see it your fundamental issue is that you've designed a system to be internally consistent (I assume, I'm not sure I understand the technical details fully) without much thought dedicated to how that system would interact with the actual world, or the people that would use it. Hence your question. So let's abstract away the technical details, at least to rough out how the economy might function. The process of producing qualia seems to only validate that they underlying experience actually happened (no fakes, at least by the standards of subjective experience), but otherwise doesn't establish any real market features of the currency. The overwhelmingly key question to be answered seems to me to be: 

1: An airborn virus wipes out mankind. Bob by some random genetic mutation is immune. 2: Bob is in a coma and is dreaming all this. Only problem with this idea is that it's been used in different variations in lots of stories ie the ending for Lost 

Money would come into play when the leaders decide they have a need to tax the population. If the rulers create the currency, it gives them more control over the population and makes taxing them easier. 

I fail to see why a hoof is inferior for hunting. What it really comes down to is the hunting style and the preferred prey plus the terrain. I can see a hoofed predator hunting it's prey by speed and stamina. It just runs the prey down until it collapses with exhaustion. Any sick or weak herd members will collapse first and the pack will close in on them. Think open grassland with little cover. 

You can't combat religious dogma with logic and reason. Your character would be better of lying through his teeth to convince them he's been appointed by the gods to enter the city. Use their religion against them. Does he has any technology that he could use to fake the voice of god? "Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic" Arthur C Clarke 

Key Question: How are these subsistence-farming, blacksmithing humans producing/finding these batteries? Why is it that the androids can't or prefer not to produce or find the batteries themselves? Answer to question as posed: Infinite ways. There really isn't a limit on how this might work. Addiction and reward systems, as outlined by Renan, could do it. But to make the servitude really invisible I think the best tool is going to be control of historical information. Time is on the side of the immortal machines, and so minor changes over time can really add up. Human society could be manipulated via introduction of new cultural or social standards in which service to the machines is highly valued, and people self-organize to be of as much use as possible. The humans' religion might be an especially handy tool for this. If the machines control information, they could provide "help" in the humans pursuing something that they know humans will never achieve (maybe it's impossible but humans don't have the knowledge to be aware of that, for example) in exchange for service. If the humans don't have a good way to record historical information over time, they might never know how little progress they've made over countless generations. If informational manipulation doesn't work for you, the machines could monopolize some necessary resource, like water, via ordinary acquisition or subversion (like draining away all potable water into a supply the machines exclusively can access, or poisoning the sources humans can easily reach) and then effectively enslave the humans through trade. Which method might they choose, and why? With so many options, answering the question of why the androids would bother to rely on the human population at all for access to batteries will help narrow down which specific methods might best fit their situation. 

Geneticists. No alien world is going to 100% compatible with Earth lifeforms unless it was terraformed and stocked with plants and animals from Earth before the colonists even arrive. They will need to be able to build custom lifeforms to terraform the planet or even just to survive on the planet. With half gravity, chances are they will need to modify their own bodies to cope with the loss of bone density and other health problems. Nanobot programmers. Nanobots can be dropped on the planet preprogrammed to extract materials and build entire cities, clear farmland, build machinery and defend the colony from possible alien lifeforms. No vital skills needed. In reality if AI is sufficiently advanced, no skill is vital because the AI will be able to do anything a human could better than a human could. With AI, the frozen humans would be little more than tourists along for the ride. The AI would do all the work and care for it's human masters. Any human skills would be solely for the amusement of the humans such as artists, chefs, poets, writers and musicians. Any vital jobs would be done by the AI. 

The only reason people would abandon technology is if they were incompatible. In The Dresden Files by Jim Butcher, the hero is a wizard living in Chicago. He lives in a basement without a fridge and most technology because magic causes technology to fail and the more advanced the more likely magic will cause it to fail. He can get away with old tech such as a revolver most of the time but machine guns or semi automatic weapons jam. He drives on old VW Beetle because modern electronic system in anything built in the last thirty years is likely to die from exposure to his presence. Even so even the Beetle dies regularly. Now if a nation went magical, technology would fail for everyone living there. Now to take it to next step, a magical nation could use magic to wipe out the technology of any nation they chose. Smart guided missiles are useless with no electronics. Even planes would avoid flying over magical nations. Soldiers with simple guns would lose against wizards that can make shields and throw fireballs. A magical nation could rend itself invulnerable to modern military forces and have the ability to push a technological country back into the dark ages. 

If you stretch the definition of cell, I don't see why it couldn't be big in a low- or zero-g environment. It's going to be wildly more complex than a microscopic cell due to the size alone. I have a hard time imagining it being more like a cell than a highly complex multicellular organism, though. Even if it looks like a single-celled Eukaryote it's going to be vastly more complicated than any life form ever encountered by humanity. Major questions will involve why it would get so big, but we're deep into fantastic territory anyways with this. As for surviving in space... that's harder. Problems include: 

Given the overwhelming similarity of most day-to-day experiences (unless you've got some wild social/experiential setup), the passive accumulation of experience likely wouldn't be worth much. Especially if qualia cannot be destroyed, inflation should quickly drive the relative value of most individual qualia to virtually nothing. Most people will be poor by dint of the commonness of their life experience. 

If people are essentially trading experiences, would one person care about having the experience itself (a lot would be essentially duplicates, at least in any meaningful way. How many bowls of soup would a person want a record of eating?)? In at least some cases the experience would be rare and interesting, but the vast majority would be minor variations on common experiences. Because of this it seems clear that there would be no fixed value to a quale. In this case supply and demand forces would be odd, because an original core experience would be much more valuable than a common one, and the validation mechanisms shouldn't be able to enforce a common value of any individual quale. Would some people try to monopolize experiences of a given type, and sell them at exorbitant prices? Would there be a thriving rental market? Do people lose qualia in a transaction, in exchange for something new? If so, how would peoples' identities handle the constant shifting of remembered experiences? Would they cling to their own subjective ones, regardless of market value (like remembering the birth of your child, or an intimate moment with a loved one)? Would people work in exchange for customizing their remembered experiences, essentially valuing the person they want to be vastly more than the "balance" of qualia in their accounts? And, importantly, if the qualia are intrinsically valuable, how does the market react to inflation? Can my subjective experience of a quale on Tuesday be traded to you on Wednseday, generating a new "echo" quale of your experience of my experience? What would the value relative to the original be like? Could it be more valuable, if something about my own experience is different, adding to the original experience? Can people assess the quality of a quale before completing a transaction? If not, what opportunities for fraud and deception exist, and what mechanisms exist for protecting against them? As time passes, even rare qualia will be more or less duplicated, diluting their value. I imagine there would be a major drive in society to mint original qualia, riding ahead of a wave of ever-inflating and ever-less-valuable existing qualia and their derivatives. How easily can meaningfully novel qualia be produced, and how much ability does the average person have to produce them? Relating the value of qualia to physical goods or services also seems hard. How many experiences, and of what type, would a farmer be willing to trade for a discrete, physical potato? If the amount of meaningfully distinct experiences is relatively fixed, at what point does a farmer have enough experiences to not be willing to engage in further transactions in exchange for production of physical food? If the qualia are simply tokens of exchange, you retain the issues of varying quale value but don't have to deal with the identity crises. It becomes essentially a fiat currency, but one that would probably experience ever-increasing devaluation. As tokens, you can hand-wave away a lot of implementation details (why do we use qualia? Well, if you want to buy something, that's what you have to spend. The rationale isn't so important when you need to buy groceries). In thinking about these questions, a couple of your goals for the currency seem to be shaky to me. I'm not convinced that qualia can be: 

The initial problem is staying alive long enough to change society. Assuming you don't get enslaved or burnt as a witch, any basic high school science knowledge could change the world. Gun powder is 75% saltpeter, 15% carbon and 10% sulfur. With just what I know, I could get society started on gun powder. The steam boiler and the piston was invented by the ancient Greeks. If they had put the two together, we would have had the steam engine 2000 years earlier. Sickness is caused by germs and can be stopped by hygiene. Medical tools should be sterilized by boiling. Alcohol can be used to sterilize wounds. A battery is made of two different metal plates and an acid and so on. I'm no scientist but even I could change early society. 

My first thought was floating cities. The golems would walk underneath you and cause no issues. On land you'd build underground so the golems go over you. 

Neither. There is nothing about the human shape that makes it superior for warfare. Robots and drones will be the future of warfare but it doesn't need to be androids or cyborgs. You could have a quadrupedal design which is faster and more stable like the robot cat design from Red Planet You can also have drone swarms "slaughterbots" that flood an area and kamikaze any targets. If you look at the terminator series, the only reason for the cyborgs was infiltration to root out the human resistance. It had plenty of robotic units that were non humanoid.