All good points and things worth thinking about, but these are going beyond the five precepts. The precepts are intended to take you to a point where you can examine all of your behavior to see what is skillful, what leads to affliction, etc. But the precepts shouldn't be redefined to also include these new things. This would only lead to divisiveness between people as one person preaches getting rid of coffee and others disagree. Remember the Buddha refused to make vegetarianism mandatory for the sangha, even though the killing involved in eating meat can easily be seen to pertain to the first precept. In the case of coffee, I could see a person getting riled up by it and possibly being less able to control their mind, being quicker to anger, etc. If this is the case, then it should certainly be examined, and perhaps that behavior should be abandoned, but this is not covered by the fifth precept. 

It doesn't seem to match the equivalent Pali. Is there a system that they're using, such as shoehorning the Thai tone rules into English syllables? Or are they just making it up entirely? 

But what I found was that after considering this table of past lives, I would see an insect landing on my face (trying to collect water, I guess) and I would instantly think "this is what I may be born into" rather than "what an annoyance this is." So I think this kind of experience has to do with the Buddha wanting you to view every kind of sentient being the same as any every other kind of sentient being. This is contrary to what we tend to do, which is separate beings into various kinds of classes of beings, some of which are acceptable to kill with a fly-swatter and others, which aren't. 

600 degrees C is the temperature at which material begins to glow red (i.e. an achievable temperature when a body is cremated), and 1000 degrees is when it's orange. 

I think the view (Buddhist doctrine) might be that these (these events or mind-moments) happen one after another, and that you're not aware of them all simultaneously. For example first there's contact (e.g. between the mind and the sense of touch), and then there's feeling (e.g. "that feels nice" or "that feels painful"), and then there's craving (e.g. "I wish that would continue" or "I wish that would stop"). Maybe a theory is that by the time you develop a "feeling" or "craving", then the "sensation" which caused it is already in the past. At the moment when you have a "sensation" you haven't developed a "feeling" or a "craving" about it. 

I don't think it's true to say that objects (forms) not 'real'. And when the forms in question are the forms of sentient beings, then those forms are like 'self': i.e. it's not true to say that 'self' isn't real. The 'self' might be difficult to define (or not worth defining), but it's not true to say that 'it doesn't exist' and in the same way it's not true to say that objects don't exist. That they don't exist 'permanently' is true. And that whether you perceive them depends on certain (temporary) conditions is also true. 

Also some schools of Buddhism de-emphasise the importance of Nibbāna. Wikipedia's Nirvana (Buddhism) -- Mahayana aticle says, 

You're right if you're saying that the specific/single answer is difficult to discern. I think that's because: 

I think that may be saying that "nibanna is a description" and "therefore not self". I don't know how to reconcile that with the doctrine that "nibanna isn't conditioned" (or "is unconditioned"). But anyway I think the chief characteristic of nibanna is that it's a state that's free of attachments and cravings ... and not just "free" but "permanently free" ... and therefore free of dukkha. The fact that nibanna is also anatta is a kind of a side-effect (e.g. a lack of attachment to "self"). I think it's wrong to say "Nibbana is nothing but not-self" or that "Nibbana is only not-self" ... I think that nibanna is more (or less) than that, it is unattached to (unconditioned by) anything and everything, not just "self". My question is: Does Nibbana means not self? I think it is not-self, but it doesn't mean "not-self". Like France is a country, but doesn't mean "a country". The word "meaning" was added by the English-language translator/translation you quoted, fwiw. Is there any quote to support "Even a stream winner or sotapanna would have overcome the self-view but would not have attained Nibbana yet."? I hope you'll find the answers to this topic: How are 'conceit' and 'identity-view' not the same? 

There are those traditions that disregard pursuing an "ultimate reality." In Tools of Perception (and mp3), Thanissaro says: 

I feel it's probably true that only some portion of the people throwing around the term Hinayana actually intend it to cause damage, the rest use it because what other term could you use? You can't just use "Theravada" for everything non-Mahayana and non-Vajrayana. I find myself coming around to the view expressed at the end, of viewing the term without the derogatory baggage. Because people often translate Hinayana as "inferior" vehicle, and of course that was the original intent, but I believe it literally means "smaller", which doesn't have to be an insult. The Buddha's concern in the Pali Canon does seem to be individuals, personal action and personal liberation from suffering, not the grand salvation of the universe, extraterrestrial Buddha fields, cosmic Buddhas, etc. It is indeed a smaller vehicle by comparison. 

Not having children will not stop those beings from being reborn. There are plenty of other organisms to be reborn as on Earth and there are other realms like the Deva world as well. 

There are Uposatha days, wherein one makes increased effort at following precepts (either being more conscientious of the five precepts or temporarily adopting the eight). I gather that there is often more deliberate meditation or study as well on these days, in addition to precept following: 

Then there are other various holidays and festivals. I'm not sure if any of the other holidays involve increased practice or not. Some seem like they would just involve paying respect to the Buddha (Vesak) or monks (Kathina Ceremony). 

Let's say you're studying pottery and throwing a vase on the potter's wheel. Your teacher comes over and says "Too thin. This will collapse in the kiln." The teacher has not predetermined the destruction of your pot, merely used his accrued experience and skill to predict an outcome. Presumably the Buddha knew enough to predict who would be a future Buddha, how many future lifetimes they would have, how many centuries the dhamma would last after his death, etc. 

How to breath into your stomach and not get light headed during meditation? When you breathe with your diaphragm (instead of just with your rib cage) you breathe more deeply. To avoid hyperventilating then, you presumably need to breathe more slowly: 

English (or other European) translations of Pali Canon Chronological or other sequence for beginners 

In summary it means something like "treasure": whether that's money or good qualities or virtues. Some comments: 

Some Buddhist texts say that there were previous Buddhas (and that there will be others in the distant future): that they too taught Buddhism; and that the current Buddha rediscovered Buddhism. For example, in the commentary to Dhammapada verse 183: 

The video is 8 minutes long and you could watch it. He goes on to say that people get fulfillment of purpose, and "always feel happy", from helping others, etc. 

There's a book titled In the Buddha's Words which people recommend as an introductory text. Anyway that book has, amongst other things, this to say, 

The following talk about Dogen's Shobogenzo mentions the context of "intoxication on the wine of the sravaka", 

If you really want inter-'personal' relationships, then maybe seek new (or renewed) relationships with other 'people' (or animals). Another possibility is that my friend, being human, was not very different from me (also human). If I'm alone I might think, "If my friend were here too ...". My friend would be more of the same (aggregates/skhandas) as me ... "Worldy relationships have failed" sounds quite apocalyptic by the way. It reminds me of something slightly off-topic (non-Buddhist) i.e. a poem written by a Shivaite i.e. someone who sought a personal relationship with Shiva, 

I don't know whether this analogy works: living is like driving a car. It's supposed to be not too complicated. You have your steering wheel, your brake, your fuel, your indicators ... it's not trivial, it takes weeks to learn, but when it (the car) is working well and well-maintained, when the driving conditions aren't too extreme, most adults can learn to drive safely. Cars are complicated though and if they do go wrong then there's a lot to know. A mechanic needs to know about ignition timing, about computer diagnostic codes, parts catalogs and who knows what. Maybe lists, like the five indriya, can be viewed as part of the detailed body-of-knowledge that a specialist (e.g. a teacher) needs to diagnose and correct problems when things aren't working properly. Whereas your job as a driver (not a mechanic) is relatively simple: just operate the controls, stay out of trouble, don't hurt people. 

Big long word happily rendered as "beer-cider-carelessness-intoxication-condition" by Kare. This is talking specifically about fermented things like beer, wine, etc. Neither coffee nor tea are fermented, nor do they cause heedlessness. I've heard of monks drinking tea. (I've heard of monks smoking too, which I think isn't forbidden by this rule, although perhaps by others) It's all well and good to look past the behavior prohibited by the precepts to see what further kinds of attachments you have that can be abandoned, but not, I think, at the cost of going back to change the meaning of the precept. But I do occasionally see attempts at redefining the precepts to be stricter than they are. Take Sulak Sivaraksa's reinterpretation of the five precepts: 

There is no benefit to accrue to anyone except personal actions that lead to the ending of suffering. Someone killing a pest doesn't "benefit" you, it gives you some short-term sensual pleasure--the pleasure of being outside and feeling a cool breeze without a determined gnat landing on your face. Or the pleasure of eating food/drink without having to pay for it. But these are certainly not permanent pleasures, nor ultimately fulfilling. Instead of worrying about who did what action and what pleasure resulted, try thinking about why you think superficial pleasures like these are beneficial? So long as a mind thinks these are good things worth pursuing, it will pursue them. And for the comment underneath you, also about killing insects: 

In this last link, one of the posts as dhammawheel.net mentions, very apropos of Bodhi's comment on Spk: 

So I've been a Buddhist since around 2007, but I've never been to a temple. I don't think I've ever actually met another Buddhist. I just go by what I read in Bodhi's translations and Thanissaro's lectures and practice on my own. A few months ago, I started working in Raleigh, NC, and my drive home now goes right by this Dhammayut temple (map). It's only something like 8 minutes out of my way. I had called their number a few years ago and asked if--I forget what I said specifically--something like do you have any services? (I may have said "Sunday services." Ack.) The response was something like: