Um. So now there's magical flooding to go with the desertification of the existing water? Well, there's places that are dry, were once wet, and are now inhabited, and settlements flood and people drown. Or once dry places are now covered with other ecological growth, fields, forests, deserts and so on, which will now drown and throw surrounding ecosystems all out of whack. There will be dilution of water-ways where those old sources now have (dry) channels to existing water sources. Dilution of these existing waterways will probably disrupt ecosystems - not enough food in the water, not enough prey for predators, not enough sunlight (because the water is all deeper), not enough minerals, not enough salt. Life is kind delicate, since all the variations gave somebody or other advantages and disadvantages, and specialization is much less useful when conditions change drastically. 

In addition to Thucydide's answer of an aggressive informational campaign, there are a few more steps this second country can use to turn their enemy's practices into their own benefit. While they are broadcasting how abhorrent it is to hunt down and harvest unwilling people for these devices to undermine the other country's war effort, they can also offer sanctuary for any of these 'gifted' individuals who can cross the border, and also their families (who will fear for their future generations). There might be some spies, but probably very few would be willing and fewer would be successful, since they would be betraying themselves or their families to the harvesting if they succeeded - and the community would almost certainly be trying to self-police, since that kind of behavior would risk them all. Additionally, the second country, who will have a much higher population of the inherently gifted, might be able to recruit and/or train some of these people with lesser gifts. The gifted will be more likely to come forward to defend themselves and the country that shelters them, from the harvesting country, than would come forward to be harvested. With a higher population, there will be more resources to activate latent gifts, or train unreliable ones, or discover technology that might amplify or stabilize gifts to a lesser degree, which also don't require human sacrifice. This might eventually end up with a situation where squads of gifted people work together to face off against soldiers with meta devices. As a bonus, such squads might be more flexible and adaptable than a soldier with a single device. Next, with a strong stance against human sacrifice and for protecting the naturally gifted, it might be possible for this country to make some limited use of the meta-devices anyway. One example would be captured devices, which are known and published to be captured, being re-purposed (assuming the original soldier dies in the capturing). If done with respect to the ethical questions it raises, after consulting the population of naturally gifted, acknowledging those sacrificed to make it, and letting families of those sacrificed have some say - they can probably be used without undoing the good propaganda against their being made. Even if not, capturing them and storing or destroying them will weaken the enemy forces by quite a bit. And, with the higher population and more protections given to the naturally gifted, there will probably be more willing to volunteer to be sacrificed if there's some meta-ability where even one or two meta-devices will make a huge difference (ie, let them grab or neutralize a lot of enemy meta-devices), and if those volunteering are very obviously willing, maybe drawn from the already terminally ill, and if there's a real perception that this kind of thing is accepted by the country reluctantly and only due to great need. It would be dangerous to the country's morality, though, and should only be done if it gives an overwhelming advantage for a very low cost. These "gifted" will obviously prefer a country who treats them well and offers human rights and protection, over one that hunts them down and sacrifices them... and that will move such "resources" from one country to another under their own power. The more the second country treats them ethically, the more they'll be willing to give up for that country, and actively work against the first country. 

A burned hand teaches best, so they say. Planet A designs their ships with at least half-dozen major "subsystems" or "components" designated that the system will not work without, and cannot be substituted or developed by Planet B without more knowledge than they have, designated and physically segregated in the design. In short, the key systems B really, really needs to reverse-engineer. More would help, but that will also make it harder to hide or repair. Planet A then designs a half dozen more...um, decoys, and gently inserts them into the design. Some of which might be "backups" or otherwise connected to the major subsystems or components kept secret, some of which are red herrings to other systems, some of which just sit in the middle of jumbles of wires and look pretty, some of which would disrupt or destroy things if they were wired in like they look (but nor are) actually wired in, some of which are failures that look plausible and have science behind them but which simply could not be made to work. Like the major systems, these should be physically segregated. It happens like this: Planet A makes a prototype or two, and wires them up to the gills. Each of the critical systems and decoys are made modular, in a plug-and-play component style, well sealed and protected, and rife with spyware and sensors so that Planet A will know, as soon as Planet B's engineers get their grubby little hands in any of them. And, oh, didn't I mention the booby traps? Each system will have booby traps, fail-safes, fail-hards, breakpoints, and planned failures built into these prototypes. So, when Planet B gets their hands on the prototypes, well in advance of the rest so they can start with familiarization and training before others arrive, Planet A gives very clear warnings on not disturbing the sealed systems, because those systems are delicate and any damage is likely to make them...dangerous. Not destruction-of-the-ship dangerous, but loss of subsystem, explosions or contamination, danger-to-crew dangerous. Bonus points if the systems each have their own dangerous failure, extra bonus points if they can include technobabble that makes the failure "inevitable" unless someone familiar with that system is on hand to deal with it. The point is, of course, these are safety warnings, and not anti-spy or anti-reverse engineer precautions, right? (You should maybe have one or two of those per system, too, just so they don't get paranoid, and your precautions don't fail. Self destructs and whatnot). I'm sure you can see where this is going. Planet B does, after some time, try to work around said closed components, and disaster exactly like what planet A said would happen, happened. With damage, possibly losing people, having to wait for repairs, delaying war preparations, and not even getting useful tech knowledge out of it. And they must admit it to Planet A, who has to repair and fix and sigh over "miscommunications" and not warning about dangers clearly enough, and quietly ask if Planet B is sure they are... capable... of dealing with such dangerous advanced technology? Since these prototypes are wired up with sensors and power backups, Planet A can detect and remote trigger such traps even if Planet B's engineers are very careful with how they try to sneak in. Not really cost effective to monitor all the ships during a war, but certainly possible for the prototypes, yeah? The war-ships will be less likely to go off accidentally with fewer booby traps, and harder to detect with fewer sensors (though still, not none) - but a few scare stories about the other things that can happen when these sealed components suffer unusual damage should encourage the crew to see a failure without the expected danger as a possible sign of something worse, the better to get it looked at - by Planet A technicians - ASAP, and not seen as a sign to try poking at it more. But even if they do (successfully) poke, they have about a half a chance at finding a useless or even dangerous decoy instead of useful technology. So, the actual ships, with less oversight and fewer traps, will still be pretty safe from meddling because Planet B now has reason to believe the dangers coming from trying to bypass Planet A's safety warnings. Those components will have to be plug-and-play, no repairs in situ (unless you can have Planet A technicians in each ship), but anything else can be repaired or back-engineered by Planet B. Due credit to Mormacil for the idea of a Schrödinger Drive, Tony Ennis for red herrings, EngelofChippolata for obfuscation. 

Maybe alternate rounds of alcoholic drinks with rounds of non-alcoholic ones, or water them down with flavorful ingredients (like making a weakly alcoholic punch with juices and stronger wine). If there's plenty to drink, and it tastes good, it might not matter that not all of it is alcoholic, or that most of it is mildly so. Make sure there's plenty of food, and try to make sure it's good food. Include little snacks to have while drinking, which will hopefully keep them happily buzzed rather than full-out drunk. Keep a heavy focus on games or activities, rather than drink. If people are having fun with games and activities, they will be less likely to overindulge in drink. Historically, I recall days of games were used to distract populations from famine, so they certainly should be able to distract soldiers from watered down drinks. If the games require wits or physical skill, then drinking will lower a person's skill - so encouraging competitions might encourage people to moderate their drinking to show well in the games. Perhaps prizes for the highest skilled will be useful, or perhaps extra prestige will be encouragement enough (depending on your culture). If people are having fun, with plenty of good food and lots of things to do, they will be less likely to get too drunk. Additionally, since the army is well aware they're fighting the next day, it should be possible to encourage the soldiers to periodically have non-alcoholic drinks, and to switch to them entirely (or at least very watered down versions) after some point so that they will be fit to fight in the morning. A round of water every hour, and switch to juice or tea for the last few hours before curfew, maybe. Being dehydrated contributes to hangovers, so alternating non-alcoholic drinks, or ending the party with them, will both keep them less drunk during the party, and keep them hydrated to minimize hangovers in the morning.