I've even seen detailed hand-written notes by Lewis Carroll recording what time it would be in various cities around the world in an attempt to solve the problem. In any case, nowadays the issue no longer arises, because we have the International Dateline, a de facto line going roughly through the 180 degree meridian (with many deviations) and it works exactly as Lewis Caroll describes in bold above: when people on one side of it wake up to Tuesday morning, and an hour later people on the other side of it wake up to Wednesday morning. But when Lewis Caroll was writing, the the International Dateline didn't exist yet. So my question is, what was the situation before the concept of the International Dateline? Was there any place in the world where it was Tuesday morning in one location and Wednesday morning a short distance from it? 

Fransisco Franco, the dictator of Spain from 1939 to 1975, was a monarchist. Yet for the entirety of his time in office, there was no king of Spain. Only in 1969 did he appoint Juan Carlos I to be the next king of Spain, but he arranged it so that Juan Carlos I would only assume the throne after Franco's death. My question is, why did Franco not reestablish the Spanish monarchy while he was still in office? Is it that he didn't want a competing power center, even if he supported the notion of monarchy in principle? If so, was that the official justification he gave the people, or did he give a pretext that was less self-serving? 

So February 6, 60 AD is the earliest identifiable date with a day of the week cited with it, but this was based on sunset naming convention, rather than the sunrise naming convention we use today. So what is the earliest identifiable date with a day of the week cited with it that is based on the sunrise naming convention? 

I'm interested in the part in bold. My question is, what are the "ancient Laws and Constitutions" referenced by earlier versions of the Coronation Oath of England? Now the act does call them "at this time unknowne", so it's possible that we don't have access to the text of these laws anymore than the people of 1688 did. (Although it's equally possible that historical scholarship on the subject has improved in the past 300 years.) But we do have earlier Coronation Oaths of England, so does anyone know if they mention any specific names of ancient laws or constitutions? 

Conspicuously absent from that list of places is Asia. So my question is, are there any references in ancient India to entombed animals? The work I quoted above was written in the 13th century. But I'm wondering whether there are earlier references to this phenomenon. Arulnandi Shivachrya refers to this phenomenon as if it's common knowledge, so I'm guessing older sources would mention it as well. 

This is a very simplified example but hopefully it will help: Assume that there are 10 nobles and 100 workers. Each noble has 10 fields and uses at least 1 worker per field. Nobles have financial commitments and a standard of living which they wish to maintain. They pay the workers 1 pound a week to work on the fields and each field is equally profitable. Workers cannot easily move around as nobles elsewhere are paying roughly the same and already have manpower so the wage is fairly static. The good and sundries that workers can by is within their price range as there is no point charging more as they will not be able to buy it. Lets assume that your calculation about the ratio of deaths is equal and each class loses 50% of its members. There are now 5 nobles, 50 workers (25 of which have no nobleman to work for)- each noble still has 10 fields which requires at least 1 worker per field. Now each noble now only has 5 workers and therefore has 5 empty fields and will therefore make less money but they still have their commitments and standard of living which they wish to maintain. PANIC!!!! There are various workers which no longer have anywhere to work but still need to feed their families. Nobleman #1 is called Alfred has the idea that he can pay these people to come and work for him. Nobleman #2 is called Bill and has the same idea. Alfred offers them 1 pound to work on his field, Bill offers them 2 pounds. The rest of Alfred's and Bill's workers realise that they have power - they are a scarce resource so they contact noblemen 3,4,5 (Charles, Dave and Edward) and ask how much they would offer. Edward realises the value of having more than 1 worker per field now that they can buy them on the free market and begin buying up the finite labour source as an investment as he had the backing capital to do it, unlike poor Alfred. Eventually Alfred manages to persuade 6 workers to work for him at the extortionate price of 6 pounds per week. Hence he was paying 10 pounds a week for 10 fields worth, he is now paying 36 pounds a week for 6 fields worth. This is awful and he cannot afford to buy that new set of armour. He tells everyone who will listen how greedy and lazy the workers are. The workers who work for Alfred now have 6 times the buying power they had before so they go to the market/tavern/whatever and buy everything in site. The next week the owners of the market have felt the effect of the increase in cost of workers and have to charge more for the goods to make a profit hence everything becomes more expensive. If the market owners think they can get away with it they also tag some extra on the increase to make some extra money. Suddenly Alfred's workers are not that rich in real terms and demand a pay rise or they will leave and work for Edward who is desperately offering massive amounts of money to anyone who will work for him. However, everytime they get a pay rise to buy more things the cost of making things goes up (as their wages are part of the cost) and an inflation spiral begins. Due to the massive increase in prices at the market and the cost of labour the noblemen find that they are not able to make as much profit as before and struggle to afford to pay the worker enough to keep them let alone maintain their standard of living. Hence they are far worse off. Workers are better off but the inflated costs of good is crippling some people who cannot get the high wages for whatever reason. 

Today it's Sunday. 7 days ago it was Sunday. 7000 days ago it was Sunday. But what about 70,000 days ago, 700,000 days ago, and 7 million days ago? Our current 7-day week cycle has not continued unbroken forever. So my question is, when did our current 7-day week cycle begin? Note that I'm not asking when any 7-day week cycle was invented, but rather the specific cycle we're still on. Here is what Wikipedia says: 

My question is, how common was it in ancient India for kings to take care of midget? The passage makes it sound that kings would do it in playfulness, perhaps in their free time when they didn't have to worry about royal duties. Are there any other ancient Indian sources that describe kings taking care of midgets? 

Right now the clock just struck 1PM in England. If I went exactly 1000 hours back in time, I don't know exactly what time it would be in England, but it would be the top of the hour regardless. But what if I went 10,000 hours back in time, or 100,000 hours, or a million hours? My question is, when did our current 24-hour day cycle begin? That is to say, what is the largest number x such that if I started at the top of the hour in England and then traveled exactly x hours back in time, it would still be the top of the hour in England, give or take (say) 5 minutes? Note that I don't want to know when it was first proposed to divide the day into 24 hours, or even when the duration of the hour first became around 3600 seconds, but rather when the 24-hour day cycle was first at least roughly in sync with how it is right now. 

The 13th century Hindu philosopher Vedanta Desikan, in this excerpt from his work the Rahasyatraya Sara, describes how the god Vishnu in his incarnations pretends to be distressed out of playfulness and compassion: 

Lewis Carroll, the author of Alice in Wonderland, had a lifelong obsession with a paradox involving time zones. His 1850 article "A Hemispherical Problem" describes it well: 

My question is about the part in bold, which is arguing that intercourse cannot be the ultimate cause of the body, because there are toads which are found in the center of solid rock, and they couldn't have been produced by intercourse since there's no way a toads could have gone inside a solid rock and reproduced. This statement struck me as rather odd, but then I found out from this Wikipedia article that claims of toads being found in solid rock are surprisingly common across many cultures: 

Thomas Malory's book "Le Morte D'Arthur" is the most famous account of King Arthur's life. It begins with the story of how Arthur's father Uther Pendragon desired Igrayne, the wife of the Duke of Cornwall. So he asked the wizard Merlin to make him look like the Duke of Cornwall, so he could trick Igrayne. Merlin agreed, on the condition that the child produced from their union be given to him. The child produced was Arthur, and Merlin gave the child to Sir Ector to raise. Then after Uther's death, Arthur pulled a sword from a stone and thereby became king of England. Now as I said Malory's book relates all this, but Geoffrey of Monmouth's "History of the Kings of Britain", which is the earliest work mentioning the above story of Uther and Igrayne, does not mention Arthur being raised by Sir Ector or pulling out a sword from the stone. Here is all it says: 

The printing press (as mentioned in a previous, very good, answere) allowed knowledge to be spread far and fast. People were able to learn from other's mistakes. For example the Aztecs sent their Emperor to meet Cortes and his soldiers because they believed he was unbeatable - any Western European soldier would have known that would result in his capture or death but even the most senior Aztecs did not because the Western Europeans knew from written history that between aggressive enemies who did not respect each other's Gods (even if they themselves could not read, that is how the knowledge was stored) that type of strategy would not work. Updated in response to comment (sorry, I cannot post comments to reply for some reason): The reason it was the European section of Euroasia who benefitted most from the above is a combinations of reasons: 

These are both good answers but I think I can offer some extra points not included in them (after I have +1ed them both)! This is all cloaked in the wool of human history (there is always a counter example somewhere and a lot of this deals only in the general cases): The driver seems to be (as stated previously) the multiple states of almost equal power causing a massive arms race which knocked on to races in pretty much everything else. Each nation was essentially a full time competitor so the incentive to trade, explore, research and develop was huge. Once this is in motion everything procedes at an exponential rate. The climate allowing effective farming to be embraced, which included the following effects: 

Freeing members of society up to research and develop like this with the incentives of the arms (and everything else) race allowed an exponential development advantage over other nations. For example over taking the Chinese once they had stopped their research was simply a matter of time. The social conventions used in war were different in several ways. 

Although I am sure that there are probably slight exceptions to each rule and various subtleties and combinations as there always is when applying broad stroke justifications to real life. Overall it takes one of the above to significantly reduce a countries potential to be a world power. If any of the climate, geography, culture etc factors are unsupporting then progress is hamstrung. Europe had the fewest of these issues and hence were able to race ahead, progress is exponential and the occasional breakthrough will provide massive boosts. For example: China was the world leader but they developed social/theocratic issues when the Emperor shut down scientific research and closed the borders due to his insecurity (perhaps he knew that eventually academic and scientific research would begin to question if he really was a God). For more info have a read of the following books: Guns, germs and steel Why the West has Won.