Civil war, insurrection, coup, and any number of other calamities short of war may meet those conditions, and thus trigger an official consultation. The limitations of the Washington Treaty The Washington Treaty was designed as a cooperative defensive treaty, not license to interfere with one another's internal politics. Granted, being in a multinational body where money is involved will bring with it varying amounts of influence. But interference in one another's internal political affairs is not addressed within the treaty. Within the constraints of the Treaty, the organization as a whole can act only with unanimous decision, which makes any Alliance-wide response difficult to envision since whomever is having a problem may likely veto (or break silence) any proposed interference (or assistance?) from the combined group comprised of the other nations. If Turkey didn't ask for help, there wasn't going to be a NATO action. Likewise with Greece, etc. My experience with the Turkish "post modern coup" in 1997 At our HQ (I worked for a Turkish officer) our Turkish colleagues disappeared for a few days when the various maneuverings in Turkey began that led to the 1997 Turkish Military Memorandum which amounted to the fall of Islamist Prime Minister Erbakan. NATO itself didn't issue a press release specifically covering that happening, though the governments of the 16 members of NATO (at that time) all dealt with the situation of their NATO ally differently, and in a bilateral mode. Bottom Line: as an alliance, not much NATO could do. As individual members, offers of assistance were of course provided via the usual diplomatic channels irrespective of NATO connections. What NATO has done recently; stayed out of the way, consulted, etc. In the past year, events in Turkey have created a problem for NATO in the form of a diplomatic / political dilemma. The current government has taken the stand that most of the officers assigned outside Turkey on the NATO staffs are politically unreliable, and sent replacements with orders to the officers on the staff to return home. Needless to say, most of the officers believe that upon returning home they will be denied their freedom, or worse. Most of them appealed to host nations -- not NATO -- for political asylum. The German government, for example, granted asylum but that's bilateral/local decision, not an alliance-wide decision. 

Not really. The point is that Romans belived that public execution is also a too deep shame for any citizen. That means that they practised: 

Well, they didn't refuse to provide any help except "foot on the ground". And the reasons they had are obvious if we remember what actually happened. One may argue that the level of support came out to be unsufficient etc. Well, errare humanum est. Probably they hoped too long that Taraki would sort it out himself. After all, as we know, Andropov and Ustinov insisted on direct intervention in December 1979. Though even then it was split decision. There's also a widespread opinion that Brezhnev finally agreed on the military operation because of personal matters (he considered Taraki a good friend and was very upset after his murder, so he particularly disliked the idea to cooperate with Amin anymore). 

A note on military jargon: C2 means "Command and Control" and C3 means "Command, Control, and Communication" in Desert Storm era military usage. C3 includes both land line and electromagnetic spectrum communications systems. (How do I know that? When I was an officer, I also got involved in writing military Op Plans for other Joint Operations (even wars) though I was not on that team for Desert Storm {thanks my lucky stars}). And as our esteemed colleague @sempaiscuba pointed out 

The "why" in this case was as much protection from political bullying as advancement of education. In contrast we can look at the University of Naples, founded in 1232. It is the most ancient state-supported institution of higher education and research in the world. A university founded by a head of State was slightly different from the guild/corporate model with the same general purpose. The Emperor Frederick II created this university with the hope of curbing or opposing universities of Northern Italy (such as Bologna and Padua) which he felt were either too independent or under the strong influence of the Pope. The "why" in this case was politics as much as it was the advancement of education. 

The production of safety belts in Soviet Union was started in Estonian SSR by NPO Norma which still exists. According to AS Norma website: 

In reality the West still seriously depends for Titanium on Russia. The main reason is pure economics. Titanium has a very high cost price, so Boeing may take a bit, but you may be sure that GM would never want it (unless a cheap technological process of making Titanium is invented). So to establish Titanium production you have not only to invest a vast sum of money in a hi-tech factory, but also to convince a few big companies, such as Boeing or Airbus, that they should break existing contracts and buy your stuff. How much profit do you expect to make from this? Capitalism doesn't work like this, but Soviet Socialism did. So Soviet Union once made the largest Titanium production which still holds the biggest market share. 

I lived behind the Iron Curtain as a child. I grew up in and was immersed in the Cold War for the first half of my adult life. To say that I've both lived with and had to study the cold war in detail is an understatement. 

Visitors from other lands You have listed the most common languages spoken in Jerusalem already -- Hebrew, Greek, Aramaic, and even some Latin -- but the passage in Acts that you refer to answers your question: 

In the 1980's, in Duval County, Texas, a 50 dollar food stamp voucher was the bounty if you voted "correctly" in a local election. I only know this because a co-worker's aunt was busted, along with two associates, for this. She had better lawyers and got the venue changed. Two years probation. Her two 'associates' did time in jail. 

Talking specifically about Syria after Crassus death, Cassius had to take care of the province for about next two years. The new proconsul - well-known Marcus Calpurnius Bibulus who was consul in 59 B.C. together with Ceasar - was sent only in 51 B.C. But this should be considered as an absolutely critical situation (e.g. in 52 B.C. Pompeus Magnus was consul sine collega). Under normal circumstances the senate would find the new candidate much earlier. 

Napoleon's initial objective was defeating Russian army in a border battle. Immediately after that he was planning to start negotiations and, among other things, to restore the alliance with Russia. Neither Moscow, nor St.Petersburg were of any use for him. On the other hand, Alexander I considered the possibility of losing both St.Petersburg and Moscow from the very beginning. And the plan would remain absolutely same. Still being in Smolensk Napoleon tried to start peace talks, but had no success. Then he must have realized that the things didn't go as planned, and Russia was ready for a long war of attrition. And even capturing, say, St.Petersburg would change nothing. So he took his chance in pursuing Russian army and forcing it into battle. Napoleon expected that public opinion wouldn't let Russian army to retreat forever. But, as we know, the battle of Borodino gave him nothing except abandoned city of Moscow. He tried to start peace talks several times, but had no answer at all. Thus going to St.Petersburg instead of Moscow in the beginning of the war would let Napoleon to retreat from Russia easily, that's true. But he sought for a chance to win, and capturing St.Petersburg was totally useless from this point of view. 

Two examples include the Battle of Kosovo (1389) -- part of the epic struggle that spanned centuries between Islam and Christendom as it played out in the Balkans and later eastern/central Europe(1200's to 1600's) -- and the Battle of Karbalah, (680) that remains a culturally defining event among Shia Muslims. 

Tom Au has offered a solid answer about the narrow view regarding colonial claims, but those are in 2016 mostly irrelevant. What is more relevant are claims, current and future, made under the current protocols for territorial waters of UN members and exclusive economic zones. This informs the rights to resources in seas and continental shelves. (ILOS is all about that). That makes this answer a bit of a frame challenge. You may as well ask about the American "colonial legacy" in German and Italy, where we still have bases. Wait a minute: there isn't one. Realpolitik, not colonial anything 

Normally, there was no sense in adopting girls. There are only two known examples, and both took place under very specific circumstances. 

Actually no one knows what '666' stands for. There is no evidence that it has some connection to Roman numeral, but not, say, Greek (or Jewish) numeral. Thus there are dozens of guesses, but no single answer. Some examples to produce '666' are: 

Although it's not really about "weaponry", yet I should add something that others seem to forget completely: the sniping. Although the Red Army lacked good sniper rifles, yet it had an absolutely superior sniping school. One may easily find dozens names of German aces of Panzerwaffe and Luftwaffe, but in the snipers list the whole top is occupied by Soviet marksmen. 

Trading relationships with all nations in the region Freedom of navigation (and how that enables commerce) Access for development (usually joint) to resources A mixed bag of bilateral security agreements. 

1 Judith Perera; Andy Thomas (Apr 18, 1985). "This horrible natural experiment". New Scientist, April 18, 1985: 34–36. 

An agricultural variant of Luddism, centering on the breaking of threshing machines, occurred during the widespread Swing Riots of 1830 in southern and eastern England. There is a decent summary of this at $URL$ and numerous books have been published about this phenomenon. (When I was taking classes for a master's degree in management thirty years ago, this very issue and its relationship to unions and collective actions by labor were a mini course within the course I was taking on modern labor relations). It is worth noting that by the late 19th century, as the rise of the labor movement coincided with the spread of the industrial revolution, the ability to form a social/political organization to oppose the problems of those in the laboring classes made possible a different form of reaction to the social problems that technology brought with it: the strike, and a variety of other labor action that takes us somewhat outside of the scope of your question. 

Here Livius says about early Republic hero Publius Horatius who killed his sister. As she was a free citizen, then public murdering without a lawful reason was considered as a crime against the Roman state itself! On the matter of "patricide" and the punishment for it called Poena cullei, it's better to read the corresponding article in Wiki, which is quite comprehensive: $URL$ 

There was no magic transportation, of course. France moved troops by land; British Expeditionary Force landed from sea, and then moved to Belgium during August 1914. The relevant diplomatic documents are available in so-called "The Belgian Grey Book". Here is Russian edition of 1915. And here are English translations available online. The events were as follows. Germany made ultimatum (also available in "Grey Book" under no. 20) to Belgium on the pretext of future French invasion: 

The Cold War was a term used to describe the geostrategic situation between two global powers who had the means to start World War III, but neither really wanted to start World War III since it would destroy the world each was trying to influence or control. The strategic aims of both the Western bloc and the Eastern bloc was whose ideology and political system would prevail. Simply blowing up parts of each others' country was irrelevant to that aim. The various regional wars related to the West/East bloc political struggle were local tensions that were backed by either the east, the west, or both as they pursued their global strategy. The two power blocs were both trying to ensure that in any given region, the outcome of those local conflicts would result in a government who would be friendly to their side. To a certain extent, a core assumption that it was a zero sum game.