Consider this more as a longer comment but as an answer: Physical analysis Let my try to analyze the differences between weights and resistance bands from a "physical" point of view in two steps: free weights vs Cables and Cables vs Resistance bands: Free weights vs Cables The main difference in force production is that gravitation always points down to the earth, whereas the force produced by the cables always points into the direction of the cable. Consider for example a standing biceps curl. Using a weight the force you have to overcome always points to the ground. If you use a cable to do this, the angle of the cable to an vertical axis changes during the motion and such the direction of the force you have to overcome changes. This depends also on where the cable is attached to the next deflection roller. Note that in this and almost every other exercise you have to keep in mind that the lever arm changes during the motion and such the produced torque, which seems to be more relevant when thinking about what has the muscle to work. Then one might try to capture so called strength curves (one axis: torque, other axis angle) which gives experts some information about how good a exercise stimulates a muscle. Another difference between free weights and cables is that with free weight you can perform explosive movements where you also have to use forces to overcome the intertia of the free weight. Free weights and resistance bands have in common that they produce a constant force along the line of action. Cables vs. Resistance bands Additionally to the differences discussed above resistance bands do not produce a constant force, but the force increases when the band is stretched. Not that this relationship is not even linear. The key factor here is the relative and not the absolute elongation. I.e. if a resistance band is stretched by x percent of the original length it produces a particular force F(x) which does not depend on the original length. So using a resistance band the force increases during the range of motion of the exercise. However using resistance bands you can get similar strength curves as with free weights so in some cases the muscle stimulation seems to be comparable to free weights. Other comments and Conclusion When training with resistance bands you should keep in mind the same points as when training with weights: 

In the next picture only one dumbbell is used and the standing leg is straight: However I also found images where the dumbbell is in the hand on the side of the standing leg: 

I am a bit confused about the correct breathing technique in lifts that require core strength. Take the squat as example: 1) Some people say that it is very important to breathe in at the top of the movement, then hold the breath until when you go down until you come up again to the straight position. Then you should breath out. The air should go into the stomach and you should contract the abs at the same time. The reason for this is that the air and the ab contraction increases the intra-abdominal pressure. This leads to a thight core which protects the spine. Additionally this gives you a bit more power for your lift (I guess about 10 percent). However doing this also increases the blood pressure which in turn can lead to cerebrovascular accident or hemorrhoids and simliar things concerning the blood vessels. It can also lead to oxygen deficit in the brain... Because of this risks, the general advice in training is 2) breathe in on relaxion and breathe out under load. I also found this advice in the german book "Differenzierte Kraftraining" by Axel Gottlob. Where also squats and deadlifts are discussed in depth. 3) Sometimes the variant is suggested to hold the breathe on the bottom and very slowly breath out on the way up. 4) Another variant is to breathe into your stomach as you are standing straight, tighten your abs and let some air go out again, then hold it until you are up again. 5) The last advice I have heared is just not to think about it but breathe just naturally. If I try this, I end up in breathing multiple times during the lift which feels to be wrong. However I can keep my abs contracted while breathing, so my spine should still be protected, isn't it? So I am very confused about this topic and need an authorative answer how to do it in detail and why. And what is about the concerns I have with the different kinds of breathing technique: Better spine protection but higher blood pressure or vice versa... I guess that the first method is the best for professional power- or weightlifters. But I am interested in training for hypertropy for general health and just for fun. So if you don't lift your 1rep max and choose instead of it a weight where you can do 8-15 reps (and 4 sets), which technique would be the most healthy one and why? How does the risk for the spine increases in this case when I don't hold the breath during the lift? Edit: To understand the subject completely: How does the recommended speed of execution relates to the breathing technique and to the possible dangerous. For example if you hold your breath, it may be better to execute the lift quickly since this seems to me to reduce the risks associated with holding the breath during the lift... 

However I don't really know it. For some exercises like overhead squat the bar is pretty high and if you let it go, mats wouldn't help so much because of the height. Even is the weight was not too high. Same may be even true for back and front-squats. For hip-thrusts and regular deadlifts you may for both have the problem that the weight drops a bit to the ground. However I feel it is easier to control this in weighted hip-thrusts than in deadlifts. So it would be great if someone with more experience could clarify which exercises would be safe at home without protection, which would be safe with some mats like linked above and which would be unsafe in all cases. 

When doing pullups or chinups coming out of the bottom part (with arms straight) is by far the most difficult thing for me. I can do at least 15 chinups in a row when I go only 50-60% down, but if I go down all the way I can do only 1 or 2 strict chinup/pullup at once (with 5 sec break between each rep I can do 20 of it, but not in a row). So are there any specific drills or exercises to improve the bottom part of my chin ups and pullups? 

And here is another simple setup: $URL$ (though the guy on the video is performing stiff leg deadlifts) Now I have some questions about this: 

To measure my current status towards the front split I measured the angle in this position (it's not me on the picture) and got about 135 degree. 

Edit: Here is a more complex setup of how to use resistance bands for deadlifts: $URL$ There is also a more simple version of this but it seems to lead to bad form: $URL$ 

Im constantly looking for deadlift alternatives for my home workout program (or for home workouts in general, not only for me). This time I stumbled over an exercise called cable pull throughs (you can also do this with resistance bands). 

With bodybuilding aims in mind, how does this exercise compare to a tradidional deadlift in training effects and safety? How far can it be a substitude for a deadlift? What other exercises do you suggest to make the cable pull through together with those other exercises a good deadlift alternative? I am also intersted in biomechanical details. 

I want to improve my flexiblity to be able to to center and front splits. Is there any safe exercise program to follow which will lead me to this goal? During the week I have time to stretch for 10 min a day (perhaps sometimes even 2 sessions a day). At the weekend I have more time for longer sessions. 

Now I want to try this workout (at home) to get a balanced, healty program, but I don't have a medicine ball, and even if I had one I cannot dribble it against the wall. So what are alternatives for the Cuff dribbler exercise in this workout to get a similar balanced shoulder workout? The exercise can use dumbbells or resistance bands as equipment. 

I have just read an article in bodybuilding.com about a balanced shoulder workout to build shoulder muscles in a healthy and safe way. Here is the link: $URL$ The workout consists of four exercises, 

Suppose you have an injury on one body part (muscles or ligaments,...). Is there any scientific evidence that strength training the other (not injured) body parts speeds up the healing process of the injured part? This may be perhaps the case because of changed hormone levels due to the strength training... Please add your references to your answer. 

Recently my workout buddy was at a phlebologist who diagnosed varicose veins which have to be treated by surgery (just one large vein) the cause of this seems to be genetic and she now have to wear compression tights (at least until the surgery next winter). We workout together for 3 or 5 times a week. The problem is that much of our workout seems to be not very good for her veins: 

I just read a paper by Axler and McGill (get it here) which compared 12 differend ab exercises their spinal compression force and the EMG intensity. Abmat situps where not analyzed. Is there any paper, which analyses the abmat situp regarding spinal compression (i.e. how safe it is for the spine compared to other ab exercises)? 

Are there any simple tests you can do at home to check if you have some muscle imbalances between hamstrings and quads? I.e. to test if your quads are too weak compared to your hamstrings or the other way around. 

Are there any good reasons to prefer one of them? Are there any points in technique which changes significantly with the loading technique? 

What is the correct form and technique for the single leg db deadlift in detail? I also want to know why one should do it in this way and not differently. What are common mistakes when doing this, why are they harmful and how to fix them. If there are reasonable technique variations please also mention it and explain the how and why. Over the web there you can see pictures of multiple different forms which makes you unsure whats correct and whats not. Take for example this picture: You can see that the standing leg is slightly bend and that the arms are not perpendicular to the ground (as it would be the case in a normal deadlift). However perhaps this makes sense for the single leg deadlift, I don't know. In the next picture the arms are perpendicular to the ground: 

The second article suggests particularly to avoid standing leg exercises such as weighted squats, deadlifts or lunges and choose exercises instead where the heart and the legs are on one level. I guess that doing upper body exercises like pushups, pullups or handstand pushups is no problem, but I am not sure. However multiple discussions on this site showed that it is difficult do replace those ones (even by a chain of exercise) while getting the same results. So it would be great if someone could give me some tips how to make her training more vein friendly while not sacrifice the results she has now (think of the goals as if she were a female figure fitness athlete, only as a hobby without competition). Especially it would be great to see a good series of safe exercises for the lower body that can be done at home (i.e. with dumbbells, resistance bands and exercise balls) and that don't have other shortcomings (such as being bad for the knees or leading to functional muscle imbalances etc).