It would have to be a pretty bad choice of necktie to scuttle your chance at a job! Think of it as just one small part of the total image you present. However you dress, you'll come off as more polished if it looks like you're being yourself and not just wearing a costume for one day. So if a dark tie suits you and the rest of your outfit, then that's what you should wear. So, no, it doesn't matter as long as it looks "right" on you. I should add that even in the most conservative board-room environments where everyone is over 60 and wearing $2000 tailored suits, the necktie given some leeway for self-expression and playfulness or "flair". 

It is vastly more useful to find something that you're very good at, that you enjoy doing, and that puts you in a unique niche. Instead of trying to put yourself in the center of the bell curve and hoping for the best, find something in what people have called "the long tail"-- something that very few employers need but which is very valuable to those few employers. 

If you're interested in staying with the company, I think you absolutely should indicate that you don't have enough work to your manager. You said that you're afraid that the manager will hold it against you, but actually the opposite is true if the manager cares about his team and productivity. Honestly the fact that your manager doesn't know you are effectively idle is the sign of a serious organizational problem. It really is the job of the manager to know what the members of the team are doing (at least project-wise and sometimes down to critical individual tasks). If you're concerned about how to phrase it, say something like "I have a lot of free bandwidth, are there any other projects that I can help out with?" No rational manager could have a problem with that. 

This is a really hard problem if the culture is meeting oriented and often it is the supervisor who creates these meetings. While I think that directly addressing the problem (as others suggest) is worthwhile if you can pull it off, there are some other things that you can do also: 

I think even in the best of circumstances where people understand of the purpose of well-written email, things STILL get out of hand. You'll never get on top of this problem by enforcing some type "standard" or "rules" that everyone agrees on simply because of the fact that what is "on-topic" to one person is spurious or useless another. Moreover, as the size of an organization grows, the email interactions can grow (potentially) as O(N^2) as the time that each individual has to act upon email is always decreasing. Complaining to the offenders, or worse, complaining to management will really risk creating bad feelings and perhaps even cut off communication that needs to occur. This is a problem that each person has to deal with on their own in their own way. One awesome resource for how to deal with email specifically and time managment in general is Merlin Mann's Inbox Zero. Check it out, especially the google talk video. In a nutshell, the best thing you can do is to be mindful of your time and attention. For email, this means, among other things, to ruthlessly delete crap as soon as you see it (basically delete ALL non-actionable messages). NEVER participate in pointless email discussions. Limit the times you actually work with email to pre-determined intervals (ie, at the top of the hour instead of whenever you get an email). Make use of filters to group email as needed. Craft your responses to address only actionable requests. Narrow the cc list if possible. Consider using side-channels like IM instead of email for ambient communication with intimate team-members. Consider using wiki's or RSS feeds instead of emails for messages that would begin with "FYI" or be titled as "news." I would also add that making an example of yourself INSTEAD of pointing out the wrong-doings of others will promote good behavior all around. 

I think @FrustratedWithForms answered the question well. I'll just add that LinkedIn is only as good as the number and quality of connections you make on it. If nobody that you know professionally is on it, it won't help you that much. It is a good tool for navigating possible career moves and getting introductions to 2nd order contacts via your own contacts. Potential employers and recruiters can also get a subjective gauge of your professional acumen based on who you are connected to and how you come up in searches. One other nice thing about LinkedIn that people don't always mention is that it is the best way to keep up on news about your past colleagues without having to put them in your personal email addressbook. When somebody updates their status (changes jobs, gets promotion, etc), the connections see it and that's a nice easy opportunity to say "Hi" and stay in touch. For professionals who tend to be introverts (most of them), a tool that performs such passive notification is really valuable. As for linkedIn "groups" they are useless for actual discussions. These groups simply don't have authentic communication (like on stackexchange) because everybody has their "resume-face" on. The groups function more as badges, basically just an opportunity for someone to display affiliations. 

Sadly, some bosses are fully OK with keeping their people under-employed as long they're doing a "good" job. From the point of view of this boss, having you move on to another department would be seen as loss and something to be avoided regardless of the fact that it would hurt you career-wise to stay much longer. Going to HR, if you can actually trust them, might help if they're eager to fill specific positions. But if you really want to stay with the org after you get your degree it would be fine to approach other other departments (especially the ones you've been working for on the side). It seems you've cultivated good working relationships so any team-lead/boss who would be interested in you should be understanding of the sensitive nature of transitioning from one team to another. You definitely should not feel that 4 years have been wasted. People out-grow their positions all the time. 

I would not ask exactly the same questions for this candidate as one who is strictly a programmer. Presumably, the reason you're considering bringing this person on-board is because they have some deep domain knowledge in an area that is valuable for the project. I would probe that domain knowledge deeply to be sure that this person can pull their weight as part of the team knowing that the programming part is going to be a bit of a risk. Of course, you'll also have to make the difficult assessment of whether or not this individual can eventually come up to speed on the programming tasks. Generally, it is better to have a well-rounded team than to have each individual be well-rounded. If this person can do the job, your team will be stronger for it even if they have to tutor the new guy more than usual in the beginning. 

John is replicating the behavior of mentors in his past. Many people get treated to "trial-by-fire" at some point in their careers and end up feeling that this is the way to behave when the tables are turned and they're in any position of authority. John himself might call this "tough love" (see @bytepusher's answer). It's very far from love, but that's how people often think. John is insecure and this is a defense mechanism. As @millimoose indicated in his comment, whether or not he has reason to be insecure is beside the point. Emotions drive such behavior. It is childish and wrong, but a way to deal with feelings of inadequacy within oneself is to make another person feel even MORE inadequate. Acting smug and dismissive is a common way of compensating for insecurity of status in the organization or even lack of self-confidence. It could just be that John is "an asshole." I think that is the least likely possibility. 

I agree with the other answer that going through side-channels might shed some light on why communication is not occurring. Once you know "why", you might be able to accommodate for that in future communication. The actual solution to get around this might vary a lot, and I don't think involving management is necessarily the best answer. If it at all possible, try establishing rapport with the recipient and craft your communication mode to adapt to their situation. 

There are usually very strong reasons why people aren't communicating. The root cause might not be their fault or anyone's fault but some common reasons why would include: 

LinkedIn and resumes are very different things. A resume is (or should be) a carefully targeted document customized to appeal to a specific job opening or organization. Of course it needs to get to the point and be concise. What you exclude in a resume is as important as what you include. LinkedIn is far more fluid and versatile, people are surfing "you" based on connections or search terms. You have no idea who will look at it nor what they're looking for. The description you put for each past position should take that into account but that doesn't really imply anything about length. LinkedIn is mostly about your connections. As such, it is probably good to include all past positions on your profile. 

I think that someone who has a true gift for humor can very quickly adapt themselves to a situation using an intuitive feel for whether or not their humor is being received by the intended audience. A good sense of humor, IMHO, is very much a sign of intelligence. If you got it, it is to your advantage to use it. However, if you have to ask about "how much humor" to use, it is probably a good idea to restrain yourself at least until a rapport is developed with the people you're talking with. 

When the actual employer is not named, you are dealing with a recruiter who has placed the ad hoping to get a bite from a qualified candidate. In my experience, quality recruiters are retained by the company doing the hiring and will simply name the company in the job description. Job listings where the company isn't named are usually "long shots" as far as getting to an actual interview is concerned. If you decide contact one of these (*) do not worry too much about the cover letter for the initial contact. As @bethlakshmi pointed out, only go as far in your cover letter as the job description deserves. If you get the recruiter's attention and they seriously want to present you as a potential candidate, they'll follow-up fairly quickly and tell you whatever you need to know about the job (including the company name and job functions). At that time, you'll have a chance to refine the cover letter as much as you see fit and if you're saavy you might be able to pick up some juicy backstory on the job, the manager, and why they're hiring. Keep in mind that once you've talked to a recruiter and submitted your resume to the recruiter, it is not wise to skip them and engage directly with the employer. Doing so will piss off the recruiter and prevent the employer from considering you. 

You will NEVER convince anyone who is actually getting their work done that using social media, making personal calls/IM's/SMS, or doing a number of things not related to work while at work is in any way "unethical". Of course, it is totally possible to enforce arbitrary draconian "rules" but the trade-off is that your employees will then walk out the door one second after closing time and not think about work until they sit down one second before start of business the next day. That might be fine for piece work, call-centers, or factory work, but it is not effective for knowledge workers. 

Of course there is business value to sending employees to conferences! This is especially true if someone in your org presents a talk, but even if they go to schmooze with counterparts from other companies and bond with coworkers, it is still worth it and not just for marketing types. Java one isn't only marketing, nor is Velocity, nor is EclipseCon. These are opportunities for folks to see the state-of-the-art, interact with the top practitioners in their field and become excited about what they're doing by sharing ideas with others. I can understand why a beancounter (not saying Chad is one) might disagree. It is fashionable in the current economic environment to attempt to calculate an explicit ROI for every expenditure. The problem is that you just can't compute the business value of an intellectually engaged happy employee who mingles somewhat regularly with a wide range of professionals. Some people will simply add up the hotel, plane, per-diem, and missing days of work and see a cost-sink. That's not right. 

I agree with HLGEM above. Just adding a facet about "when to start" and building a wardrobe. If you're going to do this, you'll have to accept that will take a long time and a considerable investment to put together a good wardrobe of suits, jackets, shirts, sweaters, trousers, and shoes. So, yes, start now and build it up gradually piece by piece. It is best to invest in very high quality stuff with tailored alterations. Start with wool slacks and fitted shirts. If you get the good stuff it will be even more comfortable and look better than your typical department store business-casual. There is a little variability with wearing a suit, you might get away with a jacket and appropriate slacks or even a nice sweater. Younger folks can get away with less conservative but still elegant and fashionable choices (ymmv depending on culture). Over time it will become integrated into your appearance and the expectations people have about how you look. 

Acquisitions are always beset with huge uncertainty. I can't imagine in this circumstance that anyone would have a problem with you indicating that the acquisition makes your career path no longer clear and that you're proactively exploring options (Of course the obvious follow-up question will require you to articulate your intended career path). It is the responsibility of the leadership during an acquisition to clearly communicate to top-talent that their positions are "safe" and what their new roles will be as soon as possible. If they don't do this it could mean their own heads are on the block or that they've resigned to cutting huge numbers of positions. Whatever the case, try not to be on the ship when it sinks. No one would expect you to do that (you won't get a medal :-)) and if you do stay until the lights are turned off, then you'll have to answer the much harder question of why you didn't/couldn't leave earlier? Good luck! 

If you're doing sales, you have to be able to tolerate A LOT of rejection. It is literally part of the job. Even top-notch sales people deal with rejection and indeterminacy constantly. Some will say that if you aren't being rejected more than half the time, you aren't trying hard enough. It seems from the text of your question that you're taking the rejection harder than is sustainable in the long term. But to answer your questions: Yes, if you showed up in a T-shirt and everyone else was in a suit. You are under-dressed and everyone in the room silently and instantly red-flagged you before you even opened your mouth. EVEN IF everyone was in a T-shirt shorts and sandals, you as someone making a pitch should have been in a suit or, if you're selling urinal pucks, maybe dressed in business-casual. Determining their actual motivations is your job but keep in mind that even if they explicitly tell you "why" you can't take that at face value. If you can do it, you have to develop an on-going relationship with potential customers, learn their business, learn their competition. I've known some sales guys and sometimes there are YEARS between significant purchases for some customers.