The Arctic wins, easily. With polar bears, wolves and foxes on their side vs. only penguins, the win condition for the Arctic is simply to land a sufficient number on the Antarctic. One polar bear could take on hundreds of penguins. A pack of wolves even more. Conversely, the Antarctic side needs to stop the Arctic in the water. They have leopard seals, who are more than a match for the swimming bears. Enter the North's secret weapon: a massive horde of walrus. These fearsome beasts can fend off the leopard seals in the water, are pretty much immune to pecking from penguins and can simply crush them on land. 

If you eliminate wheels, that leaves you with either skids, legs or hovering. Skids This option would include actual flat-bottomed boat hulls, catamaran like double or triple hulls and very wide and flat ski-like skids. The advantage of course is that it's very cool and like your desired sailing ship idea. The major problems would be rocky/rough terrain and the very high friction, meaning you would need storm-like winds or unobtainium-plated friction-less surfaces to even get moving. I'd suggest using the skin of the enormous worms that live in the deep sands, but that's already been done... Legs Not just a few legs, but dozens and dozens of legs. Enough to make the crystal spider creatures green with envy. With the weight of the "ship" distributed over many broad feet, none of them would sink into the sand too much. The major advantage is that the legs would work even on rocky and uneven terrain, where the skids would fail miserably. The disadvantages would be the maintenance on all those legs and relatively slow speed. Here is some inspiration: windpowered beach walkers. Hovering With Diesel Power(tm) at your disposal, a hovercraft may be possible, though it is unlikely that early generation diesel engines could produce enough power without becoming too heavy to lift. These would be very fast on flat and smooth surfaces like salt seas, but unable to handle inclines or rough terrain that the skirt would snag on. The Best of Two Worlds My recommendation would be a combination of legs and skids. The legs would have wide shields/skids along their length. On rough terrain it would walk centipede-like on all legs. On smooth sands most legs would fold into a horizontal position, putting the skids on the sand. The remaining vertical legs would push the "ship" forward in low-wind conditions (assuming some diesel power) or when going uphill. When wind conditions are favorable, the upright legs are only required for steering (by creating drag on either side) as the "ship" goes into full sailing mode. Why no Wheels? For wheels, the short answer is: No rubber. Leather (inflatable or not) wheels exist but they are unsuitable for large vehicles, since they're not strong enough to carry a heavy load and very vulnerable to sharp rocks and ridges hidden in the sand. Wood is better and barrel-shaped wooden wheels with ridges or even paddles is probably the closest you'd get to desert driving. But without the flexibility of rubber, you'd have to "drive" very slowly or risk shattering wheels on impact with hard terrain features. A tracked wheeled vehicle might do better, but there may not be enough metal available for solid metal tracks. Tracks with metal core links and bolt-on wooden components are likely to wear out and break at an unworkable rate, especially with sand getting in the links. Replacing a single skid or leg in the middle of the desert would be much quicker than trying to restore a broken track somewhere under the bottom of the vehicle. 

God lifted everyone else to Heaven That's really about the only answer to your question. As for #3, well, you should have read the fine print before accepting that job as caretaker... On the bright side, your shift ends in 7 times 7 years. 

This cloud of fear and mistrust will destroy the economy as we know it. Humanity will recover, but it may take a long time. On the upside, the developing world will have an easier time as they rely less on credit to run their business. Note: I skipped over the moral aspect of this whole thing, but you have a very dangerous A.I. if it can understand a quote about money and evil, but not that taking people's money and giving it to others violates a whole bunch of moral imperatives and social contracts humans have established. 

As you can see, the mermaids have domesticated and bred a host of small creatures to assist with surgery and medicine. All of these have strong anti-bacterial properties, so that they don't infect patients. Note: If the mermaids employ technology much closer to ours but somehow don't fancy having airlocks and air-filled surgery rooms in their hospital, they would probably have transparent plastic bubbles that fit over the patients body and have built-in arm gloves. The bubble is then inflated, pumping all the water out and allowing the surgeon to work in clean air. 

Inspired by a certain politician/real estate mogul: Build a high wall around the city. Make it very high, full of automated defenses and airtight. Not inspired by said person, but by a lake: Then flood the entire city with $CO_{2}$. This should displace all the oxygen in the city and being heavy, stick around of a long time while also flowing down into the deepest hideouts. Though toxic at high levels, normal diffusion will clear the city and make it safe again after you take down the wall. The only place where people would be safe would be in the upper floors of skyscrapers, where they are very vulnerable to your more conventional weapons, unable to move around and if you cut off electricity and water, they will not last long. Some of them could be convinced to surrender if you want the PR value, though beware of booby traps and suicide bombers. An extra bonus is that no combustion engine will work without oxygen, so vehicles become useless, as do diesel generators. If some sneaky people try to run a generator up high in a skyscraper, you can easily spot the infrared signature and send a missile to turn it off. After the city quiets down, you will need some drones with heartbeat detectors to locate any bunkers that had better air recycling than most. Building the wall This is the riskiest part of the plan, though remote controlled construction vehicles can do most of the work. Start with reinforced checkpoints. Make the first ones look vulnerable but fill them with nasty surprises for any attackers from within the city. It should be quite clear that you are trying to lure them out into the open to be cut down. Leave some supply routes untouched for as long as possible. Call your project a "Containment Zone" and declare how it will keep the rest of the country safe from those evil marauders in Oppela. Finish the encircling before building it any higher. Put sensors in the ground everywhere and collapse all tunnels except near the supply tunnels the enemy uses. When you are ready, raise the walls high. Declare your containment zone a success publicly. Then put them all to sleep. The gas itself would be unnoticeable to the entrenched fighters unless they are specifically monitoring it and once it reaches dangerous levels, they will not be clearheaded enough to mount a coordinated response. The benefits of this tactic are that you are not left with dangerous chemical, biological or nuclear materials that might escape the quarantine zone. Also, you don't do a lot of damage to the city itself. The small amount of fighting that's left will have you in a position of overwhelming advantage, either at the wall if they try to break out, or with the enemy trapped in skyscraper, unable to leave. The downsides are that wall builders may be attacked by an overwhelming force in the early stages, that you need time to generate enough $ CO_{2} $ and of course that you are committing horrific genocide, you evil bastard. Note: I feel dirty just suggesting this tactic and I'm happy this would not be feasible with real-world monetary, resource, political and ethical constraints. However, real-world conflicts have shown us that conquering a city is an extremely costly, bloody and wasteful affair. There simply is no way to keep the civilian population safe and still find and defeat the armed defenders without going into the city and exposing yourself to all they've got. Even after the city "surrenders", individual fighters may pop up and kill a bunch of your people by suicide bombing. Hence the radical decision that no casualties means no potential fighters left.