If you are willing to sacrifice those types of orbits and the habitable zone, consider a world like this: Jupiter's moon Io is the most volcanically active body in the solar system, making its surface uncharacteristically hot for where it is. The tidal forces that Jupiter and Europa enact on it cause the activity. Although Io is a harsh and toxic environment (with all the sulfur and volcanoes and whatnot), you could entertain a scenario with milder heating, making it warm enough to be have liquid water. Given the lack of sunlight, perhaps the creatures on the planet evolved to use chemosynthesis, like some of the animals that live near sulfur vents on the ocean floor? Who says that the "habitable zone" is the only place that can support life? This is where the fiction in Science Fiction comes in, and where it gets fun :) 

Technically, going by the earliest meanings of the word, Civilisation does necessitate building. Civilisation came from the latin Civitas, which meant "City". A Civilisation, then, was a society that could build cities. No structures, no cities; no cities, no civilisation. Now, having said that, it's hard to truly pin down what "civilisation" is in the modern sense, or how we could identify it among a species very different from our own. Still, let's go with Wikipedia's quick intro on the subject. A Civilisation... 

Follow the model of The Culture. Early on in the process, ensure that the developing AIs are grown/programmed/developed along lines that value human lives and human choices. Once you hit the Singularity, by definition you can't predict what will happen next - the only ones who could are the AIs that are carrying it out. We would need to make sure that those AIs are benevolent and at least tolerant of humanity. Something akin to Asimov's Laws of Robotics would be essential - not the laws themselves, because they wouldn't work, but rather a similar concept, of rules of behaviour embedded deep into the AIs consciousness. Exactly what those rules are would need better brains than mine to figure out, but they would be essential. At the point of Singularity, by definition biological life can no longer control its technology. The only way to ensure the preservation of human life is to ensure that the Minds that will control the technology are kindly disposed to us. Edited to add: Okay, enough with vagueness; let's hit this hard. Plant Benevolence Checks in AI decision loops The exact nature of your benevolence check will vary, of course, but whether you use Asimov's laws, or a simple command of "Do no harm", or an entire ethics encyclopaedia, you're going to want to plant a process in the AI's decision making loops that checks for ethical behaviour. This process is going to have to be used in almost every decision the AI makes. In simple programming terms, it's going to be something like 

Pew-Pew sound would definitely not come from the laser beam itself - light doesn't make any discernible sound. I could see you making it an artifact of the power rapidly charging and discharging, though it's not necessary for the device to function. Typically solid state electronics are pretty silent. As mentioned in a comment, light moves way too fast for you to see. Assuming you could shove that much electrical power in a blaster-sized package (not possible with modern technology), you might have something slightly close. Some differences includes that there would be no recoil to the shot, and no explosive impact - it would burn the target, and not much else. Also, even the most powerful modern lasers take time to put a hole in a target - a sustained beam, not a gun-like shot in a single instant. 

Imagine a species of eusocial arthropoids, each about the size of a dog, that live in complex, multilayered nests. Each individual has very little brain - a brain about the size of a tic-tac, to be precise - but as a whole, the nest is powerful sentient mind. An individual needs to be able to perform a complex task in real time in order to operate some technologies. Rather than the individual knowing how to do the task, it would receive a series of subtle radio signals from the other individuals nearby, a cascade of meaningless pulses from thousands or millions of individuals that converge on this individual to give it the impulse needed to carry out its task, moment by moment. What physical structures would an individual need in order to send and receive these radio signals? To clarify: By 'radio', I don't mean 'any form of electromagnetic radiation'. I'm referring to the range of frequencies known as 'radio waves', that is up to around 300GHz. This is because the signals need to be able to go through the solid walls of the nest. Basically biological wi-fi. 

Depends on what time he comes from and the technical advances of his era. This was not specified in the question. Current medical knowledge in our era not likely. Current social skills that our modern society have, he would be laughed all the way to the stocks. Who knows what tech will be like 1, 2, 10k years from now. A time traveler from then may be able to? Who knows. Again, since we are talking about a time traveler, a key piece is missing from the question, "From when he comes." I say yes because I think barring any extinction level event, if human kind is allowed to evolve themselves and technology over the span of many many thousands of years. Then I have zero doubts that eventually a genome altering vaccine with contagious properties for example could be produced. Vaccinate 1 person and it spreads like the disease but as a cure. 

A lot. With weather patterns moving in the opposite direction, it's hard to predict what would happen. Weather is a chaotic system, after all. For example, consider the El Niño effect. Normally, the trade winds blowing across the Pacific keep warm water bunched up to the wast, around Asia and Indonesia. With the trade winds reversed, that water would instead generally be pooled against the Americas, with unpredictable long-term effects. The Gulf Stream is also driven in part by the trade winds in the Atlantic; with those winds reversed, again, it's hard to guess the consequences. Europe would likely be a frozen wasteland, while Canada and Greenland could become as warm as Europe - or perhaps not, especially when the permanent El Niño effect to the west. Places that have formed deserts in the rain shadow of mountains could well become rainforests, and vice versa - perhaps. Again, it's too chaotic to know. What I'm trying to get at is that this isn't as simple as "the sun rises on the other side" - everything would change. 

It's possible, as other answers indicate, to convert kinetic force into electricity, so I won't repeat that. But what you should think about is the cost-benefit ratio. The truth is, it's not feasible to add the complexity of an extra subsystem to an already ridiculously complex system. Think of the amount of electricity it takes to accelerate anything to several times the speed of sound. Power savings from a kinetic converter would simply be insignificant. 

It really depends on the type of telepathy you as the author/creator envision. There could be telepathy that is purely intentional, akin to speaking or sign language. If others can always sense your thoughts or emotions, that might more properly be called mind reading or emotional empathy. In the latter, people still might be able to put up walls around their mind to pad or mute the effect. So ultimately, you get to choose. Additional considerations: First, on a communication level, what is truth? What separates truth from a lie? Whether I say the sky is blue or orange, there is nothing inherent in my communication that determines one or the other as real - truth is determined by the facts of life, regardless of what is communicated. The only exception with telepathy or mind reading would be sensing the intention to deceive, and intention is not the same thing as emotion. You mentioned "evolved" telepathy, so consider what else might have evolved along with that - a subset of related functions that facilitate communication, including "blocking" thoughts or projecting only what is desired. Some might be better at communicating visual imagery, like artists, while musicians would have a much more detailed concept of audio information. Some might not be good at this - you probably know people in real life who are terrible liars with just words. And anyone can run and jump, but watch the Olympics and tell me you can swim life Phelps. People can train and hone their natural skills to do amazing things, and as a natural ability, I can't imagine this would be an exception. Edit In response to OP's comment defining his or her brand of telepathy: Others have answered about "lying" to oneself, so I won't repeat those. "Feelings" then, must be very precisely defined. Particularly, distinguish between: 

This question could be far more loaded in response than it is currently. Currently we have a society that is starting to be afraid to offend or talk about, let alone think about taboo topics. By then, things may be different. But the question is being asked now with our current societal partiality. The vote system here is a prime example of crowd think in our current society. We each have a voice with our own personal beliefs based on how we were raised and the influences of our lives. I am not trying to downplay anyone's opinions, it is just a factor in the answer I am giving. We all sit in relative comfort and are able to think it through without worrying about the next major "storm", where our next meal comes from, so on and so on. Some may be able to think outside the box here, and that is awesome. But here I go, a not very currently socially acceptable example/scenario. Take into account that it is post-apocalyptic. The nature of what caused it I think would have a very substantial outcome of society's values at this point. If it was man made and the people that survived were the lower class. This would be the class that struggled the hardest in pre times, they could have learned and become very intolerant of repeated trends. Now with that in mind, how do we treat animals we breed for food currently? For example, the chicken. If a rooster is aggressive they are killed and not allowed to breed for fear of passing along aggressive traits. If a chicken is sick and takes too many resources to "cure" or maintain a happy life, it is also killed. I could easily see a post society that has knowledge of the screwups of our modern age, and maybe some resentment towards it getting that far adopting this method to humans in crime and medical care. Survive or die is the motto in expanding from ruins. Criminals could be culled and their offspring along with them to preserve the type of society that they want to rebuild. The sick could be as well to promote the strong genes. After all, the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. Our modern knowledge of the past would logically lead a post society to learn from mistakes if not bound by political correctness. Next scenario, the "elite" of our modern times survives. I have no doubt that they will adopt a cull the sick program. But I am unsure of how to approach the criminal side. It could very likely be similar to the above scenario, but under different reasons. I have no experience living in the mind of someone who has power over a mass of people. So I can't objectively fill out this scenario. Lastly, regardless of what social class survives, if it was nature caused destruction. I see man kind repeating the same mistakes of our time. As we will have nothing to reflect on thinking it was us that caused it. It would likely be something of a rebuild as was. They might start off just like our age did and was pointed out in other answers. But I am afraid nature would remove an important lesson for man kind to learn from to change anything. 

First off no, we would not send tanks to the moon. We probably could, but it would be an awful waste. Standard tanks would not operate in the vacuum of space, so we'd need to design new ones from scratch. Trying to keep a soldier with a rifle alive and fighting in that environment would be a nightmare. Instead, we'll send up a simple guidance computer...and a whole lot of nuclear bombs. Let's talk rough numbers. We'll take the US W76 thermonuclear warhead as a baseline. I'm using this weapon because we know the exact weight of the warhead, whereas with other weapons like the W87 details like the weight of the warhead are uncertain. If we were firing these weapons at a target on the moon, we likely would dispense with most of the reentry casing, since there would be no need to penetrate a thick atmosphere before detonation; that's why we want the weight of the warhead. A W76 weighs in at 164 kg, and has a yield of 100 kilotons. We'll want to be able to aim these things, so we'll stick a simple solid-fuel rocket onto each warhead - let's round it up to 200 kg per bomb. The Apollo Command/Service module, the spacecraft that made the full flight too and from the moon, massed around 14,700 kg at launch. The Lunar Excursion Module, the spacecraft that actually landed on the moon, massed 15,200 kg. Call it a combined mass of 30,000 kg going to the moon. That's the same mass as 150 of our warheads. Let's say that our strike craft needs around 1,000 kg for a basic guidance computer and storage rack for the bombs. That's still enough mass for 145 warheads. If we manage to build launchers into that mass as well, so we can dispense with the rockets on each bomb, we'd be looking 174 warheads. Now, to get that kind of mass to the moon, we did need to make use of the Saturn V rocket, which is pretty much the most powerful rocket ever built. If we needed to, we could build new Saturn Vs with a fair amount of lead time - we have all the specs, but the tools and expertise used to build the originals are mostly lost to us, so we'd have to rebuild the industry used to build the rockets. They're probably not our best option. More likely would be NASA's in-development Space Launch System, or SLS. It's designed to reproduce Apollo-era capabilities with modern hardware, carrying the Orion crew capsule to the moon and beyond. If we wanted to launch a real strike on the moon, this would be the puppy to use. It's...complicated...to do a clear comparison of two rockets' capacity. The closest comparison would be the 'injected mass' capacity - that is, the mass including upper stages of the rocket itself that can be lifted to a given point. The Saturn V's injected mass capacity was around 154 tons; SLS will manage 173 tons. The two craft are quite comparable, so for simplicity's sake we can assume that the SLS can lift our W76 cluster to the moon. Without knowing more about the Monster, I couldn't say whether a strike like this would be able to destroy it...but it should at the very least let it know that we're here.