It seems possible that Nehru made a mistake somewhere, and that 2500 years is actually 2300 years. The one thing missing is the actual quote. Again, Nehru could have been mistaken about this, but I can't find anything resembling the quote anywhere else, besides books that reference the quote as being from Nehru's writings. 

A NASA article says the same thing, using an actual airplane. The plane will bank and turn on the side with the aileron that is tilted up. This video shows the plane turning in the direction that has the aileron down. 

Russian Academy of Sciences A Russian study also found that heart problems increased around the time of geomagnetic storms: 

Whether or not this is evolution is open to interpretation. It sounds a lot like it, and though the processes Chuang Tzu describes aren't the evolutionary mechanisms we theorize about today, they're remarkably similar to Darwinian evolution in the relationship between species; i.e. one insect being directly connected to another insect, but being indirectly connected to, say, a human. Chuang Tzu is also referred to as Zhuang Zhou, a name you mentioned. Could Zhuang Zhou (aka Zhuangzi) be Tson Tse? Zhuang Zhou lived in the 4th and 3rd centuries B.C., two centuries ahead of the hypothetical Tson Tse. Yet Nehru says that Tson Tse lived at the same time as the Buddha, whose lifetime is not yet entirely established - he may have lived partly in the 4th century B.C. Nehru could have been mistaken about the date, and even the name of the philosopher - as Wikipedia says (emphasis mine): 

Another result concerns the discriminatory ability of males and females, where the authors claim to find "systematic differences between the sexes": 

The study supports the notion that males and females do not perceive colors in exactly the same way, and that there may be a range in the visual spectrum where females have a better discriminatory ability than males. Yet, the authors acknowledge that both effects are relatively small ("There were relatively small but clear and significant, differences[…]"), and it's unclear how the findings, which were obtained explicitly in a highly experimental setting, translate to every-day color discrimination. One every-day application of color discrimination that has been investigated in a small-scale study is the field of dentistry, where dentists routinely have to match the natural shade of their patients' teeth to that of dentures. As before, the participants in that study were restricted to those that were not affected by color blindness. The authors investigated the agreement between male and female participants when attempting to match the shade of teeth to shades on three standardized color schemes. If women are indeed "more capable than men regarding shade selection and color matching", i.e. if females outperform males in color discrimination, one may expected to find a higher agreement rate between the females than between the males. However, this prediction was not borne out by the data: 

No, it's not all baloney. There is serious evidence the nitrites can cause cancer. However, as a source I used before mentioned, studies have also shown that there are some benefits to nitrites. Admittedly, those don't nullify the cancer risk. 

Yes, there's some alien hunting going on. Detection Well, yes, money is being spent to search for intelligent aliens. The obvious case is SETI, the Search for ExtraTerrestrial Intelligence. Quoting from their mission statement, 

"Etiology of Pancreatic Cancer, With a Hypothesis Concerning the Role of N-Nitroso Compounds and Excess Gastric Acidity" also discussed this. "Meat and components of meat and the risk of bladder cancer in the NIH-AARP Diet and Health Study" studied this and found 

The whole idea seems like a load of rubbish, especially since the principles the experiment would be based on are extremely unsound. I'm quite skeptical about the claim, but I'm not fully convinced that it was fake, because there are claims that the ship's logs (which purportedly put the ship somewhere completely different, far from Philadelphia) were falsified. In short, there doesn't seem to be a neutral (i.e. not by the Navy or the original claimants) record of the actions of the U.S.S. Eldridge during this time period, which for me would be the clincher. At least, I can't find one. Did the Philadelphia Experiment ever take place? 

As pointed out in the comments, we have to distinguish two different concepts when talking about the relation between sex/gender and colors: the ability to assign different names to different shades (color naming) and the ability to perceptually distinguish shades with different physical attributes (color discrimination). There are several studies that support the claim that females perform better than males with regard to color naming (this difference can probably best be described as the effect of a more refined technical vocabulary). However, the present question asks about color discrimination: Can women distinguish more colors than men? It's a rather well-established fact that males have a higher risk of color deficiencies: About 8 percent of males and about 0.6 percent of females are affected by red-green color blindness. Most of these color deficiencies, in particular red-green blindness, are due to an inherited variations that are associated with the X chromosome. Thus, even though the phenomenon is more complicated than this simple account, at least the first part of what is stated in the video is true: information about light-sensitive visual pigments is stored in the X chromosome, and due to basic genetics, women are less likely to be affected by mutations of the pertaining sequences. So, it's not wrong to claim that "[this] is why females can distinguish more colors and shades", but this claim is only true in a statistical sense – on an individual level, it doesn't follow that an average woman will be able to distinguish more colors than an average man if both are unaffected by any genetically-caused color blindness. There seem to be only few studies that have investigated gender differences in color sensitivity with unimpaired subjects. One somewhat recent study reports some differences between males and females with regard to the perception of monochromatic light across the visual spectrum. Their first result concerns the translation of wavelengths to perceptual sensations: 

He later quotes directly from The Chuang Tzu, Chuang Tzu's main work. One selection (page 204) reads 

Possible mechanisms I'm still not convinced, because there has to be an explanation for such a claim. It's all well and good to claim a cause-and-effect, but in this case, a proposed mechanism would be really nice. Fortunately, there are some. 

The Philadelphia Experiment forms the basis for a claim that in 1943 the U.S. Navy attempted to use "speculative physics" to render a ship, the U.S.S. Eldridge, invisible. Allegedly, they were successful. There are some pretty detailed accounts of the whole thing. This last one includes a wave of rebuttals and attacks from both sides. A thorough analysis can be found here. Some of the sources explain that the Navy denies it all. The link given, though, is dead, and there have been allegations that there's a conspiracy at work. On the other hand, quotations from the U.S. Navy on the subject exist. Quoting part of one, 

I came across this article, with another picture of the plane in mid-flight. The flaps are in the same positions (their red circles in the following picture, not mine): 

According to the FBI homicide data, there were 15,070 reported murders in the United States in 2016, 11,004 of which were victims of murder by guns: 7,105 handgun victims, 374 rifle victims, 262 shotgun victims, and 3,263 victims of murder by a different type of gun, or by an unspecified gun. In comparison, there were 472 reported victims of murder by blunt objects. The following figure illustrates these data. The green bars correspond to the number of gun victims; rifle victims are shaded in dark green, and all other gun victims are shaded in light green. The orange bar shows the number of victims that were killed by a blunt object, and the gray bar corresponds to all remaining homicide victims. 

Thus, it's apparently not true that there are more homicides per year by hammers than by guns. The particular claim that there are more hammer homicides than rifle homicides may be true for 2016, but given that the FBI subsumes this weapon under a broader category, we cannot say for sure. 

The claim that organic cotton farming uses less water than conventional modes of farming appears to be the scientific consensus. For instance, Grose (2009) states that 

I'll get this out there before I go on: people in aircraft (and spacecraft) are susceptible to harmful radiation from solar activity, because Earth's atmosphere does not provide significant shielding at the altitudes that most airplanes fly at. According to NASA, radiation levels an airplane traveling at the height that most passenger planes fly at are about ten times as great as those on the ground. Solar activity can multiply that amount by another ten, making aircraft pretty bad places to be during a solar storm - if you get unlucky. Studies on cosmonauts on Soyuz and Mir supposedly show that geomagnetic storms cause 

So the claim is really only supported in one region of the brain, not all regions. Note the phrasing here. It doesn't say that there are more connections between hemispheres in one gender and more connections inside hemispheres in the other gender, but rather that strength is different. Not necessarily number. The article only tells half of the truth. Consider it untruthful. The image, by the way, is from Figure 2 of the paper. The caption reads: 

The important part there is (2): Detection. In terms of financial status, they are a 501(c)3 non-profit organization. They are, of course, fond of donations from people and corporations. So yes, they are spending money. Transmission The Arecibo Observatory is another famous player in the extraterrestrial contact arena. Their description of themselves is 

However, this advantage of organic cotton farming may disappear in areas where water scarcity is not an issue, e.g. because there is enough rainfall. Under those conditions where plants have to be irrigated in order to yield a profitable amount of cotton, organic cotton farming appears to be advantageous. The Guardian's article talks about the question whether cotton farming is responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. The Aral Sea is located in a climate zone with arid and semi-arid conditions, so the region might indeed profit from the better water retention capabilities of organic cotton farming. Conventional cotton farming has long been known to have a disastrous effect on the water levels in that region: 

A null effect of sex was reported in an early study using a standardized hue discrimination test: While color discrimination was found to deteriorate with increasing age, no significant difference between male and female participants was observed, with the exception of a single age range (15-24 years) where males reached a higher discrimination score than females (for what it's worth, the participants of the previous study on denture shades also fell within this age range). I don't have access to the full text of another potentially relevant study that investigated color discrimination, color naming, and color preferences in a population of 80-year old males and females. The abstract mentions a gender difference for color naming, but not for color discrimination. To summarize: Based on the sparse empirical record on the effect of gender on the ability to distinguish colors, there is weak evidence that males and females without color blindness perceive colors somewhat differently, and that there is a range in the visual spectrum where females show a slightly better discriminatory performance than males when using monochromatic light sources. However, I couldn't find compelling evidence that this marginally significant performance difference results in a substantially better color discrimination by women as far as real-world objects (case study: shades of teeth) are concerned. 

Addendum Six months after this question was asked, Batygin & Brown (2016) (arXiv) showed indirect evidence for the existence of a ninth planet with a semi-major axis of ~700 AU and an eccentricity of ~0.6, swinging it as close as 200 AU to the Sun and as far as 1200 AU away from it. As of several months after the paper's publication, no direct evidence of Planet 9 has been found (as expected), but the Subaru Telescope is expected to play a major role in the search for it. Hopefully, observational data can support the models in the years to come - within five years, perhaps, according to Brown. The new results aren't quite the same as the results of de la Fuente Marcos & de la Fuente Marcos (2014), which are cited in the question (and in the paper by Batygin & Brown). For example, the original claim posits a planet with a semi-major axis at ~200 AU, in addition to another planet with a semi-major axis at ~250 AU, in a 3:2 resonance. Furthermore, Batygin & Brown explicitly address and criticize the results of de la Fuente Marcos & de la Fuente Marcos and the similar studies by Trujillo & Sheppard (2014) (pdf here), who proposed the use of the Kozai mechanism as an orbiting body is perturbed by another body with a greater semi-major axis. In particular, they note that the orbits of the two planets would have to have orbital parameters within a small range of values. Also, another large body (e.g. a passing star) would likely have been required, which would have produced effects that conflict with observations.