This depends on the nature of your consulting business and your specific company. Some consultants justify their fees not only with actual value but perceived value. Your company may want everyone to behave like they really care about their job and company. This can require face time at social events. You need to determine what can be gained from these events: 

You're taking the "other person's interests" a little too far. You may think that your boss would prefer you work for free, but some people take pride and pleasure in creating good jobs for other people. Of course they want to make a profit as well. The goal is to determine a good balance point. You also need to consider how to phrase your qualifications in ways that suits the other person's interests. There may be other entry level programmers that program better than you, but may require more time, energy and effort to manage as well. Being able to think for yourself and get your work done without having to be poked and prodded saves time for others and that equals money. Working well with others is another way to leverage your skills. Not everyone can do it. Start talking to other employees and listen for things they mention that are important to the CEO. It's not going to come in direct quotes either. Usually what everyone thinks is important has come from the top. Do people go out of their way to be on time, get paperwork done, show up to meetings, put in extra hours when needed? The things people make an effort to do are usually what is considered important, so start taking stock and be prepared to defend your growth and benefit to this CEO in your position for this company. If he doesn't think you're average, expect to make less. 

I feel this attitude is counter-productive, as it prevents team members to voice ideas or invest in projects or tasks even partially, as doing so would usually result in them getting responsible for yet another project. Question: Is this kind of implicit delegation of project responsibility common and normal? If not, how to avoid being the target of this method without being rude or unprofessional? /EDIT: Thank you all very much for your answers, even though I cannot apply most advices because of other issues at my company, this made me realize the complexity of the issues I am dealing with, with our corporate culture being one of the culprit. I divided the accepted answer reward and the bounty to two answers as I could not accept both. 

That's for the actual work, and assuming your managers are sensible. There is also the communication part, where you have to report about your progress. For this, you might find useful to maintain a list of projects you are working on, along with deadlines and the priorities you were assigned. See also: 

But I think this last point is of importance: of course doing the work your company ask you to do is of primary importance, but it is also important you appreciate what you are doing. So it is important both you and your supervisor agree on what your role is, at least most of the time, even if you have third-party tasks from time to time, as long as it does not take over your main role. Good luck in your endeavors. 

That "big part" is called management. Your job is to change the team. Guess what? That's not easy. Have you been given any authority? It seems like you just want to throw out suggestions and expect full compliance. That's a luxury for owners, CEO's and other high level managers. If you don't want to tackle this challenge, you're going to just have to stick to writing code and deal with the low standards. 

I think you are trying to present your argument with too many moving parts. Make a proposal to do this gradually. 

It's not really important, but it you're able to describe how and why you use/prefer there product, it can add to your level of expertise. You could also indicate why there product is better for certain projects or situations. You could contrast it with other products that made projects more difficult or due to inferior quality, required more maintenance. Not all products have fans. You never know, you could be tapping into an aspect of their marketing they didn't think of. In the US, there are many people who are extremely loyal to car brands and take please in hating others and buy stickers, hats and t-shirts displaying that. 

A less confrontational way to address this is to ask your boss to help you understand why he thinks you can handle these tasks. The other part of this discussion is to help clarify expectations. Who knows, you may find that they really don't expect you to handle this, but you're there only hope at the moment. Do your best. Even if you were given tasks you can easily perform, you always want to know what is expected of you from your immediate supervisor. I always suggest focusing on meeting his expectations. It will make your job more successful in the short and long-term. Since you're new to the job, there are many aspects I think you're misunderstanding and putting too much pressure on yourself because so far, you've never mentioned anyone complaining or giving you negative feedback. Estimates - these are educated guesses when you think something might be completed. There is always risk involved. Again, these are guesses and not contractual guarantees. You will get better at this, but you need to understand what is the whole point. It would be silly for you to just start saying things will take twice as long just so you appear to be right. Someone claiming they can do a two hour job in four and expecting be to get excited because the did it in three is not being very honest or transparent. Q&A - If anyone expects you to be perfect, they wouldn't have to go through this. You need to make sure you're not repeating the same mistakes. Strive for improvement. Do not get into the mindset that having mistakes is such a bad thing. You have to stretch your skills. I realize all of this is frustrating for you, but it will get better. You'll improve your skills along with your confidence which will help you cope with the job. You also need to learn how to discuss things with your supervisor and find out what their expectations and ways of evaluating your performance. Then you'll know if you're doing things right. Your company isn't throwing you in the deep end to see if you can swim, they're throwing you off a cliff to see if you can fly. 

About your feeling of being assigned to something else than what you were hired for, you can refer to this excellent table and if necessary talk with your supervisor to redefine your role in the company: 

Context: I am an employee in a semi-small company, where most people have multiple responsibilities and tasks concurrently. Most of the time, there is no explicit/formal definition of projects responsibility. There is a hierarchy with about 5 managers managing about 5 employees each. Work contracts usually last for ~5 years, so there is a relatively high turnout rate, including for managers (this is because of the company's field, not because of the company ambiance). Issue: Since project responsibility is rarely assigned explicitly, it has become customary for managers and team members alike to assign it implicitly to anyone who either: 

First ask your supervisor to prioritize when you have too many tasks to do for a reasonable timeframe. Or ask if the deadlines can be pushed further. If everything else failed, learn to delegate, and ask your supervisor to either give you the authority to delegate, or ask him/her on a per project basis when needed. But think beforehand to who you can delegate and with what time schedule, your supervisor will be much more receptive. As my own supervisor once said: "don't come with only problems, come also with solutions". When you work well, people tend to offload more work on you. Managing this kind of situation can be seen either as a burden (because if you have an overload of work, it is either because your collaborators are slacking off or because your manager does not estimate correctly the amount of work) or as an opportunity to train in project management. The goal here is not to take on yourself to do all the works of others, but rather to learn how to deal autonomously and efficiently with these situations. Delegating work is thus a crucial skill, and it is very well appreciated (by others and by your future self). Indeed, delegating is not just about offloading work onto others, but about planning and supervision: it is a work in itself, and a set of skill that cannot be improvised. Thus, you can use these situations at your advantage, and hopefully you'll be able to reuse these skills in future similar situations. You might find useful the following other posts (step by step tutorials to delegate, how to approach your supervisor to propose other collaborators to delegate to, etc.): 

Someone in your company is managing this contract and may not be aware that this manager is driving your developers away. This is probably hindering the project and at least making someone's job more difficult by having to find replacements. Have a conversation or let someone in your company know this is the reason. They can choose to work within the relationships they've developed to land this contract and know whether or not they should or could do anything about it. If you try to work this out on your own, you may find yourself in trouble with the account manager within your company. They may not see your complaints as valid. Some people may think of you as a hired-gun and should just to what your're told because that's what you get paid for. Ever notice they didn't install a Foosball table for your team? 

This is going to be difficult to make sure your next job doesn't have poor management or something else you're not able to cope with. Maybe there are some telltale signs you've discovered in this job that you can recognize in the next. You should consider networking with other developers in your area and get some inside information on how various companies and teams operate. You may find that most have problems in one form or another, so why hinder your career by leaving a job too soon only to take another one that is just as bad. 

Although it is usually the final piece, there is more to accepting a job offer than just the salary.