There are a number of factors: As noted in the question, spreading out would make you less likely to be hit BUT it would also make it less likely that you would hit the enemy. Battles would take much longer, would tend to be less decisive and potentially end up as hand-to-hand engagements when both sides ran out of musket & cannon balls. Even with muskets, many battles hinged on a bayonet charge into the enemy, where the mass of soldiers is as big a part of the 'impact' as the sharp, pointy thing on the end of the gun barrel. So keeping the men together as a unit allowed a concentration of firepower at musket range and a heavier impact in the charge. Another factor is control. Most of the soldiers in these armies were not professionals. Keeping them going in the right direction (when they really want to be going in the opposite one) is far easier if they are marching together in ranks rather than spread out across the field. It also made identifying units easier for the commanders of the army so that orders could be given to the correct subordinates to get those units to the right place. 

I would disagree with Tom Au's answer. The first examples of "modern warfare" engagements where both sides expected to prevail in battle with ranged weapons took place a few months into the US Civil War. The key is the development of the rifle versus the musket. Prior to that, firearms didn't have an effective range sufficient to counter an infantry charge. The effective range of a rifle was just under 1,000 yards, so an advance of infrantry would need to "absorb" three or more volleys of accurate rifle fire before hitting the enemy line. The result was slaughter and stalemate. The English did have a period where their longbow was a superior weapon that neutralized lesser-equipped archers and crossbowmen, but people fighting the English did not expect to win battles with missile weapons. In fact, the main objective of someone fighting the English was to avoid the bowmen! 

The Wikipedia entry for the Oregon Trail has a section on deaths which gives an upper estimate of 21,000 (by all causes) out of a total of 400,000 emigrants. So the percentage of deaths based on those figures would be about 5%. The article itself quotes a figure of 4% based on a lower estimate of the number of deaths by John Unruh. The bulk of these deaths were from disease. Of course, the number of people travelling along the route may well have been greater since there would be people who made their living carrying and supplying the emigrants but who did not intend to settle in the west. Therefore, the death rate for all travellers on the route may have been even lower. 

Since the base unit of time is now defined as the second (minutes, hours and days, etc are all derived from it). The "current 24-hour day cycle" would have been defined as recently as 1997 when the S.I. definition of the second was last changed.. 

All of this stuff created a scenario where New York City became this dense concentration point or hub for wealth and trade. Until the later half of the 20th century, this proximity made the New York metro region a premier industrial center -- which further strengthened it's role as a financial center. 

The key thing to consider here is that Britain was a mercantilist empire, and colonies were a means to bolster the wealth and power of Britain the state as well as the monarchy as individuals. The real money in the colonies was made in the classic "triangle trade"; that is shipping slaves to the New World, sugar and rum to Europe, and manufactured goods back to the colonies. Traders were licensed and each European country had a monopoly on trade to its colonies. The climate in North America wasn't suited to sugar production, so hot market here was the Caribbean. North America was a backwater -- so much so that the French traded all of Canada to England for the island of Martinique, which was a huge sugar production center. So in the short-term, the financial losses, while significant, weren't that big of a deal. The biggest impact was the loss of sales of manufactured goods, as Americans could buy tea directly from China, goods from France, Spain or domestic sources, etc. Long-term, it was disastrous for England, as sugar declined in profitability compared to cotton-based textiles. Losing control of the colonies meant that the great mills of England in the 19th century would face competition from the mills of New England, and the US would compete globally on the sale of fabrics and goods for China purchased in trade. 

It seems to me that there are a number of variables to this, many of which would vary from beacon to beacon, so getting an 'accurate' transmission time for the information is going to be almost impossible. We know that the Spanish fleet were sighted by Captain Thomas Flemyng near the Lizard on the 19th July 1588 (State Papers relating to the Defeat of the Spanish Armada, NRS, Vol 1) but there's no clear record of where this information came ashore. In passing the information the following variables would determine the total transmission time (assuming that only beacons are used and that the 'message' itself travels between beacons at the speed of light). 

I'd say, from the partial emblem on the front, that the aircraft was part of the USAF 322d Airlift Division (Combat Cargo) in 1962-3. According to this article the "[322 Air Division] sent a squadron of C-130 Hercules to India just after the end of the 1962 hostilities with China". To give credit where it's due, @TomMcW & @Gerry on the Aviation board got the right aircraft. It was assigned to the 40th Airlift Squadron which was part of the 332d AD. The 40th AS, sent 12 C130s to New Delhi, India to aid the Indian armed forces, where they served for a year. 

It was likely a conversion from 3 19th century tenement rooms to an apartment compliant with later NYC building codes. NYC had city-specific building codes until 2008. That interior window may have been a door, or it may have been an interior window to provide some light to an apartment/room without access to natural light. (Yes, these existed.) My guess is that the window/door placement would have had something to do with where pipes for heat and water were located. Plumbing was a retrofit for these buildings. In some cases, staircases had to be modified or added as well. NYC has traditionally has had a shortage of housing, so people had/have a tendency to accept certain undesirable things that wouldn't fly in other places. Also, starting in the 20th century, NYC has a history of regulating certain aspects of apartment living to a much greater degree than other places. Controls were placed on rental rates, for example, which may have limited the renovation budget significantly. 

According to Samuel Johnson's "A Dictionary of the English Language" (6th Edition, 1785), there were two meanings of the word. 

I'd say that the original flaw in your approach was to choose the conclusion and then look for evidence to support it. Working this way leads to cherry-picking evidence that suits your conclusion (and, possibly, avoiding evidence that opposes it). As you've discovered, by picking an answer in advance, you can end up backing the wrong horse if your actual reseach leads to the alternative conclusion. The proper approach is to assemble all of the evidence first and then decide upon a conclusion based on the balance of that evidence. It might not always be the correct conclusion, because in some cases crucial evidence might be missing, but it's certainly a more professional approach. In the case of "what if...?" counter-factuals, it's always more complicated because the relationships of cause and effect aren't always obvious or even identifiable. That's one of the reasons that counter-factual questions are off-topic here, they result in too much speculation over fact.