What you really want to do is abandon the city, where all the people were and hence all the zombies now are, and go out into the deep countryside where the people weren't and hence there aren't any zombies. If you want to build a wall around a city after a zombie apocalypse, it's to keep the zombies in not out. 

and that's just the equipment. Nor do you have to feed and house them, you don't need complex medical facilities, there are no families back home to house on bases or pay pensions to. As soon as these things become combat viable, at that price, there'd barely be a pair of human boots on the ground below special forces. What you're missing is that these wouldn't be 50k, they'd be 500k to 1500k at best and still be considered a bargain. 

Now this government can maintain control quite effectively, but we would align it with Soviet Russia or DPRK rather than with Western freedoms. The trial needs to be public, the evidence shown, and a jury of his peers to make the call. Unless of course, totalitarian oppression is the effect you're looking for, in which case go for it. Guilty of murder, or something else In terms of what he could do to prove himself innocent, consider the various degrees of murder, manslaughter, death by misadventure, death as a result of gross negligence, death caused by self defence. There are many ways and many reasons why it may or may not be murder. An absolute statement of the actions taken, does not take into account the intent behind those actions. "Murder" is defined by both intent and action, not action alone. The jury must be shown that murder was planned for such a conviction. 

With populations as high as 500,000 you could be looking at something that's more post-post-apocalyptic than true post-apocalyptic. It's down to population density and whether you've passed crisis point and moved back into redeveloping a civilisation. If the country is largely uninhabited and the people are in high concentration areas then you should have centralised criminal justice. This is very much the setup for the years of the bloody code in England, basically every crime was punishable by hanging but law enforcement (police on the streets) as you would currently think of it was unknown. Only Royals and Nobles are exiled as they have loyalty and duty to their country, peasants are worthless, hanging is quicker and cheaper and serves as a deterrent (it doesn't but that's another matter). While you probably want to avoid large numbers of executions, it's a risk of the type of autocracy that's liable to develop should a small number of people be allowed to accumulate wealth and power. If the country is basically settler enclaves, very low population density and decentralised then you have three punishments available. All applied by local justices (or lynch mobs): Stocks, Banishment, Execution, in order from low to high severity. 

All of them, including the goats and chickens If you've ever been attacked by an angry hen you'll know it's no laughing matter. It's a hard life in the tunnels, they don't venture out into the daylight much but that doesn't stop murderhobos from wandering in in search of treasure and other easy pickings. Goblins are short, nasty, and violent, just like their lives. They live permanently on the edge of survival. Every fight they get into is a fight for survival and everybody fights. They're not known to die of old age because almost always something gets them first. Whether the marauding "adventurers" from the outside or something even more horrible from the deeper darkness of the tunnels they live in. 

The reason this wasn't mentioned in the previous post apocalypse vehicle questions is that lubricating grease and oils are a very old concept and relatively easy to reproduce in perpetuity. Between animal fats, like lard or whale oil, and vegetable fats, peanut oil, olive oil or otherwise, you should be able to come up with a selection of weights of oil and grease that will comfortably do the jobs you need. While it may not be the 10W-40 that you're after, it'll be close enough and good enough to do the job and keep you on the road for a good few more years. Whales have a selection of different weights of oil, depending on what you manage to catch. If you're not in a coastal position where you can go whaling, pig fat will do nicely for a heavy grease, and peanut or olive oil can be used for lighter oils. The reason I always recommend finding an old diesel vehicle at this point is that any oil of approximately the right weight can also be burned as a diesel fuel substitute and the cruder old vehicles are much less sensitive to fuel quality. They often had fuel pre-heaters which allows a greater margin for error on fuel. 

I hate to say this when you've put so much thought into the question, but basically by ignoring the matter. Unless you've equipped these robot officers with marijuana detection sensors, they're going to be less effective on the street and unable to run a complex investigation. The average idiot on the street being pulled over for running a red light or being over the speed limit might be more likely to get in trouble, but robots probably won't suffer from prejudice and, unless programmed to, will probably not profile people. This means that the rate of casual malicious enforcement is likely to drop. When told to random sample, they will pseudo-random sample, they won't randomly sample all the Arabs or Africans, they won't randomly sample everyone with dreads. But the real professional criminals? That needs high level decision making, cross force communication, international co-operation. Investigative skills, human contact skills, and usually a great big load of luck. Robot law enforcement aren't going to be interacting with real criminals. 

Which meant that if one god had created it, whether the other could destroy it or not was irrelevant, they wouldn't be allowed to try. 

It's a jurisdictional nightmare. Ra stopped talking to Apollo 2000 years ago after an argument about who got a sacrificed goat from an Island right on the handover point without specifying which sun god it was for. We're lucky the sun doesn't fall out of the sky some days. Luckily the dead are more easily dealt with, they just go where they expect to, hard luck for some of the Catholics but most people come out alright. Why would the gods take the time to judge when Bacchus is holding a party up on Olympus, the mortals should just be grateful they got to the end of their lives without being turned into swans. And those thundergods, a bunch of primadonnas the lot of them. You should see what happens when Zeus crosses the line into Jupiter's territory, the sparks really start to fly then. 

To bring that down to a "reasonable" or at least survivable, 30g, means you need a "gun barrel" of at least 200km in length, megastructure is definitely the right word here. Economically, building this could be ruinous, as could running it. I'll leave the energy calculations to the reader as target speed has not been stated but you can probably assume efficiencies of 10-25%. There's the typical minimal safety involved in any crude space travel, you hope to miss, because if you hit your monument is going to be a large crater. However reaching your target to metre accuracy is just a matter of maths and if you can make the launcher work, it's reasonable to target that well. However, and it's a big however, you're effectively trying to thread a needle by tying the thread to a bullet and firing at it from across the room. It might work, but you're more likely to leave a big dent in the plasterwork unless you're really good. Actually making it make sense The basic concept has some advantages, the "ships" can be basic pods, much cheaper and simpler than a self contained interplanetary vessel. More of the mass and volume are dedicated to cargo. If you can make the launch system efficient enough you could possibly work out an economic model under which it makes travel commercially viable. (You can't in practice as end to end has to be effectively free, but never mind that.) Space traffic control is a nightmare, this is a model that requires a much higher traffic flow rate than any self contained vessel. Remember that for a single ship travelling under its own power, the cost is the same, whether for the first ship or the hundredth. For this system, the massive up front cost means that the effective overall cost comes down for each subsequent launch. It's a 200km long structure, it cost a vast amount of money, you have to get a traffic rate that makes it cheaper than single launches. 

Sex and Death The young men of any group are liable to put it about a bit given the chance. Sowing a few wild oats as it was known. Given that they're sowing them among the peasant class there's no point taking action to prevent a half-breed now and again. It's not important what sort of trouble the peasants get into and it's easy to pay them off. It just so happened that one young man of high family, having sown a couple of oats in his youth, then failed to have any surviving relatives after (insert war, plague, child mortality, or other suitable disaster) and the only descendant remaining to inherit the vast wealth of the family was an illegitimate half-caste. You now have someone with massive wealth and status and a questionable background with the power and position to make others question their position. If they don't marry this person into the group then the wealth and power moves to the "lesser" group which still upsets the status quo. It ultimately brings us to a simple situation especially among the impoverished upper class 

Cost effective ones Individual targets are assigned a value. Officers by rank most likely, enemy mages would also high be high value. Officers would be wearing the same uniforms as the men, a change that happened slightly behind the invention of accurate sniping, so spotting them is going to be hard. Senior officers might not even be on the field, relying on relayed communication for commands and intelligence. Other high value targets of opportunity 

An old, geologically stable world, where the mountains have eroded down. Land is low lying and either swampy, jungle/forested, desert or coral island, with floating ice caps at both poles. 

Athena was the goddess of the just, controlled, tactical war. Politicians might call on Athena when sending the army to war, but the soldiers know that on the field they'll find only Ares. Place your offerings as appropriate and pray that he's on your side. Perhaps this is a side role of the god of justice, execution is after all a standard acceptable method of punishment in most religions. Though perhaps you want Adikia the goddess of injustice to aid you, because you know you're in the wrong but you still want to be rid of your rival. *It's semantics, a legal technicality. The difference between judicial execution and a revenge killing is the judicial part, the bit where society approves the action. War could be said to be government sanctioned mass murder. It's just point of view. 

Unfortunately (at the time the paper went to press) it's still entirely theoretical, nobody has built one to test. 

The planet would naturally be so hot that when colonised a solar shield was put in on the day side and a mirror on the night side to allow control of the amount of light and heat the planet received. Technically the day* would be cold and dark and the night** light and warm. *as defined by the face of the planet towards the star **as defined by the face of the planet away from the star 

Whether you follow up from these options or others, the primary triggers will always be social and psychological. 

Submarines Self contained airtight vessels for the carrying of human occupants While Aristotle said Alexander the Great used a diving bell in the 4th century BCE, the first self contained submarine was built by Cornelis Jacobszoon Drebbel in 1620 based on a William Bourne design from 1578. This submarine was only able (in possibly exaggerated tales) to submerse to around 4-5m, meaning in wasn't able to withstand the minimum of 1atm of pressure difference to survive orbit (1atm at around 10m depth). It was also designed to keep water out rather than air in. There was a combat suitable Russian design in 1720 that could be the first we'd recognise today as a proper submarine, but again the navy didn't take it on. This gives us a time period for the earliest reasonable airtight vessel 1620-1720 Movement in space Riding the firework Fireworks have been around since the 7th Century. All you have to do is turn them round, stick them to the outside and fire off small numbers to allow maneuvering. Leaving off the bit at the end that makes them go bang, which could be uncomfortable. They'll probably try this at least once, it doesn't work of course, it needs air. Compressed air You'll need to develop some sort of reaction drive system. Since compressed air systems have also been around since the 18th century, possibly much earlier, a gas powered system is not impossible. However the drive system is probably the hardest bit for us to consider at that time period as there are no suitable transferable technologiescitation needed. Orbital mechanics and re-entry Applied handwavium! The unobtainium that got us up here is keeping us up here and it's going to get us back down again as well. Since it handwaved all the way up, there's no reason to hit orbital speeds to stay up, this means that re-entry speeds aren't a problem since we never hit those speeds anyway. In conclusion Early 1700s, but they'd need to invent maneuvering thrusters.