The stages of an in between stage? Bardo is any in between of any arising phenomena. Look between what arises to experience it for yourself. Experience what is in between any experience that happens now. There is no in between of you now. Maybe there will be in between between now and then or in between this life and the next life but that isn't what is, What is now. Is Bardo an arising? Are there sages that have come back from the Bardo to tell of stages? Are there common stages that have been experienced in the Bardo like there are common stages in Vipassana Meditation? 

Why be attatched at all? If one is attatched that means one won't let go or can't let go without suffering. If we don't want to suffer then we could practice the Buddha's teaching to be able to let go of what or who we hold dear without suffering when it is appropriate to let go. If we don't cling to family and friends that doesn't mean we don't love them or we don't like them. 

There is no self affected by karma. There is no self at all. Please, if you have a self then take it out and give us all the ultimate "selfie". 

Yes, this is a very Buddhist thing to say in a funeral. It sounds like a namarupa sort of thing. The form has changed but the name and memory(concepts of the deceased) stay the same. Concepts don't really die like with real ultimate moment by moment things, they never existed to begin with in the experiential world. 

Unless we have great faith, we don't actually start with wanting cessation of Samsara. If we started out truly not wanting Samsara then we would be starting out almost enlightened, wouldn't we? We start out practicing because we want smaller attainments and realizations within Samsara(smaller than Nibbana) because we can only see things from the ego's point of view and to the ego, Nibbana looks very scary. At some point in our practice we drop our false ego view and can truly see deeply in our hearts why we should get out of this endless prison towards freedom from suffering. A little correct meditation practice will show that a little of the Buddha's teaching is in harmony with a little of the meditator's meditation experience and so the meditator gets a little faith in the rest of the Buddha's teaching that has only been read about. A lot of correct practice will result in a lot of the meditator's experience being inline with a lot of the Buddha's teaching and so the mediator gets a lot of faith in the rest of the teachings not yet experienced. 

How are laws and rules in harmony with the Dhamma? How are the laws and rules we make in harmony or in conflict with the Dhamma? How can one best practice Dhamma while also practicing law ,enforcing law or enforcing any rules? 

"If the Buddha said that we shouldn't take his teachings as dogma, but rather try to experience for ourselves what realization is--why should we study the scriptures?" The Buddha isn't saying his teachings aren't true. He wants his students to be objective, be impartial and not just believe the teachings because he is saying words. He want's his students to put the eightfold path into practice and see for themselves. Most people can't just spontaniously become enlightened. Everyone can't be as lucky as Krishnamurti. Have you heard of J Krishnamurti? If not, maybe you would like him. He is supposed to have had some kind of spontaneous enlightenment and after that he gave many speeches were he always strongly advocated no method, no path, no scriptures and no teacher. What Krishnamurti talks about is very similar to the Buddha's teaching but in in my opinion, Krishnamurti misunderstood what the Buddha's teaching is about, ironically. 

When we clearly understand the 2nd right view we see how futile it is to hold any view or opinion. Ghandi said, "Be the change you would like to see in the world". We can't necessarily hold ourselves apart from anyone else that might be causing suffering in the world, so we might as well search for our own soul over searching for somebody else's soul. Practicing the Buddha's Teaching is an effective way to save humanity in my opinion. I hope this helps :) 

The Buddha taught a handful of leaves but the amount of things he could have taught was like the amount of leaves in an entire forest . He didn't teach all these things he could have taught because none but the handful of leaves he picked could lead one to the transcendence of suffering. It's not about grabbing hold of a whole lotta teachings, It's about letting go of a whole lotta everything. Metta :) 

Isn't it a koan? I'm not sure if koans have definite answers. It probably means something like "there's no material status change after enlightenment. Enlightenment makes one ordinary". One with wrong view might think that if you win Nirvana you get a crown, a Ferrari and you never have to keep warm or drink water again. So if a Zen master ever heard a student talk like this they could say, "Before Enlightenment chop wood, carry water. After enlightenment chop wood, carry water". 

A lay person who becomes an Arahant must become a monk or they will die? Can anyone explain what this teaching means? Do they have to become a Buddhist Monk? Can they just leave the world and become a hermit? Could it be appropriate to just die and enter parinibbana? 

It would be wrong view not wrong speech if in fact they were wrong. Karma is not punishment it is cause and effect. There is no "post mortem", there is no death. All that there is is moment by moment awareness of mindbody experience. Also, you are forgetting that there is faith in Buddhism. It's an important faculty that needs to be balanced with wisdom. All the proof is found inside us, moment by moment. Nobody else can see this proof so those who's religion is science can't understand the concept of ineffable proof. If they can't go after the proof with tools in a laboratory then they believe this proof can't be real. The laboratory is the mind and why does proof need more than one person? So, it's not wrong speech for one to speak as though one believes in things that are wrong, it's wrong view but who says? Believing someone has wrong view or wrong anything, is a view, wrong view. All views and any views are **wrong views*_, ultimately. 

If one needs reality to be something else, that partiality will lead one to suffering however it is possible for one to act appropriately without needing reality to change. The more one practices what cultivates wisdom, the more one will make the appropriate decisions without partiality to the decisions one makes. 

A good response is one of good demonstrative right intention(or action). Then they might inquire further and if so, maybe tell them about some fundamental Dhamma. 

How can it be proper for a meditator who does not yet see reality as it is... ...to judge other people so easily? There is so much potential for subtle misuse of power, I mean I know I would be corrupted if it were me. Not grossly corrupted(hopefully) but subtly corrupted because I am unaware of my subtle transgressions. Even though I do say this out of ego I would hope that I am also saying it out of compassion for our admins. I am not trying to argue as I was hoping we might agree. If the admins think this causes too much fuss or arguing then the admins can react and censor this inquiry. My point is that we need admins, but a practicing admin, that seems like a contradiction but that is just my opinion. If it is appropriate for a practitioner to behave like some kind of police officer then please enlighten me on the reasons it is appropriate... ...or just take the easy way out and censor this question. 

We don't need to eat, we assume we need to eat. All concepts words, ideas, reason, logic are all human assumptions. Real experiential reality doesn't admit of any person's concepts. We don't have to ponder anything but naked reality. Just witness what arises and falls through your eyes, ears, tongue, body sensation, partiality, emotions and thoughts(just the thought not it's conceptual contents) and insights will come subtly and grossly. Naked reality, naked truth, naked experience, empty experience and many more sayings mean reality without our categorization of everything. It's experiencing what is in our awareness on a moment to moment basis. 

The noting shouldn't stop one from seeing things with bare awareness. One doesn't focus on the noting, one focuses on the meditation object. ...at what point does one dispense with the conscious labeling... If one isn't consciously aware of the noting then one will be unconsciously (un)aware of the noting. We note no matter what we do. When we need to listen, speak, read, write or study then it is more difficult to note consciously. Some don't note consciously in these situations but they do continue mindfulness of bare experience. I've never heard of an end to noting(conscious or otherwise) made by conscious effort or made by a non-volitional event. 

What matters is whether the lie teller has sinful intentions or not when telling the lie. The precepts where never meant to be mechanically followed because we read it in the Vinaya. The precepts are guidelines, not commandments. 

Where, on the internet, are motivational ebooks, blog entries or whatever that have concise motivating advice, excerpts, quotes and koans that might motivate one to practice? 

The correct practice of samatha meditation can temporarly bring peace and lessen the ego delusion. Metta is a samatha practice that can be very effective in greatly lessening anger temporarily and the ego delusion temporarily. The practice of vipassana will lessen the ego delusion slowly towards a permanent end to the ego delusion, over a long period of practice that can take a lifetime or lifetimes depending on the person practicing. There are many approaches and interpretations to the practice of samatha and vipassana. The best way to learn is with a good teacher. 

The Buddha never relied on text even to record his teachings but he did rely on direct insight to get his students to Nirvana. One can't reach liberation without direct insight. Text is very conceptual and of course the Buddha taught to transcend conceptual reality because it can't be relied on to give %100 truth but direct experience can be relied on as perfect truth. 

Maybe you can practice to be equanimous while writing about the philosophy. Philosophy can be a deep sankhara. 

The precepts were not created all at one time but instead they were created every time a problem arose like "monks drinking" for example. The precepts aren't commandments but instead they are simply statements that say: "If one behaves like X then Y will happen". In other words, drinking alcohol will lead to one's suffering. If one doesn't want to suffer then one can follow the 5th precept. Lay or monastic, if one drinks alcohol in moderation then one will suffer in moderation and if one drinks socially then one will suffer socially. 

Material(rupa) is ultimate reality in Buddhism. The mind(citta) is an ultimate reality too. Cittas come one by one very fast and each lasts for an extremely short period of time. The more we are mindful, the more we can see these cittas. If we aren't mindful, like most people(unfortunately), we can't see the individual cittas that make up our stream of consciousness or our mind stream very well because they blur together. It's not that "Conceptual Reality" is wrong, The entire Tipitaka is conceptual. Among the many purposes of the Buddha's teaching, is making us understand the difference between "Ultimate Reality" and "Conceptual Reality" because we usually just blur the two realities together. 

I have noticed that a lot of Mahasi practitioner seem to reach sotopanna very quickly. What is the difference from other methods of Buddhist Meditation and the Mahasi Method, relative to the apparent speed of attainment in the Mahasi Method? Maybe you think Mahasi style practice does not lead to these better results? If so, who, what, where, when and why do you think this? I hope this is an appropriate question but if it's not, that's ok :) metta PLEASE NOTE: I have, "doubts about such quick progress in the Mahasi Tradition, not pride" It appears, many assumed something else. My mistake, I should have been clearer.