I haven't done one of those big organized rides yet, but signed up for a local one in May (and a multi-day fundraising ride in September) and have volunteered helping out with some of that kind of ride before. Most basically, those events usually make it easier and let you concentrate on riding. 

If none of those things work to get the key out, you have to really defeat the lock. There are leverage attacks, but those are likely to break the bike. 

I would go with the undersized bike method as Sheldon Brown recommends. Basically, get a bike that's a bit on the small side (and has at least one brake lever) and remove the pedals (and maybe also the cranks), so that he can have his butt on the saddle (seat) and both feet firmly on the ground with knees slightly bent. That way he can run with the bike under him. You might be able to get a bike with a compact frame design (sloping top tube) and set the seat really low instead of having to actually start with an undersized bike. Starting out on a grassy surface would be a good idea, but a stretch of clear unoccupied pavement/asphalt (such as a parking lot) would work quite well, too. At first he'll just use his legs and slowly get a feel for how the bike moves and balances, but as he goes faster he should be able to pull his feet up from the ground for a longer and longer time. When he's comfortable with how a bike balances (able to coast and steer without keeping feet on the ground), put the pedals back on the bike. Might a good idea to have him wearing a helmet and gloves, and maybe also kneepads, but only if they don't make him more nervous. That way if there's any problems it might be less traumatic and more likely that he feels okay getting right back onto the bike. Any other protective gear would be overkill, you tend to catch yourself on your hands or hit your knees when you fall off of a bike. After he's got the balance right, even with the pedals on, probably good to move to teaching a proper mount and dismount so that you can set the seat at the proper height. On a cruiser or dutch style bike you can probably get away with keeping your feet on the ground when the bike is stopped, but in general you should mount by grabbing the brakes, putting one pedal at a 45ยบ angle forward and up, using the pedal to step up to get onto the seat (and to get your other foot onto the other pedal), and almost simultaneously release the brakes so that the bike starts to move forward. Dismount similarly (with brakes engaged and using one of the pedals to step off). There's a longer list of skills he'll need to learn before riding safely on roads, but balance, steering, mounting and dismounting is a really good start. Through all this, he needs to keep patient. The simple reality is that it takes a while because you're trying to train your body into modifying its reflexes a little (so that you steer into a fall to keep from falling to the side). If you try to think your way through balancing on a bike you'll fall over a lot because thinking is too slow, you need to retrain reflexes. 

For loose gravel, I believe what you want is big, wide tires that you run at a relatively low pressure. I don't think knobs will help much. The wider the tire, the more it will press the loose gravel down instead of pressing through it. If the gravel is pressed down it will tend to stay more in place. Also, if some of it shifts, a wider tire will be more likely to have grip on something that isn't shifting. I don't think knobs would help unless the gravel's fine enough that the knobs are larger than the gravel pieces: they'd tend to push the pieces of gravel out of place just as you roll over them, which isn't what you want to have happen. And unless the gaps between knobs are the size of the gravel pieces or larger the knobs won't really grab onto the gravel pieces, either. Probably don't hurt much, though, especially if they're more to the side of the tread pattern. Take into account that you'll always have an upper traction limit of the gravel's friction against the gravel under it, which can be quite low, especially with smooth rounded pebbles that can roll over each other. 

Note when shopping that a good rack is going to run you $50-$200 (and you want a front and back, so a total of two racks) and good panniers seem to run $100-$200 for a pair (and you may want two pairs). If a bike comes with good racks and costs more it may actually work out cheaper for you. In general, you may want to look for bikes that have 26" wheels instead of 700c wheels. Since you're 5'4", fitting the larger wheels on a bike involves some frame geometry compromises. Also, if you're planning to do touring in other countries, apparently the 26" wheel size is easier to find in Asia and south america. Also consider having the shop replace the stem and handlebars to get the fit right for you. You may find that the bikes come stock with handlebars that are a little too wide for you and a little too far forward to reach comfortably. (however, fit is tricky since there's a lot of details and height isn't enough) Touring bike There's a lot of sub-variants in the general touring bike category, so not all meet these descriptions 

The cable routing is different. Ultegra is designed to allow both cables to route along the handlebar (instead of that cable sticking out the side of the brake lever like on Sora), to give you a cleaner look and less chance of the cable getting in your way. Ultegra is higher quality than Sora. It should shift a bit better, or at least go more miles before it needs adjusting to shift perfectly again. It should last longer. Ultegra is basically the same as Shimano's absolute top of the line (Dura Ace), except a bit heavier. If you're shopping around and looking at any other bikes, you may also want to consider Shimano 105. 105 is basically the previous generation of Ultegra without any carbon fiber. 

32mm to 35mm is a small change. It's not going to make a huge difference in ride quality and because it's a small change, any bike that comes with 32mm tires is very likely to handle 35mm tires with no difficulties. The 7.2FX and 7.3FX are the same frame, but a different fork. It's hard to be sure from the online description, but probably also the same brakes. The wheels are different, but it's a small enough tire size change that it's not a problem. All the geometric specs are identical for all sizes between the two models. If the 7.2 works with a 35mm tire, the 7.3 will almost definitely work with the same 35mm tire on the rear, and very likely work with the same 35mm tire on the front. A 35mm wide tire should be 1.5mm wider on each side than a 32mm tire, and will have a similar increased outer radius. 1.5mm is the thickness of a US penny (or a smidge more than the thickness of a dime), so you can use a couple dimes to measure. Is there at least 2mm of room on each side (and top) of the tire where it passes through the top of the fork? Same amount of room or more where it passes through the brakes? That's the most likely problem areas here. Double-check the back if you're still worried: is there 2mm clearance around all sides of the tire where it goes through the brake, where it goes between the seatstays, where it goes through the chain stays and where it gets closest to the seat tube? If all those check out, then you're in the clear. If it's a close call, you'll just have to try it, or go into the shop and ask them to help you see if it'll work. 

A properly fitting saddle. In particular, there's a lot of problems with people wanting too wide and too soft a saddle, which tends to squeeze up into the more delicate areas you want to protect and to rub against the skin there more, making things worse. In other words, go with a smaller, harder saddle than you intuitively think you might need. Don't go for a totally hard saddle unless you'll always be wearing padded shorts, but you only need a very little padding, as your body already provides some padding if you're properly seated on your sit bones. Basically, the back part of the saddle should support you via your sit bones, and the front part should make it easy to keep the sit bones there. Problems with your privates are likely due to pressure on the perineum; proper saddle angle will help immensely with that, and you may find that a saddle with a cutout in that area will help. Many people swear by leather saddles, such as Brooks. Smooth underwear, preferably that doesn't hold onto moisture. This is half of what good bike shorts do, but if you pick underwear that doesn't have seams in the areas affected by friction and is fairly slippery, that can help a lot. You could even wear bike shorts (with or without a pad/chamois) as your underwear. A material like some of the new breathable polyesters will probably be better than, say cotton. Lubricate. There's products ("chamois butter") made specifically for it, but some simple skin moisturizer or petroleum jelly is something you might already have in the house that will help. 

Larger wheels have lower effective rolling resistance. That is, they roll over obstacles more easily and smoothly because the larger diameter doesn't allow them to fall into gaps as easily. Which means on actual roads you'll roll more easily with a larger wheel. Everything else is much smaller differences. However, I think the angular momentum may work out about the same: at the same speed, a bigger wheel will have a lower rpm than a smaller wheel. And the ratio of the difference in rotation speed is the same as the ratio of the the angular momentum. To put it another way: I'm too lazy to work out all the math, but I think the angular momentum cancels out and you get the same linear momentum regardless of wheel size. (and having the same linear momentum is an intuitive result. If you're going 15mph, relative to you the bottom of the wheel is going 15mph back, the top 15mph forward, the front 15mph down, the back 15mph up. Relative to the road it's 0, 15, 15 and 30. All independent of wheel size) Constructing a larger wheel will generally require slightly more mass and might therefore slow your acceleration slightly. Also, all else being equal, a larger wheel is geared higher and may give you a higher top speed.