It is a good idea to remove earwax in order to protect your earphones or to not gross out other people. However, you only need to clean the ear for this, and not the ear canal, and you should certainly not use Q-tips. While excess earwax buildup can cause wax blockage, the more common cause of wax blockage is people pushing the wax deeper into the ear canal when cleaning their ears with Q-tips. In other words (from the "prevention" section from the NIH page linked above), when you clean your ears 

Which means that on average 17.0% of accidents occur on Mondays or Fridays, respectively. There is a very similar trend in construction, using data from the Occupational Health and Safety Agency (OHSA), as shown in the Master thesis by Ashwini Bhide from Ohio State University (p. 33). Note that there is no normalization regarding hours worked, and the author states that "It could be due to the obvious reason that the rate of construction activity decreases on the weekends. The high rates (20%) on Tuesdays and Thursdays could not be explained." 

tl;dr Influenced by? Yes. Mainly/truly/only based on? Nope. Islam did not miraculously pop into existence (ok, to some extent it may have), but it was heavily influenced by pre-existing religions. This includes the name of Allah (Muhammad's Father's name includes Abd Allah, servant of god), which was the name of one of the deities worshipped in Mecca, and which is etymologically related to Elohim (one of the names of the old testament god) according to the OED. The moon symbol also predates Islam, though its use on flags has only been traced back to the 12th century, and it was also associated with the Mithras cult, a variant of which is also known for its similarities to Christianity (link to a site that suggests Christianity is basically Mithraidism with a new name). Importantly, the moon was not a symbol of early Islam. Thus, the claim that Islam is based mainly on a moon worshipping cult becomes difficult to defend, unless one would assume that the most holy symbol of the religion was somehow kept secret from everybody else for several hundred years. While it will be difficult to deny that Islam was influenced by the prevailing thoughts and religions of the time, it is wrong to claim that "in reality", Islam is a pagan religion. The reality of religions are based the beliefs of the adherents, and if Muslims believe that theirs is fundamentally an Abrahamic religion, then that's their reality. Using the history of religion to make claims about the "validity" is just trolling. Two more links for your reading pleasure (ok, only the second is a pleasant read): 

The verifiable facts: On Feb 1st, 2017, the "Costa Rica Star" reported that a school district in San Diego performed a sweep which arrested 400 in connection to sex trafficking, featuring a cropped picture of this photo. San Diego released a press statement on Feb 1st 2017, indicating that "Operation Reclaim and Rebuild" resulted in 474 arrests state wide (California) with 28 children rescued and 27 adults rescued. The breakdown was 

It was posted as a flyer, initially reported as seen on 18 Mar, 2016 on social media. It has a long distance phone number to Ohio, when the sting was operational in California. The San Diego press releases have indicated twice they found their victims online, by posting online ads. This is incompatible with the idea that the sting operation was a follow up to posted flyers. The posted flyer in question was reported nearly a year before the sting operation. Such a delay in investigation is possible, but highly unlikely. 

NASA has been asked this question before, and they cannot confirm that the Voyager was launched with Scapa Flow sourced steel; but, the story behind why it might have been included is interesting (although it seems like a chain of possibilities rather than proof that any such thing happened). The process of making steel involves superheating metal with forced-air blown furnaces. The air post-1945 is contaminated with trace radioactive elements. For some very sensitive types of equipment, like Geiger counters, the contamination from the furnace air sufficiently taints the steel, giving the steel a slight radioactive quality. The Scapa Flow scuttled fleet is a large amount of pre-1945 steel, and it is cheaper to rework it than to create steel in a scrubbed environment. However, the air of today is not as contaminated as the air of 1946. Today, there are many batches of steel produced which is of suffienctly low radiation that they can be used without the need to salvage ancient battleships. In addition, the Scapa Flow have mostly already been scrapped. The source of cheap Low Radiation steel by salvage operation has some sources indicating that Scapa Flow was mostly salvaged back in the 1930's although some steel was still being salvaged as late as the early 1970's. Finally, many of the space craft and space craft components are not sensitive to low levels of background radiation. There are many examples of space craft made with modern steel. The Voyager space craft did not launch with Geiger counters. One page details the sensors: television cameras, infrared and ultraviolet sensors, magnetometers, plasma detectors, and cosmic-ray and charged-particle sensors. In addition, the fuel for the craft is a radioisotope, which would complicate shielding should a Geiger counter be required. While it is still possible that the craft was made with low background steel, it seems highly unlikely: 

Or said a bit differently: don't use anything smaller than your finger in your ears. And if you're really one of the people that build up so much ear wax that you get blockage even without abusing Q-tips: 

If we split the EU into three groups (low, medium, high percentage of women in legislatures), then they're topping the bottom half of the low group. Really, in whichever way you turn this, the US looks bad - unless the US strives to be totally average (i.e on the level of Venezuela and Turkmenistan; also, I mean median here) in terms of representation of women in legislatures. 

This is a misrepresentation of the issue. What naturalnews.com asks is more similar to requiring that if Kellogg comes out with a new formulation of cereal, they need to test whether wheat flour is fit for human consumption. What needs to be tested by the FDA? The FDA tests new food additives 

This has recently been supported by Egholm et al. (2009). Glacial effects limiting mountain height. Nature 460:884, who do a more large-scale analysis. The abstract of this paper which summarizes the above much better than I do: 

There have been deaths following chickenpox vaccination, though the rate of death is 10-fold smaller than for chickenpox itself (0.15 in 100,000 vaccinations), and whenever an autopsy has been performed, it was found that the cause of death was from wild-type chickenpox virus, rather than from the vaccine, and that the patient had undiagnosed cancer or other complications (source: Wise RP, Salive ME, Braun MM, et al. (2000). "Postlicensure safety surveillance for varicella vaccine". JAMA 284 (10): 1271–9.; make sure to read the reports in Box 1) 

I'm decent at reading research papers, and the real proof won't come until it is properly peer reviewed; but, really it won't even come then. Many papers which are peer reviewed should never have been passed, and sometimes even junk gets published. To me, this seems to be an interesting observation, but one that doesn't survive the slant of self-bias. It might be true, but the paper doesn't seem to prove it. To prove it, I would prefer: 

Scapa Flow salvagers know the value of Low Background Steel. They are happy to detail the applications. Sensors are a primary application. Space is the coolest place they are deployed. Voyager has sensors (but the are not the sensors that require this steel) and is deployed in space. The similarities between points 3 and 4 are enough that a person will make the mistake of correlation of a hypothetical situation with a real world event to conclude that the hypothetical situation occurred as it was a requirement; when in fact it wasn't a requirement for many other reasons. 

Fruit flies were one of the key organisms to cracking the sleep cycle. They have a fond spot in my heart, because I started real lab work (as opposed to student lab work) in 1989 with D. Melanogaster. Doubletime (fruit fly mutations have a history of colorful naming) flies tended to have abnormal circadian rhythms associated with the loss of normal DBT protein kinase activity. This interacts with the Period protein PER such that the balance between the two shift regularly in conjunction with circadian rhythms. The research was generally know back in 2006, (pg 56), and some of the work was done as early as 1998. The state of the art has probably progressed since then; but, the biochemistry of the circadian rhythm is known in fruit flies, and is known to have nearly identical analogues in humans. An loss of DBT in conjunction with the light induced buildup of caspase DRONC can lead to higher concentrations of DRONC in the cytoplasam. DRONC promotes cellular death, and can cause reactions in the cell that are similar to those found in Alzheimers (TAU buildup). A likely regulator of DBT is known (one has been discovered called "spaghetti" or SPAG). SPAG has a role in the aggregation of HTT (Huntingtin) a protien associated with Huntington's disease. Also a starvation of PER or TIM in fly larvae lead to 100% death for DBT-P (allele P of the DBT gene), where the proteins were destroyed by light exposure in larvae carrying these mutations. So two major neural degenerative diseases located in close proximity biochemically, a promoter of cellular death is related to light exposure and sleep, and a misstep in the gene can induce light triggered death. I would say that it would be possible to die biochemically from lack of sleep. However, there are many failure modes that might create "lack of sleep" and it is highly unlikely all "lack of sleep" scenarios would be lethal. DBT activity is related to far more than just sleep. It impacts 13 unique biological processes, including psycho-stimulant pathways. This may mean that lack of sleep may trigger other causes of death indirectly, even at a biochemical level. As for whether the "stress" is a factor outside of the lack of sleep, in science, there are many who feel that "stress" is used as a blanket statement to cover non-specific scenarios; much in the same way that nobody really dies of "old age" but the number of contributing factors to death in the old are great enough that a comprehensive examination of "root cause" is often not possible or practical. 

Since the answer of Ilya Melamed also discussed military violence against Palestinians, it is worth pointing out that military information is classified, soldiers are not allowed to speak about their experiences. There is however an organization, Breaking the Silence, that collects hundreds of testimonies from Israeli soldiers, most of them anonymously. There are also non-anonymous testimonies, including video testimonies of soldiers commiting war crimes. There are testimonies of unjustified killings that never got investigated. Also, the rules of engaement the soldiers are subjected to are classified. As such, it is very hard to figure out for the public whether an israeli soldier killing a Palestinian did so within the rules he or she is subjected to, or not. 

It is certainly not legal for settlers to shoot Palestinians, and if a settler is found to do so, he or she will be tried under Israeli law. The question is how strong enforcement is. The settlers are in an area that has never been annexed to Israel. I will use the term settler for all Israeli civilians living outside the armistice lines of 1967 and outside Jerusalem, which has been annexed by Israel. In particular, this includes people living in outposts that are not considered to be legal by Israeli law. Since settlers are outside the area annexed by Israel, they are formally subject to military law. In effect, by a regulation enacted in 1967, Israeli citizens are subjet to Israeli law and Palestinians to military law. Here is an entry on the dual system of law on the homepage of the Israeli human rights organization B'Tselem. The enforcement of law against Israeli citizens is, with some exceptions, not done by the military but by the police. According to B'Tselem: 

Finally, this is a trope that continues to be raised. In 2015 large numbers of "firms recruiting teens for sex trafficking claims were raised", yet not one of the claims were substantiated or resulted in statement stronger than a few schools stating "some flyers for student work might be fronts for trafficking" These claims have failed to raise a single confirm-able case, but they did leave a trail which indicated that BuzzFeed may have paraphrased a Twitter parody account which was being believed as a real complaint as early as 2 June 2014. One of the claims puts text to an image of a letter from Vector the door-to-door sales organization that distributes CutCo Cutlery. Note that while the letter makes no claims about what sex you should be to apply, indicating you must be 17+, the caption distributed indicated it was "being sent to young women" from a group that was "drugging girls that show up to the interview". In short, it seems extremely unlikely that one would post a flyer to recruit; but, the story is good enough to keep coming back. For sex trafficking, there is already a large number of people who can be recruited that will not be missed (or at least won't be reported as readily as the average US school student would be reported if gone missing). 

As an aside, this report compiled for the parliament of Canada mentions how election procedures can help or hurt women (and other underrepresented groups): 

Mostly yes, but it depends. For fixed-message road signs, mixed-case outperforms upper-case, according to Garvey et al. (1997), Effects of font and capitalization on legibility of guide signs. Transportation Research Record 1605:73. In their introduction, they state that 

Summary: Chickenpox as a disease results in 2 deaths per 100,000 cases, and about 2,000 per 100,000 cases of complications. Chickenpox vaccine results in ~0.15 deaths per 100,000 cases (most of which turn out to be due to natural varicella, so the true death rate is lower), and about 67.5 per 100,000 cases of complications. Thus, for children, vaccination is safer than pox parties. However, dormant chickenpox virus from both vaccination or natural infection can cause shingles later in life if the immunity fades, and chickenpox re-exposure helps boost immunity. Thus, for adults who have had chickenpox or chickenpox vaccination, pox parties may have some benefit (though they would get a similar benefit from re-vaccination). Chickenpox is a usually mild infection, and children between 1 and 14 who get it, and who don't have troubles with the immune system, have cancer, or are taking steroids, have an excellent prognosis (source: Medscape) 

Summary The FDA requires toxicology and allergy tests for GM foods for human consumption before the product can be sold in the US (similar mechanisms are in place in the EU as well). If some of these tests have already been made in a different context, the FDA does not require repeating the animal trials, since that would be pointless killing of lab rats. Clinical trials are for medication, not for food, though new food additives (as well as other substances, such as pesticides) may be tested on humans for potential allergic reactions. Details on the original claim Clinical trials are performed for new medication in order to test whether they provide a significant benefit compared to placebo and/or to existing medication. GM food is not medication. Therefore, Monsanto is not required to run clinical trials on GM food. However, they cannot claim GM food cures cancer, either. Toxicity tests are performed for food and medication, and are performed on animals, usually rats. A toxicity test aims to determine LD50, the dose (relative to the specimen's weight) at which 50% of the animals die (which is why you don't perform this on humans). The safe dose for humans is then determined as "much less than LD50". Once an LD50 is known, it is possible to test the substance at realistic dosage in humans to see whether they may have an allergic reaction. Toxicology studies on BT have been done, and the protein has even been tested in humans, when the product was being tested as a pesticide for organic farming. BT turns out to be harmless in humans. Since the BT protein is indeed the same between what is produced by bacteria as organic pesticide, or by GM crops, Monsanto may indeed not have had to do any toxicology testing on GM food. 

The article detailing this specifically mentions operative in the "streets and online". Where they make explicit description of police personnel using the internet. The day prior, an inital press release was performed. In that release "Operation Reclaim and Rebuild" was detailed to have worked by the technique, "Fake ads were posted online offering sex for money, and when the buyers showed up to make the transactions they were met by law enforcement." Two people on social media suggested that this poster might be related to sex trafficking, without corroboration beyond their suppositions (based on the minimum age, and indication that transportation would be provided) However, both the people are from Ohio, not California, and one makes claims of documenting a note from a third unnamed parent who "witnessed" a phone call that almost got their 14 year old, but when called back the man was angry with them and yelled at them then hung up. (I would be too if I was accused of sexual trafficking). The complaints are registered at a robo-call tracking site, which would be slightly odd to robo-call if you're phishing. I don't know if the poster was ever used for sex trafficking; however, it certainly wasn't used in conjunction with the statewide California "Operation Reclaim and Rebuild" announcement for two reasons. 

Yes. The demonstration of this fact is actually a famous anecdote in the history of statistics. Ronald A. Fisher, one of the towering figures in the history of statistics, gave the case as an example in the second chapter of his book The Design of Experiments (1951), without mentioning it being based on a true story. Some references can be found on the Wikipedia page for Lady tasting tea. A detailed description of the experiment can be found here, where one can find the following account from R. A. Fisher: The Life of a Scientist (1978) by Box: 

Has social security characteristics of a Ponzi scheme? The answer is certainly yes. In a pay-as-you-go (PAYG) system, there is a constant flow of new people financing social security. There is an implicit debt that never gets payed back. Are there legitimate reasons why social security works differently from a "usual" Ponzi scheme? The answer is again yes. The problem with Ponzi schemes is, as was pointed out on the SEC page, that one runs out of contributors eventually. In a PAYG system, a government can force people to contribute and the time scale is such that new contributors get actually born. This guarantees a constant inflow of new money, especially when the economy is growing. Of course, it could still be possible that this inflow is insufficient. But a PAYG system can, theoretically, allow for more consumption for everyone. This point was made in the very influential paper An Exact Consumption-Loan Model of Interest with or without the Social Contrivance of Money (1958) by Paul A. Samuelson, that created the standard framework for economists discussing social security, the so called overlapping generation models (OLG). It should be noted though that this is a theoretic possibility. Is social security sustainable? This question is actually much less clear than it seems to be. The real issue is what menu of sacrifices allows for social security to be sustained in which form. This includes changes in how much gets payed in and how long, and how much gets payed out. Since the time span is very large and effects of growth, demographics and other factors matter over a long period, exact answers are not possible. Something that one should bear in mind is that any change of the system will bring a transition cost that has to be borne by someone. Also, valuing accumulated social security benefits involves highly nontrivial economics.