In the code of Hammurabi, one of the first laws put forth was "an eye for an eye." We've come a long way since those times both as a society, and in terms of making laws - as well as the ability to provide justice, yet, the idea(s) of equal punishment for a crime still is seen as a valid point. Why? 

Oftentimes when doing research and I need a specific term, I use a dictionary definition to "set the groundwork" for the entire paper. Google "what is a person" (with or without quotation marks) comes up with some results. Filter for your use. 

Take for instance you are able to go back in time and have one of the worst leaders in history killed him/ her before they came into power, thus eliminating the atrocities they committed. Or see atrocities being committed, kill them to stop them. The fact that you did this evil thing (killing) becomes a good thing. On the other hand can something be so overwhelmingly good/ perfect, but implemented or enacted in such a way that it is evil? At day's end are these labels of good and evil just manifestations of our own viewpoint? How do we know the difference? 

philosophy is defined as the study of the fundamental nature of knowledge, reality, and existence, especially when considered as an academic discipline. Different philosophies examine how we should live our lives, including how we should structure our laws. Democracy, on the other hand is defined as a system of government by the whole population or all the eligible members of a state, typically through elected representatives. Do the actions of the populace in agreeing to live (usually) peaceably in a democratic society and the problems associated with the system count as a type of philosophical statement (even if it's not a conscious choice of the people so involved) 

But then what you'll discover (if you do bother moving from a formally unproblematic argument to engaging real-world physics) is that you're missing several parameters related to hittability, and these factors seem to be behind your intuition. Third, an important unresolved ambiguity is that your original argument does not make clear whether you are specifying that hittability is only a function of these two factors or whether hittability is a function that includes these two factors. 

First off, the similarity is that in several dialogues such as Meno and Euthyphro, a key question is "What is justice?" or "what is piety?" Thus, on a certain definition of "terms," one might think Socrates (Plato's Socrates) would be sympathetic to the idea that wisdom is about defining terms. But the devil is in the details here. The things Socrates thinks we need clear knowledge about are not terms but ideas. Idea in the Platonic vocabulary has a special meaning relating to Plato's Forms (the two can be thought of as largely synonymous). For Plato, justice and piety are not mere terms -- instead they are things that have an eternal absolute certain definition that stands above the divided line of the Republic. These forms are in early dialogues things that we as mere humans don't seem to know but in later dialogues are something we need to be brought to recollect and have knowledge of from before. Moreover, things in the world are flawed copies of these forms -- not phenomenon to which we assign terms. To reiterate, Plato thinks we need clarity on the forms which are not mere terms. The distinction is important in part because Plato's metaphysics centers on these forms and it is precisely at this point where Aristotle differs in having a hylomorphic (rather than solely transcendental) essences. In the west, it is not until late medieval philosophy (Ockham and Buridan) that we get a dominant view that looks at terms (=nominalism) rather than thinking there's objectively correct concepts we are looking at. 

Without any context of time, situation, or people involved, or any other situational variable is it possible to tell right or wrong, good or evil? Why/ why not? 

A renaissance man is a person whose interest is in everything. According to Encyclopedia Britannica it is a 

Throughout life there are many choices: do we eat something fast, or do we cook our own food? Do we skimp (or totally skip) healthcare/ dental coverage, or get regular checkups? Do we hookup with people, or do we have something steady with one person (or a few regulars)? Do we take the job that's physically demanding but pays well or the less demanding job with less pay? Do we cut corners to get a job done or do we work hard and ethically, even if it costs us more in the end? Each one of these choices is a trade-off. You might get fast food, but it's not healthy. We might save money on our health initially, but then come up with a disease that is severe but manageable, or something incurable (such as certain STDs) and so on. Even if it works for the majority, is it still right due to the consequences that need to be paid later on? Also, does the fact that we know that these habits are unhealthy play a factor in determining right and wrong? If so, what part? 

Here, I think there's more of an open question than "can 2000 people be tied for #1000" in terms of my valuing people. The less high up on the hierarchy there more obvious it is that there can / could be ties. But then it's hard to think of what specific philosophical resources one can use to look at this question. Here's some suggestions for possibly sympathetic views: 

Da-sein has no choice in any of this and just needs to figure out what it will do given this. For Heidegger, the answer is to be authentic about possibility #2 and understand our state in this way, accepting the limits of our existence... 

There's the converse: B → A There's the inverse: ¬A → ¬B There's the negation: ¬(A → B) There's the contrapositive: ¬B → ¬A 

Bonus -- evaluation. a conditional is true in all cases except when the left hand part is true and the right hand part is false. In this case, 

Anthropologists have some somewhat variant lists, but the gist is that to make a human society that survives it needs certain sustaining practices -- which could be seen as consequences of human intelligence. Second, there's Kantian and neo-Kantian accounts that take what unifies us as rational beings to be certain capacities which in the case of our sorts of beings enable us to follow moral rules. Christine Korsgaard has a pretty ingenious account where what makes us moral is that we are committed to certain values insofar as we are committed to action. Third, there are Aristotelian accounts of morality. The key here is that Aristotle thinks that humans and other rational creatures engage in the pursuit of ends. And that there are features of pursuing ends that will require us to behave in ways consistent with what we are and with the achievement of good function for ourselves and the attainment of our ends. 

In fiction (and in real life at times) people embrace the inner monsters (sometimes literal, sometimes figurative) to gain the power they need to defeat their foes, get to the next level, or grit through something they'd rather not do. If this is something that seems to work, why are we specifically warned against it? In any war, in any problematic situation where horrible things are happening, it can be impossible (or virtually so) not to use the selfsame tactics of those that oppose you. The saying goes "ALL'S fair in love and war" and even if you'll pay for doing it in the long run by being seen as a monster, by doing these horrible things (or at times even MORE horrible than those that oppose you), you'll have the satisfaction that you won, even though at day's end it was a morally a pyrrhic victory. But if you accomplish what you set out to do, sometimes it's worth it. But such things can't help but drag you through the soil of morality, dirtying you in the process. 

How do we really know that we (and everything else) wasn't created an instant ago, and everything we remember from the past is an illusion, a figment of our imagination to comfort ourselves from seeing and remembering the truth that all is not as it seems? 

In this day and age with modern medicine, the line between life and death are blurred, as the brain dead may act as if it's alive, and the alive, due to being comatose may be reposed as if dead. What does physicalism say about this blurred line of life and death? 

Coherence theory is relativistic, holding ideas are cultural and being truthful is just being good at moving these concepts around. Correspondence theory is inherently realist at its core. If you want a view that incorporates cultural differences but still accepts that there are matters of fact, then you're not advocating a coherence theory by force of the definition. Instead, you'er advocating some nuanced correspondence view. You could also believe there's facts (i.e. correspondence-possibility) in certain domains but not in others. Interestingly, this is basically the view the advocates who used the term "correspondence theory" under that name wound up with. 

A second potential point of confusion is that you're identifying things-in-themselves with noumenon. But this interpretation of Kant is problematic. phenomenon / noumenon is a pair of terms that refers to things-as-we-encounter-them and then on the side, certain types of things we cannot encounter, which seems to include the wills of other rational creatures, our own internal maxim, and other things that are not necessarily things-in-themselves. Thus, we need to consider the second point where they disagree and how best to word that. Here, I want to focus on 

Let's say we define a religion as something that has ritual communal practices and moral views. Let's say we define a philosophy as something which attempts to give a fundamental account of metaphysics and epistemology. On such a reading, it would seem to me some forms of Christianity (say catholicism) are 4. Some forms would be 2 (say faith healing pentecostalism). Some forms of philosophy would also be kind of religious (see for instance the Jesuit difficulties in understanding the Confucian practices they saw in China). Moreover, the groups that do "church" for atheists or even just have regular discussion sessions in a bar on the weekends about philosophy (but with a commitment to a singular viewpoint or to pure inquiry) might qualify as being both religion and philosophy on this definition. I suspect any resistance to this would be predicated on differing definition of "religion" -- which probably for some people means more like "believing idiocy" than having ritual practices.