Your employer is whoever pays your salary. Look at which company name appears on your salary statement. The case of supervisor is less clear-cut. It could be the person who approves your leaves, or the one who sets your annual goals and does the annual appraisal, or the one who assigns you tasks and checks the status. You may have to choose the person to list here depending on how the new employer want to use this data, so ask them. 

I too hate doing such stupid things at work, so I can certainly empathise with you. I am sure plenty of your coworkers feel the same way, and even the HR knows this! You can't expect 100% participants to be 100% excited about any event. Nonetheless, you should attend the event and demonstrate at least the bare minimum participation and excitement. Refusing to attend the event, or even worse, attending the event and not participating at all, will only make you stick out like a sore thumb, which won't do you any good. How I usually deal with such day-long annoyances events is to participate intermittently, that is, participate in one or two activities, then excuse myself for an hour or so, attend another one or two activities, and repeat. That is usually enough for people to notice that I participated, which works well enough for me. 

The NSR background verification process is described on their website. The information on this page and this page is relevant to your question: 

Wait until a few months after the new director takes charge. As someone with your level of experience certainly knows, each person has a different management style. Let the new director settle down for a while. See if he deals with the situation differently, for example, by reprimanding the "troublemakers" or by resolving the underlying issues that lead them to creating nuisance. Until then, keep away from their nuisance and keep the business moving along (by fixing their mistakes, or whatever else that is needed). It sounds from your description that you can bear with doing this for a while. Make sure to give an objective report to your new boss about all the major "fixes" and incidents. For completeness and clarity, let me also mention: do not complain to the new boss soon after he joins about the old issues. Your new boss doesn't know about the old baggage you are carrying so it makes you look like a whiner. How long you wait depends on your patience. If you run out of patience before you see improvements, or if things get worse under the new boss, then start looking for other options. 

Don't go telling people at your current job that you are looking for a new job. Hand in your resignation to your manager after you have received a confirmed offer, you have accepted the offer and the new employer has acknowledged that you have accepted it. Your choice of words "I have been headhunted" makes it even more weird. It sounds as though you were not really looking for a new job, but someone forcibly offered you one. Your concerns are all valid. If the company knows you will be gone soon anyway, there is little incentive for them to invest in you, by way of training or performance bonus. Technically, you could argue that the bonus was for efforts you have already put in, and you would be right, but good luck trying to convince the management to see it that way. 

Tell them what you have told us before they find out from other sources. You made a honest mistake and you have been in the industry for only a year, so most reasonable people would let it go if you own it up. Be prepared to lose the offer though, because everyone is not reasonable. To put you at a little more ease, I will point out the other option you have: don't tell them and pretend that you know nothing. That doesn't get you too far with this offer, because it will be easily caught in the background check. At that point, they may rescind the offer or at best, ask you to explain the discrepancy. If you explain the mistake then, they might carry the perception that you are just cooking up a story because you got caught. It is possible they might even believe your explanation, in which case, it would have been much cleaner to just explain in the first place. Long story short, in any scenario, owning up to your mistake doesn't lead to a worse outcome than pretending that you didn't realize your mistake. So go ahead and clear your conscience. For future reference, always get your resume proofread by an experienced person, or at least a peer. Good luck for the rest of your career! 

No, unless you are having some trouble carrying out the instructions (for example, you don't know where the database should be placed), in which case you should bring it to your boss' attention and do as he instructs. 

About your specific example of early vesting of retirement funds, the reason is somewhat counter-intuitive. Employees tend to resent employers who make it difficult to leave and usually take an earlier opportunity to leave, whereas they feel "empowered" if the employer doesn't put hurdles in their path, and stick around longer. In summary, every so-called employee friendly policy is actually employer friendly. Companies are out there to do business, business takes precedence over everything else. "Employee friendly" policies are just yet another business tactic. 

Generally speaking, you shouldn't put the names of your boss or advisor in your resume to begin with. Your resume should advertise who you are, not who your boss was. Of course, this doesn't apply in special cases, for example, if you were the Personal Assistant to a movie star or a politician. I have known that the culture in academia is different, and who you have worked with is given a lot more importance there than on the business side. If you are applying to jobs mainly in academia, this advice may not apply. 

The benefit of this approach is the manager doesn't think, "Oh, I see, he hated the team A work so much that he is complaining about having to continue supporting it." (By the way, the tone of the question posted here totally suggests that.) Instead it makes you sound like a responsible professional who doesn't just drop the ball and go home when the bell rings. You make it clear that you are concerned about the impact to team B, while at the same time, you continue to support your past teams. Demonstrating this attitude would be beneficial if/when you want to move from team B to team C in future. Moreoever, telling the manager that you don't want to support team A carries a serious risk of losing face if the manager already knew about it. It is not a very comfortable situation to be in if the manager responds with "I am afraid you will have to continue supporting team A." 

When there is a change in your role due to change in project requirement, work with your manager and get your goals updated. Thus, if you promised in January to develop software, but in April, you were required to take up project management responsibility, let the management be aware of this change, so that there are no surprises in December. Move into a role which is more aligned with your tastes. Every person has things they are good at doing, and not so good at doing. If you are not technically strong, but project management excites you more, then be a project manager, not a software developer who also does project management. 

Hate to put it so bluntly, but you are completely wrong here. Continuing from the above paragraphs, it is completely acceptable to seek help when you cannot handle a problem alone. You don't need to shoulder all the burden, let your manager deal with who can take your role, because that is his job. 

This is a decent conversation starter, and then from there, you could go into the specifics, such as the location (if it is outside the office premises), the duration of the party, the kind of food/drinks to be served, events to be organized, etc. However, this doesn't work so well if you don't have a fair rapport with your manager, so as an alternative, you could approach a senior colleague with some of these questions before approaching the manager for a more focussed discussion. In particular, it is helpful to get in touch with people who have organized the previous office parties. Beyond this point, you need to rely on your own creativity, and pull in other people to help as needed. 

Make it clear to him that if he still has any concern, he would need to raise them with you directly. If he says the issue has been resolved, you tell him the following: 

You are making a few assumptions, which may not be valid. It is also plausible that your senior colleague (let's call him John) has already read the critical information and/or the information is not as critical as you think. Being a Senior Developer, he probably knows better how to assess project requirements than you do. While being a senior doesn't imply that they can never make mistakes, I would be careful about making such an assumption. Hence, I would suggest that rather than telling him that you found some critical information, you ask him if the information is critical. 

1 The concept of "seniority" is significant in the Indian IT culture. Handing over the laptop to a "junior" or a peer could be seen as irresponsible. 

Your company most certainly has a policy against this kind of impersonation, which means both of you would be violating the company policy. Some companies are also known to perform "compliance auditing" by having a person of authority tempt an employee to violate a policy. If your manager is doing this as part of such an audit, then you would fail the audit. Moreover, your company has ruled that this exam is mandatory, and letting one person take exams on behalf of multiple people reduces that rule to a farce. The company probably has a good reason for making the exam mandatory, so bypassing that can create problems later. For example, the manager could be deputed to work for a client, and they assume that he has a certain level of competency in this subject, as seen from his score in this exam. 

You have an XY Problem here. You should avoid such prospective employers entirely, not try to figure out how to tell your current boss about your job search plans. From my several years of experience in the Indian software industry, such employers are never worth working for. Here's why: 

Most companies I have worked at have a so-called "need to know" policy for IT support staff. This means, for example, if I have an issue in sending email, the IT support staff would likely have to login to my email client or access my machine remotely, but he should only see what is needed to get the issue resolved, and not read my emails, etc. If he "accidentally" reads an email, he is not allowed to disclose its contents. However, as is usually the case, the company policy also had a rather verbose list of exceptions. For example, if the IT support staff accidentally read an email which described some illegal activity, then he was "allowed" to "see" it and report it. 

I recently came across an unusual issue, which I analyzed in some detail. I emailed my observations to a Senior Architect, something like this: 

Your resume should focus on your achievements. Hiring managers and technical leads can interview only a limited number of candidates. Your resume should convince them to invite you to an interview. The style and grammar are important, but they are just a means to achieve the goal, not the goal by itself. Quantifiable achievements enrich a resume more than a perfectly grammatical sentence. Your hypothetical example would look better as: 

Forget about it and move on. They have already given you a reason for rejection. While I agree with you 100% that the reason is lame, pestering them to tell you the "real" reason is highly unlikely to bear fruit and would just be further waste of your time. Moreover, as alroc says in the comment, if that is the real reason for rejection, you might have dodged a bullet here. If a company is so pedantic about the work experience, I wouldn't be surprised if they deduct a full day's salary because the employee put in 7h 59m of work instead of 8h, or took a lunch break for 30m 21s instead of 30m, and so on. 

Eh, no, there is definitely no such thing as "joint employment" here. The client pays the agency for (what, in this case, is) a service, and the agency pays you to provide that service to the client. The agency is your only employer, there is no employer-employee relationship between you and the client. You are a sub-contractor to the client, not an employee.