There would have to be some belief system, social mechanism, or other factor related to group identity that encourages very strong collective effort in order for people to be willing to exert themselves in that way for each other and for the good of the group as a whole. Conserving fossil fuel if you are green seems a contradiction because being green means you wouldn't use fossil fuel and therefore conserving it, which implies that it is valuable, wouldn't be an issue because it would be of little value. Perhaps some sort of ideological standard such as craftsmanship would suffice to encourage manual labor, in other words having the quality of being handcrafted or produced by one's own hands wood imbue items with higher value and similarly any other kind of effort might be viewed in the same way. On the other hand ideas such as greed or wantonness would have to be considered undesirable and unacceptable such that any form of automation or competitive production scheme would likely not even be considered either for purposes of practicality or otherwise for personal gain. Consider that humanity actually did function this way for tens of thousands of years, so it may be of interest to look into historical cultures, ideas and belief systems and try to develop a better understanding of their social mechanisms. When you have a conceptual framework as to how those societies functioned you can take the general principles and apply them to your society. Primarily it was only a matter of people doing what is necessary to survive but I'm assuming that such immediate factors as surviving and finding food cooperating and so forth or less of a concern and you're given situation so it will take a little bit of creativity but it's not unrealistic to assume that the social mechanisms that were employed then would also apply even if for slightly different reasons. 

Ok, so, making a couple assumptions here: Assumption 1. The way the spell magic is invoked requires sentience and free will. So no boulders for example, which by this assumption means that otherwise the wizard would himself have to direct such an attack thus defeating the apparent/best application of such a strategy. Assumption 2. All else is equal, battle tactics, attack and defense strategies, strength and stamina of the soldier, all are the same/expected as normal, in other words no other magical or metaphysical interventions. 

age 4.6 billion years life has been around about 4 billion years the sun will burn for about another 5 billion years or so 

Well, first let's consider how we interpret magic. From various descriptions I have read it could be suggested that there are roughly two perspectives on the nature of magic ( not to construct an arbitrary dichotomy here, but merely for the purpose of illustration ). One such view is that of enforced balance, i.e. magic is constrained by, let us say, "meta" laws of physics. This can also be seen as a creationist perspective or spiritual basis for the existence of magic, i.e. it just is because God said so. On the other hand, magic can be seen as a reinterpretation of the natural laws of physics. From this point of view balance is an abstract concept which applies in some hypothetically infinite universe, and therefore, locally, magical power is only constrained by one's knowledge of the natural laws. So in other words magical power ( and not magic itself ) is constrained by ignorance. This can be seen as the agnostic perspective, magic exists because the universe exists, we don't know why but clearly the magical and the physical are made of the same "stuff", each effects the other and both follow the same rules ( assuming we understand those rules ). One could argue of course that both perspectives have truth to them. EDIT: it was not clear whether the force described is adverse to the process of transporting souls based on the previous description, the below is reworded for clarity. Now iff, from the first perspective, your magic imposes a cosmic balance on the prospect of extracting souls from one "place" and depositing them in another, then one could describe a normalizing force or gradient which acts to prevent souls from being displaced from one plane of existence and deposited in another. The imbalance could be described as sort of capacitance between the planes of existence which would suggest ( given the normalizing constraint ) that the planes of existence are finite, or that the physics which separates the planes has limits - the latter being more palatable from a physical perspective as the former would not make much sense cosmically since we tend to think of the universe as infinite. However, iff, from the second perspective, your magic has no cosmic force which limits the movement of souls in such a way, i.e. the "capacitance" of the magical imbalance is infinite from a local perspective, then the only thing which limits the movement of souls from place to place is human sentiment, a simple cost-benefit analysis that humans compute intuitively and act on collectively as a society like ants with emergent behaviors. Given these two perspectives and your needs for the story, you could certainly combine aspects of both kinds of constraints to make the rules as complex or as simple as you like. 

I think the options for join/abstaining the dark terror that is super intelligence are pretty self explanatory. Some will have reasons to join, some will have ever-so-noble reasons not to. Unfortunately it is very, very unlikely that any humans will win the right to be left alone in the end - at least as far as any super intelligence is concerned. Creature comfort, 99+% of all the species that have ever lived are now extinct. Lose the delusion that humans are special and you will at least have the advantage of objectivity. 

If you do not want any form of combustion, i.e. a chemical reaction that produces heat and expanding gases, then the only other option is perhaps a compressed air gun, like an air riffle or a paintball gun. If liquid propellant is the requirement, then CO2 guns, including pellet and BB guns, as well as paintball guns, use canisters of CO2 which are compressed into liquid form. I am not sure if combining any such compressed, liquified propellants would cause greater expansion, providing more thrust, without some form of chemical reaction. As far as I am aware, any kind of chemical reaction that would aid in the process would have to be exothermic, i.e. fire-like. Alternatively you could choose another type of gas such as nitrogen or a noble gas such as helium, but I am not aware of any advantage this may provide as far as thrust, nor much if any advantage to do with environmental concerns, i.e. CO2 is already very stable and is not likely to produce immediately threatening reactions, such as fire, with other compounds in the environment. Otherwise More on liquid high explosives. 

Colonies of mud thatch structures like #6 could similarly be juxtaposed with cliff villages like the Mesa Verde cliff dwelling for example. 

One of the most devastating forms of magnetic weapons, especially in our day and age, is the EMP device ( Electro Magnetic Pulse ). A large scale weapon of this kind would effectively be as damaging to a nation as a nuclear attack. EMPs work by generating a very large and powerful magnetic field, bound to an electro-magnet of some kind, either standard or super-conducting, then detonating a charge which destroys the electromagnet. This removes the interplay between the electromagnet and the field, allowing the field to collapse in on itself. When the field collapses it focuses down to a point and the rebound wave is a very energetic electromagnetic wave which can induce large currents in any conductor within a certain radius, depending on the strength of the pulse. This fries electronics, can knock out power grids, cause blackouts and start fires over over varying radii from the epicenter of the blast. A sufficiently powerful EMP detonated in the right location can knock out the power grid in a cascading effect and put a very large area, several states or nation-states, back into the stone age. 

The most interesting of which is the one made of the bird's own saliva, which humans collect and eat, as a delicacy. 

Augmented vs unaugmented humans. Meaning mentally or otherwise enhanced, but primarily mentally since in the future economy, mental enhancement will likely lead to greater advantage than any other kind of enhancement, be it genetic or bionic (genetic enhancement will likely play a significant role in mental enhancement). Brainets are on the horizon (true story, read it here: $URL$ This will possibly be a game changer for psychology and it seems that health care in general is becoming more accessible and there is a new focus on the incorporation of and better access to mental health care in over all health care. So if it becomes very cheap and very effective to heal our emotional wounds and we have technology that allows us to connect our minds directly together - allowing people to know beyond a shadow of a doubt how another person thinks and feels - its likely that the societal impact will be so overwhelmingly positive as to largely erase most forms of emotional violence. That's the profoundly optimistic view. There may also be a dark side. Obviously mentally enhanced persons and collective bodies that undertake braineting will be intellectually superior to individual, un-enhanced humans, and I doubt that anyone will be required to connect their brains together (though the technology may enable a new and quite disturbing form of mental assault), nor will anyone be required to receive (or accept) mental health treatment. And I tend to reach into pessimism often if for no other reason than just to see what I find there. So of course there will be the potential for augmented humans to even more acutely undervalue un-augmented humans than there is for common persons to undervalue other common persons. That being said, I tend toward the middle ground. Some of the negative stuff will likely happen and augmented humans may be (much) more difficult to control that their common counterparts, however, once the cat is out of the bag and people embrace the technology, the potential radical benefits will balance much of the bad - and the trend of improvement will likely proceed unabated.