So he "was an enthusiastic partisan" in one uprising, "fought" in another and "took a leading part" in another. This leaves me to wonder, what does that mean exactly? It's noteworthy enough to draw multiple death sentences and hard labor in exile, and mention in multiple modern biographical articles, and yet completely non-specific in the online record as far as I can discover. It's weird. In comparison, many specific details of Bakunin's social contacts are documented from the same period. Including this fawning commentary from Wikipedia on the final stages of his impressive escape from Siberia to western Europe: 

Their claim notes the source as "Census Bureau data by the Journal of Blacks in higher education", which I couldn't find a more specific resource for. Are these statements otherwise verified? I can imagine African immigrants having the highest immigration demands of any group, but the statements still seem counter-intuitive considering funding issues for academia in large parts of Africa. 

Source: Mucosal Immunology (2008) Supporting the claim by Debby Herbenick, a study by Carl Charnetski and Francis Brennan showed a positive correlation between higher sexual activity and IgA levels in college students. Noting: 

To see what I was hoping to find, many specific details of Fidel Castro's invasion of Cuba are documented, including certain of Che Guevara's specific actions in the heat of battle. Had I found similar fine-grained details of Bakunin's exploits, I could more easily conclude that the claim by Steve Jackson Games is false. But with this gap, the claim amounts to an unsubstantiated rumor on which the historical/biographical data I can find is fascinatingly silent. Despite the description of Bakunin as a "man of action" who believes that destruction is a force of creation, and despite many allusions to his involvement in multiple insurrections, there seems to be a glaring omission in online materials of what exactly his actions were. I should say that all of the sources I have considered for biographical and literary study of Bakunin are either neutral or sympathetic: Wikipedia, academic-looking sites, and (apparently) socialism or anarchism sites. I have not found any information on Bakunin that takes a critical or contrary viewpoint of his writings or deeds. Even finding a website highly critical of Bakunin's ideas, and that criticizes the deeds of Che Guevara and other leftists, but does not mention Bakunin being a murderer or bomber, would probably convince me the claim is false. But I have found nothing like this either. Could it be that those who might devote time and resources to documenting the written works and biography of Bakunin online might also choose to omit certain acts on his part that might today be viewed disapprovingly? Is there only oral tradition, and no documentary source, remaining of Bakunin's acts which somehow found its way onto this card? Or did Steve Jackson Games simply invent this murderer/bomber description of Bakunin out of whole cloth? Right now, I'm not really sure which to be more skeptical of: the game card, or the treatment of Bakunin in online sources in a strictly respectful and academic tone, lacking fine-grained details of his actions during the various civil unrests he participated in. 

Is this a case of common symptoms originating from a wide variety of causes being grouped together after the fact, rather than one specific illness? Yes, but there is valid evidence pointing to a real illness specific to the original Gulf War, which many sufferers of "GWI" actually have. Since GWI has not yet been officially defined, any person who served in the Gulf War and who suffers one or more of the many listed symptoms could rightfully call themselves a sufferer of GWI. That does not imply, however, that an actual GWI does not exist. 

With arms raised oxygen uptake is increased for normal breathing, see Couser JI, Martinez FJ & Celli BR (1992): 

Source: Asian J Sports Med. Sep 2012; 3(3): 185–192. Therefore, it seems fair to assume a positive effect on IgA levels from morning sex. Based on the study by Hejazi and Hosseini, I'd advise the 'short drill' version to avoid an inadvertent negative effect stemming from endurance exercise. 

In this United Nations Assistance Mission to Iraq (UNAMI) press release it is claimed that 1500 Yazidi and Christian persons may have been forced into sexual slavery by ISIS. The source for these statements is the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq Nickolay Mladenov and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict Zainab Hawa Bangura. Does their claim hold water? 

Firstly, I would like to address the Dr. Mercola claim, as there's some fishy conflict of interest stuff going on here: Most of the original Mercola article quotes an article from the "Vitamin D Council", which itself is a restated version of a paper from the Sunlight, Nutrition and Health Research Center (Sunarc) called A review of the role of solar ultraviolet-B irradiance and vitamin D in reducing risk of dental caries. Indeed, the "Vitamin D Council" article is written by the very same man that wrote this paper for Sunarc. I have a number of issues with this paper: 

source: Red Cross' Blog There are many complications associated with the Heimlich maneuver, some severe, which has led to many people detracting from the method. All sorts of things in the abdomen can rupture when under high pressure. Realize that it should be used as a final solution, with care, much like CPR (which can break ribs or kill victims, too), in the event that it is administered. Care should be taken, too, when forcibly slapping someone on the back when choking (which can also even lead to death). Concluding There is no doubt within the scientific community that the Heimlich maneuver can lead to complications, neither is there doubt that it has been administrated to people choking whom thereafter were not choking anymore. There is not enough evidence to support the alternative presented by the Red Cross, but neither is there enough evidence to detract from it. 

I own a copy of the card game Burn In Hell by Steve Jackson Games. There is a card in the game for the anarchist Mikhail Bakunin. He is caricatured with one eye shut, bearing resemblance to portraits I have found online, but with gritted teeth and a fuse on top of his head, as if his entire head is a fuse bomb. The card classifies him as a "Murderer"; other cards with that classification include John Wilkes Booth and Agrippina Minor. The card also attributes "Wrath" (of the seven deadly sins) to Bakunin. The brief biography on the reverse of the card makes a claim that gave me a chuckle: 

There has probably been a recent rise in popularity of EMF meters being used to detect ghosts that tracks the rise in popularity of shows like "Ghost Hunters" where they use the device, among others, to "detect ghosts". Because if you use scientific equipment, you must be doing science, right? 

It should be noted that these trials had very low numbers of participants, and the results should be deemed plausible. 

I'm not going to comment on the dog study, but my 1928 citation above discusses a 1924 study by the same group and notes the very large flaw that the two diets compared had vast differences aside from vitamin D content. Most notably the vitamin A levels lower and processed grains were higher in the control group than the vitamin D group. I'll therefore just focus on this 1928 study. A cursory glance shows: 

(source: Psychol Rep. 2004 Jun;94(3 Pt 1):839-44.4) Finally, there have been studies on the effects on the immune system in the broader category of physical exercise too. The positive effects found from such exercise indicate that the source effect is not purely from sex, but either additive or interactive with the effect from generic physical activity. 

Source: New York Times article on Mosquitoes Cool Down during Blood Feeding to Avoid Overheating - Lahondère and Lazzari, Curr Biol. 2012 The pee is not the cause of the allergical 'itch'. The mosquito's saliva is the cause of that effect - it injects it to prevent coagulation in the blood. 

Edit: Caught out by the question being changed but I will leave this here as it was relevant to the question as originally asked. I can only answer your first [now removed] question, but there was a 1970 study performed on 5 men (on their legs) and published in the Journal of Investigative Dermatology which measured rate of hair re-growth as well as hair thickness after shaving. It came to the conclusion that: 

(emphasis mine) Are there any scientific studies showing that drinking green tea boosts your metabolism in any measurable way? Is this due to the caffeine content, or is there another mechanism?