Various sources mentioned that Mario Balotelli recently missed a penalty for the first time in his career (in a professional match). For example here: 

To answer my question at least partially I will add what I found out when reading ATP and WTA rulebook. In case I misunderstood something, I will be grateful for any corrections or new answers to my question. (This answer does not contain anything about Grand Slams and junior tournaments, which are governed by ITF. I also did not mention mixed doubles. But I think that it is very probable that the rules there are the same.) In short, the seeding is decided based on combined ranking, which means adding together the rankings of the two players (in the ATP/WTA doubles ranking). In case the combined ranking are equal (for example, if players ranked 1 and 4 enter the tournament together and so do players number 2 and 3), further tie-breakers are used. They are specified in details in the ATP/WTA rulebook. 

WTA/ITF - Women Competitions For more details you can look into 2015 WTA Official Rulebook (Internet Archive). Briefly summarized it says in the section XV. Age eligibility and player development that: 

As far as I know, the ATP and WTA rankings work approximately this way: Each week the points for the tournaments played that week are added. The points for tournaments more than 52 weeks old are dropped. (Of course, there are more complicated rules about which and how many tournaments are counted, but this should be the gist of it.) My question is what happens during Grand Slams, which last two weeks. Some players do not play at GS tournaments, so they might play some tournament during the first week. However, if the new ranking would be issued after one week of GS tournaments, what should be done? Dropping the points for the last edition of the same GS tournament seems unfair, since the players did not finish the tournament yet? 

Nowhere in the rules does it state that 1 technical and 1 flagrant-1 foul will lead to an ejection (instead you need two of them). As I understand it you can commit 1 of each without facing an ejection. 

From what I have read and heard he was released because his knee made him a liability. On this forum the fans talk about it said that Paule Le Guen deemed he was surplus to requirements at Rangers and that Andrews was afraid to take a medical at Reading in case he failed it as it would look bad when he was trying to find a new club. I didn't see any interview where he gave a reason behind his release but the amount of injuries he suffered must have made up Rangers' mind about releasing him in 2006. 

There is a good answer on yahoo for it. Basically it varies from country to country because of the co-efficient system UEFA uses, England, Spain and Germany all have clubs entering into Europe because of how their teams have performed over the last few years in Europe. UEFA did introduce the rule about winners of the cups going to the Europa League to give teams more incentive in the domestic cups. Regarding Man Utd in 2008, they beat Spurs in the final and spurs would have already qualified through their league position so in that case it goes to the 7th placed team. Stoke were entered into the UEFA cup when they finished runners up because they were outside the top 6 in the league that year. 

I know that on the Barclays premier league site there is a fantasy football game and they award points for an assist on corners and that is the official site for the Premier League. I always see this on sites like Goal.com as well where assists are awarded for corners. 

When I look at calendar of junior tournaments on the ITF website, I see that each tournaments are given some kind of category: They are marked, for example, as Grade 1, ..., Grade 5, Grade B2, Grade A. What does this mean in practice? Does it influence how much points can player get from the tournament into ranking? Does it somehow influence who can compete? 

For example, with one match remaining for Detroit and Washington the positions of wild card teams in Eastern Conference are 

EDIT: It is probably worth adding that no too long after this question Nadal won his 10th title in Barcelona. And in the same calendar year Nadal won his 10th singles title at French Open, becoming the first player to achieve this at a Grand Slam tournament. 

ATP Tour Simply by checking List of ATP number 1 ranked singles players at Wikipedia I found two players who were Year-end No. 1 without winning a Grand Slam tournament that year: 

I have encountered the word pigeon in connection with tennis players, for example, have a look here, here or here. It seems to be a slang term - at least I did not find it in any news article. From the context it is clear that it has something to do with one player having bad H2H against another player. Could somebody give a clearer explanation when this word is used? Etymology of this phrase could also bit interesting. Has this originated from some common idiom in English? 

Two statistics, that are most frequently given for ice-hockey goaltenders are save percentage and goal against average. 

I know that race rankings, i.e. points only from this calendar year, are used to decide players at year end ATP/WTA championships. My question is whether the rankings just one week before the finals are taken into consideration, or whether the decision is made sooner. For example, this year in WTA tour Kremlin Cup in Moscow and Luxembourg Open in Kockelscheuer will be played during the week before the WTA Finals. Can the points from these tournaments influence who will be contenders at the year end championships? The situation in ATP Tour is a bit different (at least this year) since no tournaments are scheduled during the last week before the ATP World Tour Finals. Similarly, before WTA Elite Trophy there will be one week gap (since no players will play at both at WTA Finals and WTA Elite Trophy). But we can still ask the same question - which tournaments will be relevant for the decision who qualifies for these year-end tournaments. 

I was watching the two big games in the Champions League this week and both of the games were spoiled by the red cards (the card in the City-Barca game was a clear red as it was a clear clear goal scoring opportunity whereas the Arsenal-Bayern game was not so clear cut). It got me thinking; 1: when was the rule around clear goal scoring opportunities introduced and 2: was there a case that made them introduce it? I'm thinking something like when they clamped down on tackles from behind because it was this kind of tackle that forced Marco Van Basten into early retirement or Lampard's goal in the 2010 World Cup which got a debate on goal line technology going. 

Longest additional time: 12 minutes 58 seconds (Arsenal v. West Ham United, 23 January 2013) Here is the match report for the game from the Guardian. The time added on was due to an injury to the West Ham player Potts. 

La Liga and the Copa Del Rey are considered separate competitions, Ronaldo recently picked up a 3 game ban in La Liga against Bilbao but was able to play (and score) in the semi finals against Atl. Madrid. 

. $URL$ Also height isn't always an advantage in soccer, just look at the average height of the Barcelona team (Messi, Xavi, Iniesta, Pedro etc). 

The first ever transfer was Willie Groves to Aston Villa in 1893 for £100. This was after player registration was introduced in 1885 by the FA making it possible for a player to play for a club only after he had been registered with them. Just out of interest that sum of £100 would now be worth £10881.81 taking inflation into account. 

Such penalties, imposed to riders, Sports Directors or other members of that same Team officially accredited, as well as fines directly imposed to the Team shall be summed and will represent the score which will determine the general classification. The team which will have totalized the lower score will be the winner of the " FAIR PLAY PRIZE”. In the event of a tie, the separation for the placing is the ranking in the general classification of the team’s best rider. The following prizes will be awarded at the end of the Giro: 1st team: 5000 EUR 2nd team: 3000 EUR 3rd team: 2000 EUR total: 10000 EUR 

For singles, the seeding in the tournaments is rather straightforward: We simply look at the rankings and the players with top 8 (or 16 or 32) rankings are seeded. However, for doubles competition we cannot use such simple procedure. There are ATP rankings and WTA rankings (and, in the case of junior events, ITF rankings) for doubles. However, the players are ranked individually. For example, it might happen that in a tournament player which is No. 1 in doubles plays together with the player who is No.4. If the players ranked 2nd and 3rd would enter the same tournament, which of these couples would be ranked higher? Or is the seeding somehow calculated based on the number of the points each player have gained? Similar question can be asked about mixed doubles. (Although mixed doubles competition is not played at many tournaments. I am only aware Grand Slams, Olympic Games, Hopman Cup and Youth Olympics.) I am unaware of a ranking for mixed doubles. Is the ranking in this case somehow combined from the doubles ATP and WTA rankings? To summarize: 

Don't know if many people remember watching European football back then but I always enjoyed the Cup Winner's Cup. I was wondering why UEFA decided to get rid of the competition and effectively merge it with the UEFA cup? Was it played on the same night as the UEFA cup? 

Diego Costa is making his debut for Spain tonight and he will almost certainly go to Brazil as their main striker considering his form this year. You could imagine the reception he would get playing over there but if he lined up vs Brazil or even scored against them then I'm not sure he could ever go back! Does anyone know of any cases where nationalised players have played or even scored against their country of birth? 

Also they can't use their social media to promote sponsorships or advertisements. This next quote is probably the most important and interesting part of it as it seems to be the downfall of most footballers when they tweet! 

Goal.com had a table on how much refs get paid in the top leagues in Europe from around 2011. How Much Officials Earn Per Domestic League Game (€) England 1,170* (Referee) 375 (Referee Assistant) Spain 6,000 (Referee) 2,000 (Referee Assistant) Germany 3,600 (Referee) 1,800 (Referee Assistant) Italy 3,400 (Referee) 1,700 (Referee Assistant) France 2,751 (Referee) - Portugal 1,188 (Referee) 594 (Referee Assistant) *EPL referees are paid a retainer of €38,500 per season which explains why their fee per game is lower than some of the other leagues. On average top tennis umpires can expect to earn £50-£60,000 per annum, but it takes a long time to get there! Most earn around £30,000. On average a line judge can expect to earn £20,000 (BBC Sport). In cricket; ELITE PANEL OF ICC UMPIRES 1 Aleem Dar (Umpire) $45,000 (Basic Yearly Salary) $3,000 (Test Match Fee) $850 (ODI Match Fee) 2 Steve Davis (Umpire) $45,000 $3,000 $1000 3 Tony Hill (Umpire) $30,000 $3,000 $850 4 Ian Gould (Umpire) $45,000 $3,000 $1000 5 Rod Tucker (Umpire) $45,000 $3,000 $1000 6 Marais Erasmus (Umpire) $35,000 $3,000 $850 7 Kumar Dharmasena (Umpire) $30,000 $3,000 $850 

Information about most titles (and most consecutive titles) at a particular tournament is also given in the Wikipedia article Tennis tournament records and statistics (current revision). However, this article is not restricted to the Open Era. 

According to the blog Where is the next generation in men’s tennis? (Wayback Machine) written by John Burn-Murdoch (FT Data) in November 2015: 

There is also one more thing, but I never heard about a case where this rule was actually applied. (And I hope there never will be such case.) In the case that a player played in the final and has a positive doping test, even the matches which were originally dead rubbers might matter for the final result. I will quote the Fed Cup Regulations again: 

In the Wikipedia article 2017 IIHF World Championship I read that: The rules state that "the bottom ranked two teams will be relegated" and the 2018 hosts (Denmark) cannot be relegated by rule. The reference given in the Wikipedia article is Statutes and Bylaws (701.3) (Internet Archive). However the information there is not much more detailed: 

Many countries have their own league competition in tennis. For example, World Team Tennis in the USA, Bundesliga in Germany, Bundesliga in Austria or Extraliga in Czech Republic. How are these competition organized? Do both amateurs and professionals play there? If professional players play also for league teams, are the league matches scheduled in such way thad they do not to clash with ATP, WTA and ITF events? 

The reference given there is $URL$ I do not speak Spanish but using Google Translate I understood that the match will probably be played in Valencia, although the decision will not be official until the next meeting of the Board of the RFEF, scheduled for March 4.