I think that a typically Buddhist recommendation is that you try to be "easy to support". For example if someone tries to do you a kindness (for example, by offering you food), then you're "easy to support" if you accept what's offered without making further, difficult demands. Another example of being "easy to support" might mean being inoffensive and harmless (although arguably everyone should try to be so anyway, not only when repaying a kindness). That said, I'm not sure that I agree with the premise of the question (that you should "pay back" goodness). I thought that kindness isn't necessarily supposed to be transactional: for example, monks don't sell Dharma. So when lay people support monks, and monks support lay people, I'm not sure this ought to be viewed as "paying back". A fairly widespread (not necessarily only Buddhist) alternative to "paying back" is called paying forward. That means, if someone is kind to you, then you "return" that favour by being kind to someone else! "Paying forward" is a famous concept, at least on the internet: it's mentioned in one of this site's help topics, for example: 

I think they're related but not identical. I think the Sallatha Sutta can be paraphrased along the lines of, "physical sensations lead to feelings (I feel that I like this, or that I don't like this) which lead to attachment (I want this to continue, or I want this to stop)" -- which means that, now you have two problems, i.e. 

Conventionally, the people who are concerned (for example a family member or doctor) may consider a mental state to be "disordered" if: 

In summary I think it has a simple summary: stress, and the cessation of stress. Maybe that's all you need to remember. There are other simple summaries too: non-attachment; unselfishness; and so on. 

These quotes are extracts; I'd recommend you read the book for a further or more complete description. Am I actually trying to breath into my stomach Air should go into the lungs as usual, not literally into your stomach! I think it means to drop your diaphragm (so that the lungs expand downwards). When you do that there's less room (less volume remaining) for your stomach, intestines, etc.: so you need to relax your abdominal muscles (which might normally keep the belly from protruding) and let your belly appear to push forward when you breathe in. Imagine you had a metal band, tied around your ribs, so that you couldn't inhale by expanding your rib-cage: you'd still be able to breathe by using your "stomach" (i.e. diaphragm and belly) ... that's what "breathing into the stomach" means. To be honest what I just described seems to be contradicted by something in the Anapanasati book I referenced above (in Lecture Two, in the section titled "Step One: The Long Breath"): 

FWIW, in the cases where my family has died (or been allowed to die) in hospital, I viewed that as their being killed by the disease/illness, and not as their being killed by their doctors. It can also be helpful if they, who were dying, let you know in advance what/how much medical intervention they want. 

It seems that this concept is only popular in Indonesian buddhism. Are other buddhist in other countries have monotheistic beliefs too? Some schools of Buddhism seem to me to be a bit like theistic beliefs -- see Pure Land Buddhism for example. Some schools seem polytheistic (with many Buddhas, or at least many manifestations of Buddha). And some schools are polytheistic but may de-emphasise the importance of "gods", and explain for example that a god, too, even a god (or, a god's time/existence in a divine realm) is temporary. 

Without watching the video, I think it is a late addition. It was noticeable when writing this answer that several of those core suttas (MN 9; DN 31; SN 55.7) identify four precepts. It apparently wasn't among the first of the Vinaya rules either (see this origin story). I do think alcohol is problematic though, in my experience: better to avoid it. 

For a start or for context, this topic says something about how to choose a partner: Any authentic sutta from any tradition that gives guidance on what kind of partner to choose? You're asking two questions: why have a relationship, and how? I'm not sure that "why" is the best question. It seems to me that there are people around, you have relationships (historical, geographic, social, economic) with them, and the question is what relationship to have and how, rather than why. Maybe it's worth considering "why" (i.e. your intent) but only in the context of also considering "what". There are also bits in the Pali canon which say that it's better to have no relationship than a bad one. Buddhism has things to say about (it seems to recommend) admirable friendship, though that may not fit your question. It's worth mentioning that lay people may be expected to have several "relationships" of different types, e.g. explained in the sutta about the six directions: Sigalovada Sutta (DN 31). Lastly you mentioned that you "never thought it would end". For a start my experience is that there's both less time and more time than you expect: "less time" in that it's already finished when you think it's continuing, and "more time" in that something remains present after you expected it would be over. More importantly though, "thinking it would end" might actually be a helpful or a beneficial thought, and "not thinking it would end" detrimental to a relationship. For example, from the Dhammapada: 

How about the pleasure of having no desires? Another way to express that is having the ability to fulfill your own needs. Part of doing that successfully is to ensure that your needs are humble. There's an expression from Zen, "Eat when hungry, sleep when tired." 

I copied the "explanation in detail from M 114" above, you might find further commentary in the others of these references. 

Unfortunately I think that the existing answers to this question (including mine) are arguably false, but this site isn't the right venue: neither for argument, nor for argument about Christianity. People who answer "no" do so by adopting specific views of what "Buddhism" and of what "Christianity" are, and saying they're incompatible. I think it's OK to have specific views of your own (especially given that both Buddhism and Christianity teach that you should develop such views), less OK to say that other views which may be held by other people are "impossible" or "not Buddhist" or "not Christian". It's based on the premise that "this is the Christian (or the Buddhist) view, and other views are non-Christian or non-Buddhist". Some of those views are locale-specific -- for example, doctrine that Jesus is a "personal lord and saviour", which some people might think of as foundational or axiomatic, is I think an especially Protestant, Evangelical, and perhaps an especially Baptist or American view. Some of my neighbours are more-or-less Buddhist, and some are more-or-less Christian, and when they meet (for example to help refugees) I find there is no really evident difference between them. 

It's not the first ("killing") nor the fifth ("intoxicating drinks and drugs, which lead to carelessness"). You could perhaps, possibly, argue that it's the fourth: 

But anyway, perhaps it isn't right to say, "Sakkaya Ditthi is not self-view!!"; nor, that it means "taking the aggregates as pleasurable" -- because instead, in MN 44, it explicitly says, "taking the aggregates as self". 

I think the last line is different because it's meant to include Nibanna which is also called the Unconditioned (and which is not impermanent or dukkha); so I'd read that last line as: 

These seem to be using 'flow' to refer to a 'flow of thoughts', a sequence of thought, a progression or an ebb and flow of mental process ... watching flow is the same as watching thoughts. This ("flow of mental observations") may or may not be exactly the same as "flow of arising and passing away of all conditioned things" ... instead maybe it's "flow of arising and passing away of mental awareness of all conditioned things". On the other hand I don't know how much emphasis you want to put on the difference between "the observed" (e.g. "all conditioned things") versus "the observation" (e.g. the mental awareness). I think investigating the difference or relationship between observed and observation, between objective and subjective, has been a big theme of western philosophy ... it may or may not be important to understanding Buddhism. There's also this quote from $URL$ 

Assuming "experience of anatta" means abandoning the fetter of self-view (or sakkāya-diṭṭhi), that and "conviction" (i.e. lack of doubt) sound like "stream-entry". There's been lots written about stream-entry (or sotāpanna). Stream-entry is often (usually? always?) portrayed in suttas as being the result of a waking realization, a result of an experience or hearing a dhamma-talk -- one memorable though non-canonical example is Gotami & the Mustard Seed. I think that (etymologically at least), sakkāya-diṭṭhi is a wrong view about the true or real body -- i.e. it's a view that the aggregates are self. Note that a "view" is something established, reinforced, believed -- see also How are 'conceit' and 'identity-view' not the same? because the answers there explain the difference between (fixed) "identity view" and a more transient "conceit" -- the eradication of "conceits" should happen at the final stage of enlightenment. More generally, though, I think the doctrine is that any or every view of self -- including for example "I exist" and "I don't exist" -- is confusing and the result of unwise attention. Maybe that is easy to verify (by inspection). 

I notice that this kind of restriction might be practised by monks. These Frequently Asked Questions include: 

The background story to the first verse of the Dhammapada is of an arhat killing insects accidentally, because he's blind. The verse says, 

I don't know which Buddhist school you're asking about, but I think that according to the Four stages of enlightenment in Theravada Buddhism, you should expect to abandon "identity view" or "self-view" at the first stage of enlightenment (stream entry) ... and "conceit", "material-rebirth desire", and "immaterial-rebirth desire" (and ignorance and restlessness) only at the last stage. I asked about some of these concepts/topics here: 

If a doctrine is something like, "Gold is forever", that might have a result -- like lust and craving (for gold), attachment. If a doctrine is something like, "You can't take it with you", that might have a different result -- detachment, dispassion, etc. Other suttas use the term to describe the knowledge and vision of someone who is without fetters. 

One recommendation is to stay aware of feelings (sensations) in your body, instead of being aware of a badly-defined fear. 

So what is intrinsically real? I don't know how other people understand the term "intrinsically real". I think (in classic English) that the word "real" meant "thing-like": maybe substantial or tangible. An opposite of "real" might be "ideal", i.e. an idea as opposed to a thing. According to that classification, the body might be "real" but a feeling might not be (a feeling is more "ideal", i.e. idea-like rather than thing-like). I wouldn't necessarily mean that a feeling is imaginary or non-existent, but it's not substantial nor exactly tangible. Related to that is the idea of reifying ideas, i.e. the process of treating ideas as if they were real. As you can see from that Wikipedia link (which isn't even Buddhism-specific) that's a complex topic or a set of related topics: different topics include "linguistics" (talking about ideas as if they're real), psychology (perceiving ideas as if they're real), and as a type of fallacy (a type of logical mistake, e.g. mistaking an idea for reality when it's really only an idea, and maybe not even a 'true' one). I say this to illustrate that the English language or meaning (of the word "real") is complicated, and if you assume you know what it means that might be misleading. I might add that that emphasis on what's "real", in the sense I described it, might be missing the whole point, from a Buddhist point of view: because Buddhists might dismiss that as mere "materialism". I'm not sure what "intrinsically" means, either. I think it's used to argue that all composite things, at least, aren't intrinsically real in the sense that, for example, "a chair isn't intrinsically a chair: because if you disassemble it, take it apart, then it isn't a chair anymore". And I'm not sure what "relative" means. I assume it means that a property exists as a result of comparing one thing relative to another: for example a mountain is high because a valley is low, or shadow is cold because sunshine is warm, and so on -- which I think is central to the Taoist doctrine of Yin and Yang. I'm not sure (I doubt) whether that (relativism) is so prevalent in the Pali. The Pali is very dualistic, IMO, e.g. it consists of doctrine about whether an action is "skilful" versus "not skilful" ... I'm pretty sure it wouldn't say that these aren't real just because they're relative. Another meaning of "relative" I guess might be that it's an artefact of a relationship with the observer: e.g. what I perceive as a "tree" isn't real, that's just an artefact of contact between the tree-as-sense-object with the sense-organs (e.g. the eye), and memories and linguistic associations ("that collection of sense-impressions may be called 'a tree'"), and changes (or vanishes) e.g. when the observer moves. There's a Pali sutta called the Tatha Sutta ("Real": SN 56.20): 

There's a description is this sutta of how Gotama tried doing without food, or with extremely little food -- and didn't find that resulted in the enlightenment he was looking for, didn't find it conducive to the Enlightenment he was seeking: