I am a techy but my father was a salesman and he would say once you give away product or services for free you have established your price. Establish a support contract. Bill in increments and round up. 

If you don't want to tell anyone I think that is your business. I worked for a company where a guy left and we were not told. As for negative light. Your colleagues would want to say good bye. 

Yes. A programmer is a software developer. A higher level person would be like senior developer, design lead, or architect. The term senior (or junior) programmer is just not (typically) used. 

Make it clear the intern is responsible for cleaning up after the dog. And time to take the dog out is not work time. Use lunch to take the dog out for a short walk and to do his / her business. If they have to take the dog out more then fine but don't abuse it. Have a quite corner for the dog. They like to sleep a lot. Tell the office if the dog is sleeping then leave it alone. If the office was enthusiastic the dog may get too much attention. Intern should show up with water bowl and a bed. The dog should be clean / groomed. Dog should be under control and take commands from the owner - sit and lay down. If not then that is not a good sign. I would not let the dog have free roam. The dog is restricted to the intern work-space. Don't get me wrong - I am dog lover. Dog should not view coming to the office as going to the park. 

I see no problem with letting Company B know the situation. Especially given there is student program coordinator to call. If they are interested in you then they would not want to lose you to timing. 

If you have a boss trying to discredit another department head then you have to figure he/she would have no problem with sacrificing you if you don't cooperate. You are kind of stuck doing what your boss says unless it rises to violating a corporate policy or the law. Since this is the director of IT then it is not likely you can hope to go to another department. If you are explicit about documenting what you are told not to do then it will set off red flags with you boss and he/she is likely to turn on you. But then if the other manager discovers you are specifically not doing your job and prove it they will likely go up the chain and you are in the middle of a big mess. Your boss may let you be collateral damage and say he/she was not aware you were not performing some tasks (that happen to make him/her look bad). I think the best thing you can do is document what you are and are not doing in a way that does not set off red flags with your manager. If the other manager comes directly to you about work not done then I would send them to you manager. If your manager asks you to falsify any report / analysis then you need to draw the line there. At that point you would complicit. He/she would not likely discipline you as then it would come out but your career is toast. You are forced to find another job but that is better than getting fired for falsify a report and try and find another job. I know not comfortable but this situation is probably not going to get better until one wins. If you don't find it tolerable then you probably need to start looking for another job. Could you conveniently ask to go to another role in IT? 

Confusing You showed him the software but then you had inform him "there is a tool"? You installed a commercial version in addition to the trial version? If you installed a non paid commercial version then your boss should be upset. Even trial license may not be good for production use. You should have informed him up front you wanted to do an eval. Maybe just let it go unless he gets back to you or try something like this 

The best design he had seen in the history of the company. And a lukewarm review are not consistent. One he needs to work on areas that he is perceived to be deficient. A manager that has told you a promotion was in the near future but does not know the criteria is just not fair. A manager will submit you for promotion or not. HR may get involved and deny - there may have been just way too many promotions submitted. It does not sound like the manager even submitted him for a promotion. I would have asked "Did you even recommend me for promotion?" At this point 

If you only want to be a web developer then not much. There will be some jobs you will be locked out of but a lot of jobs still available. Some management tracks you might get locked out of. A degree from an online college without a solid reputation is not going to have much value. Of the professional careers I think programming is the most tolerant of not having a degree. It is also a quality of life thing. Degreed workplace are nicer to work at in my opinion. 

To me this would depend on if other people in the office may do work for the customer and get the same treatment. If so I would at least tell your boss. For sure you return the watch. If they are not trying to con you then they have been conned by someone. I would say "I cannot accept this gift. I don't know where you bought this but you should be aware it is fake." If they argue it is not fake then them "I still cannot accept it". If they were conned they can address it. If they were tying to con you then they will know not to try again and you have not accused them of trying to con you. If you had not agreed to make an offer then my answer would be different. Just keep the watch and refuse any more gifts. You are in a real awkward position in any reasonable offer is probably more then than cost of the fake. The jeweler immediately said it was on obvious fake. 

I would approach this a little different. I would not put out a number. Tell them "I am paid during the consultancy period and not actually working. If I start another job in that period lose severance pay." Let them offer to pay the severance. If you offer for them to pay the severance it could come off as you are holding them hostage. 

That is not just problems. That is a recipe for disaster. How can the company even function if production is crashed most of the time? I don't see how you can find common ground with practices that are that bad? If he moves 20% that is still still disaster. It is not just a training thing - he does not accept structure. I don't see how a start-up can survive like this. Who is shelling out the money for more developers. You either need to talk to the money or just ride it out. If cowboy is the money then ouch. This star-up will either learn to function or run out of money. Unless it has some deep pockets then start looking for another job. 

You are employable. You probably are not familiar with team process, collaboration tools and formal test. Read up on test procedures and scrum or something similar. The company my not use agile but be familiar with it. You are not going to be a lead until you understand the overall process but it is pretty straight forward to fit in as a contributor. 

I think you have some good answer but have a bit to had. Hopefully it adds value. One it does not appear you boss is going to move and you are not going to make him. Be happy with you can use the tools and he just wants the HTML and CSS. It is not he does not understand your skills. He just does not want to learn something new. It looks like your manager just plain has not moved for a while. A least it is not C but C# is just plain more productive. I think we can be sure HTML5 is not a fad. 

If they want to create a set of pure piers then that is a proper approach. What will happen is people with more skill that can attract a higher salary will eventually leave. People with less skill will stay. Find another job is a last resort but if that is the value set it is probably not going to change until if fails for that company. For you as an individual does it really matter what others are getting paid? If everyone else is overpaid but the pay is fair your skill then what is the problem? 

He may mistakenly think it is a good time to ask as you are not in the middle of something if you are getting up. Just say "I am heading out right now and I will get back with you when I return". 

Hold your horses - I may have read the question incorrectly and it will would change my answer. It is not clear on later / former. Not clear on which company released the report. Question: Do I have an (moral/ethical) obligation to reveal to my current employer that I (probably) know stuff that I shouldn't know between them and the company I might intern with? Going to assume you have the NDA with you current company. You read some public information and attached that to some sensitive information. Disclosing ANYTHING about the sensitive information is disclosing sensitive information. Even if you don't disclose the information directly saying I know this company is really X based on access I had to sensitive information is a breach of security. A leak (intentional or not) does not make the information public. If you know the information (or anything about it) to be sensitive then you have an obligation to treat it as sensitive. If the sensitive information is about your current company then you are not disclosing anything sensitive to you current company. You read a public report. That is not something you shouldn't know. Give a copy of the report to your current company and tell them it may be disclosing more than they want. Cannot go the security company and say I think you are talking about my current company as then you would be violating you NDA (in my opinion). If you disclose to the security company you suspect a prior relationship based on knowledge of sensitive information then the security companay will think this guy is not very good at keeping sensitive information to himself. I work in IT and have had security clearance. Many times I have had to pretend I don't know. You only discuss or acknowledge sensitive information with a 3rd party when your boss tells you to.