Because it gets in the way of your wildcard ("") record. If you have any records for an item, the wildcard no longer matches at all, for any record type. From RFC1034, §4.3.3: 

Is one better than the other? Or is there another way that makes more sense? How does any of that change if there are multiple datastores? 

The shell you're running on the FreeBSD machine probably doesn't support that control sequence. Without knowing what shell you're running on either end, though, it's hard to say for sure. 

That said, I'm not sure that the "GB" suffix does what you're intending. I think it just does raw math on the root number it follows, not figure out how to get that many gigabytes from the block size you've given. I would do something like this: 

Have you considered deploying those certificates to Firefox as well as to the Windows cert store? $URL$ details a few options: 

Modify the certificate database directly using . Use Firefox's autoconfig feature, by placing a javascript file alongside the binary, to add the certificates: 

Many vendors allow you to look at the support status of a device with no information besides a serial number. Does this exist for Cisco products? 

Sadly, I'm sure it depends both on your local laws and the EULA for each individual product. ArsTechnica has an article up about legal precedent specifically in relation to reselling AutoCAD licenses. In short, the courts have found that it is illegal for them to prevent you from reselling the license. In the US, anyway. 

Ideally, you don't ever want to put passwords in a command line, though, as there are multiple places it can show up (ps output, shell history, etc.), none of which are particularly secure. 

One oddity is how the raw devices are set up. The storage controller is an MFI controller, and each raw disk is actually configured in the MFI controller as a 1-disk RAID0 volume: 

I ended up using atop (which is available in FreeBSD ports as sysutils/atop), and it's awesome. I would very much consider using it in preference of sar on systems where sar is available. It comes with a curses-based UI that is easy to navigate and shows a lot of data at once. It's incredibly handy. 

I assume that the system is receiving multicast packets. Can you try and prevent it from receiving the packets and see if you see the same problem? What about joining the multicast group but then not listening for packets? You say its happening on different systems, but what about the actual NIC hardware? It's possible that it's the same on those different systems. Update: If all of the systems are using Broadcom NICs, it's possible that the problem is with the NIC. In particular, the Microsoft-supplied Broadcom drivers are lousy; the ones at Broadcom's web site are much better. 

I'm not familiar with TortoiseGit, so I don't know what kind of RSA keys you're referring to, but if they're SSH keys, you might be able to use PuTTY's PuTTYgen. 

Type "" at a shell prompt. It will give you documentation on how to use . In general, will give you documentation on any CLI command. But you really want to use and not . In short: 

I actually had another thought. In relation to the fact that junior Windows admins are used to GUI interactions, maybe it would help if you started them with scripting GUI interaction, with something like AutoIt. This would allow them to get their foot in the door in regards to scripting while still allowing them to use the tools they already know, instead of throwing out their existing tools and making them learn new tools and scripting at the same time. Then, once they get comfortable with the idea of scripting in general, they can move on to non-GUI scripting. Even if not, though, automating button clicks can still potentially be a big time saver. 

which generates the exact same output as the above command, assuming a VT100-style terminal. The terminfo capability "smam" is "Set Mode: Automatic Margins". Its partner is "rmam": "Reset Mode: Automatic Margins". By the way, I really wish had a "LocalEndCommand" config option (similar to "LocalCommand") so that I could just have it automatically run this un-fucker at the end of every HP switch ssh connection. 

Sometime over the Thanksgiving holiday, my Netbackup installation decided that it no longer liked the tapes in my library. It had worked fine a week ago with no changes that I can think of, besides moving the new week's set of tapes into the NetBackup pool. (I had previously moved them to an unused pool so that they wouldn't be written to until Friday.) Now when I try to perform a backup, it immediately errors out with error code 96: "EMM status: No media is available unable to allocate new media for backup, storage unit has none available". If I try to label a tape, I immediately get error 98: "error requesting media (tpreq)". However, catalog backups work fine. (That is a different pool, though.) The tapes show up in the output of with the correct pool and other information. I have tried moving tapes into the Scratch pool and seeing if it would pull them into the NetBackup pool. I have verified that my policies are referencing the NetBackup pool. I have tried setting policies to a different pool and then setting them back. I've tried moving both tapes and a policy to a different pool. I've rebooted the Netbackup server and the tape library. None of it makes any difference. I don't honestly know where to look next. If someone can suggest logs that I can look at or enable, I'd appreciate it. It's Netbackup 6.0MP7 under Windows Server 2003. 

I can only assume you were matching on the capital A in April and it no longer works because it's now May. Maybe instead of 'A' you should be using '^'. 

Whenever I do this, I also change the TTL on the A record to be changed to be fairly short, and leave it there, otherwise unchanged, for at least the period of the original TTL. This way, when you change the A record to the new IP, compliant DNS servers and clients will take only the new TTL's time to converge. (Note: when you change the A record's IP address, also change the TTL back to its original value.) Caveat: there are a lot of non-compliant DNS servers out there that will ignore your TTL, and a lot of them are run by prominent ISPs. There's nothing you can really do about this, but at least you can help out those people who use correct DNS servers. 

The kw/s data ranged from about 17k to about 25k, and was pretty consistent between drives. when ting from: 

It took forever to find where it was happening, but it turns out that there were filters within the VPN blocking LDAP (and other) traffic. I cleared those filters and now it's working. 

The only way to specify non-default mkfs options during Kickstart is to use the flag to the command. Unfortunately, this requires that the filesystem-specific mkfs have a "usage type" feature. With , this is a flag that references . For XFS, uhhhh … But maybe that can point you in the right direction. Oh, and allows you to specify mount options. 

to get it to work with the MacOS client. (I also had to expand the split tunnel network access list, but I suspect that that was needed for the AnyConnect users, too.) 

On the off chance that your shell doesn't support the $() syntax, replace the and its matching each with a "" (backtick). 

This is instead of any other records in the DomainA zone file at all. No SOA, nothing. Don't try this on a domain that you care about working. 

The second argument to the DefaultRoot config option is a list of groups. Put the set of users you want to be able to "modify the site" in one group, then set that group's DefaultRoot to (or whatever), then have another, default DefaultRoot pointed to . Or you could do the inverse. Whatever makes the most sense for you.