Background Over the past 3-4 months, I seem to have gradually caused myself an anterior pelvic tilt, and it's gradually causing stiffness and pain in my lower back. I wish to analyze possible causes and receive some tips on how to actively counteract it. Workout routines I follow a very basic 3-split (push, pull, legs) doing the compound exercises you'd expect; Bench press, incline bench press, pullups, barbell rows, cable rows, squats, deadlifts. And I of course supplement this with some isolation exercises. But in order to keep this question clean, I'll skip listing it unless any of you find it necessary. My hypothesis At my gym, every monday, wednesday and friday, one of the trainers who works there has a little 7 minute session where we do some ab-work, no pause. We do a variety of exercises such as various planks and crunches. (I'm well aware of the drawbacks to crunches/situps, and I make sure to take proper precautions.) But here's my theory: During these sessions, we often do "ab exercises" like knee raises, and static leg-raised holds. And I'm one of those people who don't get ANY ab-work done during this. It's all hip-flexors for me. It seems to me that these exercises are causing my hip-flexors to stiffen up, and give me the anterior pelvic tilt. Question Could this be the reason for my anterior pelvic tilt? For the time being, I plan on skipping these ab sessions, and rely on my own ab work (deadlifts), while catching up on stretching. Does this seem like the right plan? Any suggestions for more/other measures? 

If you're doing this, stop it immediately. You WILL hurt yourself. Muscle gains are made by doing movements with physical resistance (weights). We need to break down the muscle fibers through intense exertion, and then our nutrition and rest make sure they're built back up, stronger and bigger. Arm circles have no resistance besides air resistance, and the weight of your arm. If you're doing more than 20 reps of anything, you're training stamina. Not muscle growth. So imagine what we're thinking when you say 60,000 reps. Do not do 60,000 reps of anything per day. You have to also take into account that whenever you do a movement, there is mechanical damage being done to the joints. Three sets of 8-12 reps on the incline bench is going to give you more resistance than all of those arm circles, while at the same time not gnawing at your shoulder joints. 

No, do not use BMI to gauge your fitness level. First of all, and I love pointing this out; the person who invented the BMI scale said that it should NOT be used to indicate the level of fatness in a person. Second of all, it was invented between 1830 and 1850. Our knowledge of the human body has evolved so much now, that it's a marvel that it's still being used. BMI categories are generally regarded as a tool for measuring whether sedentary individuals are underweight, overweight or obese with various exceptions, such as: athletes, children, the elderly, and the infirm. Look at that list of exceptions. The term "athletes" in this regard is really anyone who actively works out. Sources and extra reading: 

Honestly, if you can do 30 minutes of cardio every morning, that's perfectly fine, so long as you realize that your diet has to be aligned with your goals as well. It seems like you have that covered though. Obviously, there is no way we can tell you that instead of 30 minutes, you should be doing 28 or 41 minutes, because we're all different, and even still, determining this number would require a copious amount of testing. The most important thing about your cardio, is that you consistently find the motivation to do it. If, at some point, you start to feel that 30 minutes is a bit much, the usual reaction is "I don't want to do it". But in fact, a more reasonable reaction would be "I'll do 20 minutes instead". There's a tip we give everyone; the ideal workout is the one you actually do. If a program makes you want to quit, change the program. There are split opinions on the whole empty stomach cardio thing, so I won't go too much into that, but I've personally had success with it, so I'm for doing it. 

45 minutes is fine. 2 hours, also fine. The whole "you need to do it RIGHT AFTER YOUR WORKOUT" is a misinterpretation of actual science, propagated by protein shake producers, because a protein shake is much more convenient than a chicken dinner in the locker room. They call it the "anabolic window". Source. 

There is progress to be had both by continuing to swim using tired muscles, and switching styles to train other muscles. Using the same muscles, even when they're tired, means those muscles are going to get even stronger than if you stopped. But giving them a bit of a rest, and going back is even better, because you can usually go for longer. So my advice is definitely to alternate. Try alternating with different frequencies too. For instances, this week do 5 laps per style, and next week try 8 laps per style. Fitness in general is very dependent on variety. Not just in terms of how many different styles you do, but also in terms of how often you switch. 

This is a common issue that arises due to limited mobility in your forearm. While you might be inclined to start doing underhand or neutral grip instead, I would strongly advise that you try the false grip instead. 

No. You will end up with ridiculous proportions, and more importantly, back pain, neck pain, and the resulting loss of quality of life. Any workout program should work your entire body! 

If you have some extra time at home, there is also the dragon pose (yoga) which gives an even better stretch over the entire length of the hip flexor. 

When you are at the bottom of a pullup, and your arms are straight, your biceps start the lift. Your back comes into play when it's time to pull your elbows back, which gradually becomes more relevant as you get higher up. Yeah, it sounds like your biceps are doing most of the work during your pullups. You gain a lot of momentum so that your back doesn't really need to contribute a whole lot. It's just icing on the cake, so to speak. Counter-measures Slow reps Start doing your regular pullups, but try doing them very slowly. That way, you have no momentum, and your back will have to do more work in order to transition from the start phase of the lift, into the top portion. Key point here is to always be in control of the movement. Sets of 3-5 reps is absolutely fine, as each repetition will have way more work. Negative repetitions I.e. climb up to get your chin over the bar, and lower yourself slowly. Very slowly. This works all the same muscles, but in reverse intensity, so your back is the primary mover from the beginning. Key point here, again, is to always be in control of the weight. Sets of anything between 5 and 12 is cool. Advanced repetitions This is where it gets fun and creative. Here's one I like. For each rep, do this; 

I'd say absolutely yes. Gymnasts perform some of the most impressive feats of physical strength of all time. This is because at all times, they perform feats using only their own bodies as resistance. That gives them an amazing ratio of strength to bodyweight. Since it will generally improve your lean muscle gain, I believe it will decidedly aid you in improving other athletic endeavours, especially track and field type events, such as pole vaulting, shot putting, discus, hammer and javelin throwing. As for running speed, I can't really say. It will entirely depend on what type of gymnastics you will be doing. Bar work engages mostly upper body for movement, and lower body only for balance. However, tumbling will have it distributed more evenly. Here you'll be looking for explosive leg work, which is more general and not gymnastics specific. But overall, I'd recommend anyone to try gymnastics. It's a fun and diverse way of training, and will yield amazing physiques to those who try it long enough. 

Again, try NOT getting adequate protein, carbs and calories, and see what happens. Why are you trying to discount the good effects of good habits? 

The "eccentric portion" refers to when you lower the weight. If you're not feeling any DOMS in your back, it could be because you're lowering the weight too quickly. Try instead to lower it slowly and controlled. Remember that this portion of the lift also helps with muscle growth. As a rule of thumb, I try to lower the weight over twice as much time as the actual lift. So for instance, I'll spend 2 seconds lifting the weight, and 4 seconds putting it back. Rinse and repeat. Anecdotally, this has always provided me with that amazing DOMS the next day. 

It's not really a case of dips hitting chest instead of triceps. Dips hits both. But depending on how you do it, it will be working one more than the other. If you want to engage triceps more, try not going down beyond a 90 degree elbow bend, and make sure you lock your arms out completely on every rep. It's the upper part of the lift that engages triceps the most, so if that's what you're after, give that a shot! Another thing you might try, is doing dips in the way that engages chest most (deep reps, no locking out), and try some other exercises just for triceps alone, like skullcrushers and/or cable tricep extensions. 

Psychological issues aside (as requested), there is the big, BIG issue of physiological restitution. You've probably heard of the muscle group rest period of 48-hours since both your layouts seem to follow it. But your central nervous system (CNS) is going to be taking a hit 6 days in a row if you follow the second routine. While your muscles may be getting adequate rest, your CNS might now, and this regimen of overtraining is something that can cause severe and chronic tiredness and exhaustion, even on rest days. People often find it very hard to stick with such routines. But of course, there are people who do this, with great success. But in order to achieve success with such an overpowering schedule, you need to be extremely vigilant with your diet (getting enough of every macro AND micro nutrient) and your rest (enough hours of sleep every night). How we deal with it will differ from person to person, but discipline in diet and rest can very well make up for the harsh workouts. But keep in mind, a lot of people will find the combination of that much training, and that much attention to diet and rest, very challenging to keep up in the long run. Perhaps try it for a few weeks and see if it's for you. 

In my personal opinion, 5000 seems very high unless you plan on competing at 18. If you consume only 80 grams of protein per day, that's roughly 320kcal, leaving 4680 calories from fats and carbohydrates. That also seems like a skewed ratio. I'm almost certain that doing this will make you fat. Strong, but fat. And since you want definition, this is not the way to go. At 14, you don't even need to worry too much about this. You will grow naturally for another half decade at least, and if you keep working out, and just eat right (not over the top), you'll be lean as hell without even doing anything else. 

Doing more than one shoulder exercise for increased hypertrophy is perfectly logical. However, there's a diminishing return on how much hypertrophy you can achieve by simply doing more of the same type of exercise in one session. So for instance, if you've done 3 sets of barbell OHP, followed by 3 sets of dumbbell OHP, I don't see a problem. But if you're doing 10 sets of the first, and another 10 sets of the latter, that's definitely overkill. You might achieve more muscle growth by splitting that up into shoulder AND chest for instance. 

The most relevant article I've read is this, a study of muscle activation depending on if you use a double prone (overhand) grip, or a switch-grip (over/under). And it is the reason why I prefer to use straps and continue double prone rather than change my grip position. Long story very short; the biggest takeaway I had from this report is that the over/under grip generates bilateral asymmetry. It's worth noting that it wasn't confirmed that this produces long-term asymmetries or imbalances, but I'd rather not be the first one to find out. 

Most times, when you ask yourself "what's the best [some detail] to perform [some exercise] with?", the answer is usually none. You should be aiming for variety. Try flat, try a little bit of incline, and try more incline. You'll target the muscles in different ways, and guarantee yourself the right stimulation. 

That depends on whether or not you achieve progressive overload. If you just use the same weight and same set/rep scheme over and over, then no, it will not make you stronger. 

I feel comfortable with rounding to nearest integer here, because of the overall inaccuracy of any such formula. Epley 

5x5 deadlift is absolutely fine, but not during the SL5x5. As Aequitas nails on the head, the Stronglift 5x5 program already includes 5x5 squats, 3 days a week, and as such, your legs, glutes and lower back will constantly be in a state of recovery. Adding a lot of sets of deadlifts on top of this will very likely hinder your progress, as you might never get to reach an anabolic state. Remember, squats and deadlifts target the same primary movers, but with slightly different ratios of intensity. However, if you do a program with, say, 1 leg day per week where you do deadlifts, then it's absolutely fine to do 5x5, 3x8, or whatever you see fit. Keep in mind that deadlift is typically the exercise where you move the largest amount of weight, and people are correct to point out that this is very taxing on your CNS if you do it too often. Designing a program around deadlifts (example) 

You have an injury. The Internet can't help with a physical injury. You need to go see a doctor and assess the situation. We have absolutely no way of helping you since you provide little to no valuable information about the injury. And even if we knew, you have no way of knowing who's qualified, and who's pretending. We do not give medical advice. 

To build on Eric's comment; the best advice is to follow a workout program that is tried and true. If you're trying to make your own program, and you find yourself having to ask this question, you should probably not be making your own program in the first place. To make your own program is something you do when you know your body very well, and you know how much it can handle. This very question indicates that maybe you haven't trained so much that this is true for you. For the record, expect it to take years - even a decade - to develop this kind of intuition for your own body, and more generally, knowledge of the human anatomy. For the time being, there are dozens of programs that are already developed for both the beginner, the intermediate, and the advanced lifter. You should seek these out instead. If you're working under one of these programs, and you're wondering if you're overtraining your back, let's just say you'll know it when you feel it. Chronic fatigue and general tiredness are two of the symptoms of overtraining.