While this applies to the States only, on the federal level, the Coinage Act similarly established a bimetallic dollar with both gold and silver coins. That efforts were made on both state and federal levels to introduce bimetallism demonstrates where early American preference lies. The founders did not create a gold standard for the new republic, and thus there was no reason why they should have stipulated one in the Constitution. 

That is not to say China didn't assist the North Vietnamese. Even though China and America did not end up engaged in open warfare, large numbers of Chinese soldiers and military materials flowed into Vietnam. In fact, at the peak of China's involvement, over 170,000 Chinese military personnel were in North Vietnam, not to mention much needed equipment and supplies. 

Primarily, in Eastern England and Western Scotland. In particular, what you might be looking for is the Danelaw. Technically, it refers to the parts of England (roughly one-third) where Scandinavian (Danish) laws applied. In geographic terms, this is a huge swathe of Northern and Eastern England conquered by invading Vikings during the 9th century. 

Conclusion: Not that Rosy Some of these reforms have inspired writers to speak of an emancipation of women under Peter the Great. In reality, care should be taken to not overstate this. The Petrine Revolution ended the seclusion of noble women and benefited some others in very specific ways. It did not particularly promote women's rights or welfare in general. The subordinate status of women remained within contemporary European molds. 

Ultimately, when to date the end of the French Revolution boils down to a matter of judgement. As the respected French Revolution historian François Furet explains: 

Lastly, of course, there was also Molotov's loyalty to his wife, Polina Zhemchuzhina. She was the Commissar for Fishing in 1939, when the NKVD discovered a network of "German spies" in her commissariat. Molotov abstained from voting against his wife on that occasion, and repeated the same gesture again in 1948. The British historian Geoffrey Roberts, FRHistS, notes that" 

Emails was popularised on the internet because it is the medium that best enabled it. The concept of emails actually predated the internet. It originated in 1960s computer networks, where users could login to a central server from multiple remote terminals - not altogether dissimilar from how users access the internet today. Emails as we know them developed as a means of passing messages between users under such an architecture. This meant that fax/telex technologies were unsuited for delivering emails. Both fax and telex are point-to-point physical communication systems: faxing relies on the telephone network while telex had its own telegraphic network, but the principles are similar. When you send a fax, you target a physical line via a number. The machine on that specific, physical line then receives it. In contrast, the email system found a natural habitat in the emerging internet. The beauty of the internet is that it decoupled the physical line from the data line. Like those internal messages on its predecessor networks, an email sent to you via the internet can be accessed from any internet connection. The internet does not care how you connect to it, whether by phone line or cable or satellite. As long as you have the correct credentials you can access the information. So the answer is, emails came into common use with the internet because it is the first public global computer network. Fax/telex technologies may have been widespread years earlier but they were entirely unsuitable to handle email as we know it. 

While diplomats represented government interests, consuls were also appointed to countries to assist Americans locally. They remained unpaid by salary until the 1850s, when rules were introduced to curb the excess. But by 1886: 

Since the Council used the Julian calendar, in 325 their 21 March was actually 22 March on the proleptic Gregorian calendar. And in fact, the true astronomical equinox that year was on the Julian 20 March. By 1582, the total accumulated discrepancy had reached 10 days. The 1582 equinox fell on 11 March, also 10 days from ideal. Hence, the number of days skipped. 

In contrast, Yang Hucheng's connections were mostly of the Communists variety. Obviously, this did him no favours with the ardent anti-Communist Chiang Kai-shek. The striking difference in their associations sufficiently explains the Generalissimo's attitudes without resorting to whimsically concocting "bandit" or "family" connections. 

Which is technically true. That doesn't mean that the popularity of the opinion wouldn't be affected by a ban, though. Consider again the ideological history of China. A vast array of ideologies once flourished during ancient China's warring states period, for example Mohism. In some ways it anticipated modern Communism, and at one point even rivalled Confucianism in popularity. After Emperor Wu's reign, however, most of these schools of thought faded out of history due to the aforementioned government suppression. With the exception of Taoism which survived as a religion, and some of the more technical schools which persisted as technical manuals, China became wholly dominated by Confucianism up until the early modern period. 

This suggests that Polybius thought Hannibal followed an ancient route, one that the Romans later surveyed and paved as the Via Domitia. The Via Domitia leads into Iberia (where it links up with the Via Augusta) through the Col de Parnissars and its neighbouring Col du Perthus, both to the west of the Albères. During antiquity these were the main passes across the Pyrenees, and it would have been perfectly sensible for Hannibal to make his crossing here as well 

With the former, South Korea was unambiguously invaded by North Korea in an explicit war of conquest. Due to lucky political circumstances, United Nations was able to sanction a military operation to defend South Korea. 

The Old Chinese character for fertilisers is the same as the word as fecal matter. Thus, we cannot assume that the fertilisers mentioned in Spring and Autumn texts were actually excrement. It is known that at least in some cases, they were referring to (presumably compost) weed or grass. The earliest explicit reference of using human waste as fertilisers seems to date to the late Western Han dynasty. The Book of Fan Sheng-Chih, which was written around the reign of Emperor Cheng discussed various methods of raising agricultural productivity extensively, including, of course, applying fertilisers. While the bulk of the original text has been lost, part of the surviving 3,500 characters mentions that: 

Not all of the party agreed with the Bolshevik method. The conservative Right Wing of the party, under the leadership of Morris Hillquit and Victor Berger, reacted to the surge of revolutionary Left Wing with the Emergency National Convention of 1919. The ultimate result was the fracturing of the party into the broken remnant of the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, and the Communist Labor Party. By the time the last of the revolutionary elements defected (the Finnish Language Federation left in 1921 when it became clear the Socialist Party would not affiliate with the Third International), the Socialist Party had dwindled to less than 14,000 members. The Communist offsprings of the Socialists did not fare much better. Although the two Communist parties merged after 1921, a protracted fight ensued following the death of Lenin. Factions in the American Party aligned themselves to ideological developments within the Soviet Union, with several leadership changes and expulsions throughout the rest of the decade. 

The way I'm reading the question is, did the illusion of immortality cause any fear in the Greeks? Well, no source attests to the existence of the Immortals except for Herodotus. Opinions are split on his reliability, but it is believed that Herodotus did not personally speak Persian. 

It's most likely illness. Takeda Shingen's death has been reported as pulmonary tuberculosis in the Buke Jiki, , and as throat or stomach cancer in the Kōyō Gunkan . There's a theory that he was killed by a bullet or bullet wound, but this is generally regarded as a popular myth. It is only found in pro-Tokugawa writings (i.e. propaganda) produced during the Edo period, where the ruling Tokugawa clan would have liked to be credited with indirectly killing the great Shingen. Shingen did actually leave orders to keep his death secret for three years. I don't think they fooled anyone, though. 

Israel denies this, obviously. However, post-war surveys of Palestinian refugees in Jordan revealed that a majority reported air strikes as the reason they fled. 

There are several cases of Roman era ruins being repurposed by Anglo-Saxons, though I'm not certain if you'll call them "large scale". As the other answers noted, the Anglo-Saxons generally stayed away from Roman ruins and perhaps the most common way they reused these old structures were to use them for construction materials. Nonetheless, many structures were completely or partially repuposed, and perhaps the most common scenario is for religious purposes. For a complete and detailed account of Anglo-Saxon reuse of old Roman structures, see the Oxford doctoral thesis by Tyler Bell: "The Religious Reuse of Roman structures in Anglo-Saxon England." One of the best preserved examples lies in Dover, a prime point of entry into Britain both then and now. Shortly after the Roman conquest, a lighthouse was built within the grounds of what would later become the Dover Castle. When the Anglo-Saxons arrived in England, they built a church next to it, probably first in 600 AD and rebuilt four centuries later. The old Roman lighthouse was repurposed into the church's bell tower and remain standing to this day. 

One needs to look no further than the German declaration of war itself. That document succinctly laid out Berlin's position that the Russian mobilisation was an existential threat as well as an act of aggression towards Germany. Presenting Germany as a peaceful mediator, it claims that: 

Social Interactions As is well known, Peter the Great implemented sweeping modernisation reforms in Russia, inspired by the Enlightenment. He was heavily influenced by the West in this endeavour, and accordingly sought to introduce much western cultural and social norms. One part of the Petrine social engineering was the introduction of new fashion styles. Both men and women were ordered to adopt western wardrobes. Specifically for women, in 1700: 

Obsessive compulsive disorders do not exist in a vacuum - you have to put them in their context. Mysophobia is stereotyped as excessively washing hands today, but it is not intrinsically about hand washing. It just so happens that in the modern world, clean flowing water and hand sanitisers are easily available for cleansing your hands of real or imagined contaminants. Hence why it's somewhat of a misnomer to call the affliction germaphobia. Because it doesn't necessarily need to have anything to do with germs. Rather, it's about "contaminants" which can be any filth or dirt. No germ theory required, and the symptoms manifest in more ways than just washing hands.