By invite you, do you mean to say that you expected your boss to pay for it? Or do you mean just an invitation? In either case, why would you not bring it up yourself if you knew about it beforehand? A simple "do you know about XYZ conference? I am thinking of attending and want to check with you whether it would be useful considering I work everyday on topic XYZ. Also, any chance that the company can cover the registration cost?" This seems like an issue that arose only because you wanted your boss to give you a royal invitation... (s)he may have simply forgotten to ask you or it could've just slipped his/her mind. 

One of my previous employer wants me to update a tool that I developed during my internship. It would be remote work, part-time for about 20 hours a week, and I expect the work to last ~1 year. To make this work, I would have to make certain changes that would require significant financial commitments. How can I ask for a guarantee of employment for a part-time job? I don't want to be left with unaffordable budget if the part-time people change their minds after few months. I don't have experience signing contracts so I'm not sure if it would be appropriate to ask for: 1 year guarantee, or early termination fee. I know certain parts of an employment contract (like noncompete for a year) are not really enforceable so is something like this enforceable? I don't expect them to backtrack if they agree to such provisions ... but still, I am wondering about the legality and how often such provisions are agreed to. 

Ask who has a shop or bakery on his route or who can do that with the least detour. Rotating through everybody is an obvious idea but depending on how you all get to work there is a good chance to find one or more people who CAN do that with minimal effort and - very important - who WANT to do that. So asking is better than selecting. For example you can hardly bring a cake by bike, it's possible by public transport and really easy by car. Perhaps somebody goes to the bakery in the morning anyway and doesn't feel having a problem to pick up a cake by the way. Or he/she only needs to stop or drive a short way extra, whild the other one who would be "next" has much more trouble with a shop in the morning. Then another possibility is to take the cake home from the usual shopping and bring it to the office on the next day. 

He may or may not remember you, but this might serve as a reminder. It also doesn't explicitly ask for his help, it just states the fact that you're applying and have a wish to work for him again. If he wants and is able to, he might be in a position to help your application go through. It can't hurt. 

No. If they don't identify themselves or carry security credentials (business card, key code number, security pass), then the existing security measures trump everything. 

Don't let this come across as being sarcastic, being supportive works just as well. Next time around (if you wanted to do this work yourself), discuss with your manager and book some time in the resource plan (if you have one). This reinforces that you want to "own" this piece of work. 

As Jane says in her comment, he's clearly doing himself no favours and doesn't appear to be doing much to contribute to the team's effectiveness. I'd be tempted to privately talk with one or two other team-members and see what the background story of this guy is, and how they cope with his attitude/behaviour. It strikes me that there's signs of a lack of clear leadership from the Dev Lead here if some decisions end up being based on a coin-toss. If there's no clear backstory from what you learn from your team-mates, you might have to suck it up and do the best that you can and keep flagging any blockages to your own work-streams. But take your lead from your team-mates - they've obviously been living with this situation for the past couple of years. 

It seems as if there was no time when all your work is done. This means the perfect moment to quit will never be, from the view of the company. What about your view? You already have left this place in your dreams, right? 

First of all I am not sure if I got the question right. Correct me if not. This kind of working can be ok at home, if you are the person who really can do that and wants to do that. You really don't know how office working looks like? If I calculate that, 6 times 1.5 hours of coding and 5 times 1.5 hours break in between, this is 16.5 hours a day. How could a person be this time at the office each day? What recreation effect is in leisure time that you spend at the office, if it's only small portions and you absolutely don't know what to do there and always have the rest of your work in mind? This is pure stress, not recreation. So the answer is 

Been in this situation before with English, French, Hindi, Punjabi, and Mandarin competing against one another..! It is highly unlikely you will get them to change by simply asking them. Once an enclave is formed, it will stick until something drastic happens around them (e.g. rearrangement of their work desks to be far apart from each other). I would advise that you ask them two more times (a total of 3). If that doesn't change anything (likely), talk to your supervisor about it. Ask him/her to enforce English-only at work rule. There is no magical way to get them to talk in English. You can try and strike up a friendship with two of them individually and then mention in a light-hearted manner that you wish you could speak Telugu to get them to understand. Again, unlikely to work but if you don't want to escalate that's probably your best approach. I would strongly recommend asking your supervisor to establish English-only rule at work place. 

Since WANTING to do that is important to keep everybody happy, you shouldn't select those people by rank. 

Well ... probably not usefully. As example I guess the portion of work that someone does in half of the time, say 4 hours instead of 8, is more than half the work he/she does in full time. But you can't split work so that everyone only works a little time on it. You should not ignore that lots of breaks mean a lot of time to get into work again. You don't just go on where you left, you have to think about what you did, how to continue, what you had in mind before and so on. So I think you shouldn't break work scheduled by the time but by the topics you are working on. 

introduce indicators that give employees no other chance but to survive on their own, regardless of the rest whine when they do exactly this. 

To evaluate that you need a lot more than "only" the salary. Does your boss now really underpay or are "surprises" in the new job that could explain the higher salary? More worktime? A company that expects 1 h per day overtime of course can pay more than anotherone. What do you know about the new job? Conditions, expectations...? Will you like it as you like the current job? What about the team, the company culture in general? Calculate what is left from the other salary, after taxes and eventually more commuting and all the rest. Then confront the pros and cons. 

It seems simple to me. Your salary will increase by 7 units because you passed the advanced certification. Otherwise, you would have been told that the advanced certification would earn you 12 units more. Just assume this will be the case. 

Taking some ownership of the responsibilities will reflect well on you, as will effectively communicating the gaps to your management for them to allocate the appropriate resources and manage the timescales. 

If you're being asked for this in an interview, then just explain what you do on a daily basis. If there's significant event that you do periodically, put those in too. And the "how much explaining" aspect is in the first word there - briefly This means a few sentences. If the interviewer wants more information, they'll ask for more details. 

In summary, don't worry to much about this, but it might be an idea to put yourself through some brain training. Even if your future interviews don't have puzzle tasks like this, you could use these skills in "normal" interviews to prove how agile your problem solving methods are. 

People should not compete? Then (wow I really have to say that?) don't force them to compete! Rishi Goel says it, hire the right at the top. Someone who doesn't 

My first thought was what's wrong in a company that needs to promote itself among people who work there. For the next project you might want to see if this is just a gift or there is something burried inside that could be solved better. Your CEO's argument could be wasn't it predictable that if everyone brings this lunchbox then all the same lunchboxes are all over? Don't tell them you had no idea this happens. They will doubt if you were the right one for this job. Say yes you had a clue that more than one identical lunchbox could be found in the fridge. But (shape this phrase to make it fit) in case your company is not the local kindergarten I assume you have to deal with adult people. Shouldn't the 2nd or 3rd person who puts a lunchbox in the fridge see there already are others looking the same and put her/his name on his/her box without getting this advice from the management? Let's think further, shouldn't people put their name on by default, even if they all look different? Shouldn't someone who finds multiple boxes or unknown food in his box try to examine which is his and which is not instead of just eat the first thing they grabbed? Don't let them make you responsible for their lack of social skills. You tried to do good and it's not your fault if (again, rephrase this) they are too stupid. For the next project try to ask around who might see any problems like that. Involve CEO, at least send them your suggestion and ask about their opinion. 

What you do in your own time is your own business. Obviously if occasional work commitments means that you need to work on project work to make up some time, you'll do that instead of GitHubbing, right? 

Probably too much information. Just say that you have a hospital appointment that can't move and a recovery time afterwards. There's no need for any details at all. You don't even need to mention the recovery time, just state the days you feel you can schedule for. 

Separately look at your project and IT management, development, test, and deployment processes. There's a lot of work here, so phase as appropriate (starting with your stacks). 

It really depends on the culture of the company/team you work with and what most people say. Given enough traffic, not many people take notice of the wording of email closing anyway. I usually end with "Thanks" because I'm invariably asking for something, or thanking someone for something. 

It might be more appropriate to ask if he knows anyone who's recruiting for that industry type. This may result in him passing on your details, or directing you to an agency that he's familiar with. If you're the one to engage the other recruitment agency, at least you know the message has got there (otherwise, you're left wondering "did he pass my details on?" if you don't hear anything).