NOAA has climate division files in netcdf and shapefile format, though they may be just CONUS: $URL$ The most promising link looks like this source with paper citation below. They have lots of freely available data in a variety of formats: $URL$ Rubel, F., and M. Kottek, 2010: Observed and projected climate shifts 1901-2100 depicted by world maps of the Köppen-Geiger climate classification. Meteorol. Z., 19, 135-141. DOI: 10.1127/0941-2948/2010/0430. There's also the ArcGIS Online map service that has Koppen-Geiger Observed and Predicted Climate Shifts: $URL$ To answer your question about the types of temperature in a classification, I suggest you refer to the paper above and the ranges of expected temperatures for each Koppen climate type which can be found here: $URL$ For modeled and observed temperature, precipitation, etc. you might find the following resources helpful: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Fractional Snow Cover (FSC) is a property of snow cover. The fractional snow cover property is used in a variety of contexts, most common of which is meteorological models. Snow cover algorithms applied to visible imagery remote sensing data are used to derive fractional snow cover for each pixel. This information is typically re-gridded and time-averaged for use by external users. This GOES site explains: 

If you are smelling something, you are inhaling gases, particles, or a combination of the two. They don't normally build up in the atmosphere because of three reasons: transport/dilution (which you mentioned), chemistry, and deposition. Yes there is plenty of fresh air out there but as you say, over billions of years there would be a lot of accumulation of odorous compounds if it weren't going somewhere. Though, stinky air does get trapped near the ground sometimes during stagnation events, caused by a temperature inversion close to the surface which prevents mixing with the upper air. Atmospheric chemistry usually involves the hydroxyl radical (OH) in some way. Rapid chemical conversions of gases often depends on OH, which is cycling and replenished thanks to the abundance of oxygen and water vapor in the atmosphere. Many gaseous pollutants will go through a series of chemical reactions with OH, other chemicals, and/or sunlight. They are then converted to simpler chemicals that we don't really smell. Most pollutants are chemically converted quickly (e.g. hours, days) but some pollutants take years to convert (e.g. methane) and so there is always an abundance of methane in the atmosphere. We don't smell it, though, because the concentrations are lower than what our noses/brains can detect. Deposition of air pollutants is dominated by precipitation, whereby rain can scavenge particles and chemically react with gases. The rain deposits the pollutants (usually in a modified form) onto the surface of the Earth. Dry deposition also occurs, especially with "sticky" compounds like ammonia. However, dry deposition is not nearly as efficient as wet deposition. Though, if particles are large enough, they will settle out of the atmosphere relatively quickly and deposit on the surface. I suggest you read up a little on the topic here to get you more familiar with the different factors that affect air pollutants. 

Typically when searching for possible life on other worlds (aka inhabitable), scientists look for terrestrial worlds with liquid water or some other basic liquid. If a world has a solvent of some sort and some type of geologic activity (which is a source of heat and molecular diversity), then it would be considered possibly "inhabitable" for the types of life we are familiar with. However, if a planet has some strange characteristic that would cause periodic extreme events (e.g. highly elliptical orbit), it's environment would be less stable and therefore less likely to support life. Check out this site on the subject: $URL$ or refer to wikipedia as mentioned in the comments $URL$ 

On July 19, 2015 there was record rainfall over the Los Angeles and San Diego areas. This is amidst a historic drought and the rain is needed. This article: $URL$ states that 

Particulate matter is a bit tougher to quantify. PM10 (coarse and fine particles together) has been tracked since the late 80s, but PM2.5 (fine particles) has only been tracked since 1999. You can read a bit about it here. The reduction in particulate matter has not been as dramatic as ozone. This makes sense, though, since ozone is a secondary pollutant whose precursors (NOx and VOCs) largely come from vehicle tailpipes. NOx and VOC emissions from vehicles has decreased significantly in recent years, especially with fleet turnover. In contrast, coarse and fine particulate matter come from many different sources, e.g. road dust, agriculture, cooking, etc. which is difficult to control since rain is the major control method. 

It is important to note that the idea of a negative feedback has been postulated before. Namely, that wildfire could limit the maximum atmospheric oxygen possible. Since combustion occurs more easily in high oxygen environments, the idea was that if atmospheric oxygen levels increased much more than 21%, wildfire occurrences would be extreme enough to burn up the excess oxygen (and thereby reduce oxygen production from trees). However, there is evidence that atmospheric oxygen was up to 35% in the late paleozoic era, which doesn't support the idea of wildfire as a negative feedback mechanism. Furthermore, this paper by Wildman et al., says: 

Each one of the monitor siting examples you list has a different purpose. As you have listed, a monitor will be sited for air regulatory compliance purposes (e.g. determining the highest concentrations downwind of a major source), understanding the region (e.g. representative site in well-mixed location), or health exposure risks (e.g. densely populated areas). From a health and regulatory perspective, those types of site locations are sufficient. However, you may want to consider other monitor site locations in your network that will help to evaluate the performance of the air quality model and assess the importance of various sources: 

The places on Earth that have historically had the most stable climates are typically within the tropics and close to sea level/coastlines. The tropics are not influenced as much by the rest of the Earth's weather patterns since it is more of a source of weather (e.g. the strong convective atmospheric motion that moves air away from the tropics due to the dominant solar heating). Staying close to coastlines ensures that any rising global temperatures are moderated by the abundance of water. Staying close to sea level ensures that you are not influenced much by changes in glacier activity nor snow-melt elevation changes. There is literature that states that tropical ecosystems are most sensitive to climate change, and that tropical areas will see climate change sooner. However, my point is that the climate itself will be the least extreme in the tropical regions near the ocean. Furthermore, I would like to point out that climate change per se will not make most of the planet uninhabitable as the question insinuates. As the climate changes, there will certainly be very large changes to the land-surface and ecosystems... including desertification of some areas. However, any regions with sustainable ecosystems will be habitable, given that there is a source of fresh water large enough for the human population (which the Tropics often have, due to frequent rain... though areas dependent on snow-melt feeding rivers will suffer). 

Unique reactivity with other atmospheric components will change the mass and deposition velocity of particles. Metals that do not react well in the atmosphere may not grow as quickly and therefore settle more slowly. Specific metals may be used more prevalently in fireworks that obtain high altitude, such that the metal emissions are injected further up into the atmosphere and subjected to more atmospheric mixing and therefore longer settling times. 

The AQI calculation does not require that all pollutants be measured. Instead, it uses the pollutants that are available and then uses a function (chosen by the overarching regulatory agency) that equates health risk categories to the pollutant concentrations. The pollutant with the highest health risk (at present concentrations) will effectively determine the corresponding AQI. See here for how the USA EPA computes their AQI. In order to detect the most commonly monitored pollutants, you would need an ozone analyzer and a PM2.5 monitor. This is quite expensive. A good single-pollutant monitor will cost thousands of dollars to purchase and many continuing costs. You will also need calibration equipment and standards. Depending on what AQI network you will be using as a reference, the model of instrument that you use will have to meet certain specifications in order for the data to be valid. Teledyne is an example of a company that makes equipment that would meet the qualifications for the USA AirNOW network. You may also find of interest their nice AQI calculator. 

Mean IASI-NH 3 total column distribution for the period between January 2008 and January 2015. The total columns are a weighted average of the individual observations weighted with the relative error. Red circles indicate the positions of the FTIR stations. source: An evaluation of IASI-NH3 with ground-based Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy measurements 

Your comparison to water vapor is a bad one. The amount of water vapor in the atmosphere does increase with atmospheric temperature. This is because more evaporation occurs and can be held as vapor longer, thus offsetting the equilibrium of water vapor. Cold air will cause more water vapor to condense back to liquid. This process of water cycling occurs on the order of hours/days. This is in stark contrast to carbon dioxide, which does not condense out of the atmosphere when it cools. Nor does carbon dioxide evaporate from the surface of the earth. Instead, it is a byproduct of respiration and combustion. Carbon dioxide stays in the atmosphere for 100s of years before it gets deposited or chemically converted. Furthermore, carbon dioxide becomes part of geological processes in the carbon cycle that takes 1000s of years, not days. So, to summarize, carbon dioxide does not directly increase in the atmosphere due to temperature rise, because it is not constantly evaporating from the Earth's surface and condensing in the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide does not condense at normal atmospheric temperature... it won't condense until it gets as cold as -78.5 degrees C, which does not occur on the surface of the Earth [in this climate regime]. It should be noted that carbon dioxide will indirectly increase in the atmosphere with temperature rise. This is because of feedback mechanisms. For instance, with increasing temperature, trees will be more dry on average and will thus combust more easily. More wildfires are expected as temperatures rise, and with them come more carbon dioxide emitted during the fire. There is also the possibility that increases in global temperature will cause feedbacks in the geologic cycle that lead to more volcanic activity, which is another source of carbon dioxide emissions. And, as Michael points out, the methane released when permafrost melts will eventually oxidize with the hydroxyl radical into carbon dioxide and water vapor. 

There are some NH3 retrievals available from the TES instrument on the Aura/NASA satellite. There are also some NH3 retrievals from the IASI instrument on the MetOP/ESA satellite. You can read about the retrievals in these papers: Towards validation of ammonia (NH3) measurements from the IASI satellite TES ammonia retrieval strategy and global observations of the spatial and seasonal variability of ammonia These datasets are a good qualitative way to see ammonia spatial and temporal distribution across the globe. However, do not expect to get good estimates of ammonia concentrations, since there is too much uncertainty in the retrieval. In fact, I don't think these are "operational" products, and you will likely have to contact the research teams to get the data. See the image below, where you can see the effects of albedo in Australia and Greenland cause large errors in the retrieval. In general, you will see high NH3 near large sources like wildfires, livestock waste stockpiling, and crops with recent fertilizer application.