There's almost certainly more debris on the sidewalk. Sidewalks are swept less often, and vehicle movement pushes debris off the travelled areas. You can more easily see the latter on wet days - there will be wheeltracks from motor vehicles with much wetter areas between. The worst areas are the edges of major roads, where debris gets pushed into the bike lane by passing motor vehicles. On my ride to work the most puncture-prone area is where the bike path crosses a major road - there's a shield wall between the road and nearby houses and at the break in that wall is a small space for people to wait before crossing. That acts as a dust trap for all the stuff thrown up from the road and is rarely or never swept. It's common to see broken glass, sharp metal fragments and even nails in this spot. I often carry a pair of secateurs and a small hand broom in my pannier so I can clear plants and debris from the bike path. It's a small amount of extra work but it helps a lot, especially on Monday mornings when the bike path often has broken alcohol bottles on it from the weekend. Sidewalk cycling is also much more dangerous so should be minimised. 

But the stand is cheap and it folds away to nothing. Hopefully when you want it to fold, but for that price you can't be too fussy. What you're buying there is light and easy to fold, you're not paying for a usable workstand. A better lightweight design is this style: 

It's much easier to make a chunky looking frame cheaply than to make thin tubing cheaply. The heavier everything is supposed to be the less obvious it is that the BSO is not what it looks like. One key give-away is that the mountain bike is always marked "not suitable for off road use". Road bikes also have to use more expensive components, specifically brifters (combining brake and shifter units in a single mechanism) where mountain bikes can use the separate brake and shifter mechanisms, even though they are often combined into one assemble to reduce the number of steps to put the bike together. The same difficulty occurs when building cheap but effective caliper brakes, although the BSO solution there is IME to fit cheap and ineffective brakes (the shop I worked in spent a disappointing amount of time trying to find an affordable fixed-gear bike that wasn't a BSO). What I has seen a lot of is more expensive BSOs that look like road bikes or fixies, but despite paying two-ten times what a BSO normally costs, they are still not usable bikes. Most were steel framed, and often used Chinese "4130 CroMo" tubing (which if you see it unpainted is the wrong colour, and is both weaker than and fatigues faster than proper 4130). In Australia a BSO can be had for under $50 if you shop around, and normally run up to about $200-$300. But during the fixie fad we saw BSO-grade fixies costing up to $600 that we couldn't service for all the usual BSO reasons. One was "fixed" by rivets through the drive cog into the hub, for example... and it was brought into the shop because the rivets were loose. 

If you go with one of the bigger, more solid folding bikes you can use a standard child seat. With most smaller-folding bikes you'll run into weight limits even if you can get one to fit - they're often only rated for 90kg or so, which means that even a light 60kg adult and a 10kg child doesn't leave a lot of margin for "it wasn't designed for this" stresses. Montague is probably the most obvious, they make full size bikes that pivot to fold. Bike Friday officially note that it's possible but they recommend a trailer, and they also sell the "Haul-a-day" stuff which looks like a longtail setup for the Friday. I suspect adding the longtail turns a Bike Friday from something that can be dismantled in half an hour into a small package into something that takes longer to dismantle and afterwards you have a bit pile of bike parts. Pere make an accessory for mounting a second seat between the riders legs on a Brompton, and on AliExpress I found the one below that should fit most bikes and take a standard child seat: 

That's about 3.5° each side of the centre of the flat spot. How deep is it? Since sine X = x for small x, and we definitely have small x, if we go out 20.5mm from the centre of the flat spot we've got a right triangle 20.5mm on the long side. The short side is that times sine 3.5° as above: 

So why do bicycles have bigger wheels? As you said, bigger wheels handle bumps better. This is especially true when there's little or no suspension (road bikes), but also applies to mountain bikes. A bigger wheel doesn't drop into dips as far, so you lose less energy to the suspension. Motorbikes go faster than bicycles, and have higher top speeds. A whole lot of things follow from that. That means motorbikes must have suspension, where it's optional for bicycles. If a motorbike hits a bump and gets airborne, that's exciting and unusual. But even a lot of bicycle riders are unaware that their bike wheels come off the ground, because that's just part of riding your bike (you "unweight the saddle" the bike on bumps and use your body as part of the suspension). But as soon as you have suspension, the bump advantage of bigger wheels largely goes away. The flip side of "bigger wheels are weaker" is that motorbikes put a lot more stress on wheels. They're heavier, more power, and go faster. They also travel longer distances - a 1000km bicycle ride is a long way and takes days, but on a motorbike it's not remarkable unless there are exceptional factors. Lots and lots of motorbike riders travel more than, say, 50,000km a year by motorbike but hardly any bicycle riders do the same. So a motorbike has to last longer than a bicycle which makes strength more important. Failures are also more dangerous at higher speeds, and with a heavier motorbike that can fall on the rider in a crash. Again, stronger is important and small wheels are stronger. Bigger tyres have more rubber, so they last longer. Bicycle tyres have to be thin so they flex, which means the motorbike solution of making tyres thicker to get longer life really doesn't work. That makes a bigger wheel one of the few options. 

Based on the photos on the Christiana website I think you'll be fine. The exact law I'm not sure of, I can't find a translation of their bike laws online. It seems that people do carry big loads on bikes there, which isn't surprising given the strength of their cycling culture. You have the right idea about not doing it in rush hour. The generic load carrying questions are easier to answer. I suggest not loading with the centre of gravity as high as your photo because it means you can't ride on roads where there's a side slope, and cornering is harder. But if that's the trailer you have, that's the trailer you'll use. Just be careful. I would build or modify a trailer that's as wide as I can get down the paths in the area, once you have somewhere to live. I have built trailers more than a metre wide and not had problems, and in both cases I have built them so I can have a flat platform over the wheels, which lets me have loads wider than the trailer easily. (big) (big) (same trailer, flipped upside down to use a second set of dropouts. Or just load it so you can have a higher layer of stuff that sticks out more) 

I run a SON hub dynamo and have recently upgraded my front light (the old light and the dynamo are ~10 years old). The new one is much brighter than the old and has a USB outlet for charging stuff, so I'm very happy with that (Lumotec Eyc). What I want from a rear light is something like the "superflash" red LED lights, but any kind of blinking would be acceptable. Ideally I'd like one that has both constant and blinking LEDs but I have enough power available to run two, so I'm willing to keep my existing light. I run my dyno lights constantly, day and night, so having an "off" switch is not necessary (and slightly undesirable), I'd be quite happy with a light that simply flashes whenever power is applied. But with much searching I have not been able to find anything. I am specifically not interested in the "reelight" things, they will not work for me (and I recommend against them in general, they flash too slowly and too dimly). This thread on bikeradar didn't turn up anything. I suspect part of the problem is that blinking bike lights are not legal in Germany, home of all the good bike light manufacturers. But I would love a link to one that I can buy, if anyone has one. 

I'm just going to make a list of all the factors I can think of that affect stability, but please be aware that this list is not exhaustive. 

You can't easily fake deeper rimes to get the carbon fibre aero look. What you could do is use plastic film or disc to fake a complete carbon disc wheel. This would have all the disadvantages of a disc wheel (fragile, vulnerable to cross winds) but also much of the aero advantages of one. It will still be a cheap, heavy wheel, but it will have less air resistance. Many people have done this in the past. Youtube tutorial plus a webpage and another Note that many of those DIY efforts cover the braking surface of the rim, so you no longer have a brake on the covered wheel. That might not be legal where you live. 

If you speed up, you're at huge risk of riding into the motorist's blind spot, and they're likely to be concentrating on what's in front of them - getting into that side street without hitting anything, and making sure there's nothing in the side street that they need to avoid. You're really relying on the motorist also having the spare mental capacity to remember that you exist and that perhaps you might be inclined to obey the laws of physics rather than the laws of Canada. I would be very reluctant to ride into a blind spot like this, it's too easy to end up "dead right". Slowing down is something you probably want to do if the motorist doesn't give way to you, and might be legally obliged to do depending on the fine print. I think it's a good idea regardless. 

A cheap solution is a wall-mounted bike holding stand. The simple ones are just a couple of prongs that stick out from the wall and support the top tube of your bike. Something like this is $US40 or you can get fancy with this (will work better with sloping top tubes) I suspect you could build one out of a 1.5m length of timber and some screws quite easily, although attaching it to the wall would require a little care. The rope-based hanging bike storage systems also work well for this if you can put up with the bike swinging round. Those allow better access, but the bike moves. A solid wall mount won't move but you have to take the bike down and flip it round to access the other side, and you can't turn the handlebars much. 

This is a fairly lengthy history at biketrials.com, so I'm going to talk more about my experience. Early trials riding typically used BMX bikes and was modelled on motorbike trials. They used 406 wheels and caliper brakes, because that was what was available. Where I was we used leather-insert brake pads to get vicious braking at low speeds (trials typically peaked at running speed, and only that for very short distances). Mountain bikes first became important for the brakes. They made cantis affordable and available, and U brakes were invented. Around this time I started to see ISO 387 or ISO 388 wheels and tyres, which would fit into most 406 frames but allowed a fatter tyre (they were still 20", because as Sheldon reminds us, inch sizes traditionally measure the outside of the tyre, not the rim). Originally these were sold as ISO388, but looking around now they seem to have "standardised" on calling it ISO387. Whatever :) Much later, as mountain bikes became light enough to use for trials riding we started to see people doing trials riding with longer, faster sections as well as the usual technical sections. Standards also rose, these days using shipping containers in sections is fairly common, mounts and drops off a vertical pallet are considered routine. Today we're seeing people using cyclocross and even road bikes for trials, because lightweight wheels and frames are now strong enough, and the brakes good enough, for that to be possible. There's also unicycle trials riding and a few people doing crazy stuff on recumbents... crazy by recumbent standards, because even riding no-hands is hard on most recumbent bikes). The days when getting a bike under 10kg meant you had to start with a BMX are long gone. We're also seeing a wide variety of trials-type riding, from flatland to the exxtreme sportz TV spectacular stuff with people doing backflips off cliffs. If you want to get started I suggest buying a cheap-ish BMX with strong wheels and decent brakes. Just looking for one with V brakes should get you out of BSO territory. Expect to trash it, but it will let you learn a bunch of basic skills (riding on either wheel, track standing, riding backwards, hopping, simple lifts and jumps). Once you have trashed by watching instructional videos and experimenting you'll have a much better idea of what you want to do, and that will lead you into the bike you want to buy. 

It sounds as though the last step is likely to fail. If so all you can do is poke around in the shifter more aggressively, trying to dislodge anything loose, maybe put a bit more oil in there to looses the grease and see if that helps. I'm sorry this is so non-specific, but in my experience the "generally poke it and lube it" approach works about half the time, and the rest of the time the problem is a damaged part that can't be replaced because no-one sells parts for cheap shifters. In the shop I worked at we had a box of old shifters for times like this and if the customer couldn't afford a new one we'd try to find a second hand one. But that saves $10 on a bill that's already got over $50 in labour costs on it.