Background on acids Most weak acids won't kill or even harm a human. Human skin has a pH of about 5.5 (that's fairly acidic). Any acid weaker than this and even those somewhat more acid than this will have no effect (unless there's an underlying chemical reaction occurring besides the acid attack). Phosphoric acid is one of the strongest of the weak acids. According the MSDS, long-term exposure of your skin to phosphoric acid can kill you. Because it has three $H^{+}$ available for disassociation, phosphoric acid has 3 possible pKas. The most acidic ($pKa_1$) is just above 2. That's very acidic but does not meet the definition of a "strong acid". A strong acid is one defined as having a pKa below that of Hydronium ($H_3O$) or -1.74. A one molar phosphoric acid solution can approach a pH of 1 (that's extremely acidic). 

expose the population to conditions with high selective pressures (aka a high death rate) increase the mutation rate (aka a high death rate) use genetic engineering to artificially create more diversity or some combination of the above 

Any of these could be no longer under central control, abandoned, infested, or have other issues. Ships Imagine small - extraordinarily large ships (like the StarLost): The Extraordinarily large ship: The StarLost: 

So it looks like a well designed and small enough aircraft could be made. Granted I don't know of a good mechanism for turning solar power into thrust so there would still be quite a bit of engineering work left to do, the physics don't prohibit such a craft. And another thing Although someone might be able to someday build such a craft, remember that anything with moving parts will require lubricants. Even if you meet its power requirements to keep it going, eventually it'll run out of these lubricants and/or its moving parts will break. Many US aircraft have the ability to perform mid-air refueling. From a propulsive perspective, they can stay airborne forever. Practically speaking they have flight duration limitations based upon things like provisions for the crew, lubrication for moving parts, etc. **Aircraft engine flight performance by type and flight regime: 

I saw a reference once that indicated the magic ratio for the L4 / L5 points to remain stable, is 9 / 1 (primary / secondary). As long as your world was less than 1/9 of the mass of the smaller star, it could remain in a stable orbit in the secondary's L4 / L5 points. Whether this allows the planet a habitable temperature depends upon the specifics of the orbital parameters. For instance, use a G2 start (like our Sun) and a barely fusing M9 dwarf as the secondary. Place the secondary a little further out than Earth's orbit and Voila, you have a habitable planet. Tidal forces between your planet and the primary at those distances would less than the Solar tides the Earth experiences. The tidal forces between the Earth and the secondary would be even smaller. So the planet would not be tidally locked. Of course many different configurations could be used. However, you wouldn't want the tidal forces too get too strong or you'd end up with a planet tidally locked to not just one star but too. Or maybe that is what you want :) 

Max's internet connection might give him a list of 2000 reasons that he has a headache and a decent filter might reduce that to 20 reasons and even suggested a course of treatment that works for all 20 of those reasons. Still that treatment might fail. The same goes for physics, engineering, and any other subject. If these subjects were so easily deterministic, then the world wouldn't need scientists and engineers. We'd be able to do it all with Google searches. In fact one of my biggest complaints about the way search engines have partially ruined humanity's mind is this: For some topics, it is necessary to have a reasonably good understanding of a topic and the information that goes with it to even pose a good internet search for what you want. If no one commits things to memory (e.g. saying they can just do an internet search), then they miss out on the ability to solve certain classes of problems - they'll never have the information they need to pose the query in the first place. What does that leave? 

Still avoiding explosives... Another way to rid yourself of unwanted possession (or people) would be to burn them. This poses a problem when the object (person) is not flammable. Interestingly, most things that are not already oxidized will burn when exposed to a 100% oxygen environment (things like human flesh). So acquire a tank of pure oxygen and set that garbage on fire. You may need to keep the flow of oxygen going while you're eradicating the object (evidence). 

Ulterior Motives? How would we, unsophisticated new races, ever know whether the wish tokens were true benevolence or sinister bait by a race trying to take advantage of our naivete? What appears to be a great boon (wishes from an Eldar Race) may turn out to be something altogether different. This is what happens in Vernor Vinge's A Fire Upon the Deep. In one case, the boon was a lure to catch the unwary. People attempting to "cash in" the promise of the evil Eldar Race's promises actually allow it to escape its prison. In a more benign case, the boon was a lure to get others to serve the Eldar Race's own interests in the end. In any case, what seems to be too good to be true, usually is. Exercising those wishes might have a cost. It might require one with a great deal of wisdom, intelligence, or experience with the E'kan'se to get the meaning of the wish filled correctly. Other Notes It might not be as easy to cash those wish tokens as some might like or encounters with the E'kan'se might be so rare that many people never get an opportunity to cash the wishes, In such a case, trading them for some other fair value might serve useful purposes. Discussion of currency, coinage, and backing the currency Also as others pointed out, the E'kan'se tokens might be so valuable that no one actually trades these coins (or the do so rarely). The Galactic coinage might represent fractional value of one of the E'kan'se wish token. This implies that the entity making the coins is backing them by E'kan'se wish tokens. As we know our governments are not very good at keeping their word so trade in your real E'kan'se wish tokens for the fractional coins minted by local governments at your own risk. In fact, bad currency drives good currency out of circulation so as soon as some government start minting the fractional coinage, all the E'kan'se tokens would disappear (people would hoard them). People would only trade their tokens as a last resort. For example, when governments stopped backing their currency with gold reserves, all of the old gold backed currency was immediately kept (hoarded) and people only spent the "bad" unbacked currency. Treatment of similar Eldar Race in other works Consider the Outsiders from Larry Niven's Known Universe. They trade in knowledge. How much is FTL drive worth to your species when it's losing a war for its very survival? The Outsiders now lease one or more bodies in our Solar System indefinitely and that's barely scratched the value of their credit with terrestrial governments.