You could look for contacts on LinkedIn and ask; you could look at their website; you could look for anonymous reviews on sites like GlassDoor. 

Keep a running log of what you're working on - my boss keeps Notepad open all day, and as soon as he switches tasks, he makes a note of what he just finished working on and what time it is. Send it to your senior manager every morning. If you know each morning what you'll be working on that day, include that so that he can compare each day's log to the previous day's task list and understand "okay, he did all the things he expected to do". 

Here are some general ideas: 1) Hire a reference-checking firm. This is typically just someone who will pose as a company looking to hire Bob, calling his old employers to see what they will say about him. (Bob could just ask a professional-sounding friend to do this, but a friend could be considered biased towards Bob, so any report they make could be suspect.) As @JoeStrazzere points out, laws about recording conversations may apply, but hiring a third-party firm could put that liability on the third party if they choose to record the call. Keep in mind, however, that if this company is saying things to keep Bob from obtaining a new job, he may have to take them to court (or threaten to do so) in order to stop the behavior. [*] (Note that Bob should not necessarily seek to receive any financial compensation; instead, he might want to seek an agreement with the company that they will refuse to answer any questions beyond the typical "start date, end date, ending salary".) 2) Find other managers at the company to serve as his reference for that job. If the main boss is unhappy with Bob over the legal issues, but another manager there is knowledgeable about Bob's work there, they may be willing to serve as a reference instead. Bob should be prepared to explain why his direct manager isn't being listed as a reference ("I reported directly to the owner, who didn't pay me my last two paychecks and became irate when I had to take him to court to receive my contractually obligated pay, but [other manager] is available to discuss my work at [company]"). 3) Leave all managers at the company off his resume, and move you to the top of his reference list. If Bob can't find another manager at the company who's willing to serve as a reference, he could put you at the top of his references list, and explain that you were the highest-ranked coworker who was willing to be a reference in light of the legal issues. This isn't the best situation - they'll be looking for someone who can answer questions about Bob's work performance, and as you state in comments, you weren't completely aware of how he was doing. However, you'd be able to explain the circumstances of why he's unable to get anyone higher in the company to say anything positive about him, as well as explaining your own experience working with Bob. 4) Leave the job off the resume. Unfortunately, if all else fails, omitting the job entirely may be the best way to go forward. If this one company turns out to be the reason he's unable to get a job, leaving them off the resume could possibly get him past this hurdle. However, many companies do more sleuthing than others, and it's possible they'd find out that Bob worked for this company, and that could be two strikes against him (one for leaving it off his resume, and the other when they call the company and hear them talk about Bob in an unfavorable light). [*] I am not a lawyer; this paragraph contains some potential legal advice that Bob might want to run past an employment lawyer. 

Focus on what you can control. Don't spend any time getting frustrated about the project manager misusing his time; even if you make the senior manager aware of it, you're unlikely to gain anything by it. 

In the absence of a formal document, I would write it up in as simple a form as possible. "Here's what I intend to do, here's what the company is allowing, here's what the university requires." If you try to make it too legal, you run the risk of the company or university getting lawyers involved, whereas if it's simple enough, your boss and research director may be okay signing it themselves. I would probably do a first draft and send it to both, saying "is there anything I left out?" You do need to make sure any edge cases are covered. Alternately, you could add a sentence saying "if other issues are discovered over time, we may make an addendum to this agreement." 

If he has doubts about what you did for specific items, send him the results. Write documentation on each task so that you can refer back to it later. Include it in the morning email ("here's what I did yesterday, and here's the documentation on the meetings / analysis / testing"). 

Many (if not most) states have a labor board and specific laws regarding when you must be paid. (Since you don't specify what state you're in, you can do a search for "[State Name] labor laws" and it should take you to a page that'll inform you what the specific laws are for your area, and how to file a wage claim if those laws haven't been met.) Alternatively, your friend can go to her boss and say something along the lines of: 

Once it's out that you're dating, anything positive that you do for this employee can appear to be based on non-work-related reasons If you break up, anything bad that happens to her can appear to be based on non-work-related reasons It can bring non-work-related issues into the office 

That will make it clear that, while you were at the company the entire time, you served in a secondary role starting at a given time. When asked, mention that the HR department doesn't track secondment positions, and offer up a manager / senior colleague who can speak to the work you did while on secondment. If called, HR will presumably confirm that you've worked in the warehouse since day 1; they will hopefully repeat what they said before ("we can't speak to secondment assignments"); and the manager / senior colleague will back you up for your secondment accomplishments. 

If the internships are consecutive, not concurrent, then yes, it should be possible. You should verify the start and end dates of both internships before accepting the second. If they overlap, you'll have to decide what you want to do. You might prepare for events like the first internship asking you to stay longer (to complete a project, for example, or to attend a wrap-up event), or the second internship offering events prior to the start date that you won't be able to attend. 

Given that you've reached out to this person multiple times at this point with no response, the next step is to escalate. Either send a ticket / email to a more senior ticket-handler (referencing the earlier tickets and your responses) or to this person's supervisor (again, referencing the earlier tickets and your earlier email). 

It's been less than a week; there's lots of reasons things can get delayed. Perhaps they're waiting for someone in HR to return from vacation so they can put together an official offer letter; perhaps they're trying to interview a second person who wasn't available last week; perhaps they had an all-hands-on-deck emergency and everything non-essential got put down until it was solved. In any case, without any insight into what's happening, your best bet is to put that job out of your mind and move on for now. If they contact you today, then you haven't lost anything, but if they never get back with you at all, you don't want to waste too much time and miss other potential opportunities while you sit by the phone. 

I would work on each item separately. For #1, there's research that shows that more screen real estate leads to greater productivity: 

No, typically you can't ask for a raise within a week. In fact, usually asking for a raise within the first several months is considered a no-no. Generally, the only exceptions to that rule would be: 1) If you're promoted 

In any case, if your boss reacts badly to you not attending his event, you may want to consider searching for a different job. ("React badly" could be anything from "he's more abrupt with me at work now" to "I didn't get a bonus/raise we had been discussing" to "he switched me to a totally different project than I'd been working on", or something different.) I know "you don't want to work at a place that makes you do X" is sort of cliche, but I personally would be offended if my boss had problems with the way I spend my time outside of work. Perhaps your reason for being busy is that you're volunteering at a different charity. Perhaps you're driving several hours away to visit family. Perhaps work has been so hectic that you really just need time to take the phone off the hook and recuperate. Regardless of your reason, if your boss is requiring you to spend your holiday in a way that's causing you "pressure and guilt", then I would probably begin a job search so this doesn't happen again next Thanksgiving. However, it sounds like (in general) you like working for him and don't have a problem most of the year. I would add this to the list of "things to deal with if you work at this company" and as long as the list isn't terribly long, I would completely understand just dealing with it when the holidays roll around each year.