Is there to be found anywhere in the writings, lectures or interviews of Ayn Rand a precisely-formulated list of rights, with or without justifications or explanations? In other words, did she ever set forth an explicit list or suite of individual / human / political rights? For example, is there in her literature something like this: RIGHTS 

I infer that you argue legal execution is a "zero-sum game" and that as such it stands opposed to your ideal condition, which is rehabilitation of the condemned, both for the sake of that individual and for the sake of society. I assert that the death penalty is not intended to be a punishment, a deterrent, a service of justice, or a tool for rehabilitation (and it fails in each of these roles). It is a protection. The system of law, policing and incarceration has one goal: the protection of the individual liberties of all persons in a society. Since legal execution ideally is reserved for those criminals who continue to constitute clear and present dangers to the rights of others even when imprisoned, and for whom such a fate would be commensurate with their violations of the rights of others, the death penalty is as far from nihilism as possible: it specifically protects and promotes the freedoms and well-being of everyone who could otherwise be victimized by the condemned. It defends the right to life itself. So defined, such execution should be rare. As legal execution is practiced, however, it can be used in a misguided fashion. It might be employed in mistaken or corrupt attempts to placate angry mobs; to save resources which would be used for investigation, legal defense, and imprisonment; to justify or conceal corruption; or to propagandize. The fact of these occurrences should not be taken as proof of their legitimacy. The protection of human rights is always paramount, and never to be subordinated to ideas of what is justly deserved, what is punitive, or what is likely to engineer a desired outcome. The theistic cultures you mention are particularly prone to these errors, because they codify into law precepts of religion, which is proto-philosophy. These precepts are often incompletely or incorrectly justified, and may be based on contradictory logic. Who fails to notice the irony of the religious exhortation to "serve justice" by killing those deemed "deserving" juxtaposed with the bleating condescension that "only God can truly pass judgment." When such philosophical confusions contaminate law and the death penalty is used incorrectly then legal execution can certainly be nihilistic, in the sense that it serves no legitimate purpose, and does not protect the rights of anyone, including the condemned. Why do theistic cultures engage in nihilistic behavior? Because they hold nihilistic views. Despite much contradictory doctrine about the sanctity and beauty of life, any religious code espousing a reward in the afterlife that trumps life in the here and now, and preaching self-destructive behavior such as self-sacrifice and derision for mortal existence, has as an end result a condition of being anti-life, anti-truth, and anti-humanity. 

The morality of artificial intelligence is not something that can be reasoned, as it relies on a value-based judgment. However, if we establish values that rely on death being necessarily bad or evil, then we are neither allowed to have immune systems, nor permitted to eat, because that makes living things necessarily evil to begin with. Strict views like this are always problematic, especially where strong opinions about what's right or wrong abound. We can only reason from the basis of causation, at the point of choice regarding which ethic is necessarily better for the greatest amount of good, rather than from any solidly logical foundation. So this requires a fundamental choice about the ethics. And society hasn't made such a choice yet, because there has been no need. But even if it is, so what? You kill thousands of much more complex living things every day, simply so that they don't take your life--the immune system's primary function is death. 

In psychology, I learned in a class that there's a principle of choice that divides choice into two classes: conscious choices and subconscious choices. In my Buddhist training, I was taught that belief is nothing more than the result of our interpretations of experiences. People believe in science, for example, because science offers concrete and demonstrable examples which allow people to duplicate these direct experiences for themselves. Most of the religious world does not do this, though until about 600 years ago (the Holy Roman Inquisition) this was in fact the norm for religion. With the rise of the Inquisition, reason was considered evidence of witchcraft, especially if it was reasoning that contradicted what the Catholic church said. The charge of heresy against the Catholic Church was not levied against anyone in history prior to the year 1156, save those who were actually clergy who were teaching things that opposed the core teachings of that faith. Our discernment today has come a long way, but still has yet to invalidate the actual experiences that people have, because of the general tendency to be dismissive of religious beliefs as little more than a choice, rather than accepting that there may in fact be an underlying experience that the person clings to. It may be misinterpretation, but going on the offensive (from the perspective of the believer, who in today's world likely feels just as persecuted as any of our religious forebears) causes a further entrenchment into the idea that they have, and can actually inhibit the ability of the believer to reason fully and accept alternative ideas. So yes, there is a choice that occurs. But there are actually several qualities of choice: conscious, informed, well-reasoned choices are almost always at odds with those which are spontaneous, reactive, or intuitive choices. And many choices are made before we're even aware of the choice to begin with: why did you choose the shirt you wear today? Why do you choose to buy your socks where you do? Why is one shirt preferred more than another? What will you eat for breakfast tomorrow? Hundreds of choices per day. There are conscious choices. There are unconscious choices. There are choices that are preferences. There are choices we must choose for the sake of self-image. There are choices for health, just as there are choices for the lack of it. Every choice brings an experience. Experiences result in analysis (where lots of people are lacking, including those who really shouldn't be). The result of analysis is a belief. We then build our thoughts on those beliefs, which create ideas. The ideas further what we look at in the world (e.g., perceptions), and these in turn motivate us to take actions. The graphic below should illustrate this paragraph. 

No, humanism does not, in any way, necessitate relativism. They are completely different philosophies. In fact, I'm not sure that I can even imagine a way in which humanism would imply relativism. One thing to get straight at the outset is a definition of "humanism". There are at least two major ideologies that typically fall under the umbrella of humanism. First is secular humanism, which is probably the one you're thinking of when you talk about "humanism". Secular humanism tends to justify action in terms of human reason, ethics, and justice. And in doing so, it naturally denounces religious dogma, superstition, and other things that could be considered "pseudo-science". However, it does not prescribe a particular code or system of ethics, and many philosophers who fall into the "humanist" camp have strongly believed in universal moral standards, exactly the opposite of relativism. A few examples of such thinkers might be: Immanuel Kant, John Stuart Mill, and John Rawls. Certainly, secular humanism can be seen as incompatible with a strong religious faith, on which basis you may take objection to it, but it certainly is not incompatible with objectivism (with a little O), the idea that there is a universal system of ethics accessible to all. Another common branch of humanism is religious humanism, which actually attempts to integrate humanism with religious ideals. Religious humanism is fairly straight-forward: it places the focus on the human being, affirming the individual dignity and worth of all people, just like the name naïvely implies. Certainly this could be compatible with religious teachings. Søren Kierkegaard is a famous "Christian Existential Humanist". Beyond these two specific disciplines, you'll also see "humanism" applied generically to any philosophy that places the primary focus on human beings, as opposed to society at large or organized religion. But again, the idea that different cultures have different ideas about morality and ethical principles, and that those ideals are equally as valid as any other culture's ideals, is not implied by this line of thinking. Neither is the relativist tenant that there is no absolute truth or validity. In fact, a humanist could argue that human intuition, reason, and moral virtue are themselves absolute truths!