Pope, C Arden; et al. (2002). "Cancer, cardiopulmonary mortality, and long-term exposure to fine particulate air pollution". J. Amer. Med. Assoc. 287 (9): 1132–1141. PMC 4037163 Freely accessible. PMID 11879110. doi:10.1001/jama.287.9.1132. 

Whether or not they always were on the field, that's harder to establish, as there are also videos around that don't show players (because they weren't on the field, or because the cameraman didn't deem it important to show them). 

Depending on circumstances, such an event can range in effect from shock and some discomfort to fatalities. 

The trials have been "successfully completed", but not a word about the results. I think if they had been curing "terminally ill Cancer patients", even just a couple of them, we would have heard about it in mainstream media for sure. And I mean mainstream media, not the kind they present on their website. My personal favourite there is the DNA Sunday "article" which is marked "ADVI" (advertisment). So they list one of their own advertisments as media reference? Stay well clear. 

There are lots of articles available that go into the details of relative contents of saturated vs. unsaturated fats, vitamin D content, impact on cholesterol levels etc. of lard when compared to other cooking fats (like olive oil, sunflower oil, butter, margarine). The gist there is, it's not as bad as it's rep used to be, perhaps (!) better than other kitchen fats, but in the end, it's still fat. Whether it's better to switch to lard as cooking fat, or avoid cooking fats altogether, is subject to contention. Nutrition advice in general is full of opinion, with no two authors agreeing on much. So you probably won't get a "real" answer to this. 

These letters, in Einstein's own hand, portray a man who considered the Bible and its contents to be stories rather than historical facts, who took religion in general to be questionable, and whose belief was often misrepresented by others. So on content, there is reason to doubt an interview in which Einstein claims to be a Jew (in context, clearly referring to religion rather than culture - he was culturally Jewish), enthralled by Jesus, and so certain of the truth of the Bible's description of Jesus's life that his existence is "unquestionable". 

Of course, the term "intimidated" does not strictly appear here; however, "show[ing] less interest" and having "feelings of diminished masculinity" can reasonably be interpreted as a sense of intimidation in the context of dating. Tthe study is not definitive by any means. However, the description as given by the news sites is a reasonable one, and reasonably accurately describes the study and its findings as given by the authors and published in a peer-reviewed journal. 

There is certainly a quote within a purported interview with Einstein in which the phrase appears and is attributed to Einstein (see Morgoth's answer). As such, the claim can be considered one that existed during Einstein's life, and is not a posthumous invention. However, there may be reason to doubt the veracity of the quote. As this is regarding an interview from almost 90 years ago in which it is almost certain that all involved have passed away, it will be difficult, to say the least, to go beyond "doubt" or to eliminate the doubt, and so this answer should act as a caveat to Morgoth's answer (establishing only "reasonable doubt", in the sense used in legal systems) 

The study by Orb Media was subject for articles in German news website Spiegel Online (commercial) and WDR (public service broadcasting). Both articles, quoting staff from the German Federal Environmental Agency, agree on criticism of the study: 

I doubt the media really makes the claim that the robot "committed suicide" in the abovementioned meaning of the word; they just phrased it that way as it will attract more readers than "robot had malfunction that led to destruction of said robot". Point in case, the linked article also states the robot "drowned himself". Drowning is usually connected with asphyxiation. I very much doubt the robot breathed / required oxygen to function. It is much more likely it short-circuited, but "drowning" sounds better. 

The German Federal Statistics Office (''Statistisches Bundesamt'') listed the causes of deaths in Germany for 2015 sorted by ICD-10 chapter as follows (sorted most to least common, chapter headings translated by me): 

Either article agrees, though, that microplastics are much too common and widespread already, that they are a problem that needs to be addressed, and that the subject needs further study. As for "why hasn't this seen more coverage", the WDR article gives a kind of explanation (translation mine): 

On stylistic points and ways of speaking, there are some oddities, too. These are less substantive, but taken in conjunction with the more solid evidence found in his letters, they add to the doubt around the "interview": 

As some people seem to be misinterpreting what the above is demonstrating, I'm adding this little bit at the end. What it demonstrates is that there is reason to doubt the quotes as being Einstein's words. This doesn't mean there was necessarily no interview, but it does mean that, assuming the interview happened, Einstein's language may have been altered in some way (whether intentionally or accidentally). They didn't have the kind of pocket recording devices we now have access to - it's possible that Viereck was simply taking notes as he talked, and then reconstructed the interview, taking liberties as he did so. Those liberties would represent a version of Einstein's words that have been filtered through Viereck's personal biases. It's also possible that much of the content of the interview was legitimate, but that a few bits and pieces were fabricated (Viereck was, after all, a propagandist). Or perhaps the interview was actually conducted in German, and Viereck translated it with some extra flourishes that give a false impression in English. Or maybe the interview was entirely fake. It is unlikely that we would be able to either confirm or deny that the interview happened - but the above does seem to suggest that the article's quotes were not word-for-word accounts of what Einstein said during them. And while Einstein may have been alive at time of publication, this does not mean he necessarily knew of what the article said, or cared enough to correct the record, and it's not unusual for celebrities to ignore false claims because to do otherwise would draw more attention to them. Not to mention that the lack of surviving evidence that Einstein repudiated the claims does not mean that Einstein did not repudiate the claims. My reasons to doubt the veracity should be taken as reason to doubt that Einstein spoke those words - nothing more. 

Nuts. Vostok 1 reached an Apogee of 327 km. That is well within Earth's magnetosphere. Aside from that, and aside from certain sensory effects that can be experienced when exposed to strong magnetic fields, the human body doesn't care much for magnetism, or the lack of it. The one thing that would make a lack of magnetism in space harmful would be solar wind (which Earth's magnetic field deflects). Before you get that high, you'd pass through the Van Allen radiation belt, where the presence of Earth's magnetic field results in an increase of radiation. Either way, "pulsed magnetic devices" in a space suit won't make a difference, and I seriously doubt they exist. (See comments -- they don't.) 

The fact that the study you quoted did not find "evidence" of significant increases of measles infection among the unvaccinated children is the result of herd immunity, a well-researched and well-understood effect. If enough members of a population are vaccinated, and (quoting the linked article)... 

So, allowing for some ship being closer while the ISS is on the other side of the earth, at least some of the time the claim is true, and quite possibly by a comfortable margin. You can possibly find places on land where the ISS crew is closer to you than the next person on earth... 

The interviewer, George Sylvester Viereck, is described as "one of the major pro-Nazi propagandist" in the US (note that the important term, here, is "propagandist", not "pro-Nazi"). He was also a well-known poet. The language in the interview sounds much more poetic than other language used by Einstein (as seen in other quotes), and seems to contain scientific inaccuracies that Einstein is unlikely to have used, even when explaining to a lay person. Essentially, in the absence of any corroborating evidence for the interview, and with so many reasons to consider it suspect, I'd call the claim that Einstein said it to be "questionable". If you feel that one of the unreferenced statements requires a reference, please let me know in comments - references were provided for what I considered the critical points, but I may have missed some essential instances. 

Update: it turns out that there's one more source that is relevant, that makes a claim that some interpret as confirmation of the words themselves. In Einstein - A Life, by Denis Brian, published in 1996, it is apparently claimed (reference to another site that claims that the book says it - it's supposed to be on pages 277-278, if someone cares to check it) that Einstein was shown a clipping from a magazine that contained the quote, and after reading it carefully, his response was supposedly "That is what I believe". There are two things about this that complicate matters. First, I can find no indication of the claim that he said that from anything earlier than 1996, more than 40 years after his death. Second, even if we take it to be true, it doesn't confirm the original quote, only the overall sentiment. Indeed, it could be argued that it disproves the quote itself, as Einstein would likely have said "That is what I said", instead. Note that I do not actually argue this - the new quote is too vague to determine the intention, and one cannot rule out Einstein responding instead to the unasked question "Is this really what you believe?" rather than "Did you say this?" I'm unable to find a reasonable source to confirm what the Denis Brian book says, or whether a reference or other identifying information is provided. As it stands, I do not even know when this event was supposed to have happened. 

Claim vs. Interpretation You write that you interpret the claim to mean "that a self-driving car has a higher mileage per death than human driven cars." But that is not the claim, is it? The claim is that hundreds of lives could be saved if all cars were self-driving. That is a hypothesis, really, and does not have to be backed by any current self-driving-cars-in-human-controlled-traffic numbers. It is about what would happen if the human factor were eliminated (as far as other cars are concerned, of course you still have pedestrians and cyclists etc.) The wired.com article linked in the first section of this answer mentions that 40% of fatal car crashes in the US are the result of drunk driving, and 16% the result of distracted drivers. It also notes that as many as six million US drivers admitted to having hit another car on purpose. How many of these accidents would be avoided if all cars were self-driving? 

Not true, at least not as a rule ("they always were in the locker room during the anthem"). There are plenty of pre-2009 videos available showing NFL players attending the anthem.