As indicated by out by Criggie in the comments to our original post (OP) your question is also about bike fit as bicycle geometry and fit are interwoven issues. I will do my best to disentangle the different aspects of fit and geometry as well as answer the intent of the question. Geometry and Fit Geometry is the angles and lengths of tubes that make up the bicycle frame. Geometry influences fit (how you are positioned on the bike) and handling (see The Geometry of Bike Handling for a good primer). In addition, to these fundamental components there is also a "fit window" that through combinations of components and set-up you can influence your final position on a bike for a given geometry. There is NO PERFECT FIT, only compromise between three main components: 

From an aerodynamic perspective the biggest aero gains come from the front wheel set-up as it is the leading edge breaking the clean air. The rear wheel runs in the "dirty" air so aerodynamics gains will be smaller. 

GC leaders are generally not out in the wind by themselves or taking many pulls on the front. They often put time on the field on climbs and in individual events like TT (which use bikes focused on aerodynamics). As such, in pack riding GC leader will likely favour a bike that focuses on climbing (light and stiff) and handling (note, aero road bikes are improving here), rather than raw aerodynamics. GC leaders are also more likely to be conservative with gear selection because they are in it for the long run and can't afford any technical issues. That said, aerodynamics still plays an important role within the pack while drafting. As aero road bikes continue to improve (e.g., less weight penalty) and continue to prove themselves in competition you may very well see GC leaders riding them soon. 

1. Technical skill If you are relatively new to off-road riding you should really focus on component (1). This is your foundation, if you cannot efficiently navigate the terrain you cannot compete effectively. Here getting out and simply riding is a great approach. Try and deconstruct how you approach trail obstacles. Experimenting with lines, body position on the bike (e.g., how you weight the wheels in turns, over drops and jumps) and attack strategy (e.g., maintaining speed or scrubbing speed for different obstacles. Depending on the terrain of where you compete/live the amount of time you will need to dedicate will differ from area to area. (For comparison I used to live and train on North Vancouver Canada, which have some of the most technically challenging trails in the world - so I spent a lot of time honing my technical skills). Have a look through the SE questions for tips on riding techniques or ask around within your local community. 2. Endurance Some dedicated mountain bikers may shudder at this suggestion, but the best way to build endurance is on the road on a road bike. The environment is very consistent so you can pace much better than on the trails which tend to have a lot of periods of rest or inconsistent power output. For me personally, I went from lower categories to begin reasonably competitive in Pro/Elite once I started putting significant time in the saddle on a road bike. A quick search on SE will uncover lots of questions and answers about training on a road bike 3. Short Term Bursts of Power While you could train this on the road, the trail is best for this component as you often need to be able to put down huge power while gingerly maintaining your balance and traction. Training these components together is only possible off road. Find some difficult off-road climbs and practice on them so you can climb them without putting a foot down. My personal favourite was a steep 20% climb that had five large step-ups (each one as 2-2.5 feet high) in sequence. (Most rode down that trail, I preferred to ride up!) It helped me to hone my focus and concentration, develop explosive power and develop determination to clear these obstacles. I first practiced after resting so I was at my best, then as I got more proficient I would ride harder and harder up to this section until I was basically full out the entire time with my heart in my throat. Remember you can always breath on the descent (maybe)! 

Generally, a faster cadence has been born from performance considerations. Cycling is not a natural activity. It is an activity we invented that co-ops a lot of our mechanical and neurological pathways used for walking (e.g., corrective steering, steering into a fall, is very similar to walking when you step in the direction you are falling). As such we need to train our neuromuscular responses to be more tailored to an activity like cycling. Everyone who spins fast specifically trained to do so. Most who train and cycle lots prefer to spin faster. That said, there are some trained athletes who pedal relatively slower (although likely still faster than a non-cyclist). In terms of an "optimal" cadence there is still a lot of debate (e.g., Ansley and Cangley 2009) as it depends on what you are optimizing for (energetic costs, muscular stress, perception of effort, peak power). Most will optimize based on perception of effort. If you have not trained your neuromuscular pathways for the cycling motion it will be less developed and a slower cadence will likely feel more optimal. As you ride more and your neuromuscular pathways become more efficient (i.e., you are better at recruiting muscles for the pedaling action) and a faster cadence will likely feel more "efficient." Of course this is a somewhat anecdotal assertion. I haven't personally run experiments tracking peoples progression from non-cyclists to cyclists. I have however accumulated years of observations from running cycling clubs. And as always there is lots of individual variation and the possibility of exceptions. In the end it is best to pay attention to your body and choose a pedaling speed that bio-mechanically work the best for you. 

On the surface it doesn't look good, but I wonder if there is a reinforcement wrap for the brake posts, with an unfinished edge). There are some informal ways to try and confirm whether the structural carbon has been damaged. 

Always "riding your hardest" is called "junk miles" because it is not possible to always ride your hardest. The biggest performance gains come from more targeted and disciplined riding (as suggested by mattnz). To climb your steep hills (I assume these are relatively short, steep climbs, not a mountain pass) you need to work on developing high power over a short period of time. The following components will likely come to play: 

I have never personally had access to OEM (equipment purchased by bicycle manufacturers) so I cannot confirm whether or not this is how the chains come. Either way, the forum thread suggests assembling with these short pins can be difficult (other answers discuss how to do this). You may wish to purchase a connector pin as this is how Shimano intends home mechanics to assemble chains. To clarify this short pin may not be the same as a pin that has been pushed out on an assembled chain. But it is hard to verify what the OP has. 

My interest is in long distance commuting (e.g. more than 50 km a day) and the relative efficiencies of different commute bike setups (e.g. drop bars vs flat bars, fenders vs no fenders, panniers vs backpack, etc). As such, does anyone know if this type of information has been pulled together (e.g. magazine article, web page)? I am looking for hard hard numbers (e.g. wattage or relative difference in wattage) that document real world differences associated with how one sets up their commute bike. Why I even care Background Last year I had my commute bike stole. When I replaced it, I kept most of the build identical (e.g. drop bars, 2x racks, fenders, dynamo hub, disc brakes), except I also moved to an internal hub. When commuting distances, I notice this bike is slower. On the top end I think I lose anywhere from 5 - 10 km/hr. This bothered me so much I ended up building another commute bike, but went in the complete opposite direction (classic steel road, with low profile fenders and one low profile rack). This second bike is so much faster I typically use it on club rides and put the carbon crew to shame. While there is no question the second bike is more efficient (32 vs 42 km/hr top flatland cruising speed), the builds are also night and day apart so I am racking my brain to point the finger at the main culprits behind this efficiency difference. Crazy Plan If this type of info isn't out there, I would like to run a series of experiments to understand the differences. I would have a designated time trial, record the power needed to cruise at a given set of speeds. I would then slowly strip the bikes down and repeat. The hope would be to determine the relative differences in efficiency different build decisions produce and by extension how much time difference there would be in a 50 km ride. However before I start this, I would want to make sure this type of experiment hasn't been done before.