In fact, a major part of his work is reformulating non-abelian class field theory, an important part of number theory; it's usually called the Langlands programme but I have also heard it referred to as the Langlands philosophy. I also think its a mistake to think that the philosophy of mathematics, physics and science more broadly must only reflect on the problems of these subjects, or their inter-relationships or their foundations; these subjects are embedded in society, and an important part of philosophy is to investigate the relationship of these subjects to the larger society. For example the notion of algorithm is a mathematical concept and today we have such things as algorithmic trading, predictive policing and other ways in which the use of algorithms affect the wider society. The recent scandal with Cambridge Analytica highlights some of the dilemmas that a philosophy of algorithms might help frame. 

you might want to take a look at Thoreau who is well-known as a philosopher in the American transcendentalist tradition who wrote on this, his most famous book is Walden, where he does exactly as your untraced story suggests. It was, Ellery Channing, a medical doctor and a poet who wrote to Thoreau: 

The nature of best in chess can be theorised specifically because the rules are known outright. Here's one way to detect the best opening move for human players - simply play all possible games upto say 200 moves (since we expect humans to tire well before then, typically games take less than a 100 moves). Then tabulate the proportion of wins for each different opening move... This is very rough and doesn't take into account that human players consider opening moves as part of a 'book' of opening strategies such as the Queen or Kings Gambit; or that they take into account their opponents psychology - which is made more explicit in games like poker... Similar in mathematics calculus tells us the best point as the numerically maximal point; or more recently category theory tells us the best point with regard to some partial ordering which is not necessarily numerical - but even with all this mathematical technology a physicist can't say to a mathematician: we have two theories QM and GR please (partially) order all possible theories which are consistent with these two and find us the best... 

It is for this reason that Camus is usually taken as an Existentialist - though he himself repudiated the label; one need only recall, for example that his university dissertation was on St Augustine or his affinity to Simone Weil, a Christian/Jewish Mystic (and so exemplary in her suffering as to cause Susan Sontag to look away) to realise the simplicity of such judgements. In the context of another tradition, Islam; jihad aligns itself with revolt in Camus sense; of course now it has a different sense of this word is much more publicly prominent; but then so does 'revolt' or rather 'revolution' in the Marxist tradition. 

There is of course predicate as in predicate logic; but I'm asking about the notion in Aristotles Organon. Consider the proposition: 

In Aristotelian terms, existence determines ethical essence. That is existence is ethical essence. She doesn't notice this means that the 'living entity' must then come already equipped with its ethics, rather than deducing them from some factual sub-stratum. The question is how fatal is this to her ethical project? One might suppose that it is no flaw as no other moral philosophy bridges this gap, but then again they do not choose facts as their grounding; for example Kants Categorical Imperative, his foundational moral axiom is an ought. 

Like Phaedrus, the first to make a speech he relies on myth to express his thoughts. But unlike him this is appears to be a whimsical, absurd and made up myth. Wikipedia admits that: 

After Aristotles wrote on substance, a theory developed about the attributes that could inhere in a substance - they were distinguished between primary & secondary. For example colour is a secondary characteristic because when I boil a purple cabbage the colour leaks away, but the mass of cabbage remains - it is primary; or when I view through blue glass the colour changes but the mass again remains the same. But could there be in some other possible (or impossible world?) a mass-glass through which if one looks at a cathedral or a purple cabbage, its mass changes but not its colour. That is are primary attributes primary in this world, but possibly secondary in another? 

We use the letter L to remind ourselves that Leprachauns are involved in this sentence - it's a mnemonic device. 

If you have the wit and intelligence to absorb Derrida or Heidegger then you certainly have the wit and intelligence to absorb mathematics or formal logic. One doesn't have to absorb all of the technical apparatus or machinary to become cognisant of its value or to appreciate how it works. Certainly one thing that militates against it is poor exposition; but this charge can be equally put towards learning what Heidegger or Derrida is about - or even Kant. One does not have to understand how to solve a PDE, a differential equation or the technicalities of Celestial Mechanics to understand the ontology of Physics, or the niceties of Model Theory to understand Godels Theorem or is importance in the notion of truth in its analytic guise. One might note here that even very good mathematicians are aware of the huge investments of time and effort that it takes to learn mathematics properly (for example Voevodsy - a Field Medallist said exactly this in an interview) and what it means for the continuation of mathematics as a tradition; but then they are in the business of creating and advancing mathematical understanding and that is a very different proposition from philosophy. Simone Weil, who I would place in the continental tradition, for example had a good understanding of mathematics (her brother was a famous geometer) but in her work there is no mathematics in the mathematical sense; in the sense of rigourous thinking, yes. High school/college mathematics give very little indication of what mathematics or physics is; it downplays the role of insight and emphasises solving - this is the order of an algorithm or a recipe: One does something in a certain order and one obtains a certain result. Here is a passage in Liberty & Oppression by Simoe Weil that demonstrates her understanding of the sciences in making her argument: 

You've hit on what Aristotle writes in his Metaphysics (or etiology today) which is that all philosophers agree that forces come as contraries ie duals; this is exactly why he supposed as you've done that there is a counterpart to gravity; thus this is why he would say smoke rises and why a stone falls. Today, with our closer and more precise understanding of the laws that govern nature there is no simple counterpart to gravity; one might posit this as dark energy as this is a repelling force, the other possibility is the inflationary field in the early universe as that too repelled - and exponentially so. 

He then compares the absurdity of man's life with the situation of Sisyphus, a figure of Greek mythology who was condemned to repeat forever the same meaningless task of pushing a boulder up a mountain, only to see it roll down again. He ends by: 

This, in summary is empiricism and Humes answer to it - '[it has] come to nothing'. So he goes on to a different tack: 

ie he understands evolution; but for his own argument it's irrelevant; to put in different, but analogous imagery; one might be hear of a physicist, bothered by why literary theorists hardly ever mention atoms, given that novels are written in books, and books are made of atoms - might suggest literary theorists should take note of this fact; to which literary theorists would retort, quite correctly, that the physicist hadn't understood the point of literary criticism, and the fact that novels are written in books which are made of atoms, though entirely correct, is irrelevant. That of course no-one hears of such a physicist, is that the irrelevance of this argument to the aims of literary theorists is entirely obvious. 

I don't think looking at this as an interpretation is the right way of looking at it: its an aphorism that gestures towards Occams Razor. Aphorisms are a literary form and are often based on some philosophical insight. They do not encapsulate the entire philosophy itself. One doesn't substitute an aphorism for the philosophy, for the entire understanding. Rather one should think of it as a comment on it. I had understood that this aphorism had been attributed to Einstein, but given how much work is misattributed - it doesn't surprise me that there are doubts. The part after the comma is neccessary. The aphorism would not have been memorable if it had been excised. Its saying that there is an art to choosing the simplest explanation. That perhaps the simplest explanation is not neccessarily the significant explanation. Its possibly against quantitive notions of simplicity - because there the simplest is easy to find - it is the fewest. That one has to work at finding the explanatory framework that allows for the simplest explanation. That perhaps simple explanations are actually quite complex. Although there is a mantra about 'simple explanations' in science. This is often a matter of perspective; undoubtably a significant perspective. One for example has to look at String Theory to see a baroque explanation as also simple one. It seems to have swallowed every significant piece of mathematics over the last century (a significant piece of synthesis!), but also it expands the point of traditional science to an expanded point (ie strings, membranes etc). Although the traditional epistemological view of this is hierarchical, and sees the baroque edifice of string theory poised on top of this expanded point - is this view not just historical and logical? Can one via Derridas deconstructionist move, invert this oppositional paradigm - for is Nature in-itself historical & logical?