We all easily understand the problems of under tightening a screw or bolt - if is too loose, things move, it ends badly and we know why. Most of us also know that too much torque can damage the components, and in extreme cases strip the thread of the fastener. What many people do not understand is that bolts stretch when torqued. At the correct torque the bolt is elastic or springy, and is this elasticity that holds things together under vibration. An over torqued fastener can be stretched too far and loses elasticity long before it breaks or threads strip - at this point, the bolt may not continue to hold the surfaces tight under vibration, and can work loose. As the bolt has been stretched beyond its elastic ability, it will not return to its original size and essentially stuffed - however you cannot see this visually. Here in lies a big problem - it came lose, things come lose because they were too lose, so people assume it needs to be put on, just tighter. Unfortunately, that over tightened bolt (which is now stuffed) will only hold if it is over tightened even more. On cheap bikes with lots of steel (very forgiving material) and excess weight, its never a real issue - you can give a gorilla a power bar and not do much damage. The use of things like titanium and aluminium rather than steel for fasteners, along with the desire for weight savings means these components are designed with fine tolerances - hence its easy to over do it and the correct torque becomes critical. Essentially if you bike is not a chain store special, over torquing will damage something - hopefully just the bolt that is easily and cheaply replaced. If you torque a bolt up to specification and it does not hold reliably, replace the bolt - no matter how tempting, do not over tighten it. 

Might need a little more information - Deore LX has been around about as long as Shimano, and I am not certain if the specs changed over that time..... My belief is you will need a 104 PCD 4 bolt chain ring. If its 5 bolt - it will most likely be 110 PCD. These are standard sizes. Any chain ring manufactured to fit will be suitable. 

The adjustment needed is to lower your seat. Your seat is currently set for road riding where pedaling efficiency is important. The idea when Mountain biking is to maintain the center of gravity over the Bottom bracket. As the down hill gets steeper, you need to shift weight back to achieve this, as the uphill gets steeper, move weight forward. The seat post in a normal climb position prevents the required weight shift. The weight shift has to be done by moving the whole torso. Assume the 'Attack position' (google is your friend) - This correct riding position is arms are bent, elbows out (ideally forming a C when looking head on to the rider) and torso is relatively level, legs straight but knees not locked (i.e. very slightly bent - knees bent is common advice but gets miss interpreted). 

At some point it becomes quicker to push a bike up the hill than ride. Don't let ego override common sense. However, in your specific case where its a hilly circuit, a lower gear makes a lot of sense and will help you build fitness and climbing strength (and save your knees). If at some stage the lower gear is no longer needed, you can always go back to you original gear set, or a set between them. What you can fit is limited by you dérailleur which has a maximum capacity (Difference in number of teeth from Big Big to Small-Small gears). Typically road bikes will have a short or medium cage - anything from 30 to 37 tooth capacity. We know you have at capacity of at least 31. (50-34) + (25-10) A new cassette with a larger big cog is readily available - up to the insane range of 10-42. In your case good size to look at would be 11-32 - as its a very common size available at all price points and a big enough range to make a difference. This would need a dérailleur with a capacity of 37. A 11-29 might work as well, won't give quite as lower gear but needs a capacity of only 34, so may fit you existing dérailleur. You could, go to a single on the front (50) and 10-42 on the back using your existing dérailleur (Roughly same as 34F/29R), or drop to a smaller chain ring for lower gearing. Going single will sacrifice top speed if you drop the chain ring size and have the change in gearing increased between cogs. Have a look at Sheldon Browns gear calculator to help decide what you need. 

My guess is its not so much about the forks themselves breaking - I cannot imagine that sort of force can be generated by brakes when the forks themselves have to handle the forces generated in prangs etc that would easily exceed any braking forces..... Yep - forks break in a bad prang, but no one would buy forks that did not survive a moderate fall without damage The failure point is most likely the mounting posts, or the wheel being loosened or even ejected by the brakes on a QR system (well known issue and one argument for through axles). However, the idea that bigger disks give more braking and bigger forces is overly simplistic. A cheap setup with 200mm discs ridden by a 100pound wimp will not produce the same force as a top quality 160mm disc ridden by a guy with the weight and strength of a gorilla..... I believe its most likely the manufactures covering themselves and weasel words to get out of warranty claims from guys who buy cheap shocks, put on the biggest brakes they can find and ride them on the biggest drops they can find - and then claim "It broke.......". The kind of guys that do this would not be seen dead on a bike with small discs..... 

I have two pairs of shoes with different cleats - and two bikes with different pedals. Both pairs of shoes work well on one bike, but with one set of shoes the cleats jam on the other bike. There are several brands of pedals and cleats that have varying degrees of compatibility. Replacing the rubber is unlikely to fix the problem of the cleat not releasing. On top of this, there is also single release (Shimano SH51 and SH52) and multi release cleats (SH55 and SH56) cleats - Single release will let you unclip with a horizontal rotation only, where as multi release let you unclip with a diagonal, horizontal or upwards pull. Check you cleats - if they are single release, I would replace them with multi release as a first step. You may end up needing to try several different cleats, so a trip to the LBS might be the quickest way to find something that works. From SPD / SPD-R / SPD-SL cleat application table : 

Its designed to attach the prop of a model aircraft directly, i.e its designed to drive a fan that cools it. It has little (or none) weather protect, and would be destroyed on a bike in months. Another concern I would have with that motor is the shaft size- its one thing to deliver 2000W to a prop, but to connecting it to a mechanical drive train that can load it with sudden changes in forces is likely to destroy it, you would need to get very creative with shock isolation from the drive line. As far as costs, I doubt the basic motor part of the bike kit costs all that much more, after all, its only a few coils, a shaft and bearings. The very best current commercial mountain bikes come, despite a lot of frame design and engineering, with a a huge, ugly and heavy mid drive motor. With all the R&D, and money to be made creating the perfect E-Bike, do you honestly think if the big boys could add a 2000W motor weighing 670gram and the size of a bottom bracket, they would not have done it already? As far as battery packs, with the right controller you can roll your own easliy enough. 

I have read about damaged lockout systems from big hits while locked, so my advise is treat a locked fork as a fragile fork unless you want an expensive repair bill. Probably the key point is what is "a hard hit" and "high load" for a fork? That said, I have taken a couple of what I would call big hits with my fork locked with no damage, but I weigh under 70kg and what I call big is probably nothing to some people. The manual for the Suntour forks is somewhat contradictory. In one line it says "...This system protects you when riding in demanding terrain in case you forgot to unlock the fork." Then immediately it states "...The fork may become damaged when it is compressed under a high load...." The take away I get is it protects you but will possibly be damaged. In your case, I would suggest cranking up the pre-load when on the road, and only using the lockout when you know there are no potholes around. 

Many people do seat posts that achieve this - have a search on google for "Dropper seat post", All of the current models are almost certainly more reliable and easier to use than a simple spring, and can be activated while riding. The fact you cannot find any like the HiteRite is probably the effect of what we now refer to as Darwinism - not bad in it's time, but things have moved on since 1984. 

If you use disc brakes with same size rotors, you can put 26" wheels on a 27.5" bike. In fact, you can put smaller wheels on any any frame, so you could put 24" wheels onto a 29er You need to watch for the a few things - geometry is going to be affected, and you may get pedal strike as the bottom bracket is lowered. In the case of 26" and 27.5", the difference is small - 26" is ISO 559, 650B/27.5 is ISO 584 - diameter difference is 25mm, or 12mm radius(BB height). You will need to watch the axles style and length for the wheels - an array of mostly incompatible new standards have come out in the last few years so you will need to ensure the wheel sets match the frame/fork 

Great you are experimenting with these things. Food and energy input, along with hydration, is something any endurance rider needs to be on top of. Everyone is different and you can't know what works and doesn't until you tried it. However in its current form, this question would take an entire (large) book on sports nutrition to get to a full and useful answer, so here is a starting point..... First thing to keep in mind is energy gels are just food. They are engineered to provide a certain kind of food has some benefits over other kinds of foods. The marketing and packaging are engineered to convince you they are have special powers that you will receive by consuming them. Mostly this is not the case. Based on this I suggest you study up on sports nutrition and understanding the difference between simple carbs (sugars), complex carbs, protein and fats, and looking at when these various food types are most useful. Once you get a basic understanding, look at where the engineered foods such as Gels, Powders and bars claim to provide benefit over real foods. When doing this consider that no one makes money saying 'A cheese sandwich and banana are as good as a $10 gel" If you want a straight answer about best time to use Gels, small amounts regularly from the start of the ride is better than waiting till hungry or out of energy. 

You get what you pay for. The DM18 is a cheap rim with good enough reviews rating it good value for money. The DH19 is a better rim - only you know if you can or want to stretch your budget, however "Quality is remembered long after price forgotten" comes to mind. Are you prepared to regret not spending that extra money every time you go for a ride? Provided the wheel is built well and maintained, the cheaper rim will stay true (its the spokes that keep the rim true, not the rim). The DH19 has eyelets for the spokes - meaning the rim will handle more abuse and last longer (without eyelets the spoke holes tend to fatigue and crack). However, as you are only 50kg, I expect the cheaper rim will easily handle the riding you are suggesting. If you were 150kg, I would steer you to the DH19. 

(IMHO his knees are bent too much. This amount of bend requires a lot more effort in the quads than needed.) 

Ultimately Specialized has probably decided that the sales volume is not worth it. A new Epic HT will almost certainly have better trail and downhill capability as a Stumpy of even a few years ago, be lighter and have much better climbing. Its not that they would not sell any HT Stumpy's if they had them- its more they can move a vast majority potential HT Stumpy buyers to a HT Epic or a soft tail Stumpy. The lost sales not having it in the range would be very minimal. Keeping hold of a HT Trail (the stumpy) - for which there is no longer big demand that cannot be met buy a salesman diverting to another model, does not make sense as the range of bikes is probably too large already, with too much overlap. The Stumpy goes back to early 1990s (or is it earlier) - and has undergone numerous transitions. Its just a name - the bikes you like are nothing like the ones in the shop today.