I was working with a US AF research lab that was experimenting with using brainwaves to fly fighter aircraft. In their open house they took a 12 year old girl from the audience and taught her to fly an F-16 simulator in a few minutes. This occurred in about 1993. There were some problems with this process - it kept requiring recalibration or the pilot would get stuck constantly turning in one direction or another. Just before I went to the next presentation the girl got stuck in a left spiral and ended up crashing because the system needed to get recalibrated again. I'm not aware of any active military unit using this technology even today. Maybe it requires too much discipline? Maybe the human brain meanders too much and using certain brain states aren't constant features of the conscious human mind? I'm not sure why it never caught on. But it is totally plausible. 

Water Landing During WWII aircraft able to land at sea were used widely across the world by all of the belligerents. The ability to perform water landings was extremely useful for flying into and out of regions with few or no aircraft facilities. The aircraft just needed some fuel and an open stretch of water to be operational. In the current era, most regions of the world have sufficient aviation infrastructure to not need this capability. However, you can still see float planes in use in wilderness areas such as Siberia and Alaska which do not have widespread aviation infrastructure. Yes, building and using an aircraft capable of water landing is realistic. 

This book has pretty much every idea devised to survive high g environments An unprotected civilian in a sitting position can remain conscious up to 3-5 g's depending upon their fitness level. Some ideas for increasing this: 

The answer to this is as complicated as the equations of flight. Basically there is no single answer, it depends upon many variables. I wrote those detailed answers on the topic of flight for previous questions. So please read these if you are interested in the details: 

Put chemicals like these under the title "if you discover someone messing with these, run away from them as fast as you can". 

Use a convenient asteroid of small mass, pick one already close (in $\Delta V$ terms) to one of Jupiter's Lagrange point. Asteroid Hektor is a good candidate. It's already in Jupiter's L4 point and masses about $1 \cdot 10^{19} kg$ Put a solar power stations in several spots on the body. Plant mass driver/railgun/coilgun on its surface so that the recoil of at least one of them points through the body's center of mass & connect them to your solar panel farms. 

Magnetic Sails Work by interacting with the Solar Wind and generate about the same thrust per weight as solar sails. However, they have some abilities that Solar Sails do not. Electric Sails Work by interacting with the Solar Wind too. The E-sail has less research behind it. The book The Black Cloud posited an intelligence formed by a "Black Cloud". The cloud used magnetohydrodynamics to propel chucks of the cloud at sizable fractions of the speed of light as its means of propulsion. Unfortunately, all that was a bit of hand waving. The problem is that space is too empty to sustain any sort of life that we know of. Not enough nutrients and not enough readily available energy sources in between the planets (let alone the stars). 

Environmental systems As @o.m. pointed out. Humans require a pretty tightly controlled environment in which to live. You can either create these environmental conditions using an actively controlled environment or you can create a passively controlled environment that doesn't require human intervention. Closed-loop active Closed-loop active environment systems (e.g. something you'd put on a spacecraft) require constant supervision, maintenance, and other human intervention. If the responsible people get hit by a bus or the machines break and the people can't repair them - then everyone dies. Open-loop active Even closed-loop active systems are large and massive. For trips of less than 1-2 years duration it makes more sense to just bring the supplies and forget all of that machinery and chances for problems. The problem is you throw everything away after it is used. Which means everyone dies if you don't get regularly resupplied. Closed-loop passive (aka Terraformed) For very long-duration missions, especially ones in which it's possible the crew will forget how to maintain the environmental system, then you will want a closed-loop passive system. Passive environmental systems function with or without human intervention. For long-term colonies or generation ships, some form of closed-loop system will be a requirement and making it passive will be the goal. Reasons against Terraforming 

No Wavelength In order for photons to be detected, they must be absorbed. Furthermore, they must be capable of triggering a chemical reaction or electron cascade detectable by biological or semiconductor instrumentation. Too long One problem with long wavelength photons, is that they can only be absorbed by objects whose minimum dimensions approximate dimensions of that wavelength. Putting this another way, in order to detect $1 cm$ wavelength radio, you need an antenna approximately $1 cm$ in size. This size restriction puts severe constraints on the resolution possible with many radio wavelengths. A human eye's dimensions might be capable of detecting 1 pixel of information for this wavelength and could not detect any radio waves longer than this. Too Short It would seem then that we should be able to get very high resolution images from very short wavelength photons and, in theory, this is true. However, very short wavelength photons possess very high energy levels. This makes them difficult to focus (by reflection or refraction) and becomes nearly impossible at very short wavelengths. What is worse, photons must be completely absorbed or they can't be absorbed at all. What this means is that electrons in the atoms of our eyes, simply can't absorb this much energy and the photon passes right by them. These very short frequency ($\gamma$ rays) react mostly or only with the nucleus of the atom. When the do so, they tend to deliver enough energy to change the composition or structure of the nucleus and break bits off. In layman's terms, they cause the nucleus to fission. If the nucleus is more massive than iron (atomic mass of 56) the fission event releases even more energy. Regardless of whether the $\gamma$ ray absorption is endothermic or exothermic, it causes your material to transmute all nearby elements into other elements. This could be a problem for you when it happens in your skull. Other Issues Some of what you propose is difficult or impossible to accomplish for other reasons. These include: 1) The amount of information a given physical instrument can glean from observing this remotely is limited based, in part, upon the physical dimensions of the instrument. Electronic processing and other techniques frequently misused on TV (like CSI), can NOT add any information to what was actually collected. So a 100x zoom just would not be possible at some wavelengths. 2) When a biological organism evolves an ability, often it pays a penalty - even if that penalty is limited to adapting cells that used to do one job to do another. Human eyes are limited to the frequencies they can see because on Earth, these frequencies provide humans with the best sensory input. Biological organisms pay too high a penalty for the benefits gained when other frequencies are detected. It Costs Too Much We can side-step the cost penalty to biological organisms by (as you say) developing implant technologies to make up the short comings of our current systems. I suppose this is true. I also bet we wouldn't see much benefit by detecting other frequencies for the vast majority of people. 

It turns out the Rosetta Project just archives languages, however, a similar effort should be made for recording and possibly rescuing civilization too. The technology it uses (analog data storage) should be used to record a critical set of information designed to help "soften the landing" of a civilization collapse. Some people are looking into this at the Survivor Library and elsewhere. Long-term investments/treasures Instructions for redeveloping the technological base in many areas will help. There's a group trying to figure out what the minimum set of equipment machinery might be needed to colonize a planet would be. This group would benefit from the brain power involved in developing that list. Both identifying the most important pieces of equipment to make in redeveloping a technological society but also the instructions for how they might be made. The Global Village Construction Set is a set of 50 interlinked pieces of industrial equipment that should allow a small civilization to live with modern comforts (and bootstrap to a larger civilization). 

Coboglobin Coboglobin is currently a synthetic protein that performs the same function as hemoglobin. It uses Cobalt in place of the iron atoms. 

Are the any precedents for a single government controlling such an empire / civilization that seem relevant (links?) Any special points of interest or consideration? 

Other's have covered this nicely except for one point I wanted to make clear. According to our current understanding the physics of our Universe, if you have FTL travel, you necessarily also have time travel. It seems to me that it also makes the reverse true too. 

Promoting my comment to an answer. @Ghanima deserves some credit too. What Kills Humanity? A radiation source (possible sources listed below) irradiates surface inhabitants with a lethal dose of ionizing radiation. Why does Bob live? Bob the billionaire (abbreviated BtB) lives an extravagant and eccentric lifestyle and his latest craze was promoting undersea living as a means to increase the world's living space. BtB spent (weeks, months, years?) trying out the latest iteration of his undersea self-sustaining habitat. When BtB comes to the surface, BtB detects no signals other than from a very few automated systems (this dose of radiation would likely kill most electronics too). Why are their few bodies? When BtB returns to civilization, BtB discovers very few people but all of them are dead. If you wish most of human infrastructure to remain intact but not have bodies lying everywhere, you can scale the dose to be lethal but not instantly lethal. The "walking dead" congregate in places meaningful to each individual. Some examples include: 

6 g ~ 54 calories fat 9 g ~ 36 calories protein 40 g ~ 160 calories carbohydrates 1 g or so of micronutrients ~180 g of water 

I'm going to summarize the comments and other answers. If you wish to remain true to science: There's no free lunch Despite everything you've been told there is no free lunch. Solar power is a bust Even as close as the Earth is to the Sun, PV panels are marginal at best and they are a very dilute form of energy generation compared to other types. As you move away from the sun, the intensity of sunlight drops as $\frac{1}{r^2}$. NASA does not consider solar as a viable energy source outside the orbit of Mars. You shouldn't either. Renewable Energy Source There is exactly one renewable energy resource available between the stars, this is interstellar hydrogen. There are many possible ways for you to use this hydrogen, but they all break down into one of two ways: 

Probably not The ancient Greeks began to think the Earth was spherical in 600 BC. However, they actually proved it around 330 BC. Their size estimate was correct to within 10% of the Earth's actual size. 

Physics In order for very high speed trains (e.g. multiple thousands of mph) to operate, they'd require extensive infrastructure including an evacuated tunnel (e.g. vacuum). It would be highly desirable for it to include a very low friction "rail" system (e.g. maglev) too. In a practical sense, this makes the hyperloop railcars into completely independent spacecraft. They require everything a spacecraft might require (power, life support, etc.). Some clever work with the rail system might allow it to transfer power into the car but the life support requirements will remain. Time Zone Difference I worked on a couple of hypersonic aircraft projects in which we looked at this problem. East-West Travel The basic result of our researching this was even if you got travel times anywhere in the world down to 2 hours, you still had to contend with timezone changes. Leave the US East Coast at 2 pm in the afternoon and arrive in Japan at 6 am (2 pm + 2 hour travel time +14 hour time difference) causes a significant disruption in human circadian rhythms as well as scheduling problems. The net result is it still takes 1-2 days for a human to adjust to the time difference and operate at close to full efficiency. So the speed of the transportation wasn't that important for human face-to-face interactions because most humans required down time to get back up to speed. North-South Travel Although not in as high a demand, high speed travel across thousands of miles makes long-distance North-South travel very "doable". Basically, a 2 hour trip between Buenos Aires and Boston would be possible and might significantly increase the travel between such North-South destinations. There don't appear to be many high travel spots in Africa for Europeans. However, it might increase travel between 

Short answer: You can't prevent weaponization Energy is a function of $v^2$. So making a STL drive that can move a ship quickly means it can always be used as a weapon. More complicated answer and some ways of making weaponization more difficult: STL options To make a STL drive less suitable for weapon, you need make it difficult to get and difficult to use. Difficult to get You make the drive difficult to get by using rare and/or easy to control materials (e.g. Uranium or extremely high-technology gear). These materials are only available in a few places that can be monitored. This eliminates the possibility of use by many potential groups such as terrorist or pirate gangs. Essentially state entities have a monopoly on the technology and only let others use it under carefully controlled conditions or not at all. The only way for non-state entities to get one would be to seize a control of a state vessel with the technology. Difficult to use The technology can be made difficult to use by 

General Mineral Availability You will definitely find many of the same minerals as on Earth. Also all the elements will be present on the surface. However, on Earth we don't process soil to extract its gold, it's not worth the effort. Instead we look for natural concentrations of the mineral we want. Some of these concentrations are done volcanically, others through sedimentation, and some through the actions of life forms. So if you're willing to put the effort and energy into it, you can get everything you need from processing the Martian soil. Ore Types If you're interested in large scale operations for a robust Martian colony, then you'll need to find concentrations of the minerals / elements that you want. Depending upon location and from a rock / ore perspective, you'll have access to 

Even distribute the other railgun/coilguns around the body to provide for maneuvering. Begin launching materials in such a way that you begin moving your asteroid (and you can also launch those materials to where they are needed - so you get a twofer). Now steer that body through the nearest Lagrange point so you can begin using the Interplanetary Transportation Network. (see references). 

Convergent evolution It is possible (but probably uncommon) that aliens from different planets could evolve similar structures from completely different biochemistries. This has happened on Earth in which the eye was developed at least 5 different times by evolutions. Eye structures in most cases are coarsely identical but often have drastically different details (the octopus / squid eye is much better than our mammalian eye - their blood vessels don't interfere with their vision). So you might find vaguely humanoid intelligent aliens out there. They might be bilaterally symmetric, bipedal quadruped layout, upper limbs devoted to manipulation, lower limbs devoted to locomotion, and possess a central nervous system concentrated in a lobe on the top of the body. That head might possess the bulk of the sensory organs. But it wouldn't look human to us. The limb's joints would probably swing differently than ours. Their movement would look very strange to us. In short, aliens would be very alien to us and until/unless we became familiar with them, being around them would make us feel very uneasy (and the reverse would probably be true too). So what we call that wormy thing? Ordinary humans, being the lazy and imprecise critters that we are, will probably use references to organisms we are more familiar with when naming alien species with common vernacular. So if an alien creature resembles reptiles to us, we will probably call them reptiloids (regardless of the details of their gross structure). The same goes for other gross physiological appearances. Expect exoskeletal aliens to be called insectoids, flying ones to be called avioids, swimming ones to be called fishoids (that just sounds wrong though), etc. If writing fiction, you might point out that scientifically speaking the alien creature in question is really nothing like the referenced creature on Earth other than some external factor which lead to the comparison. In Summary I really like the ideas behind White's categorization scheme because it can accommodate most any plan form and alien physiology and any sort of classification would have to do this. But for appearances, humanoid is appropriate and what to call other thinking entities, being or sentient would be appropriate.