I was looking at the draft from 2012 and noticed that the 49ers had made a lot of trades to acquire more picks for the 2013 draft. This led me to wonder about trades and the number of draft picks teams have had. What team has had the highest number of draft picks in a single year, what year was it, and how many picks did they have? Please exclude supplemental draft picks from any answer. Edit: I didn't realize how many more rounds there used to be in the draft. I'm curious about the seven round format that is currently used. 

One of the important things in fantasy football is to make sure that your defense isn't starting against your high-scoring offensive players, especially your quarterback. For example, if you had Tom Brady and the Houston Texans' defense on your team, you wouldn't want to start the Houston defense because if Tom Brady is doing well there's a good chance Houston isn't. I'm wondering if a similar principle applies in fantasy baseball. In my head-to-head points league, I noticed that I have multiple instances where one of my starting pitchers is pitching against one or more of my batters. I'm I going to net less points? Will the points gained by batters significantly impact the points my pitchers get, and vice versa? Ultimately, Is it wise for me to play my starting pitchers against my batters? Edit: Below I've added the scoring system for my league, per Jacob G's request. I'd be happy with a more general answer, since this becomes pretty localized. But this would be my specific case. Note that lineups get set on Monday and cannot be changed until the following week. 

In the 1960s, many non-professional teams lost the distinction between a halfback and fullback. The NFL maintained the nomenclature of halfback and fullback: 

The players disagreed with the first point made here, causing the league to revert back to leather balls. With how hard NBA players pass and shoot, it is possible that the "superior grip and feel" translated to a rougher ball that caused small cuts. The consistency between balls without breaking them in is an improvement that theoretically would provide a more level playing field for teams. Having better consistency would reduce the number of variables that could impact game outcomes. This seems minor and relatively silly, but the league wants to ensure the only variables between games is how well a team plays; any reduction in variability outside of team skill would try to be controlled. 

If you're looking for scores within the last 10 years for the PGA, ESPN.com's golf page has information dating back to 2003. If you select a year and a golfer, you can view their individual profile, and scorecards can be seen under the Scorecards tab. 

In 2014, the NCAA will switch from the current Bowl Game system for Division 1 football to a four-team playoff format wherein the top 4 teams will compete for the championship. Will the current Bowl Games (e.g: Rose Bowl, Cotton Bowl, Capitol One Bowl) still be played when this format change happens or will they disappear? It seems like if they disappear, only four teams would be competing at the end of the season, rather than the multitude of games that currently take place in the Bowl Game format. If it is the case that the Bowl Games no longer exist, are they also being replaced with another system to allow more teams opportunities for post-season play? 

Through these clips, we can also see that composite balls are more durable, especially for outdoor use, which really shouldn't matter in the NBA. Their longevity compared to leather balls would also help reduce costs since replacements wouldn't be needed as frequently. Another reason is quality. Straight from NBA.com in 2006: 

When a team wins the Super Bowl, there are a lot of players and organizational members that helped in the process. For each team playing this year, there are multiple players on injured reserve that helped the teams early on, but won't be playing for the Lombardi trophy. Who actually gets a Super Bowl ring? Are IR players like Mario Manningham (49ers) and Lardarius Webb (Ravens) eligible to receive rings? What about all of the coaches and coordinators and front-office employees? 

In the early days of American football (around the beginning of the 20th century), the role of the fullback was altered. Instead of the position just indicating a position behind the line of scrimmage, it began to also identify the role and physical nature of the position. 

In a technique where multiple climbers are tethered together in less steep climbs, the method is a combination of self-arrest and crevasse rescue: 

So here are the bullet points that help identify the evolution of the fullback position. The origin of the fullback was in 19th century rugby. Originally these positions were named "tends," but the evolution of the game created some new positions with new names. 

So from a technical standpoint, the Packers did not have to field any players, as they would not have received a penalty for not having 11 players on the field. They may have been hit with an Unsportsmanlike Conduct penalty, although since the game was over, it wouldn't have meant much. Rule 5, Section 2, Article 11 (emphasis mine): 

So once the ball passes the line of scrimmage, the ball can only be handed or passed backward, never forward. But behind the line of scrimmage, the hand off can be forward or back and it is not considered a forward pass. This is why a muffed hand off results in a fumble rather than an incomplete pass. Additionally, a muffed backward pass is considered a fumble as per Rule 8, Section 7. 

The article also provides a link to the Wikipedia entry on rope, with a specific section on rock-climbing ropes, which basically says the same thing. In all of this, along with a plethora of other sites, I cannot find a technical name for rope used in mountaineering or rock-climbing, although it appears sometimes "belaying rope" is used. The closest I have found are dynamic and static ropes. To reiterate, dynamic ropes are more elastic and exert less force on a falling climber; static ropes are used in anchoring systems because they have much less stretch. The method for anchoring a climber is called belaying, which is a technique to limit the distance a climber may fall by having a partner anchor them with a rope. Wikipedia says: 

So a hand off counts as a running play, but so does a backward pass. However, the rules explicitly state that a hand off cannot be forward if the ball is beyond the line of scrimmage (8.7.4.a): 

An article on ESPN.com from 2006 deals with this, although it doesn't site Kobe as a source and even says "Why's Kobe switching jersey numbers? Your guess is as good as ours" (more on this below). In regard to the number 8 (and confirmed here): 

Under NBA rules, if you had made the shot, the offended team probably would have opted for option 2 and nullified all game play that occurred when your team had 6 players on the court, including your basket. Edit: The NCAA rulebook, Rule 10, Section 2 (Administrative Technical Fouls), Article 6: 

So for your first question, the ball must be moving closer to the opponent's goal line than where it started in order to be a forward pass. Only one may be attempted each play. 2: Laterals are considered to be backward passes. Rule 8, Section 7, Article 1: 

Reverses are not related specifically to forward or backward passes. Rather, they are "common trick play[s]... that involves one or more abrupt changes in the lateral flow of a rushing play" (Source). More often than not these will start with a hand off, not a pass. So backward passes are by definition a pass between players that does not advance forward; reverses are a type of trick play. 3: Every reference in the rule book about the who an eligible passer is says either "the passer" or "the runner." Specifically, Rule 3, Section 27, Article 2, Supplemental Note 2 states: 

The draft for the National Football League (NFL) now includes 32 compensatory draft picks awarded to teams that lost value in free agency prior to the draft. These picks are awarded at the ends of rounds 3-7 of the draft. How is this value calculated in order to determine what teams get these picks, as well as where in the draft these picks fall? 

This is pretty general question, but Wikipedia has a great list of capacity for sports stadiums around the world. This articles notes that Rungrado May Day Stadium in Pyongyang, North Korea has the largest capacity in the world at 150,000. The second largest, Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata, India, has 30,000 less capcaity. The Korea DPR national football team plays in Rungrado May Day Stadium. In the United States, it is Michigan Stadium in Ann Arbor, Michigan. This is also the third largest stadium in the world. Michigan Stadium, sometimes referred to as "The Big House," hosts the University of Michigan Wolverines football team and has a capacity of 109,901. 

Any player who is deemed a runner is eligible to pass. This includes most offensive players except for the offensive line (i.e.: center, guards and tackles). Players would have to report in as eligible receivers in order to be considered eligible to pass. For example, if an offensive tackle report in as eligible, he could technically pass the ball (although this seems like an awful idea). Also note that if a ball is fumbled behind the line of scrimmage, an offensive lineman could pick up the ball and commit a forward pass. But again, this seems like a terrible idea. Response to comment: This is where it technically gets a little fuzzy, since the phrase "hand off" rarely appears directly in the rules outside of citing examples. It does say in Rule 3, Section 27, Article 2 

A response on Patriots.com confirms this and adds that it may have something to do with Belichick's philosophy: 

For the wording here, the receiving team is the defense (the team that is receiving the kick). If the kicker misses the field goal on first, second, or third down, the ball is turned over to the opposing team. The kicking team does not get additional attempts. This is why teams rarely go for a field goal on anything except fourth down. There are cases where this may be important (e.g.: 3 seconds left in the game, down by 2 points, and the team is in field goal range on second down. The team is kicking in this situation). There are a lot of extra rules and exceptions based on where the ball lands if it misses and stays on the field and whether the ball is touched by the defending team, but in every case the non-kicking team ends up with possession of the ball. Edit: If the kick is blocked or aborted (e.g.: the holder fumbles on the snap), possession will not change as long as the kicking team recovers the ball. This will give them another chance. In this case, it is not considered a missed field goal and Rule 11, Section 4, Article 2 does not apply. 

Information around the web seems to confirm these ideas, but first-hand accounts of the switch from 8 to 24 appear to be lacking. There are some theories out there that Kobe wanted to "one up" Michael Jordan, who wore 23 for the Bulls, but the sources for this (here) are more sketchy than the stuff quoted above. Additional theories, including an increase in jersey sales, can be found in this blog post.