"Thus the question: is there any historical evidence to either support or deny such claim? Are there any contradictions between the described above speculated line of events and some reasonably known facts about ancient Egypt history?" It is fairly certain that there was no Exodus as described in the Bible; the kingdoms of Judah and Israel are broadly accepted to have been Canaanite in origin and never to have been in Egypt. So any story which presumes the Exodus is highly likely to be false, whatever its other appeal. For a more extended discussion of the problems with the Exodus narrative as history, see here: Evidence for the Exodus 

This was an ongoing problem with musket armed soldiery; in the Peninsular and Napoleonic wars, in-experienced infantry often shot high, and given that Brown Bess was the standard musket for the British Army from 1722, presumably an issue at least since then. As such I am doubtful whether the sights of Springfield rifles are a key factor in this problem! At a guess I would pin responsibility on two factors: 1) If you don't allow for it, the recoil of a musket will tend to kick the muzzle upwards - an experienced soldier can ride the recoil and control it reasonably well, but inexperienced troops are likely to let it rise. If the muzzle kicks upwards, the bullet will go higher than you expected, and so inexperienced soldiers are likely to shoot high. This is going to be exacerbated by the twin facts that many armies did not practice musketry with live ammunition on cost grounds, and that even those which did usually practiced volley fire only, not target shooting, so there was no clear way to gain knowledge that you were shooting high before engaging in combat. 2) The unwillingness of most soldiers to personally kill when they do not feel immediately threatened. As researched more recently (an article reporting on it can be found here, most soldiers looking over their sights at a human being not already trying to kill them will feel a strong impulse to aim off, or close their eyes when shooting to give the guy a chance, or similar. Assuming this phenomenon held true 200 years ago, and I see no reason it should not, the most sensible way for a soldier standing in line, facing a line of enemies to his front, to deliberately miss is to aim up. If, however, all of his mates are keeping their weapons fairly low, aiming at chests or stomachs of the opposing line, he will look very obvious if he aims above their heads! So getting the whole formation to aim low could be a way of using social pressure to overcome the unwillingness to actually aim directly at enemy soldiers, and thus make more of your volley hit. 

Through the course of World War 2; in September 1939 battleships were still considered more important than aircraft carriers, and by VJ Day carriers were considered utterly decisive at sea. This process took a good few steps, however, and really examining it in detail could take an entire book. You also need to consider the application of carrier air power to two main problems: 1) the decisive battle 2) the guerre de course, or convoy war. So, first let's look at decisive battle. At the beginning of WW2, it was by no means taken as read that unsupported aircraft could sink a battleship; so while a carrier could do extremely well at finding a battleship, and keep a safe distance from her, sinking her was another matter. And the carrier could hardly replace the battleship if a carrier couldn't even sink a battleship. As a result, any would-be naval power had to have battleships in order to counter enemy battleships, whereas those who expected their navy to operate in range of land-based air support (Italian, German) did not need aircraft carriers. This assumption had to be overcome by experience, and there were several battles which made that example, and then rubbed it in the noses of the gun-deck admirals. At Taranto in November 1940, the Royal Navy sank an Italian battleship in harbour and damaged two more, for the loss of two obsolescent torpedo bombers; so battleships were proven to be vulnerable to carriers when unable to manoeuvre freely. In the chase of the Bismarck, the carrier aircraft did not sink Bismarck - however, they did damage her rudder, enabling her to be caught and destroyed by battleships. Then we have the fate of Force Z - a surface-force only, consisting of a battleship, a battlecruiser and a few destroyers sunk by Japanese air attack. These were not carrier aircraft - the Japanese carrier force were somewhat busy at Pearl Harbor - but the crucial difference with Force Z, which differentiates it from Taranto and Pearl Harbor, is that Force Z was sunk while under sail, showing that any naval force which went into reach of enemy aircraft without its own air cover would be sunk. Having already mentioned the parallel, I would be remiss to not cover Pearl Harbor - this is essentially Taranto writ large. It showed that if your enemy has a sufficiently powerful carrier arm, your fleet is not safe in harbour anywhere, not even across an ocean. Then at Midway the combat between the American and Japanese carriers was decisive, without the Japanese battleships becoming engaged. So, enough about decisive battle - what about the guerre de course, conducted primarily in WW2 by German U-boats? Well, protecting a convoy against U-boats was helped hugely by air cover. Spotting the submarines in the first place, guiding in escorts to kill them or killing them directly, routing convoys around them (and providing excuses to use ULTRA intercepts to route convoys around them), forcing submarines to submerge and lose a chance to make an attack...the uses of aircraft in the Battle of the Atlantic were many and varied. However, at the start of the war there was a gap in the mid-Atlantic where land-based aircraft could not reach a convoy to protect it. Some desperate measures were used to help close the gap, including CAM ships (Catapult Aircraft Merchantmen which carried a single Hurricane on a catapult; this could be launched once, and at the end of the flight the pilot had to ditch the plane and bail out), the slightly more capable MACs (Merchant Aircraft Carrier) which carried about 80% of a normal cargo and had three or four aircraft embarked which could be recovered after a flight. These were stop gap solutions - as the war went on, they were gradually replaced with escort carriers, which were generally akin to MACs in that they were based on merchant hulls, with the difference that they were full conversions no longer carrying any cargo and could carry perhaps 20 aircraft - they were still too slow to operate with a fleet. There were many aspects to the outcome of the Battle of the Atlantic, but unlike decisive battle where the battleship admirals resisted fiercely the supplanting of their beloved big-gun ships, the usefulness of air power to this aspect of naval warfare was little doubted, and the frantic attempts to close the Air Gap in the Atlantic show this quite clearly. 

From at least the Middle Ages, there had been a combination of systems to support the poor, the old, the infirm, and so on. People lived in networks of extended family, and the more successful members of a family were expected to support the less successful; that was the first stage of the safety net. Once family resources were exhausted, or if you had no family, the next stage of support was the Parish - every Parish was expected to support the local poor (at this stage it is very hard to distinguish between Parish as religious organisation and Parish as state organisation, due to the intermingling of Church and State and the fact that those appointed to the role are often also church wardens or similar). There are also alms-houses set up by philanthropists for some few poor people, and in later times there were efforts to look after sectional groups by for instance the institution of military pensions in the late 1600s. None of these systems were perfect, and many people who were unable to work were left to starve - or turn to begging or thievery to sustain themselves. Then along came the Industrial Revolution; and where most people used to live amongst their extended family, suddenly there were huge populations with very few family nearby. Anyone can be unlucky - but how much more so when people are working 12 or 15 hour shifts in factories filled with dangerous machinery. Deaths were common, injuries much more so, and the old systems were overwhelmed. Bear in mind that this is all in the UK, where the alterations were less profound than in the US, because in the UK at least the rural areas were remaining relatively unchanged, and the old systems were well-established. In North America, even the rural areas were often newly settled, and family could be thousands of miles away instead of merely dozens or hundreds. Additionally, people living in urban areas cannot fall back on growing all their own food in times of hardship; they are more likely to be renting accommodation than to own their own land, and so on. So in towns the problem of poverty is more concentrated, and it is more severe. If the family has a breadwinner who can find employment, they are likely to be okay. However if there aren't enough jobs (e.g. Great Depression), or you're in a group that finds it difficult to find employment (e.g. elderly, child, woman pre-1970-ish), you are going to be reliant on support from somewhere. Logically, like most other things in modern Western societies, the x-of last resort is the Government. When you can't put out the fire in your house on your own, you call the fire brigade. When you can't educate your children yourself you send them to school (/apprentice them off in earlier times). When the banks are on the brink of collapse, the government steps in to guarantee them. And when other social safety nets are inadequate, the government steps in. Certainly the experience in the UK was that it was often the groups and organisations, charitable, religious or otherwise engaged in trying to alleviate social problems on the ground who wanted the government to get involved, because the problem was too big for them to solve on their own. Look at the cases of Joseph Rowntree, Charles Booth and the Cadbury family for people who started in industry, tried to look after their workers, and then moved into wider philanthropy and arguing for government intervention. An American equivalent is Milton Hershey. This experience is common in many ways across the industrialised world; as society shifts, and old systems break down, new solutions must be found to age-old problems; everywhere the problem of how to support those members of society who cannot support themselves has included the involvement of the government to a greater or lesser extent. 

It was unknown amongst the Allied armies in which direction Napoleon would march. He might have chosen to march into Belgium, which in addition to cutting Wellington off from supply could have led the Belgians to rise in revolt against the Kingdom of the Netherlands, of which they had only lately been forced to become a part. He might have marched on Prussia instead - and I may be wrong, but I believe the Prussian Army had not yet fully concentrated, and so Blucher covered the route between Napoleon and Prussia. In any case, the Allies expected to have to concentrate to fight Napoleon, and their plan was to do so once they knew the axis of his advance. In order to do so, they would have had to have better scouting - and Wellington would have needed greater confidence that Napoleon was not hooking past him at Mons, or at least earlier scouting reports. This is where the battles of Ligny and Quatre Bras come in - the French attacked the Prussians at Ligny, sending them reeling back in retreat, and at Quatre-Bras prevented Wellington's troops from advancing in time to assist the Prussians at Ligny. Having thus cleared the Prussians from his right (as he thought) Napoleon turned on Wellington at Waterloo. Wellington and Blucher (or possibly Blucher's staff, given the injuries he took at Ligny) were in communication throughout the 17th, and so Wellington stood at Waterloo well aware of the fact that Blucher was coming. He had no guarantee that Blucher would arrive in time, but if the Prussians had been forced into a general retreat rather than re-grouping at Wavre, Wellington would have continued retreating. In other words, the course of events clearly shows that Wellington and Blucher intended to force Napoleon to fight them together, and that Napoleon attempted, with incomplete success, to drive them apart so that he could defeat them in detail. So yes, an earlier link-up between the Allied armies would have meant Napoleon's efforts failed earlier.