This is really a statistics / maths question rather than a bicycles question. I think the sum you are proposing would be closer to the median speed than the mean (average). There are 3 key statistical measures that can all be useful: Mean or average in the case of speed would be distance/time. Let's say we take the average speed over every 1 minute over a 60 min ride, the median is the speed at which 30 of the samples are below the median and 30 are above. The Mode is the most commonly occurring average speed. 

Bike lanes like this work well in London city centre. Being separated from the traffic is a major bonus. In a number of places they use separate traffic lights for the bike lane so the cars aren't crossing the lane when the bikes are on the junction. In other places, there are no right turn, or no left turn junctions to protect the bike lane (common in a city centre due to the number of one way streets). Given the number of junctions in London, the number of traffic lights, pedestrians etc, it just isn't safe to travel above about 12mph anyway and these lanes are perfectly safe for passing the oncoming bikes and the occasional overtake at these speeds. In general the stretches I use which are laid out like this are relatively short. The biggest issue is actually the pedestrians who aren't expecting the bikes to come from both directions. Judicious use of the bell is needed to warn them. This has got better with familiarity, and it is only the occasional tourist who seems unsure, but the tourists tend to be more wary and aren't sure which side of the road we drive on anyway! 

Staying in the middle is the worst thing to do as you can get boxed in unable to sprint your way out of trouble and the riders at the back can come around the top of you and drop you. You are reasonably safe at the front until there are fairly few riders left as it will be difficult for the whole group to come around you and you can sprint your way out of trouble. You are also ok at the back as you are in the slip stream of the group and can use that to slingshot the person in front at the crucial moment and sprint for the line. What you don't want to do is stay in the middle. 

I think you answered your own question. The huge gap will mean you need to use a long chain for the big ring and you may not have enough movement in the rear mech to tighten it if you're in the small ring. My guess would be you'll suck the chain into the rear wheel in some combination of gears and, at best, snap your hanger, at worse damage your frame. Why not use a mid-compact (52-36) and a large cassette (11-32) 

Unless the pedals have bonded to the thread in the cranks, a longer lever is usually the way. As that seems to have failed, I'd get the cranks off, pop them in a vice and drill the cranks out. 

Typically forks on a cheap bike will be undamped, heavy and in general not terribly efficient. All bike components can break so I wouldn't just assume because it's expensive it will last. For occasional offroad use, I'd get something with a rigid fork because (as arne mentioned), the other parts are likely to be better but also because the rigid fork will be lighter than the suspension fork. That said, they also won't be as easy to find as most shops will sell less of them therefore are less likely to stock them as most people assume suspension = better. However, that's just my opinion. If I were you I'd take a few test rides and see what feels right to you. This last sentence is my real answer ;) 

If you're never walking on the cleats and can track-stand at junctions and traffic lights they should almost never wear out. There is minimal wear clipping in and out. The reds are 9 degrees of float before unclipping which may increase the wear though. I use the black cleats (0 degrees) and I wear out the bottom of the cleats through walking and stopping/starting long before I wear them out from riding. In fact, I'm on only on my second pair in 4 years. 

I have a topeak rear rack the mounting of which is interfering with the operation of the rear brake. Unfortunately, my frame (a 2009 Scott Sportster P4) only has mounting lugs on the outside of the seatstay meaning that the rack's mounting arms just touch the outside of metal sheath around the brake cable. The brakes still apply but the cable is not free to move as it should be. A pretty standard V-brake setup. Does anyone have any good ideas for a mounting solution that would enable me to mount the rack in such a way that the mounting arms bend in more quickly to avoid the brakes? I'm tempted to heat up the arms and bend them with a wrench - any concerns or recommendations? 

Will you damage components? Probably, if this is a repeated pattern, yes. When standing to climb you will be in a higher gear than when seated climbing. This means the cadence of your legs and pedals is slower. Add to the slower cadence the fact that you are powering down hard to accelerate uphill and there is significant power going through the chain and derailleur over a chain moving too slowly. If you are hearing loud clunks, that is unlikely to be good for your bike's components. It may not result in immediate failure, but is increasing wear and could result in failure later on. Rather than chain stretch, you may get a link failure and chain snapping, or you may damage parts of the derailleur if you do this regularly under high power. An alternative approach to changing gear while standing Once you have got the bike moving at a speed where you feel the cadence is too quick standing, try going back to a seated position. It will probably now feel too slow to change up. This will also allow you to use different muscles. If you can still accelerate up to a speed where the cadence is too fast and you want to change up, then do so with the pedals spinning quickly but with a moment where you apply slightly less power. General advice on hill climbing As you change up, move to standing to maintain momentum and to account for the lower cadence of the higher gear. If you can still accelerate in the higher gear - repeat. You may also find this article on How to Climb a Hill on a Bicycle a useful reference. Although he concentrates on maintaining momentum and the theory of when to attack to optimise energy efficiency through the hills rather than how to change gears.. 

I am a bike commuter without a car in California, that seems to be such an unusual combination that it is difficult to find insurance. I have health + disability insurance, my bike is worth less than $1000. I don't own property and don't have a homeowner's or renter's insurance, nothing worth to steal. I'd like to get liability protection for the case that I cause an accident. What type of insurance do I need? Am I overlooking something else I need to insure against? Update: I talked to a couple of insurance companies (Allstate, Farmers, Geico) and asked for umbrella insurance, all of them were initially very dismissive of the idea to insure someone without a car. All three told me on the phone there was no way to get a non owners auto insurance, they absolutely needed the type of my non-existing car and the VIN. They also told me that you cannot get umbrella insurance if you don't have auto insurance. I doubt this, but that was the reply. I then looked into renter's insurance, and that does indeed cover liability for bike accidents, they confirmed this on the phone. I found an insurance broker, who offered me renters + umbrella for $655 per year. State Farm has a very high liability renters insurance for about $250 per year, both 1 million coverage. I am still doubtful if 1 million liability coverage is enough. In Germany you are required by law to have at least 7.5 mio Euro coverage for personal damage and 1 mio for property damage if you have a car, but that is the absolute minimum. Most insurance policies have a limit of 100 mio Euro. In principle the required product seems to be a renters insurance, or a non-owners car insurance for people who occasionally drive. The problem is that the insurance companies don't have much experience with the car-less cyclist and can't help much choosing the right product. 

I don't know either of the bikes you mention, but the main thing to measure is the inside leg measurement, not the total height of the child as this is the most critical to get right for the bike fit. One UK company which specialises in children's bikes is Isla Bikes. Their website has some very good measurement guides that ensures a good fit. If your child has set their heart on one of the bikes you mention, I would recommend taking them down to the LBS to try them out for size before purchasing. There's no substitute for trying it out. 

The back wheel is the wheel bearing most of the weight and also the wheel providing the driving force. For these 2 reasons it is likely that the forces being exerted between the wheel and surface are much greater on the rear wheel than on the front. This makes it more likely that you will get punctures on the rear wheel than the front - all other things equal. 

I'm not sure there is a good answer to this question. It probably depends most on what type of shoes you wear. Have you tried using trainers/sneakers with a rubber sole? I wouldn't want to try and modify the pedals as you may risk damaging them. If you want a really good reliable pedal connection on the platform side, I reckon the Shimano M324 pedals are more likely to suit. 

Optimum efficiency is usually quoted as being somewhere above 80rpm which is usually a good deal faster than most people spin. $URL$ 

I always thought that a low saddle height was used in BMX because there is no suspension so the legs have to absorb all the impact whereas on a downhill bike the massive suspension should mean the legs need to absorb very little. I am not a regular downhill rider but have done it occasionally and I think that letting the suspension do the work is key. Although if you are crushing your under-carriage into the saddle it does suggest that something isn't working right. Maybe by releasing the pressure on the bike (pedals) by trying to absorb too much of the impact you are stopping the suspension's natural dampening. 

Three things to check: 1, Is the bead seated correctly. It's pretty common to get tyres blowing off the rim if they're not seated correctly. That said, this usually leads to an exploding tube rather than the tyre just coming off 2, As Daniel R Hicks said, are the rims so worn they're expanding? 3, Check the rim for dings and warping as Malarky sort of says, but not just the area for the bead. You may have a bent rim Chances are, though, that the tyres are done. The pictures would make me think they're on their last legs. I had a pair of 20+ year old ones recently that ended up in the bin as they just weren't reliable enough for me. Some things aren't worth saving a few euros/pounds/dollars over, and the contact points on a bike are some of those things for me. If the rims seem fine new tyres are where I'd go. 

All the clamp needs to do is hold the bike securely. If it holds securely and doesn't wobble it will be fine. I use an Elite trainer and have never used the skewer that came with it as I haven't had a problem with the one I have on my trainer wheel. 

It's a Mongoose Detain frameset. Originally retailed for around 200 dollars at Walmart as a complete bike. Comparing the op's frame to the one above it's clear they're not the same if only because the backwards circle has a double seatstay sort of thing. Anyway, the frame matches a google image search so I'm 99% sure I'm right 

One option you're not considering is that the freehub body on your wheelset maybe be upgradable. Given you don't say what wheels they are but I assume given they're almost certainly disc hubs to use cx1 you may find this is an option. If you update saying what wheels you have on the rear and what hub it is then it's a good start