Yes, it has been done by many players though not sure how many times in MLB history. And Brett Gardner became the third player in Yankees history to hit a home run leading off the game, the game after hitting a walk-off home run. Hall of Famer Joe Gordon did it in 1940 and Roberto Kelly in 1990. 

Reverse swing is the swing a bowler gets with the old ball towards the shiny side of the old ball rather than the conventional swing a bowler gets. If a bowler is bowling an outswinger, reverse-swing makes it an inswinger and vice-versa. What is the science behind reverse swing? There have been plenty of theories about the science involved in reverse swing. The simplest explanation from former England bowling coach Troy Cooley is: "Reverse swing is all to do with the deterioration of the ball and the seam position in flight. As the ball becomes rougher, it will take on a different characteristic as it deteriorates. So if you present the ball as an outswinger, the ball has deteriorated so much on the rough side that it takes on the characteristics of the shiny side. Which means a natural outswinger will become an inswinger and conversely, an inswinger into an outswinger." 

Drinking beer out of one's own shoe is a ritual sometimes undertaken at parties and events in Australia, where it is referred to as a "shoey". Jack Miller celebrated his maiden MotoGP victory by drinking from his boot during the podium ceremony of the Dutch Grand Prix in Assen. 

That's why we see many controversial red cards not reviewed in MLS. Examples: 1st, 2nd I am still searching for system similar to MLS, will add that if I find. 

I will recalculate again to verify. But this result shows France Ligue 1 was the league with lowest average on the pitch among Top 5 leagues for 2016/17. Data table used for calculation [Source]: Picture of the table is obtained from CIES Football Observatory. 

I don't know how to write it but there are cases where driver wins without leading a single lap (mostly because winners were disqualified afterwards), and there are cases when driver took the lead on last laps. Mine favorite of such is 2011 Canadian Grand Prix win by Jenson Button. List of driver winning without leading, (source) 

The answer is basically No, though there is no official statement of teams many articles I have read so far points out teams does not provide new jerseys to the players for every game. Uniforms are washed, mended and pressed to look as new every game. From a article of CNN: 

The most frequently played match in European Cups is Bayern Munich Vs Real Madrid they have met 24 times up to now. uefa.com article states: 

Since, infractions and unsportsmanlike conduct that take place before or simultaneously with the final signal are to be punished (2.4), and for situations when referees have strong doubts in relation with the last 30 seconds rule involving the red card and seven-metres throws video proof system can be used (see below). In this particular case, in the last 30 seconds of a game while the ball is in play, the opponents tries to prevent the team in possession from being able to take a shot on goal or to obtain a clear scoring chance, the guilty player is disqualified according to the corresponding Rules and the team in possession is granted a 7m throw (16:6, 14:1). So, for the last 30 seconds decision next to a red card is always a 7m throw if the player who was fouled, or a teammate, didn't score a goal before the game is interrupted. However, if the player who was fouled, or a teammate, scores a goal before the game is interrupted, the 7m throw is not be granted. 

Other source: Formula 1 reddit This view makes it easier to understand the purpose of this rule in some way, will add more sources later. 

No, it is not ok to hold the edge of the pool except in the case of accident, injury, illness or with the permission of a referee. (see WP 21.4) 

There are many teams who have been shutout in consecutive games. Searching after 1970 Oakland Raiders had been shutout in 3 games consecutively. While the record is of 7 consecutive games shared by Louisville Colonels and Hammond Pros. The most recent consecutive shutout was of Cleveland Browns. Using team streak finder of pro-football-reference.com the table generated is as follows: 

What conditions do they need to get the ball to swing and what are some of the tactics used to get the ball to swing? Basically the condition needed to get the ball to swing is to polish one side of the ball and let other side to roughen during the course of play. The rough side should not be repaired and the shiny side must be properly shone by the players. The subcontinent pitches, which are dry and rough are considered to the best for reverse swing as the ball gets worn up quickly on a rough and dry pitch. Reverse swing favours the older ball but depending on the type of ball, manufacturing techniques ball may start to reverse even after 20 overs, usually occours at the end of innings (around ~40 overs). Regardless of the chosen procedure for polishing, at the outset, the opening bowler should pick the side on the ball with the smaller or lighter (less rough) embossment and continue to polish only that side during the course of the innings. The other (seam) side of the ball should be allowed to roughen during the course of play to aid the production of reverse swing. Once the seam side has roughened enough, reverse swing is simply obtained by turning the ball over so that the rough side faces the batsman. 

Source: espncricinfo From espncricinfo article "Smith owns up to edge on 97": (Already stated in Nxaunxau answer) 

F1 previously had this rule but it was removed because it was difficult to manage and potientially dangerous. Now there are new safeguards involved like drivers will only be allowed to overtake once they have all passed the pit entry twice (which will allow all drivers to pit if they want), lead drivers has to stay on the racing line once the order is given to allow cars to overtake, and will be allowed to weave again, to get heat into their tyres, when informed it is safe to do so. By Charlie Whiting FIA technical delegate View of Andrew Shovlin, Senior Race Engineer at mercedes at 2012 is that before this rule was introduced (2010 and 2011 lapped cars were not allowed to overtake prior to a safety car restart), race leader get mixed up with back markers at the end of race. Depriving the spectators of an exciting finish as it allowed some cars to build good lead while their competitors were stuck in traffic. Making it confusing for those watching as the order of cars on track was not the actual race order.