From what I read, you are just requesting what you deserve: proper compensation for your contribution to the company. Congratulations for being extra-productive and passionate for your work, I would hire one like you. But under most regulation, if not all (as soon as slavery is still forbidden) you have the legal right to request what you deserve. Your boss is at a serious jeopardy from the legal point of view, because, ultimately, and as last resort, you may sue him. For office jobs, working overtime without any form of compensation (either a +15% bonus for each overtime hour or a forfait bonus at year end) may be a criminal offence. Requesting Allowing an employee (regulator assumes that if an employee is working extra, he's not doing that by his own initiative) to work overtime longer than a yearly quota of 250 hours is a criminal offence in my regulation. I wouldn't threaten your boss. I would sit with him and discuss about your importance in the company, your successes and your constant effort. Your boss would be definitely a moron if he refuses to negotiate a raise that is proportional to the extra time. A professional like you can find a job in no time, possibly without slavery. Some points for the conversation: 

Eventually, if your employer insists in demanding others to know your system password you won't have a good time dealing with this. A story about sharing passwords One of my customers, either from past or current, was a well structured financial institution with severe policies. One day our IT representative helped us remoting into employees workstations on different branches by typing his administrator password and witnessing our work. It happened that this individual was called by his manager for a meeting that could not be rescheduled, and no IT replacement was available. Rather than letting us go he gave us his password (he could change it priorly) and politely told his manager that he was about to report the event to Security management, just to notify them that a different individual was temporarily and exceptionally approved for administrative access. That was a strong act of trust to us, which was well repaid with excellent professionalism. 

In a word, don't. There is a crude cliche, which I'll clean up for the forum. "Don't eat where you poop." Most romantic relationships fail, and as such if you were to become involved romantically then statistically you would break up thereby creating an even more uncomfortable situation at work. If this were outside of work, I would still say don't. You describe this person in negative ways--holier than thou, indifferent to you, makes you angry. These are not the makings of a healthy relationship. Don't. 

This is a problem that afflicts organizations large and small, global and local, public and private sector. Organizations fail to put adequate resources into a solution, and then are surprised that results are a reflection of the effort put into the solution. In recent years, some of this has been driven by economics--with work in short supply, demand more of the workers. However, the problem precedes the 2008 Meltdown. You say that you have mentioned the issue on many occasions. At what level and to whom have you mentioned it? Immediate supervisor, one up, the owner herself? I ask because it's possible the person to whom you mentioned it might not have passed it along any higher up. As such, the owner may believe all is well, even though there is a breakdown in communication at some level in the organization. You say the behavior was not like that before. Before what? Was there an approximate date when things changed? Was there some kind of shakeup in the organization? Did the owner lose a spouse, a parent, undergo a divorce, etc., that you know of? Clearly you've noticed the change, but what happened or was happening at or around the time of the change? Is there is a process in place that is not being adhered to, and which most would agree if you drew conspicuous attention to said process that yes that is our process and yes we are supposed to follow that? If yes, then start there with that process. If you attempt to boil the ocean, you will fail and frustrate both yourself and those around you. Go to your immediate supervisor, and focus in on this one issue. Attempt to resolve it and get more universal compliance. If you succeed, look for another such issue you believe you can fight and win. After several successful fights, you will then have some intellectual ammunition to put on the table pointing to larger issues in the org that need to be addressed. As a back up plan, pick up a copy of "Death March" by Ed Yourdon for some perspective. The 2nd Edition was published in 2003, and a 3rd Edition is planned for May 2016. You can find it used on Amazon for $6 including shipping, but hit up the local library and you can probably get it free. Death March Projects are a fact of life, and this book can be something of a survival guide to them--assuming the Project is survivable. Look at the four types of Death March Project--Mission Impossible, USMC, Kamikaze, and Suicide. If it's Mission Impossible, then it's survivable. If it's USMC, then it's survivable, but you may be miserable. If it's Kamikaze or Suicide, get out. One final bit of advice from Yourdon. It is easier to find another organization that matches your values than it is to change the values of an organization. 

I'd say, you have two options: either you stay or either you go. When you want to go, I'm advising you to get a career coach because, honestly, saying you have picked up pieces of knowledge and being MCSA(ish), not one single employer will hire you when you say it like this. When you want to stay, there are several thing which need to change, because at first sight your MD has a point: I read from your question that you work as a support IT engineer. This means that, in case something goes wrong with the IT equipment, you're the one who needs to solve the issues. Regularly something goes wrong with that equipment, due to third-party errors, and you believe this gets you off the hook (I didn't cause the error, so I'm innocent). I'm really sorry but it does not work like that: as a support engineer it's not your job to explain why things are not working. It's your job to get them working, despite the errors! How can you achieve this? I propose you to do a monitoring of the equipment (diskspace, network connections, regular diagnostics, ...), so you can act pro-actively (I once contacted a user of a server about one of the file-systems being at more than 95%, he was astonished that I was monitoring his machine, and on another occasion I had a user who didn't want to do something about it, so I contacted my direct boss saying that if anything would go wrong with the server, the responsibility was up to that user, you can't believe the speed the user changed his attitude). Stop working too long without getting paid. Ok, you might need some time to set up the diagnostics I just mentioned, but as far as the updates and utilities are concerned: Ok you do that during the night and you come to work in the morning just in case there is an issue, but you must be able to take a leave for recuperating the hours you worked during the night. Good luck 

Of course one has to find much better words than those. And again, especially when facing professional recruiters, don't act like a rockstar (don't overestimate yourself, be modest). Eventually such kind of approach may not necessarily end up in being discarded by the company, especially if you ask your demands without leaving all doors closed. Close only the door below 100 and don't let them find, otherwise they will stick any offer to 100. See last argument in that case. But beware That company may be hiring in a place thousands of km away for two reasons: 1) they are desperately looking rockstar ITs, so you won't be getting that money unless you really rock more than other candidates (but if you do, here's your rich payckeck), or 2) they are under spending review and need some cheaper workforce. Get more and more information about that company, and if you ever find that the 2nd is true, try to be happy and wait for the next chance, if any will be. It's not all about money Kudos to @EdHeal for this. Never ever end up underselling yourself, but remember that the economics is just part of a job retribution. If the environment is good and pleasing, if that company is already (or is promising to) changing our world, you might be wishing to be part of that change. That has a value. A value that cannot be scaled with numbers. But that may negatively affect your compensation. 

The problem is elsewhere: as you say on your PC it is not compiling, but on his system everything is working fine. In all companies I've ever worked, there was a central build server: everybody has a programming environment on his/her own PC, but when modifying a piece of source code, this gets entered into a central versioning system, the central build server is then retrieving the last versions of all pieces of source code and tries to compile. If this works, then everything is OK. If not, then there is a problem. So that might be a valuable approach for your issue: "Sir, we have the situation here that something is working on one PC but not on the other one. Instead of arguing which PC is right, let's use this situation for setting up a central build server, and in future, if ever we encounter such a situation again, that system will be the judge of who's right." Good luck 

I don't get anything done here (really nothing), so why would he listen to an employee who has nothing to show for? We have complete different characters, which can lead to two possible situations: 2.1. We talk about our differences and learn from each other. 2.2. We drift away and start disliking each other. 

My current direct manager. I don't care for him, but I'd like to avoid giving the opportunity to harm me. My second level manager (which is the same as the one from the previous department): when he proposed me to change department, he clearly confirmed that in case the new task would not suit me, I could go back to my previous task. The CTO (Chief Technical Officer): I've told him (about a month ago) that the new job is a challenge, now I will need to tell him it's not just a challenge, it's a disaster, but I don't like bringing bad news to one of the bosses of the company (the company is led by three brothers, the CTO being one of them). My previous direct manager. When he heard about my leaving for that other department, he tried to stop me (but I didn't understand his advise at that moment, now I do). I believe he would like to have me back (but how well can you know your direct manager after only six months, in a department of ±20 people?). 

If you are going to stay more in that company, never ever leave negative feedback. Full stop. This will only go against you. Even if you are not the single employee in that position, reducing the chances to two or three people is too risky. You might be recognized as the author even in the future. For example if for whatever reason you unwillingly show you know Glassdoor more than your coworkers. Legally Your boss may or may not do anything to you. In my country he may fire you without a valid reason if total employees are < 15. Otherwise the company is not enough "small", but there could always be ways for premature termination. Practically You might be subject to mobbing/stalking. That is a crime under several regulations but is extremely hard to prove. Examples of mobbing are under-assignements, or under-qualification of assignements. It is difficult to prove that such behaviour originates from an harassment. If you are going to leave your company, you can honestly write whatever you deem useful. Please, for respect of the others before the law, don't exagerate or say false. Defamation is a crime for a reason. Be objective, keep proof for yourself, use facts 

In the middle there are people who failed a couple of classes, people who worked during academic time, people who were sick, in need to assist sick relatives, or carrying a handicap affecting the ability to complete classes in time. From what I can see in the question, and excluding people who complete in less than the expected years, I find nothing that could raise a red flag on your resume. It can be an opportunity for your to train your self-selling skills not to "justify why you took so long" but rather to focus the attention on what really matters, e.g. on your actual skills, non-academic work, etc. Really, if a couple of more years did matter, a lot of people would find a hard time seeking for a first occupation. 

In the United States, the issue of exempt versus non-exempt is determined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and is administered by the US Department of Labor. To complicate the issue further, some states have wage and hour laws, which may add more requirements than the FLSA. Non-exempt employees are entitled to overtime pay whereas exempt employees are not. Whether a non-exempt employee is paid an hourly rate or an annual salary rate, if they work overtime there will still be a calculation to determine their hourly overtime rate. Under some contractual obligations, there can be conditions where even exempt employees are paid an overtime rate (e.g. working a Holiday). There are any number of what ifs as to why a company would salary a non-exempt employee. A negotiated contract may stipulate that everyone is salaried, which could make payroll easier if they are paid say twice a month rather than every two weeks. Being an IT guy, I'll throw out a what if that I've lived with more than once. It's entirely possible the company has an ancient, 30+ year old, ramshackle, Mainframe COBOL, "ERP Solution" (and I use that term loosely) which requires an annual salary to be entered for EVERYONE, exempt or non-exempt. 

I would leave this for the boss to handle. If you want to send an Email just to this person, copying only your boss, that seems OK. However, as you may already know, politics is attached to everything, including Email. As such, only you will know best as to what the boss would want you to do. Your boss is the only person you should be focused on in this matter. WWYBD - What Would Your Boss Do WWYBS - What Would Your Boss Say WWYBWYTD - What Would Your Boss Want You To Do WWYBWYTS - What Would Your Boss Want You To Say If you don't know answers to these--and you're best equipped to know these answers--then do nothing and wait for boss to return so that the two of you can discuss it. 

Unfortunately there is only one answer here Business is business is business Let's see the situation from the market's point of view. Bob works for Acme who has a contract with Initech. Initech does not agre with Bob's personal issues, could they be 1) political ideas, 2) religious faith, 3) affiliation to labour associations, 4) health status or 5) sexual habits/orientation. I chose the above 5 to match my country's privacy regulator for the definition of "hypersensitive personal information". Initech is basically bullying Acme for letting Bob out or more in general to pressure behaviour against Bob, who for instance is not involved in any criminal activities. This is also called lobbying, under some circumstances. Unless Initech is subject to a religious regulation (since few religious laws exists around the world) so that not only companies must comply with ethical/moral rules dictated by law, but must also demand their customers/suppliers chain to comply with same rules, Initech is simply attempting to show force against Acme to take economic advantage. Porter depicts both the customer's and the supplier's contract force among the five. There are two edge cases: 

I work in a software company. I am one of the senior-most developers with good knowledge of DevOps practices. For example, not intended to show my pride, I was the one who twice convinced the boss to switch from CVS to SVN to Git. Often I get interrupted by coworkers about technical problems they cannot solve. I understand that in a transitional phase some recurring problems may occur and it is a friendly idea to help other coworkers. However this led to other developers being lazy and treating me like the help desk. I often (this happens since years) get interrupted by people, or get mails, asking for the solution to a very specific technical problem for which the offender did not show any research. I mean he/she got struck in a Git error (to make an example) and instead of Googling he/she directly reported to me, CCing senior staff members who likely do not know the answer. Sometimes, in order to encourage Googling and Stackoverflowing, I called those people to my desk, opened my browser and started a search with them. I wanted to show I am no magic well, no guru, no professor. It is true that in the past I fixed a lot of problems in a few seconds time thanks to having experienced them myself People today still call me for silly problems that a simple Google/Stackoverflow search may solve. In a period I was busy with my own tasks I tried to become unfriendly, answering "I have my stuff to do", "The help desk is open only 30 minutes a day". This resulted in panic and few chats with executive staff (who became aware that staffing me to the help desk could drain my time over the project, jeopardy deadlines, etc.). Today I have got another mail with Cc some senior members who are too busy with their own activities. Note: I interpret ing instead of addressing the mail as an attempt of escalation ("Hey, team leader, I can't proceed until /usr/local/ΕΨΗΕΛΩΝ fixes my problem"). I politely answered "Have you looked or asked on Stackoverflow? I would have done the same". Note 2: we are not motherlanguage English speakers, but there is quite a decent level of English here at least in written form. Question: what kind of attitude or social exercise should I adopt in order to encourage people to first try to solve problems on their own, and then ask other members for advice? And to keep friendly with them. If the staff member proved me to have done some research, instead of vomiting a screenshot on her client, I would have been happier to lift my shiny metal bu** [nsfw] from my chair and go to help.