Looks like you have a periodic error issue. The worm period on the AVX is about 9mins I think. The issue has a period of 90sec * 6 = 540sec (9min). 

Yes it does. If you are at a high latitude the crescent Moon will set looking like a reversed C orientation but in the tropics it will set more like a U orientation. Though the time of the year will also have some effect due to the angle of the ecliptic to the horizon. 

The problem may be focus and or a faint image in the viewfinder, try looking at a distant object in daytime. Of course unless you are using a dslr type camera the viewfinder will not be looking through the main optics anyway so wont show anything. 

The lines show as either peaks above the black body emission (for emission lines) or troughs below the black body emission (for absorption lines). Though stars more often have absorption lines and nebulae emission. 

This is a common problem with Newtonian type telescopes and DSLRs, the sensor in the camera is too far back to reach focus. As mentioned in the comments a low profile focuser may help or move the main mirror up the tube, I've seen this done on some Skywatcher Newtonians to solve similar problems. 

The stars in any given constellation can be at vastly different distances, there is no link between the distance and the size of a constellation. The constellation boundaries are purely artificial boundaries. 

There is a example here of the process required. But basically you need observations of the track from two locations and then just perform some relatively simple trigonometric triangulation. The Nemetode network regularly does this using images from a network of cctv cameras. 

As the Sun's mass is reduced and it's gravitational attraction is thus reduced the Earth will slowly spiral out from the Sun and yes slow down (to preserve angular momentum). But the effect is ridiculously small (do the math yourself) it will not be measurable directly. 

Please see this article that describes the Chandrasekhar limit. Any star remnant more massive than the Chandrasekhar limit, 1.4x sun mass, will become neutron star or black hole. Otherwise it will become white dwarf. This mass limit is the threshold at which gravitational will overcome electron degeneration pressure, causing the electrons to join the nucleus. The protons in the nucleus combine with the electrons to become neutrons. Thus the term neutron star. When the mass of the neutron star surpasses the level at which the escape velocity for the neutron star exceeds the speed of light, then even light cannot escape its gravitation, thus becoming a black hole. 

Since the initial formation of the solar system and after the initial mass formation of each of the planets let's see what what we can derive from the laws of physics. Any mass that could further accumulate on any planet would have to come from 3 places: 

Our moon and Saturn's moon, Titan, have this feature. Because of this we only observe one side (hemispere) of our moon. Why is this? What is the Newtonian or astrophysics that would explain this? It seems that it would be some kind of equilibrium that is arrived at over time, but I don't understand it. 

I was reading this article and it said something that didn't sit right with me. "SIMP0136 still gives off light mostly in the infrared wavelengths, as its temperature is now approximately 830° C (1,526° F)," Gagné told us. "It will take it approximately 10 billion years more before it reaches 0° C" SIMP0136 was classified as a brown dwarf star but when they just recently figured out its mass to be only 12.7 times that of Jupiter they downgraded it to a gas giant planet. The threshold to qualify as a brown dwarf is 13 Jupiter masses. Like gas giant planets, brown dwarf stars do not gave enough mass for fusion to occur so the term star is a bit misleading. Since there is no fusion, then it should eventually cool down. The 10 billion year cool down time to go from its present 830 deg C to 0 deg C seems way too long. How do they calculate this? 

Each time I look at a shadow cast by a sunlit object it seems as if the shadow doesn't move at all. But if I look at it after say 5 minutes, I can notice that the shadow has actually moved a bit. This allows to say "yes, the Sun has moved in the sky". But this doesn't make it all that obvious that "the Sun is continuously moving all the time". So I'd like to make some optical configuration which would allow me to watch a spot of sunlight or a shadow moving much faster — say, 1 mm/s — still being from the Sun, not from an artificial light source. I've tried doing this with a cylindrical silvery surface like that of a kitchen rail system, sticking black tape on it and leaving only a lateral strip of reflecting surface, then then letting Sun rays to hit it almost tangentially, and to observe the reflection. But either this doesn't give good enough magnification to make Sun's motion apparent, or the reflected spot just becomes too faint for the naked eye. So, what can I do to effectively magnify angular motion of the Sun to observe it (almost) directly at the scale of seconds? I's OK if it could be visible for e.g. a minute and required me to adjust my instrument to view the next piece of motion. But I'd like to do it as simply as possible, without too expensive hardware. 

This means that the term equinox, as used in astronomy, doesn't only mean the discrete events of vernal and autumnal equinoxes, but also the direction which the perpendicular$^\dagger$ to the Earth's axis points to at any moment of time. Thus we can conclude that the equinox of J2000 is the direction this perpendicular points to at the epoch J2000, not at 20 March 2000 or any other. So to get the true orientation of the Earth at the event of equinox we should use a precession+nutation model to advance the orientation at the Epoch to the date required. 

In the nearby vicinity of the planet's orbit. From outside the solar system and extra Pluto Kuiper belt objects. From the Sun as solar wind. 

We can surmise that in the first 200 million to half billion years in the life of the solar system, the planets would have grown in the most mass by (1) sweeping up the asteroids and debris in their orbit and vicinity. In fact, Jupiter with its huge mass continues to pull away stray asteroids to a lesser extent to this day. The occasional encounters with objects coming from (2) outside the solar system are too rare and far in between to be of significance. The cosmic rays from external to the solar system are also not significant for mass gain. That leaves (3) the solar wind. Whether a planet gains or loses mass from the solar wind is a balance between the (a) Gravitational escape velocity of the planet, which is directly proportional to the mass of the planet (b) Average temperature of planet's surface and atmosphere (c) Average speed or kinetic energy of the particles from the solar wind (d) Intensity of the planet's magnetic field. (e) Intensity of the solar wind, which is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the sun. The (e) factor was and still is much too strong for the inner 4 planets to gain mass from the solar wind. Being that the escape velocity would be too low to keep the atmosphere with the ongoing assault of the solar wind as is the case with Mercury and our moon. We can thank the earth's magneto sphere for saving our atmosphere from the solar wind. Now when we get to where Jupiter's orbit is, about 10AU, the intensity of the solar wind is one hundredth of what it is on the earth. The solar wind that does reach Jupiter is decelerated and deflected towards the poles by Jupiter's very strong magnetic field . And since the escape velocity is so high due to Jupiter's mass, most of the solar wind is absorbed into Jupiter resulting in mass gain from solar wind over time. Not even hydrogen can escape Jupiter's gravitation. The same net gain from solar wind applies to the next 3 gas giants Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Since these are in order further away, the solar wind intensity correspondingly less. All three still have a high gravitational escape velocity due to their size and the ones further out have a very low surface temperature so the gases don't have enough average energy to escape. As we go further out from Jupiter the same dynamic of mass gain through captured solar wind plays out, albeit less and less due to the distance from the sun. While the solar wind for purposes of planetary mass gain may seem insignificant now, we must understand that this was not the case earlier on. And over 5 billion years much mass can be gained in this manner.