It's often used, this argument, for a good or a bad: "there are no people" equal to "there is no self": My person doubt either out nor for wisdom. Did the Buddha ever use such abstract arugents? What are possible bad impacts if arguing in such a way? How would people react if you tell them that they are just an illusion? Whould they be free of fear from you who thinks of others in such a way? Didn't the Buddha teaches cause and effect? It seems that an "is" argument is far away from Dhamma: How would people aruge valid to maintain such ideas? Can those who tell such things bear it to get beaten while the harming person says "Nobody get's beaten"? Would my person fails if saying that's the "Dhamma" of the foolish Jhains? 

It's just a matter of the object, of the food, but at it's root, if observing well, there is no different. Views, either greedy, aversive or defuse appearing are views. And for politics increasing greed and pleasure is more conductive. One can say that it is like controling the markted of drugs. Sometimes east did it, sometimes west. Currently Asia has it under control, made it their tool. When ever on hears that people of certain geografic or birth are inherent different, one can be sure that the observant is/was not very attentive and took either this world and views or that as real. Wordlings from Buddhist Countries are interested in the marked like popular Western teachers. An all tolerating, all serving business bring fast costumers, since the mass is not very smart but greedy and full of conceit. Since many eastern still learn service and devotion as a tool from child on, they have it generally easier in this regard, but on the other hand, those rejecting service and devotion are fastly winning people in the east. So so called "open-minded" comes generaly for a certain purpose and was always a good tool acting smart to again just win. So no hope for refuge in regard of realm of certain birth, because their conditions change as well by time, better by deeds. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

If nothing can be considered 'myself' or 'mine', if nothing is in my complete control (take volition for example), how can people be held responsible for their thoughts, words and deeds, if they are by definition not in charge? 

From a Cognitive Behavioural point of view Exposure and Response Prevention (ERP) might help. The whole idea is to expose yourself gradually. So you deliberately either postpone the very thing you supposedly cannot bear or you expose yourself to the problem. If one is obsessed by checking the stove one replaces that with an helpful and realistic self statement like "Okay, I feel now these uncomfortable feelings and they are hard to bear but I if I am honest with myself I can bear them and it's worth bearing because (...)" and at the same time acts the opposite, but be aware that it might be better to do that gradually instead of all in one chunk (flooding). Now many therapists (among that Albert Ellis is one proponent of that) support the idea of flooding, however, do it with caution. Rather do "challenging but not overwhelming", because in the end it's all about long term change and also the motivation and courage to do face your fears. If one floods just one time it's barely going to work and it can be quite unpleasant too, so be aware! From a psychological viewpoint Emotions, congitions and behaviour are all in a reciprocal relationship. If you change one the other two will follow. Now, many circles say "change your thinking, change your thinking", but this alone might not always help because the conviction in the older belief is just too strong. So, one needs to think and act differently simultaneously. This is also why clinical depressed person are not treated with cognitive interventions (alone), because they usually don't work on highly depressed persons. If one thinks "I'm too weak to get up" questioning that might help in a person who isnt depressed but if one is depressed one needs to gently and compassionately (!) force himself to repeatedly get up in order to convince himself that the former belief was erroneous. I'm quite new to Buddhism and I like it a lot and I cannot give you "the" buddhist answer but what I can give you is a good method by Dr. Dryden which might be even somewhat similar to the idea of reflecting on the disadvantages tvat was endorsed by the Buddha, let me start: 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

My person guesses that Ilya Grushevskiy might mix up two Suttas, how ever, here the one in regard of discussion: 

The fact that "selves" get reborn is at least no encouragement to seek for it, and as also mentioned in the question: the Buddhas teachings are about getting dispassionate with1 all kinds of becoming. It (notion of self and it's possible harm or support) just used as a governing prinziple to gain a good notion of self. When ever there is no more notion of any self indentification then such as rebirth has come to an and. Of course it is nonsense to speculate about "what" kind of rebirth if still subject, if there is still a condition for it. Of what rebirth one may gain next, the Buddha described with the falling of a stick thrown into the air, one time falling on this end, then this, or on the side (link later) But in regard that certain actions give certain results on ones being, when ever such may ripe, and there is rebirth if the is the condition for it, in this regard the Buddha was clear and did not let any door for speculation but encouraged one with it to better take the secure way and let short timely "fortune" and "misfortune" better behind: in putting an end to birth. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Are there any Suttas that explain how to deal with (unexpected) life obstacles? It seems that in this regard Buddhism seems to be a bit passive? I might be wrong. 

Now this is often raised whenever a monk teaches and talks about the five precepts. They often say that these are not, like in the judeo christian faith, commandments and that no higher entity or something will punish one. Now to my question: These monks belief in post mortem rebirth (I do not) and they therefore employ wrong speech regarding the aspect of punishment. One is getting punished (hell realm etc.) if one is not in line with the precepts (based on their view on post mortem rebirth). Can anyone explain this phenomena? 

Metta or mudita (sympathetic joy) might help but wisdom is of paramount importance. In short? • Reflect on the shortness of life • Reflect on kamma (long term consequences what condemnation will give you) • Reflect that they too will eventually lose family, friends and material possessions • Reflect that they are subject to aging sickness and death Long answer? 

According to the Dhamma, is it allowed to critisize someone in a constructive manner? If someone gossips about me how do I deal with it? Compassion and kindness aside, sometimes it is necessary to be assertive. One can only be compassionate if one is healthy inside in that moment in time. Intention is a little bit more important than the act itself, (isnt it- at least in Buddhism) (only in a few instances is the act more important than the intention for example stealing is wrong even if one's family is poor), however, if for example I slice my bread in the supermarket and I see remaining pieces of bread in the machine and I take them with me because no one did I then so no reason why I would largely violete the "not taking what is not given". Sure, it wasn't given but if my attention or thought is: "Well, if I don't take it it will be wasted" then that should rather influence my kamma, right? So it's largely about my intention. If I hurt someone out of compassion because he attacks someone and injures them severely I have better results because my intention was to safe others, correct? 

Very importand question! Why? Because it's required to see the meaninglessness of being a recidivist to actually change ones ways. Such a question and remembering the answer is not one to put aside but to repeat till it bring fruits, till one sees the recidivist clearly! (speech can cause so much... this or that and best.) The question and answer around it teaches not only the terrible size of suffering, but also gives when clear the right amount of effort to stop this foolish recidivist-hood. Anamatagga-samyutta — The unimaginable beginnings of samsara 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

An illustration might be helpful: The compassioned monkey. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Good question! Many would dwell in their barkwood, "emptiness", if they have gained, taking it for heart wood. Aside that concentration can be wrong concentration, based on wrong view, leading to wrong release: 

— AN 10.176 Followed by "Skillful Verbal Action" and "Skillful Bodily Action", eventually keeping then the Uposatha of the Ariyas. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

If reminding on just this, in each situation, there will never be any trouble in addition, to that what might just rippe for possible end (if not wrong grasped and continued with it) accure. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

How do I deal with healthy desires like wanting to get a relationship etc? Is it wrong intention to want that or is it good if it stems from non-ill will, renunciation etc.? Likewise, it's bad if I thirst to get a girlfriend but how then do I deal with the accompanied depression? Loving kindness to oneself? Contemplating on the impermanence or the unattractiveness of the woman might not work in the heat of the moment when I'm depressed (Self compassion probably does and then realizing that other ppl face the same problem .. in essence: Im not alone with my problems) 

"Practise yourself, for heavens sake in little things, thence proceed to greater". Epictetus (Roman Stoic Philosopher) You have to use wisdom in order to make metta stronger and you have to practise metta formaly and informaly. With wisdom I mean perceptions you have to reflect upon many many many times: • No one can escape aging, sickness, death as well as mental and physical suffering • Everyone is heir of his/her thoughts, actions and emotions. If one acts badly it's because of the causes and conditions that are meeting then and there 

Usually Sati is translated as Mindfulness, but according to the Wikipedia entry, Mindfulness is described as follows: 

The Buddha put high emphasize on Anicca and thus it shouldn't be dismissed. Now my question: When should one remind oneself of the transience of all phenomena? I doubt in every occassion. If I for example walk or do my daily chores, according to the Buddha I apply Sati on the sense that I remember to not to forget walking. So this then is a rather concentration excercise without pañña (wisdom), right?