I am a proud owner of this guy. The crankset is and the FD is . However, the cage on the FD broke, and I ordered this item in a hurry. 

I have done this only once, but have observed a lot of people carrying bikes like this. The lift in question is just as in your picture - 2-person open lift with safety. The chairs slow somewhat while in the station, but mostly hit you in the butt. So there are two things you need to do, and the results are both easy and safe. Furthermore, both seats can be used, by two riders. First of all, take a t-shirt and wrap it around the top tube of your bike, close to the saddle. This will protect the paint from scratches against the chair frame (I underestimated this and got a large scratch on the side). Secondly, lower your saddle and turn it 90 degrees to the side. Now, stand in front of the trolly chair(it's going to hit you in the butt), your bike at your side, outside of the chair's path. Hold it steadily - handlebars and top tube. When the time comes, just sit. Rest the bike on the saddle at the side of the chair. Hold it steadily for the frame. Now you can release the handlebar hand and engage your safety bar or open a beer :) 

If it's not too rare you could do an Ebay watch to see what similar bikes sell for on Ebay. I would expect more variation in price in more esoteric stuff, since you tend to have a smaller pool of items and buyers. 

I had Bullseye red aluminum pulleys on a Super Record derailleur similar to the one that's pictured. I recall they were slightly noisier than the original nylon ones. 

I've never had a wobble on a bicycle, but have experienced it on a motorcycle a few times. I wouldn't expect uneven spoke tension to cause it, unless you have multiple spokes with near zero tension. The first thing I'd check is if your headset is really loose. On a motorcycle, it's usually a problem on the BACK that causes a wobble. Maybe a REALLY loose rear hub, a cracked seat stay. Were you coasting or pedaling? 

I don't know if it's 100% legal, but I figure if they're going to pass me on the left as we're approaching a redlight, I'm going to pass them on the right after they're stopped at the light. Turnabout is fair play. As someone else wrote don't pass or pull alongside the last car in the queue as they might want to turn right on red (left on red in left hand drive countries). 

I've heard (and noticed) the rear wheel rub on the frame and front derailleur cage when pedaling standing up. The frame shows some paint wear at one spot. And, in the lowest gear, if I crank hard, I can hear the tire rub on the derailleur cage. I'm riding a Kona Splice (20", 29er). In the lowest gear, the front derailleur cage is pretty close to the tire as it is. Should I upgrade parts? Tighten parts? Or not stand up at all knowing this? Edit #1 Tires: Bontrager 29x2.1" Edit #2 2013 specs show Geax Evolutions, 29x1.9" Edit #3 Went lapping our backyard circuit just now. It would rub when climbing the east and west staights. Pic of the rubbing on the frame (not as bad as I remembered): 

My gut is telling me that this is a typo, but here's what I'm seeing. I'm looking at the 2017 Rocky Mountain Element which seems to feature a chainstay that can range from 439-437mm. For comparison, the 2017 Rocky Mountain Instinct, seem to feature a fixed chainstay length of 452mm. For the other parts of the geometry that have a range, I get why for these as the suspension compresses and changes the value. However, I can't see how the chainstay would change in length in this case. 

Tufo makes tubular clinchers. Clement made something similar in the eighties, called the Ritmo, I believe. I don't think Continental does, I'm pretty sure they're just regular clincher tires. You can ride tubular tires on clincher rims in an emergency, but they'll roll off the wheel if you're not very careful in the corners. 

I want to say one word to you. Just one word. Rollers. Riding off road will help too, but learning to ride rollers comfortably will take your balance to another level and greatly enhance your ability to recover from the unexpected: blowouts, sand, getting bumped. 

I'd use Simple Green or a similar mild degreaser followed by denatured alcohol to eliminate any residue. Make sure and thoroughly rinse Simple Green off your rims and pads using water, it makes the brakes grabby, loud, and yet ineffective if you leave it on. You could also lightly sand the brake pads to get rid of the contamination. 

The fitter and smaller you are the less water you need. I went out for a ride 20 mile ride a couple weeks ago when the temperature was about as hot as you describe with high humidity. I carried two bottles and still had to stop twice for water. I'm 51. I used to be a racer, but I'm kinda slow now about 16 mph. When I was a racer and about 15 lbs lighter. I generally wouldn't need but a bottle an hour, but in really hot conditions I would drink about two. Listen to your body. It's always better to drink too much than not enough. One thing I've noticed about when I'm starting to overheat is that I'll feel kind of a chill, sort of like hairs on the back of your neck standing up. I've ridden through this feeling in long centuries and road races, but I've always tried to increase my water intake when I start to feel it. 

Consider a SunTour XCR coil fork or any similar. Service manuals suggest "full service" every 30 hours of riding time. I take that to mean removing the boots and re-lubing the stanchions. However, this includes the removal of the grips, in order to remove the hydraulic front brake lever. I am worried that the grips are being worn out by this process, causing them to turn freely and thus be very inconvinient for rideing. In this situation, how often should I service the fork? 

Please do the following experiments: Release the brake cable, pulling (1) apart from (2) (no tools needed). Swing the brake arms one at a time, making sure they have nice spring-y reaction the last 2-4 centimeters of their travel towards the rim. 

Has someone discovered a way to carry sunglasses, so that they can be put on or removed while riding? I have tried two approaches, and both have drawbacks. Carrying in a pouch, attached to the shoulder ring of the backpack results in scratched lens, because of the vibrations. Carrying in the chest pocket of a jacket is possible only when it is sufficiently cold to wear a jacket. My backpack is large and with a lot of options for hanging equipment on it, so maybe some kind of attachable box or external pocket? 

Those scratches are due to the chain rubbing as it shifts between chainrings. They are more noticeable on your bike than most because you have black chain rings. A Park chain wear gauge is a good way to tell if your chain is worn. Alternatively, you can measure with a ruler as described, but it's much easier if you remove it from the bike. The figure I use was 1/8" of chain stretch per foot was too much. If you let the chain stretch too much it will wear out your cassette as well. 

Back in the seventies and eighties it wasn't uncommon to remove the inner chainring from bikes used on flat time trials to save weight. Often the chain length was set intentionally on the long side to reduce friction, which had the undesirable side effect of making it easier to rop the chain. At the same time it was generally considered to be a good idea to NOT remove the front derailler and to use it as a chain keeper. I believe this is mentioned in the Eddy B. book. I think you need to put the front derailleur back on your bike as a chain keeper. You probably don't need the shifter/cable, etc. just use the limit screws to keep it in a position where it doesn't rub the chain. 

This is my first time adjusting a threaded headset. After thoroughly cleaning, inspecting and greasing the bearings, I attempted to re-assemble the headset. The piece is interesting in that the lower cup is somehow stuck in the frame, while the higher cup threads on the steer tube, effectively being inverted to what one would expect (i.e. in order for both bearings to be facing the cups, both bearings are seated with the separators downwards and the balls pointing at the sealing). The frame has a race face to accomodate the bearing separator. I tightened the upper cup until there was no wobble (as strongly as I can by hand and then a quarter of a turn with a wrench). Then I threaded the stopnut. The latter revealed some thread damage upon inspection, and indeed does hold only until certain tightness (maybe a couple of kilograms on a 1/3 meter wrench), then "jumps". After riding the bike for a day through some road bumps and holes, the headset was loose again, visibly shaking. Do I need a new headset, or is it more likely that I am assembling the thing incorrectly? 

I came upon this marvelous explanation of headset types. However, this got me wondering. Isn't the role of the headset cups similar to that of the derauler hanged - to not waste the frame as soon as some wear-outable components ends it's life? How do frames with integrated headsets survive more than several years? 

However, if I try to move the rim, it doesn't move really. It would seem that it's only the tire/rubber? Under inflated perhaps? I'm around or below 30psi. Edit #4 I actually have a 2012 model, confirmed with the color of the frame and the posted pics. The specs show 29x2.1, and Vittoria Mezcal, why did the shop I bought the bike from swap those out for some Geax? Also, why did the following models come with 29x1.9"? Also, in 2014, the Splice became a cross bike :/ 

There are a few vacant lots around where I live and last weekend, I built a small (170m) tape delimited course. Some of the kids in the neighborhood rode in it. I also worked out in it, going full tilt for 30 minutes (ie. 36 laps in 30min, 6.2km). Some portions were up a grade, others went down a grade. There were a few areas that were quite tight to turn around in, but otherwise, it seemed alright. This lead me to search for possible standards in this area. I was wondering if there were guidelines or standards for building such courses in terms of lane width, turning areas and such? Edit #1 Here's what our course looked like: 

I'll be traveling this summer (1000km each way, with one stop in between) and would like to take our bikes (4) along with us. I have a Thule Apex installed in a 1.25" hitch that will be host to 2 mountain bikes (29er, 27.5), 1 woman's hybrid and 1 kid's mountain bike (20"). I have storage at destination. How do I limit the impacts of the elements (rain, road debris, etc) on our bikes, most particularly the disc brakes and drive train, when traveling? Edit #1