While there is no point in giving you medical advice online and no one can say whether it is normal for you, it is nevertheless possible (though not necessary) that the causes behind your elevated heart rate are natural. Several studies, some of them referenced in Schuenke, Mikat & McBride (2002), have shown that human metabolism is much more active, even hours after the strength training. This results in a phenomenon called excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC). In a period for hours after the training the body will need to replenish body fuels (synthesize ATP), repair any damaged (muscular or other) cells, balance hormones and so on. All of these tasks require more oxygen intake than normally and this can lead to an elevated heart rate. (While the last inference seems logical to me, note, that I cannot provide scientific evidence that EPOC must lead to an elevated heart rate). In short, one reason behind your pulse being higher than your pulse at rest could be that after a workout your body is not at rest. It is busy repairing and re-fueling your body! Additional note: There is still a lot you can learn from your heart rate and monitoring it can be very informative. You just need to keep in mind that you have to compare your heart rate to other situations where you body was dealing with similar stress (and not to your heart rate at rest). If you do so, a high heart rate can be a sign that the training was more demanding than usual. It could also point at an approaching illness and be an indication of overtraining. Nevertheless, you should always seek medical help off-line. 

Don't worry about it, proteins start getting consumed only after prolonged periods of starvation when adipose tissues are depleted. (Unless you are on a very low calorie diet.) 

Around here (Russia) it is very common to ask random people who are resting nearby to spot you. If you are training with a partner, it is of course proper to first ask them, and only turn to other people if your partner is unable to spot you, e. g. due to being busy with their own exercises which allow for no pause or having temporary arm disability. I just ask the nearest resting person if they mind spotting me. Nobody ever refuses. 

Whether you achieve the goal is speculative. If you have already tried to achieve the goal when you were younger (consistent workout over at least a year) and failed it might be indication that it is not possible for you, but not necessarily so. As for the training, following advice: Running (2 mile run in 11:54 or less) Definitely possible in general. In your particular case, we would need to know your current 2 mile, 5 mile and maybe 1/2 mile times. As for the training, I would skip the elliptical machine. It is often argued (see for example, here) that the best way to improve your running is by running. Instead, do 50 minutes of slow and comfortable running once a week. This will have the same effect on your cardiovascular system as the elliptical machine but also get you used to the movement patterns. It is important that you do not worry/plan increasing speed or duration here too much because it will come very naturally soon. In addition, and instead of 

Yes, by all means. When you do bicep curls, your primary goal is to stress your biceps, and as few other muscles as possible. Find a position and trajectory in which you only put stress on your biceps, so that your deltas are involved very mildly, merely to keep your arm position steady, not to help it pull the weight. It is impossible to avoid using the shoulders entirely, but minimizing their involvement to make the aching tolerable is quite possible. 

«Fast protein» (e. g. whey) in the morning and immediately after workout. Some people consume a half portion before the workout, but it can make you want to puke during harder exercises. «Slow protein» (e. g. casein or a «protein matrix» mix) 30 mins before lunch and before going to bed. 

I recommend doing one interval day per week. Say 8 times running 400m at 6 minutes/mile (if you can already do that, otherwise start slower) with slow running breaks of a minute in between. Every other week, do 4 intervals a 800m (a bit slower). If you can tell me your current 400/800m interval times, I will edit the post. If you can add a third running day, it would obviously help but that's something you personally have to decide. In case, you have the time go for a second slow 50 minute run. Push-ups and Sit-ups Seems generally possible but something most people would not want to achieve because after a time you only train the endurance of your muscles. If you can already do 23 push-ups and 33 sit-ups, it will only be a matter of increasing the number of repetitions. Your plan seems reasonable here. If you get to a plateau after a while try adding some weights and do lower repetitions once in a while. (Still, I am not an expert for high-repetition of push-ups or sit-ups, so let's see what others can add to that.) Chin-ups You did not provide any goal for the chin-ups. Please do so, and I will update my post. In any case, be aware that adding one chin-up every week should work very well in the beginning but the plateau effect comes much earlier than for push-ups or sit-ups. Anything above 10/15 seems like a reasonable goal, above 20 seems rather unrealistic. 

At the very beginning of this video $URL$ the woman is using some sort of a belt harness to make up for her unfortunately now missing hand, but it is flashed too quickly to make out the manufacturer name. My (tightly related) questions are: is this the best option for a person with a missing or injured or otherwise unusable arm to deadlift? Are there other harness types? Can their usage lead to more injury (spine, shoulder blades)? Googling for «deadlifts for the disabled» «deadlift arm injury» etc did not turn up anything, and stores for sporting goods for the disabled somehow avoid weight lifting altogether. There is a «multi-strap» thing here $URL$ but it seems like it will break the guy's neck should he attempt to lift 100+ kg with it 

One possible difficulty I see is overtraining, a physical condition where your body - either as a whole or specific muscle groups - is been put under too much or too frequent stress for an optimal growth path. Too many reps, too low intensity If I were you, I would start training much less and in turn increase intensity as described here by Jeff Cavaliere. The reason is the following: If you're doing 5 sets a 8 (?) repetitions of any exercise, you put too much stress in terms of duration and too little stress in terms of intensity on the muscle. If you can do 5 sets of 8 pull-ups, for example, you would be much better off, doing 1-2 sets of 6-8 weighted pull-ups (say, 5-10kg). The additional training time you put in does not help, it may even harm your gains. Too few rest days The second aspect is rest time. As I understand, you switch exercises every other day. This is very good in the beginning but as you get more experienced and since you already have been training consistently for a year, your muscles will need more time to adapt. I cannot say whether that stage is reached for you but it is something you should definitely keep in mind should you see that your gains slow down considerably. Running My last point is about your running training. You write that you run 1-2 miles every other day. This is okay as long as you are having fun with it but it is not clear whether it achieves anything. Endurance-wise it would be more effective to just go running once a week but then for at least 40-50 minutes. (It is the same too many reps, too low intensity-principle here.) If you are running only 1-2 miles because you want to increase your speed, it would be better if you did one interval (say, half a mile fast for 5 times with breaks of slow running between) training session per week rather than 7 1-2 mile sessions. But here it's really about your goals/motivation for the running sessions. 

A quick Google search for «taking iron and calcium supplements together» turns up a lot of results that agree with each other on this topic: 

Low glucose I suppose. Try adding small amounts of glucose to your meal and reduce the dose gradually as you feel less hungry immediately after eating. Worked for me. 

It is certainly possible, but IMO has very little practical value as working your arms separately limits you to a couple of exercises. Plus, it may be harder to keep the load balanced so that your arms progress at the same pace. Make sure you eat well and get enough sleep. Fatigue builds up quickly if either of those is missing. 

I am currently trying to learn more about the signals my body is giving. One question I stumbled upon recently is the following: Is there any information to be gained from muscle soreness at different time intervals after a workout? For example, I was doing an extended set of pull-ups 34 hours ago. The soreness in my latissimus dorsi peaked around 14 hours ago; the soreness in my chest peaked around 8 hours ago. Does that give away any information? Is my latissimus simply better adapted to the exercise? Worse? Is it not related at all? I know that the scientific evidence on muscle soreness in general is rather limited. Let alone this specific question. Still, if anyone has heard of any studies on the topic, I'd be curious to get to know them.