If you have orbital superiority, small teams are the only ground forces worth deploying. You can drop a nuke from orbit and incinerate a city. You can drop 'rods from God' to precisely annihilate bunkers with the raw power of kinetic energy. You can drop precision-guided munitions, turn sands to glass with lasers, or wipe out an army with a railgun shell. What you can't do is extract a VIP, or secure a hostage, or fight an insurgency door-to-door, or rendezvous with an asset, or take a command post, or seize a broadcast station. Your policy options go from 'sternly worded letter' straight to 'obliteration from orbit', with crater size being your only variable. Your ground forces do not exist to subdue cities or destroy armies as they did in the past- that function has now been taken over by your fleets. The ground forces exist to go where a spacecraft in orbit cannot see, do things a spacecraft cannot do, and surgically apply force in ways that spacecraft cannot. This is not to say that you shouldn't invest resources in ground troops: On the contrary, they should be significant investments, the best-of-the-best, as much diplomats and strategists as they are door-kickers and trigger-pullers. Because wars aren't always won by inflicting as much damage as possible, and accomplishing the primary objective of any war ('making the enemy stop being disagreeable to your policy') requires applying exactly the right level of violence in exactly the right way. For some cases, the right level is nuclear armageddon and the right way is rained down from orbit. For others, the right level is a single bullet and the right way is delivered from point-blank range. The side that does this well will accomplish its objectives faster, more completely, and with less collateral damage than the one that applies the sledgehammer approach of orbital bombardment to any and all obstacles. 

Technological unknowns give you the freedom to shape your future as you see fit. Consider some other questions: -How hard is human-level intelligence to simulate, really? At the moment, it's not clear how far we are from having sentient computers. The human brain is a fantastically complicated piece of organic computing, and programmers are having to replicate the product of hundreds of millions of years of evolution by hand. You could decide, for the sake of your fiction, that neural nets and quantum computing are right around the corner, making a future where intelligent computer software is commonplace. On the other hand, you could posit that even with advances in technology, a sentient intelligence capable of replacing the common soldier is still beyond reach. Also, if intelligent machines are readily available, androids could be more economical even if they're more expensive or difficult to produce than simply turning a human into an equivalent cyborg. Remember, training a soldier is expensive, as is raising a human to military age. There is a finite limit on how many conscripts a nation can summon for military service at any given time, before you start running out of people, and it takes time to train them for combat (let alone convert them into cyborgs). Androids neatly sidestep these issues. -How important is the human element? Is sending cyborgs into combat, risking human life, less politically acceptable than sending robots? Do we trust robots to employ lethal force, or do we want a human pulling the trigger? Robots don't need veterans' associations, ongoing pay and employment in peacetime, or retirement benefits, so what ancillary costs are involved with cyborgs? Do you want tactical independence from your soldiery, or is that seen as a liability? -How hard is it to integrate cybernetics into the human body? Despite ongoing progress in prosthetic development, cybernetic augmentation is a complex subject. You can write a piece of computer software to drive a servo motor trivially using off-the-shelf components, but translating an electrical signal from the brain to perform the same operation is considerably more complex. There's also acclimation to the new changes, and constant issues of rejection by the host tissue. Building a wholly cybernetic, autonomous system to drive a piece of mission-relevant hardware might ultimately prove easier than trying to coerce the human body into supporting it. Or it might not. Maybe a wonder drug can solve rejection issues and a chip can translate crystal-clear instructions from your brain, making cybernetic augmentation easy and hassle-free. There's no simple, easy answer to your question. You have the freedom to modify the parameters of your setting to get the kind of balance you want. Whether you want all androids, all cyborgs, or a mix of the two for different roles, it is possible to construct an internally-consistent set of justifications for your stylistic choices. 

First point: Christmas is not celebrated in all places (only about half to three quarters the world's population actually celebrate it) second point: Christmas is not celebrated at the same time all over... The first point is easy, Santa will only have to deliver gifts to half the children in the world. The second point hinges on differing traditions; yes, if all the world woke up to gifts on the 25th of December, he'd have a hard time... However, where I come from (Denmark), the gifts are traditinally given on the evening of the 24th. Some eastern countries wait until January 6th At least this gives Santa a bit more time to distrbute his gifts 

In this case, any animal outside the time bubble will stand (nearly) still... Intelligent or not, the given animal will be none the wiser, as it will experience the altered timeframe as you all would experience time right now. The point is, that time is relative... Time also slows down for a pilot of a near-lightspeed space ship, but he still experiences that timeframe as being unaltered. As for the humans: THEY WILL (nearly) ALL DIE! Why? Because the low-to-none amount of light (depending on time dilation factor) will make humanity unable to grow crops. Of course, you could plant a field of wheat and walk away, but depending on the time dilation factor, it may take hundreds or thousands of years in relation to the farmer to grow the crops. You can also go kill an animal (easy, you just extend your time field around their heart... imagine your heart beating a million beats per minute), but the animals also take hundreds or thousands of years to grow and reproduce compared to the human timeframe. Any animal that comes into contact with or cross a time field like this, is very probably going to die immediately and painfully... The remaining humans will not be able to eat meat (apart from very rare occasions), and they will only be limited to crops that can grow under low-light conditions (good example being mushrooms, which thrive in darkenss). New jobs would include literally watching plants grow and paint dry, to make sure it happens this century... Where you have to be careful, and where many go wrong, is that time outside cannot stand perfectly still! Space and time are two very intermingled forces, and one cannot exist without the other. This rule applies in reality, but not for a simulation (as things are dynamically loaded and unloaded as needed) Essentially: Time needs space so that something can happen. (without time at all, there cannot be a "big bang" or a growing universe) on the other hand.. Space needs time to grow and change. (without space, how would you move about or do something?) 

If the goal is to produce weapons with as few moving parts as needed, piezoelectric ignition is a step backwards. Electronic ignition has been done before, but specifically piezoelectric ignition implies striking a piezoelectric crystal with a hammer, producing electricity which sets off the round. There's just one problem with using that electricity to set off modern, smokeless propellant. Firearm propellants are designed to be stable, which is an important part of making them combust at a controlled rate rather than detonating inside the gun, so they are difficult to ignite via electricity or shock by design. This is why primers exist; they produce a quick burst of heat sufficient to ignite the propellant. So, even for a piezoelectric system, you're going to need a primer. And at that point, instead of designing a firearm to have a firing pin which strikes a piezoelectric crystal which triggers a primer which in turn ignites the propellant, why not simplify the design and omit the piezoelectric crystal entirely? Note that in the real world, electronically-fired guns do not use piezoelectric systems. The most common form of electronically-fired ammo runs an electric current through a resistor taking the place of primer, and that resistor heating up supplies the thermal energy necessary to ignite the propellant. This requires a power source and onboard control circuitry, both of which dramatically increase the complexity and fragility of a weapon. 

Consider the opposite possibility: Because neither side can effectively conceal their forces, and because of the significant amount of time in transit, the respective strengths of two forces are known long before they actually meet. So if you know you're outnumbered and outgunned, you have the option to disengage rather than commit to a battle you'll likely lose. You can either break off your attack, or abandon your defense. This war might end up being a drawn-out, elaborate dance as the two sides posture and feint (with the occasional actual battle), until one can draw the other into a decisive battle that they cannot avoid (attacking their capital, for example). But that's assuming both sides have a good picture of the enemy's capabilities. Even if there's no stealth in space, you can still disguise a warship as a civilian vessel, seize a space station with a guerrilla boarding action, or win a battle with weapons technology that your enemy is unaware of. Throw in that element of uncertainty, and you're likely to have battles where both sides think they have the advantage. However you choose to approach it, the lack of traditional stealth doesn't necessarily imply a short-but-bloody war, and an intra-system war can have the narrative style you're looking for without requiring FTL. 

Is a present, once opened, still a present? Logically, Santa would be unable to give your kid that brand-new 3DS he wished for, as he re-uses gifts. Then you come with this: 

I may reiterate some previous answers, but i'm also going to distinguish the reproducability of the technology. Firearms Provided they are well-maintained, any firearm can be kept in working order for many hundreds (or thousands) of years. This is theoretically also true, provided they are stored in an air- and dust-sealed manner. However, finer mechanics and technology will degrade faster, and will be harder to reporoduce. The more reliable and simple the parts are, the simpler they will be to exchange. In a post-spocalyptic world, you wouldn't go for the first, best, strongest laser rifle out there, but rather rely on a relatively simple AK-47. There are much simpler weapons than this, like cannons used before the 1800s. They are basically just shaped cans of metal with a hole for the projectile to come out of, and a hole for the fuse. Even though such a cannon is not well maintained, it would still work for at least 500-1000 years. Most aspects of, say, a modern assault rifle could still be reproduced (by reverse engineering) provided the finder(s) have the right eqipment for it, even in quite a degraded state. Ammunition Self-contained bullets and grenades (any type of modern ammo with included propellant) is unlikely to survive in working order for more than 100 years, as AndreiROM has mentioned. The various chemicals used in gunpowder and more advanced alternatives break down over time, and may react in an undesired way, making the propellant not work, or very unstable. Aditionally, modern ammunition is produced with precision in mind, you can't put just any ammo out there in a 9 mm gun without risking damage to the firearm (or the user). On the other hand, an old Civil War era front loading musket with included ammo (lead or steel balls) can be perfectly stored away (again, in a sealed manner) and be usable hundreds or thousands of years later (provided the user knows how to make gunpowder) Engines You can have something like a combustion engine work for hundreds of years, but again, simpler things last longer. A relatively simple engine from a moped or small motorcycle can survive for hundreds of years of storage (and even somewhat averagely-maintained use), another good example is an engine from a car like a Citroen 2CV, which were built to be easily repairable and basically unkillable... On the other hand, a modern car engine (with arrays of sensors and other electronics) will not likely remain in proper calibration for long (maybe 5-10 years) and will likely fail completely shortly after that. modern-ish Engines are relatively easy to reproduce, provided your people know how to make electricity (namely spark plugs) Electrical utilities and tools This again depends on the reliability of the parts used in the appliance. Any mechanical part will most likely degrade over time (unless protected against corrosion) and might need a bit of re-oiling. Simple electronics (especially resistive electronics, like toasters or boiler elements) can last for many hundreds of years, even in somewhat bad storage conditions. The survivability of the different electrical components vary wildly, however, and the most susceptible parts are parts that rely on chemistry (batteries, electrolytic capacitors) and mechanics (servos and motors). the reproducibility will vary based on the device. Most motors work on basic magnetics, while it'll be hard to reverse-engineer an SMD resistor. Computers, smartphones etc. Most modern (post-2005) computers could potentially work in a few hundred years (acceptable storage conditions provided), apart from mostly mechanical parts (fans, and HDDs usually get "sticky heads" after 5-10 years of storage). However, any solid-state component (basically everything on a modern PC component) will probably last indefinitely. The reason why I mention PCs post-2005, is that the stable of using solid-state capacitors on compnents started around this time on enthusiast hardware. Smartphones are basically ONLY solid-state components, so there's nothing preventing you from having someone find a smartphone in 400 years, rigging up a makeshift battery or 5v power supply and being able to use it. 

Yes, but you can't replace wood completely yet Bakelite, an early plastic, was widely used in firearms development by WW2. While occasionally used for complex structures (such as the grip assembly of the MP40), the most common application was grips, such as on the Webley revolvers, Walther P38, and MG42. While some firearms were produced using plastics for a buttstock, mostly German weapons such as the aforementioned MG42, these designs used very short and heavily reinforced stocks of a profile substantially different from a traditional rifle stock. At this point in weapons design history, plastics were too brittle and weak against shearing forces to withstand high stress across thin areas the way wood can. Firearms designed for expedient production in this era, particularly submachine guns, generally didn't use either plastic or wood for a stock. They often used metal stocks of the sliding or folding styles, which are unpleasant to shoot, but allow maximum compactness and are cheap and easy to make. Even in the modern era, rifles optimized for compactness (usually for specialists, like paratroopers) sometimes use this style of stock arrangement. Rifles intended for front-line infantry, though, used fixed wooden stocks until the development of better plastics, starting in the late-1960s with the M16 (which did have durability issues with its plastic stock- the technology wasn't quite ready). It was really in the mid-1970s that plastic furniture came into vogue with the G3A3 and Commonwealth-production FALs, after the era you specified. To summarize: Yes, firearms were developed with plastics in lieu of wood, but wood was still preferable as a stock material until the 1970s. If wood is unavailable or undesirable, plastics can substitute for low-stress ergonomic parts, while stocks will be constructed from metal. 

To preface this, be aware that nuclear saltwater rockets don't involve nuclear reactors. The nuclear fuels are kept diluted as propellant and insulated in a neutron moderator, and the nuclear reaction that provides thrust occurs externally to the ship. The ship still needs an onboard power source, but if that source is non-nuclear (like solar panels), then when the engine is shut down the only significant radiation source would be due to transmutation of the engine components. So with that said, if you can tolerate the radioactivity of an inactive NSWR, then the solution is: Tugs. Tugs aren't just a solution for nuclear propulsion, they're a necessity for any setting involving large spacecraft which by virtue of their size will likely be little better at maneuvering near a space station than a supertanker is at maneuvering in port. You need small, maneuverable, powerful spacecraft to help guide the bigger ships into port anyways, which calls for a (non-radioactive) chemical rocket. You can shut down the nuclear reactor and run on battery power while the tugs bring you in to dock. Keep personnel away from the still-hot engine, but it will be much easier to shield against than a live engine. But if your engine is powerful enough to render its inactive components dangerously radioactive, then you'll need another solution. Launches. In the 17th-19th centuries, it was common for ships to stay at anchor outside of port, and use small boats (called launches) to ferry personnel and supplies between the ship and the port. Following this example, keep the ships at a safe distance whenever possible. Since radiation follows an inverse-cube falloff at distance, they shouldn't have to stay too far to keep bystanders within acceptable dosage limits. Use shuttles to convey personnel, and tugs to carry supplies, cargo, and equipment. If you need to work on the ship, bring a maintenance vessel (or mobile drydock to it). Alternatively: Modularity. As a third option, keep the radioactive drive unit separate from the crew habitat. This concept by artist William Black depicts an example, where a nuclear propulsion system and its propellant is a detachable module. The nuclear propulsion module is left a safe distance from the destination, while the chemical propulsion module completes the journey. This gives you the best of both worlds. A small chemical propulsion module can come in to dock with much greater maneuverability than the whole, without any danger of radioactive contamination. The ability to jettison the nuclear propulsion system might also be highly desirable when dealing with a nuclear saltwater rocket, which is almost literally a flying bomb and something you would want to get away from quickly if there were signs of imminent failure. On the flipside, modularity is expensive, complicated, and typically not as durable as a fixed design. This solution could conceivably coexist with one of the above methods, offering greater convenience and less logistical coordination in exchange for higher operational costs. Depending upon the details of your propulsion system and technological assumptions, all three of these solutions might coexist to different degrees. You can likely carve out different ecological niches for each approach within the same setting.