From a full-on mathematical definition of certainty and uncertainty according to probability and information theory, the reality is that most historical questions are only "known" to very low degrees of certainty. As a result, people often do not notice that they have transitioned from discussing what the percentage chance is that event x occurred or that article y is from time period z, to discussing whether evidence against that hypothesis outweighs evidence in support of it; i.e. whether the probability of the hypothesis being true is 50.0001% vs 49.9999% (as opposed to %50 for answer truly unknown). So if your question is whether there exists a nearly 100% certainty that the shroud is a forgery, the answer is clearly no. But we can say authoritatively that from the available information (listed and referenced extensively on this page already) there is a statistically significant deviation towards the forgery side of the equation, as opposed to the non-forgery or "genuine" side. Most telling is the fact that the entity holding the most information, the Vatican, prefers to emphasise the symbolism of the shroud over its historical nature (which they surely would if they believed there to be good evidence for it). From the pope's recent meditation on the shroud: 

Bring the vehicle to a stop with the engine running and foot still on brake Engage the hand brake Release the foot brake Within 20 seconds, press the remote start button on your remote Exit the vehicle Lock vehicle. This will also turn the vehicle off 

Yes, it is possible, but many modern Remote Start units have safety features that prevent this. For an automatic transmission vehicle, the safety mechanism is simpler in that it only needs to check if the car is in . If it is not, it simply won't start the vehicle. In fact, most cars do no allow the starter to turn if the transmission is not in or the brake is not depressed. For a manual, things get a little more complicated. I have installed two units similar to this(older model) in manual transmission vehicles. In the installation manual, you will see several additional components that need to be installed for a manual vehicle. The full installation manual is hard to come by online as it is usually shipped only to certified installers (Best Buy, Car Toys, etc). You can usually find these guides on car forums if you search hard enough. Here is the owners manual. On page 31 under the header are instructions on how to use the remote start feature on a manual transmission vehicle. The short version is: 

For those who venerate the shroud, the significance of this image is probably much more important than the shroud's historical nature. 

Sometime ago I'd heard someone trained in child psychology claim that crying for emotional reasons (as opposed to getting something in your eye for example) released toxins from the brain and/or body. More specifically, she claimed that emotionally-based tears, when collected and fed to rats in their food, resulted in a markedly increased statistical rate of disease and mortality in comparison to reflex-based tears or no tears at all. The explanation seemed a little hand-wavy, was uncited, and I was a little bit suspicious. However, I have noticed for some time that emotionally-based tears taste different depending on the "bitterness" of the experience. Then, I recently went through an extremely stressful time where I experienced levels of emotional stress higher than I ever have in my life. I found to my surprise that my tears during this period, if allowed to drain down my throat, caused extreme soreness for a short period of time (mitigated by drinking liquids); whereas if I was careful not to allow them to, no soreness resulted. A friend also experiencing extreme emotional stress found that the specific areas on her cheeks that her tears touched became visibly red and raw. Again, her experience was that the rawness correlated with contact vs no contact in specific incidents--rather than frequency. These responses seemed too specific to be psychosomatic. Now, "toxins" is very vague and it's clear that crying is an important emotional tool regardless of whether its significance is psychologically- or physiologically-based. My sample-space is unsatisfactorily small, but has intrigued me. Is there any scientific evidence that: 

The idea behind this is that if you can leave your vehicle while it is still running, then it will be safe when the car is remote started. If the car is ever opened (detected via door sensors), the parking brake is disengaged, brake is depressed, or in more advanced units, the transmission has been moved into gear after the remote start sequence has been performed (above), the remote start functionality will be deactivated until it is properly set up. Now, I suppose it's possible to be a funny man and shift the car into gear after the process above has been complete; open window, not actually leaving the car, etc. The root of the answer then lies in the configuration of the remote start and the car itself. With the units I have installed, you can configure the time the starter is engage in two different ways. These options will dictate how long the car will try to start for; how long the car will move for. 

Option 1 usually requires a wire to be connected to the car's tachometer. After installation, you must , meaning make the remote start unit recognize what the output of the tach wire is when the car is on. Using this method, the remote start will engage the starter until a similar tach reading is found. There is usually a top end time limit for this as well. Option 2 is simple. You pick a length in time to have the starter engaged. The starter is also an important component. As your car ages, your starter will not crank as well. The stronger your starter, the more force it can apply to the engine and thus the wheels (if transmission is engaged). It would be possible for a car to be started in gear, but not be strong enough to defeat the friction of the parking brake. Thus, if you manage to bypass all the safety mechanisms and happen to have a strong starter, it is quite possible for a vehicle to "Come alive" and start rolling forward, though, the actual reaction would be more accurately described as jumping forward. In fact, I used to work at a mall where someone accidentally activated their remote starter (not properly installed). Their car ended up in a dental office. P.S. Someone mentioned that the clutch need to be engaged to start a manual transmission. This is not the case if viper alarms (sort of). There is a wire that becomes active when the remote start is activated. This wire is connected to a relay which connects to the wires behind the clutch pedal. When the remote start is activated, this setup simulates the clutch pedal being pressed, allowing the car to be started. 

Considering collective intelligence, one can find a general factor, called the "c-factor", which refers to a correlation across expected performance on different group tasks. A comparison is drawn to the "g-factor" underlying (individual) IQ tests. The c-factor of a group does not have a strong correlation with the average or maximum individual intelligence (based on g-factor/individual IQ) of the group. The g-factor of the group instead correlates more strongly with the number of women in the group. This is (partly) explained by the idea that women are better at reading the emotional state of other members of the group. 

With respect to the claims made by some of the mainstream media based on this paper, I'll just focus on the claims made by one source in particular since other sources make similar types of claims. (I just chose the first source rather than selecting one based on content.) Huffington Post: The Collective Intelligence of Women Could Save the World 

So those are some highlights from the paper the claims are based on. I would say aspects of the paper are vague and some language is potentially misleading (particularly "collective intelligence"), but I find no reason to doubt the information given.