If nihilism is more popular these days, I would argue this is because the ideas which guided people through life with certainty and optimism no longer enjoy a consensus. Nietzsche discussed the prospect of a post-religious world (God is dead, Will to power, Ubermensch), and was disgusted with the idea of an entire society driven by mass culture, which he thought would result in little besides mediocrity and hedonism. Collective trust is broken, and there has been a collective loss of innocence. The free flow of information has exposed and exaggerated scandal after scandal, and together these have undermined trust in most formerly untouchable institutions... the government, the church, the police, science, journalism, etc. It might be easy to say that the old consensus began to unravel in the 1960s, when society in American and Soviet spheres started to question themselves in a way they hadn't before. But I don't think it's quite that simple. In America, the civil rights act, the counter-culture, and the Vietnam War eroded trust in authority. In the USSR, de-Stalinisation, and the invasion of Czechoslovakia did something similar. In both cases individuals began to distrust what they had been told, and information was flowing more freely than before. Come the 1970s stagflation further undermined trust in the establishment as the economy worsened and nobody seemed to know why, or what to do about it. However, the time leading up to the Second World War was also a period of intense collective soul searching as things fell apart. This was also true during and after the First World War, given the scale of the slaughter. The difference however may be in the failure of optimism. After the First World War liberal, socialist, and fascist ideas were popular, and to simplify things; each argued that humanity could improve itself through hard work and scientific knowledge. This provided a certainty and optimism which would replace the feudal certainties of old; that all one had to do was put faith in God and King. After the collapse of the USSR it appeared as if fascism and socialism were both dead. Liberalism had won. Empowering individual freedoms seemed to make society better and people happy. The problem however was that by then the scientific consensus was fraying. Each time scientists had promised technology would make life better, it had years later made nightmares come true. Things like DDT, Chernobyl, CFCs, moved the popular consensus from thinking about science with delighted optimism, to fearful pessimism. After the Great Recession there appeared to be little left of any of the great optimistic ideas. Each of them had been proved dangerous and problematic. Irrational scepticism was rampant. In this zeitgeist where there is little in the way of an optimistic consensus, individuals are more likely to regard salvation as illusionary; religion, science, fascism, socialism, liberalism, have all failed to live up to their own hype. Today we live in a marketplace of dead ideas, so to speak. Perhaps it is the death of optimism which leads to the birth of nihilism. 

As you say, the difference between extrinsic (observer-based) and intrinsic (subjective) symbol-manipulation semantics is key to the Chinese Room argument (CRA) (cf. the symbol grounding problem). However, I don't see that the abstract-vs-physical distinction between computation theory and physical computing devices addresses this issue directly. Computation theory is just another mathematical model, like calculus or geometry. Finding logical "0, 1" symbols in a physical computer is no different than finding straight lines and 90-degree angles in buildings. If we believe that the abstract, mathematically based theories of engineering truly keep skyscrapers from falling and planes in the air, then the dancing voltages in my bank's computer also truly represent the logical "balance" of my logical "checking account". Physical computers "manipulate symbols" to the same degree that buildings "obey statics" and planes, "aerodynamics". Fortunately, the distinction between idealized math and the real world is not needed to fully understand the CRA. Because it is grounded by Turing machine (TM) theory, the CRA's analysis can be much less esoteric and much more precise and objective. The CRA expertly focuses everyone's attention on the wrong symbols: the Chinese inputs and outputs. Like a magician, Searle makes you ignore the elephant in the Chinese Room: the program. It, too, is a symbolic input to the Searle-computer. (He also hopes you'll miss the fact that it's in English!) The program (aka, the rule book) is the key symbolic input because it alone dictates how the Chinese symbols are processed. The only reason the Searle-computer can (and must) process the Chinese symbols purely formally is because he also has the program-rule symbols, which he can (and must) interpret non-formally. As a universal TM, the Searle-computer's main responsibility centers on the program itself. Searle directs everyone's attention solely to himself and the Chinese symbols, yet he is wholly superfluous to their computation! The Searle-computer and its program input could--and should--both be completely removed from consideration. Replace it by a direct, non-programmable implementation of the program and the room would function identically. Hence, Searle's claim that the room processes the Chinese symbols purely formally (as opposed to just its Searle-CPU) is totally unfounded because he fails to account for the program's own computation (whose existence is irrefutably explained by Turing machine theory). The degree to which the program's computation interprets the Chinese semantically (or not) remains undetermined. Hence, the CRA establishes absolutely nothing about the semantics in the room regarding the Chinese symbols. References: Syntax vs. semantics, chineseroom.info 

Assuming you are referring to 1) an omni-potent god, and are looking for 2) a non-hard-determinism answer Omniscience, a property of the Islamo/Judeo/Christian deity, is the state of knowing all. Will, or free will, is a paradox; perfect foreknowledge excludes the possibility of volition. One explanation is that although the universe is determined in advance, and major human events are determined, at an individual level there is spiritual wiggly-room in which volition is possible, and in most cases permitted (baring instances of direct intervention to preserve the major human events: consider the hardening of the heart of the Pharaoh). The experience between the ears of humans is exempt from the usual causation of the universe because of the metaphysical (non-physical) nature of the soul, which transcends the physical world. Given this, prayer is an act of volition possible only by those with a soul. The purposes of prayer are, in my simple understanding, grouped into four major themes: worship/acknowledgement of the deity investigation of the nature of the deity request to the deity for intervention in the life of the individual supplication to the deity to forgive the failings of the individual The first is pleasing to the deity, and is the purpose of creation of sentient species; the tri-omni deity creates knows itself, and all things, completely, and is perfect. This deity creates minds from itself that are incomplete in their knowledge, and thereby imperfect. The deity enjoys those minds realising and being awed by the existence and nature of the deity, and seeking to be aligned to the will of the superior mind. The second is the attempt to learn the nature/desires/will of the deity in order that behaviour can be aligned to the appeasement thereof. It is motivated by the realisation of the nature of the deity, and the obligation/gratitude of having being created. The third is either a request of favour, or more usually a request for guidance/support in the pursuit of an activity believed to align to the nature/desires/will of the deity. This can be a request for an essentially selfish reason, to succeed in a personal endeavour, when such an endeavour is contextualised as a striving to become a less-imperfect being by delevoping those abilities or capitalising on those opportunities that the individual finds gifted to them. The fourth is apology for deviating from the will of god (either through inappropriate behaviour or lack of appropriate behaviour. Behaviour = action, thought, attitude) Essentially, prayer is a combination of acknowledgement of the deity, a request for instruction from the deity, a request for support in those activities that the supplicant holds dear AND believes in alignment with the will of the god, and apology for failure to act on the will of the diety/ deviation from that will. Regular and ritualised prayer, the lip-service prayer, is a mechanism that develops this way of viewing life: gratitude for that which is, hope for that which one desires, seeking permission for all action, deference to the moral authority of the deity; the positive association formed by the repetition and social importance (thanks to deity for this food/wedding/health/sporting achievement/etc) means that in times of crisis that cognitive pattern is available as a tool for problem solving. We turn to prayer in times of need, because we do it in times of plenty 

...is pretty much my answer: Meaning is internally constructed from (or formulated into) external physical constructs or events, which are themselves meaningless but decidedly non-arbitrary. However, what counts as "meaningful stimuli" is not objectively determinable. Rather, it's in the eye of the beholder. If we agree that removing one's glasses means buy and scratching one's chin means sell, then those are meaningful signals to us, but no one else. Thus, whether patterns of ink on paper, or photons from a display, or transistor voltages constitute "legitimate semantic representations" is neither true nor false. It depends on the potential interpreters, their capabilities, and their contexts. 

As you and others here have said, your CRA reply is essentially the most common one, the Systems Reply. But your statement misses some important aspects, such as Searle's point about formal symbol manipulation, which is the one thing his CRA gets right. To understand how both things can be right: lack of semantics at the Searle-computer level and the potential for understanding at the CR-system level, one should understand the relationships among the Searle-computer and its two kinds of input. The Chinese Room's heat source is the fact that it produces two levels of Turing computation, both of which are processing the Chinese symbols. Level-1 is Searle himself, acting as a UTM-computer (a universal Turing machine; like a CPU). Level-2 is "the system" whose computation of the Chinese is determined solely by the program and its execution configuration (memory, state, etc.). Note that the existence of the two computations is a fact, not as in "I'm stating my opinion as a fact", but as in "it is an objective mathematical fact, like the Pythagorean Theorem, which anyone can understand and verify for themself". Searle's self-consciousness is a kind of 3rd level of "information processing" (which might or might not be a computation). It allows him to introspect on his own level-1 universal computation. But he cannot similarly introspect on the level-2 computation. For level-2, the Searle-UTM is merely its physical substrate, analogous to a person's neuron-level, not their consciousness-level. Thus, the Searle-UTM never knows what his program is doing, whether it is doing a Turing Test or taxes or tic-tac-toe. Also note that the Searle-UTM is processing two classes of symbols: #1 the English symbols of the program, which people always ignore, and #2 the Chinese symbols, which captivate people like shiny objects. Thus, to correctly address "symbol manipulation in the CR", one must fully address the three symbol-processing relationships: