You can also call up a pre-generated route and turn off the turn-by-turn directional functionality, thus just showing your location and relationship to the route. This has worked reasonably well for me. 

Probably. Depends somewhat on whether the shifter is compatible with the derailleur (Shimano 8-speed shifters generally will work okay with 7-speed derailleurs, but you can't usually do a Gripshift with a Shimano derailleur, to name a couple of examples.) You'll have to adjust the limit screws and barrel adjuster, but you would have to do that any time you install a different derailleur. 

I've purchased a couple of used leather saddles. The ones that were barely used or just broken in were fine, but there was one well-used one that was the exception. Its sit bone area was visibly lower on one side than the other, enough that it was the likely cause of an SI joint dysfunction for me. I'd say if it looks relatively new and close to the original shape, you're probably fine. If it looks worn or stretched and especially if it looks uneven, it might be best to pass. 

That's the chain guard bracket and it would likely come off with a bottom bracket lockring tool. The fixed cup of the bottom bracket should be behind it. 

If you wanted to start with a bike that's really close, the Breezer Uptown 8 or Downtown 8 come with 8-speed hub gears and hand brakes for both wheels. You could purchase the coaster hub and have a bike shop rebuild the wheel, keeping the rim, shifters, cog and chain wheel. I wish I could say that you could just buy a kit to convert from one type of brake to the other, but to my knowledge, the hubs have different internals. Current cost would be a $600-800 bike, $200+ hub, plus labor. You could probably sell the old hub and get a little bit back. Another option might be to get a cruiser with an 8-speed hub and add a disk brake, but this would require replacing the fork and front wheel. Probably more cost-effective but more of a challenge to find a compatible fork. Too many variables to estimate what that might cost. Good luck in your search. 

Having seen some mechanical disk brakes over my life, the Avid's 9 out 10 will emit some sort of sound. You indeed are correct about how a mechanical disk brake works, by bending the rotor. So it's most important to set them properly. This is my procedure: 

Even tought there are many great answers I want to weight in, with my very personal perspective on the matter, also I'm from Chile were traffic laws are somewhat questionable for cyclist. In first place, over anything else it all comes down to your cycling experience. I've been a rider since 3 years old, now 31 and have never stopped. Been riding BMX, Downhill, CrossCountry, Freeride, Street and Road. Why this matters you ask? Well is all about reflexes and habits. People is not really well educated about traffic, driving test are a joke(I drive a truck, motorcycle and bicycles), so most of the drivers will put everyone in dangerous situations without thinking. Furthermore people can park on the right side of the road, so you have to watch right and left when going on your bike. So in my opinion this should be the way to cycle around a city: 

I'm 99% positive the noises you hear are comming from the bushes on the rear shock. It's common that dirt will get there and with poor lubing it would start making noises. I would really recommend to you take it out and take the bushes out of it. Those would be the piece at both ends of the shock, where the bolts go through when you mount the shock. There are two rubber groomits, take them off and then take the aluminium cilinder, on each of them bushes. Clean everything with isopropil alcohol, or something, then grease it(every moving a contact point and use just a dab) and put it together. Clean the contact points in the frame, grese it up and bolt the read shock. Noise should be gone by now. If after this you still hear noises, then you should check the pivot near the botom bracket. And plis no WD-40 on articulations. Also, the nut near the spring is the preload. You can adjust it if you want a stiffer ride, but it won't help you to reduce creaking. bye. 

Yes to your entire second paragraph. A good reference would be Phil Maffetone's The Big Book of Endurance Training and Racing. His contention is that making the aerobic system more efficient is a healthier and more sustainable way to increase speed. I'm an ultra distance cyclist who has tried both Maffetone and Carmichael's Time-Crunched Cyclist, and I've had much better luck with the former. Your experience may be much different if you're doing cyclocross or sprint races. 

The real issue with ice is that it has a very low coefficient of friction, and weight distribution won't change that enough to make a difference. Tires with a soft compound and a lot of siping help somewhat, but the best solution is a tire with metal studs. 

The Surly Ogre has the same geometry as one of the original rigid 29ers, the Karate Monkey. The complete version with 3x9 drivetrain is at the top end of your $1000-$1500 price range. 

You might be better off with one of the new bikes coming out with "gravel" or "all-road" geometry and clearance for ~40c tires. They're intended for the type of riding you describe. Current examples include the Raleigh Tamland and Willard, Salsa Warbird, All-City Space Horse, and Kona Rove. These bikes tend to have lower bottom brackets and longer wheelbases, giving them better comfort and handling on and off pavement. 

One of the crank arms is loose or cracked. This is the most dangerous, since a failure at the wrong time could cause you to lose control of the bike. A bearing is loose or worn out in either the bottom bracket or one of your pedals. A pedal could also fail catastrophically, though it's unusual. The chainring bolts might be loose. The bike's frame might be cracked. Unlikely, and worth checking only after other possibilities have been eliminated. 

Make sure that you install it in the negative(common, ground, black cable, etc) lead. It's good practice and for other appliances safer. Make sure to tape everything properly and if you can, get some heatshrink wrap. Fo the usb "The plug" I assume, just take it off as any spider cap and disconnect the terminals and take it off. 

As the comment by @Chris H, pointed out, you may have some air in your system. This is easely solvable by bleeding the brakes. Dependening on the design, you may need a big syringe, small hose(ideally translucent) and a small discardable bottle, or a propietary bleeding kit. Hydraulic system needs to be bleeded at least once a years, IMO. WARNING: Never mix mineral oil with DOT, those are incompatible. You must choose properly your fluid Dot or Mineral Oil. Mixing DOT5 with DOT6, is fine, not recommended but fine. Check the fittings on the handle and the caliper, tight them if needed. Some air may be getting into the system due to loose fittings. Also check the bleeding valves too. Lastly, check the hydraulic lines while you pump the lever. If they seem to stretch, wide, or inflate a small ballon, etc. You will need to replace them. 

This is by far the safest way to remove stripped bolts. Other method i've used include to drill a hole on the bolt, and then screw a special tool with counterclock thread to unscrew the bolt out of place, while you screw in the tool. Also you could just drill the bolt out, but you might get to damage the threads on your dereaullier. The last method, only works on a couple of situations where the thread are not seized, is to take the head of the bolt out. This will take tre preasure off the thread and you can fiddle with it until unscrewd. Did this on a KTM Duke 390. Cheers 

Right about the time fat bikes were about to become popular, I put a 26x4" front tire (which has the same diameter as a 29x2" tire) on a 26" bike, without changing anything else. The result was similar to a 69er, raising the front hub by about an inch. Besides improving handling on descents (perhaps due in part to the wider tire), it really didn't affect things all that much in dry conditions. Sure improved handling in the snow. 

Another suggestion would be a bike from the emerging "gravel" or "adventure" categories. Typically they are comfortable road bikes with clearance for larger tires, meant to be used on a wide variety of road surfaces, both paved and unpaved. 

A coaster brake is really your only option for foot-operated braking, and most complete bikes sold with coaster brakes have the coaster as the only brake. My experience is that mixing hand and coaster brakes takes some getting used to, and most people don't want to bother. This limits the selection of coaster brake bikes to mostly cruiser and city bikes. Most of those are single-speeds or 3-speeds. Both Shimano and SRAM offer 8-speed internally-geared hubs with coaster brakes, but I don't know whether any current production bikes come with 8-speed coaster brake hubs from the factory. If you wanted to have a more versatile bike with a wide range of gears and a braking setup that includes a front brake, one way would be to have a rear wheel built using one of the 8-speed hubs. The considerations for that include: 

Finally, just try to avoid routes that are flooded by cars and people. Bikes are excellent for using alternative routes, as you can make use cycling paths, roads and sidewalk, when you plan properlly. 

Get a hold on a dremel with a cutting wheel, and Draw a line from side to side(Over the center, like a Diametre line) about the same depth of the hex tool that was supposed to loose the bolt. If possible, rotate 90 degrees and do the same a point 1 Dip the the part in "Light Coke"(this thing works wonders on siezed bolts, not so much on your health tho) for about two hours. If you can do it overnight, that's ok too. Optional to (3.), pour some wd-40 on the bolts and threads. If it's has threadlocker then you will need a solvent, like Isopropil alcohol, acetone, or just a plain soldering iron to heat the bolt and soften the thing. Use a Slot ScrewDriver on the lines you made with your dremmel. 

That's usual. I've had many rims in many sizes, width, walls, etc; and most of them are like that. But I don't know about rims for tubeless. I think that they are made like that for two main reasons. In first place, to allow for slack for the valve when you mount it, even thought they are standarized sometimes you can get a "fatty" valve depending on the tube brand. The second reason, if to compensate for deflexion of the tube material under pressure, so it won't get pinned and punctured when you inflate. Because sometimes the valve it's thicker at the base. Bye 

"Road Bike" is a pretty broad term, but let's assume we're talking about a bike designed for long-distance road riding and not criterium or even road racing—a category used to be called "sport touring," but is now referred to as "endurance racing." Current examples include bikes like the Trek Domane, Giant Defy and Specialized Roubaix. Also, it depends somewhat upon what you mean by "gravel racing." If you're referring to short events like Barry Roubaix that are at most a couple of hours, then a cyclocross bike would fit the bill as well as anything, especially if you already own one. The downside of using a cyclocross bike is that most are really designed for short, fast, off-road races and don't necessarily lend themselves well to all-day comfort or long, 40-mph descents. There are a few cyclocross bikes that are designed to be less aggressive, and those are the ones that tend to turn up at gravel events. Current examples include the Trek Cronos and Boone, and the Surly Cross Check. The Niner RLT9 is marketed as a gravel bike but has a design that fits better into this category. My experience with this class of bike is that they require more effort to arrive at a good fit, and can feel more exciting than necessary on fast downhills. "Gravel" bikes aren't all alike either, but the ones that are different than cyclocross bikes feature a longer head tube (for more upright riding position), lower bottom bracket, more fork offset and slacker angles. The best current example is the Raleigh Tamland, but the All-City Space Horse is pretty close too, despite not being marketed as a gravel bike. To me, the best thing about "gravel" bikes coming into style is that they're actually good for a very wide variety of surfaces and emphasize comfort over raciness. Not limiting a ride to one specific type of road opens up a lot more riding opportunity.