1,000,000/1,000,000 stars. It speaks to philosophical ideas like proportionality and beauty. Plus, like, half a dozen other ideas. 

I suppose some of the distinctions I'm about to make depend upon the strand of Buddhist thought to which you're referring. I'm going to approach this from an ancient Indian Madhyamaka perspective. 

This is an excellent question. There is no reason why group homes for old people ought avoid similar disrepute as group homes for children -- abuse, neglect, and a thousand other human evils are certainly visited upon some of those people, too. Maybe we just care about old people less. Babies and children are cute and seem to have promise, whereas old people, well, I think we (as a society) often just wish they would die already or otherwise go away. Plato thinks old people who have aged out of the breeding program ought to just be able to enjoy the small pleasures of a life well-lived, at the state's expense. 

I would think that such a machine would theoretically preclude nirvana, not refute it. One of the hardest concepts to wrap one's mind around is the cessation of grasping for nirvana. 

I think the confusion derives from the language(-game?) embedded in the question itself: can something that is limitless be bound by limit? You don't even need to ask the ancillary questions if you can't answer that one. It seems our use of language is already defining-down or hemming in the idea of 'growth without bound' by yoking it to 'somethinghood,' the ontological status of an object, which necessarily has limits. An omnipotent god both can and cannot do all of those things you said since saying a thing 'cannot not' do something is, in fact, imposing a restriction upon omnipotence. "All" is necessarily the union of can and cannot. In fact, I think we probably need to invoke tetralemma here, since infinite can surely bust any law of excluded middle, n'est pas? To talk about the truth of infinite power, we must say that: can, cannot, both can and cannot, neither can or cannot. Mahayana helps. 

In short, no. Epistemology is not a synonym for logic. Epistemology is a philosophical inquiry concerned with the object knowledge, its construction, knowers, and knowing. Assuming you take positive positions on the questions of whether knowledge exists, whether it corresponds to some objective reality, and further still, whether it is gettable by humans, then logic can be understood as one way of getting knowledge about the world. I think it is fine to think of it as a set of rules used to systematically evaluate the truth status of knowledge claims or propositions. Of course, you can understand logic as abstractly and symbolically as you wish, as in the case of mathematical logic. Some people think logic is the right way to get/evaluate knowledge, others think it is the best way, while others believe it is the only way. And, of course, there are others still with different opinions about its strengths and weaknesses as way to knowledge. 

Not only is raising children in this way morally acceptable, it is, in fact, the ideal, most virtuous way, since we are making justice in the individual (and therefore justice in the state) essentially idiot-proof. 

You can ask any adoptee about this, if by 'real' you mean biological. If you use 'real' to mean a set of nuclear parents -- a mom and dad -- then Plato would say no -- psychological problems arise when you are raised by flawed parents, not through the perfect guardianship and programming of the philosopher-king state. 

I definitely think "my death" is a concrete object, though, perhaps, 'my mortality' is an abstract one. There's lots of experiences I will never experience, but I don't think that necessarily means they are abstractions. 

Now, let me explain how I came to this seemingly paradoxical idea. Please correct me if my argument is wrong. 

In Mathematics, we as an undergraduate are exposed for the first time (at least for me it was the case) to 'rigor'. For example, in Real Analysis classes we often use logical quantifiers in our arguments. However, the curious thing is that even though we are told to use formal reasoning in our arguments we are never told explicitly the reason behind using formal reasoning. For example, in philosophical arguments the method of reasoning is not always formal and I think that it is more natural to use this kind of reasoning method. Surprisingly enough when we discuss the proofs, we in fact use this kind of informal reasoning but still our professors insist on being able to write formal proofs. This makes me wonder, 

"Take, for example, the law of excluded middle: every proposition is either true or false . Since this has a quantifier over all propositions, it cannot be expressed." - I don't understand why "this" has a quantifier over all propositions. So far in any modern representations of (Classical) First Order Logic, I haven't seen (nor can I remember) the LEM being represented as such. Indeed, after what Conifold says here, I don't understand what Priest means when he claims that "it cannot be expressed". How is he able to claim so? "Or, closer to home, consider the Axiom of Reducibility itself. This is supposed to hold for all functions, f. Russell's very statement of it (above) therefore violates the theory of orders." - How exactly does Russell's statement of Axioms of Reducibility violates the theory of orders? "Even decent statements of the VCP cannot be made without violating the VCP since they must say that for any function, f, any propositional function which 'involves' f cannot be an argument for f. Such statements are impossible by Russell's own admission." - As I understand, here also Priest's objection relies on the use of "for any function". If this is so, then as I have asked in my first question, it is not clear to me as why does he claim that "[e]ven decent statements of the VCP cannot be made without violating the VCP". If this is not the case then what did Priest intend to mean here? "For, however we express it, what we are supposed to understand by a systematically ambiguous formula, such as the formal statement of the Axiom of Reducibility above, is exactly what would be obtained by prefixing the formula with a universal quantifier '∀f', ranging over all functions." - I am not so sure that "what we are supposed to understand by a systematically ambiguous formula, such as the formal statement of the Axiom of Reducibility above, is exactly what would be obtained by prefixing the formula with a universal quantifier '∀f" (in fact this doubt was partly responsible for my asking the first question). Indeed, to me Russell's suggestion sounds similar (see the quote) to that of Conifold's remark that I mentioned earlier. Am I missing something important and/or subtle here? 

In his book Beyond the Limits of Thought while talking about Russell's solution of paradoxes Graham Priest writes (text made bold, footnotes and references omitted), 

Yesterday I was talking to one of my mathematics professor regarding the notion of proof in general (whatever the word "general" means to the reader). In short my claim was, 

I have recently read about the Frege-Hilbert controversy regarding the axioms of Euclidean Geometry. In Chihara's book it is written (under the subsection Hilbert's criterion of truth and existence) that, 

If one country (N_c) went to war against another, families (N_f) would unite to match the highest order of N. Even the very idea of family unites some and divide other, but in the case of being challenged by a group of higher N, the challenged group would rise in N. I think the magnitude of the N depends on the challenge to this magnetude. 

Math and philosophy was in the acient Greece very connected and many times studied simultaneously as they where (and in some parts of the world still is) thought to coincide. This is because math describes the fundamentals of nature, it models the world around us to a degree that we, as humans, find satisfying. In the same manner philosophy concerns answers that cannot be mathematically measured, because the subject being studied is a question of emotion, lack of it, reason and sow on. Just because we are satisfied does not mean that math is completely true, math and philosophy are the only two non-empirical subjects in modern academia, which from a natural science perspective also means that it cant be proven and not to a full extend understood. Within math it is easy to make proves that is limited by a "false math" the bunny and the turtle is a classic. The bunny can never pass the turtle because thenever the bunny reaches the point the turtle has just left, the turtle has moved on to a new point and sow on. In this limited math, this is true, even though we know it to be false because our math includes time. We have accepted math to be true because it describes the world in a sensibly way, and it continues to do sow because math constantly develops. Matrices, Fourier transforms and quantum mechanics are examples of this. But we do not know, if all we know, is that the bunny cant pass the turtle. To answer the question, we don't understand math or fore that matter anything, but we can model it daim well, and this is "proof" enough fore us to believe in it. 

I would think that this argument will be very ill received because it criticizes revisit principles of religion. In the big Abrahamic religions a set of rules have been written down, in some cases to prevent the spread of diseases, the prohibition against pork in Judaism and Islam, in other cases to control a population, the burka or niqab i Islam. Eventhough Jesus sought to get rid of these rules the church later created Hell and imposed decency and good manners. In all religions springing from Abraham a certain criticism of the free speech have later been developed. An example of this is the Muhammed drawing by Kurt Westergaard. Here islamic leading figures required an apology from the state of Denmark, the newspaper who printed them and the cartoonist himself, by referring to scriptures not allowing it, written in religious books. There are many examples in Israel where freedom of speech have been under attack by the Orthodox jews. A religious censorship has resurrected. Since religious books in many countries have strong ties with state policy, Iran and in some cases the US, I would see parts of the bible, the quran and other religious texts as being Authoritative. 

Then looking at knowledge one must look at the concept of knowledge: One Greek filosofer states that he knows nothing but this he knows: "I know that I know nothing" - Socrates. In other words: he realizes that every thing he bases his knowledge on is based on the knowledge of others. Just because one understands the line of thought dose not mean that it is true. "Why do I have two hands?" "Sow you can hold the bible you read" is a classic eksample because the question is answered with God. An other thought is: "I think, therefore I am" - Descartes In this understanding knowledge is simple a product of thinking because the pure knowledge som from this. Knowledge is not defined but relative to you. This is why "God" is needed, he defines your "ground state". Today information can be stored, meaning that a certain arrangement of electrons can lead to the storage of knowledge. To sum up: knowledge is matter of definition.