As people have found out, there is little to stop the Fed from doing this. They get matched assets and liabilities, and the assets it buys pays a higher rate of interest than its liabilities. Other entities have to worry about funding risk when conducting such trades -- others may fear bankruptcy, and not lend them money. Very few people worry about the central bank running out of money. 

There’s a huge literature on this topic. I would start by looking at the IMF Fiscal Monitor, and see what is interesting. Their research papers will refer to other papers that can be pursued. IMF Fiscal Monitor page. Otherwise, you can search for papers on “fiscal sustainability.” As a disclaimer, I am not a fan of most the literature. This paper by Scott Fulwiler discusses interest rates and sustainability, and it critiques some of the technical issues in the literature - link to paper. In any event, there is no “magic tipping point” for default. It is up to the government involved to decide at what point interest costs are excessive, and whether they will default rather than keep going. There have been almost no default of floating currency sovereigns, so there is no data set to work with. (Most sovereign defauits have occurred when they borrow in another currency; the euro area is discussed below.) The euro area countries face a particular problem that is not really an issue for other developed countries: they do not have control of their domestic interest rates. Their debt may be issued at high spreads versus other euro interest rates, and so a default becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy (as seen in Greece). Most of the “fiscal sustainability” literature assumed that a country controls the interest rate it borrows at, so the situation is much less risky. 

There’s two things of interest: interest rate risk, and liquidity risk. For liquidity risk, you could compare short-term liabilities to short-term assets. This would be just a ratio. The long-term buckets (1-5) and (5+) aren’t going to add much information. Banks are in the business of rolling over 1-5 year term deposits, so that bucket will always be big. And since bank loans are often amortising, while the deposits have a bullet maturity, the mismatch between a 5-year deposit (bank liability) and a 10-year loan (bank asset) is much smaller than the maturity date suggests. This is why I would just look at ratios with the mid-long buckets merged. For interest rate risk, the duration gap is what matters (plus interest rate shock simulations; see below). (Although I write duration, that is just habit. Technically, you need something like a DV01: how much money is gained/lost on a 1 basis point rise in yields? This can be inferred from an estimated duration.) A part of the question is unclear - you are looking at a financial report of a real world bank? There might be a memo item buried in the notes on the financial statement that gives the exact mismatch. The bank and the regulators know what the mismatch is, it is unclear whether that is public information. Since it is sensitive commercial information, it is highly possible that the net duration information is not public. (I obviously do not know.) You could try approximating the duration for each bucket of assets and liabilities, and then add them up. The problem is that this answer could easily be wildly incorrect, and the exercise is probably a waste of time. 

For the developed countries, the big unknown is typically net immigration. In the euro area, the collapse of economies has often caused a considerable amount of emigration. Outside of net immigration, the only thing that could cause the projections to off is a massive change in the death rate (or birth mortality). Birth rates tend to be slow-moving; the baby boom after World War II was a response to highly unusual earlier conditions (Great Depression, WWII). Life expectancy is another wild card, but it is unclear how much it will change. 

Note: This answer is preliminary, as I am unsure about some components of the question. I will note that it is a very long time since I studied portfolio immunization, and so I am describing how this would be looked at in the industry. The simplest strategy for immunization in this case is to purchase five zero coupon bonds, each with a principal value of \$500,000. This means that your portfolio generates cash flows that exactly match the liability. (That part of the question is unclear to me. One could attempt to duration match the liability, which would make the answer more complicated.) The price for \$1 for the i-th zero coupon is: $\frac{1}{(1.02)^i}$, (the zero coupon price formula, using a simple interest rate convention). The cost for the immunization is the sum of the five costs. The market value weight of each bond is its market value divided by the sum. 

To answer the first part, it's an "annualised" interest rate convention - like all other quoted interest rates. For example, if a one-month money market rates are unchanged at 4%, you would receive approximately 4% in interest after a year, or roughly 1/3% a month. (Note that those numbers are ignoring compounding, further details below.) As for the calculations, things are complicated. The high level answer is that a monthly interest rate is roughly $r/12$, with $r$ being the quoted rate. This is a simple interest rate. The true calculations are complicated by the nature of LIBOR. Technically, LIBOR (London Interbank Offer Rate) is a polled rate of "large" banks in a number of currencies. There are similar "fixes", such as Euribor (Euro area), TIBOR (Japan), CDOR (Canada). The polled rate is based on the money market convention in each currency for a certain class of interbank borrowing. Interest rate calculations depend upon the daycount convention, and the calendar used. If we borrow on June 1st, one month later is normally July 1st. What happens if July 1st is a weekend or holiday? There are standard comventions in each currency that determine which days are holidays, and how to move the due date relative to such dates (before/after). There are a wide variety of day count conventions that are used across markets. I believe that act/365 (GBP) or act/360 (other currencies) are standard. (Based on this ICE LIBOR document: link.) Anyone who needs to know the exact calculations should refer their queries to their banking counterparties, as there can be a large number of small modifications to the generic description I give below. In act/360, the amount of interest is given by the quoted rate times the fraction (actual number of days in the lending period)/360. For act/365, the interest is given by the quoted rate times (the number of days in the period/365). Therefore, if the one-month maturity period is 30 days in the future, and the currency uses an act/360 convention, the fraction used for the one-month rate is 30/360 = 1/12. However, it is clear that the true annual compounding rate will vary from compounding $(1+r/12)^{12}$ since months are not exactly 30 days, and the number of days in the year is either 365 or 366. 

Within the teaching model, there is a portfolio allocation between "money" and some interest-paying instrument (labelled "bonds" or "bills"). The interest rate is the interest rate paid on that hypothetical instrument. The usual interpretation is that this the short-term "risk-free" rate of interest. (Risk-free implies is that they are assumed to be free of default risk.) In the United States (for example), there are a number of such instruments: Treasury bills/bonds, the fed funds rate (domestic interbank rate), OIS, repo, interest-bearing reserves, etc. These instruments have interest rates that are generally close to each other. Simplified models that consist of a pair of intersecting lines will not be able to deal with the fact that such instruments have a variety of maturity dates (from overnight to 30 years). The general assumption when discussing these models is that private sector borrowing rates will remain close to this risk-free curve. The fact that this is not always true is another part of reality they cannot deal with. That said, credit spreads for high quality borrowers tends to be less volatile than the level of the risk-free rate, and so the risk-free rate does roughly capture the general tendency of interest rates. 

The government looks at the bids (starting with the lowest yields) until the amounts cover the amount to be issued. The highest winning bid yield is used for all. In this case, that means that A and B get filled with a $1 million in bonds at 4.25%, and C gets nothing. The connection to money is somewhat complicated. The issuance of the bonds reduces the money supply - the bidders have to pay for the bond. The coupon and principal payments will increase the money supply. 

The phrase governments "do debt rollover from time to time" is an understatement. The entire stock of Treasury bills is rolled over continuously, as well as the coupon debt. For example, a 3-month Treasury bill needs to be rolled over four times a year. As for the current situation, it is somewhat strange. 

Usual causes of high infant mortality are due to diseases that result from inadequate nutrition, lack of clean water, or diseases that might be caused by inadequate sanitation. These are all obviously related to living standards. I believe the reason why it is useful is that it is a quantitative metric that is easily tracked, and has been tracked for a long time (birth/death records). One can imagine more powerful descriptions of “living standards”: but is there any way to measure them, particularly in historical data? That’s why we have to find indicators that can be reliably calculated, and which are expected to correlate with fuller descriptions. 

The closest you can get to data on this is the CME Commitment of Trader reports. link to CME page The report breaks down the position sizes in futures based on the reporting segment of client (e.g., commodity producers). Based on my experience, it is hard to relate the changes in positioning to price changes. (I used to look at an earlier version of the report, which divided participants into “commercial”/“non-commercial” entities.) You can always look at historical data and tell a story why the price changed, but that methodology has little predictive power (you just change your story). At the minimum, you need to specify what market you are interested in. Crude oil trades differently than bonds, which trade differently than equities. Also, market structure matters. An exchange where all participants trade as equals is different than where there are market makers. In a market dominated by market makers, prices are literally set by the market makers. The question then becomes: why do market makers change their prices? (If you had an exact answer to that question, you would make a fortune as a trader.) My experience is in fixed income, and it is safe to say that the bulk of price movements are associated with the release of economic data (although this was not the case during the Financial Crisis). Since prices typically jump immediately on the release of data, there is no way to associate any group with the price change - posted prices are changed without any transactions taking place. Fixed income prices are a mixture of exchange prices (Treasury bond futures) and market making (exotic derivatives). My understanding of the energy markets is that commodity data releases have a similar effect. That is, prices are often adjusted based on news about consumption and production, not just the act of buying/selling by the end users/producers themselves. This should be expected, as energy commodities can generally be stored, and so commodities can be moved in/out of storage if the prospects for future supply/demand change. (Electricity was an exception for storage, although storage technology there is improving.) 

I am a Canadian, and under Canadian tax laws, I think there are at least two ways of determining your cost basis for shares. I am not going to get into the details of tax accounting; please see a qualified tax professional for advice. However, if you just want to track your profit and loss for analysis purposes, the standard way of determining the book value of your positions is to track the average cost. You track the number of shares you own, and their total cost. When you buy more shares,