Perhaps your plantar fasciitis is caused by over training. The suffix "-itis" means inflammation and inflammation is the result of too much stress. Large bouts of cardio may be the cause for your plantar fascitis. Our body is not designed to do cardio for hours on end, 5 days a week unless your an endurance athlete with genetic gifts. With this in mind you may benefit from a period of rest to reduce inflammation in your feet and then begin a cardio routine that achieves a high VO2 (I.e 100-125% of your VO2 max) for short durations. Interval training such as this allows us to accomplish the same, if not greater fitness levels, while reducing our overuse of joints and muscles from tedious, submaximal exercise. 

Although we me see some immediate results from reducing our caloric intake, the main reason for the weight reduction is our reduction or carbohydrates or sugars (since we reduce all forms of nutrition). Carbohydrate intake causes our body to release insulin, an anabolic hormone released from the pancreas, that tells our body to store the excess sugars in our cells. Unfortunately our body has a limited amount of storage for these sugars and once that target is reached we store the remaining energy (calories) as triglycerides or adipose tissue. Therefore the reason our body puts on excess body weight is not due directly to an increase in caloric intake, but rather an over consumption of sugar that causes our body to be in a chronic state of anabolism (storing fat). With this in mind we must then look at how we can use this to lose weight. When reducing our caloric intake on a diet, we typically eat healthier begin removing excess junk food (i.e chips, pop, candy). Since these all contain excess sugar that boosts our insulin levels, when we remove them we see this immediate loss of weight. However, we now go into a chronic state of low nutrition, which causes our body to want to keep what energy is left. This results in low blood sugar, which in turn tells our body we need to eat. To loss weight we must lower our carbohydrate and use foods that allow our bodies to have access to our stored excess energy. When eating a low carbohydrate meal, our body is now in a state of catabaolism, which allows us to access our adipose tissue as useable energy, rather than allows having access to simple sugars (a steady high level of insulin). Although your workout may have caused some of the weight loss it is mainly attributed to the lower carbohydrate in tack caused by the lower overall intake. Your diet should be the main focus when attempting to lose weight, with less emphasis on which muscles are being used. A healthy active lifestyle normally correlates with a positive figure, but our diet is most import. That being said, you should look into a lower-carbohydrate lifestyle consisting of healthy animal products and vegetables, while limiting our grain consumption and excess sugar, as well as processed vegetable oils. 

There is nothing specific which will cause you to lose weight. Being in a caloric deficit will do that. Amy exercise that helps you lose weight is simply because it puts you in a caloric deficit meaning you are burning more calories than you are taking in. Is 15 minutes of any exercise really enough to put you in a major deficit that would cause significant weight loss ? Probablyy not 

Your body should be the one giving you feedback. How is your body responding is the question you need to ask yourself and not just afterwards rather while you are running If you end up feeling overly stressed or ill than you probably want to tone it down. 

You cannot target fat burn to one specific part of your body. The only thing you can do is lose weight and eventually it will come off. I would recommend lifting some weights and making sure you get in enough protein so you don't lose muscle while you lose the fat you want to lose 

It's irrelevant what you used to do. You may have some head start with weight lifting but if you haven't lifted in a while , you probably lost a nice amount of strength. Either way pick a beginner weight lifting program like starting strength or 5x5 stronglifts and it will help you progress properly and safely. It will help you choose your starting weight also. There is no need to do a full body workout at this stage You don't need any supplements. If you don't get in enough nutrients you can take a multivitamin 

As I said in the comments if p90x supports downloading the videos or watching them on youtube those are certainly options. Most gyms have open space for calisthenics or stretching that you can use and bluetooth headphones work well to listen without bothering others. If your goal is a general electronic substitute to an expensive personal trainer I tend to recommend several mobile apps that help you track pace and progress that give certain exercises, reps, and depending on the app resistance levels. I have personally used Nike Training Club and Freeletics but I know people who have used the Under Armour and Kayla apps to great effect. Regarding using your phone at the gym, I typically put it on the equipment I am using, on the floor nearby me, or depending on the exercise in my pocket. Many people listen to music on their phones as it is at the gym so this is unlikely to raise eyebrows. 

It is possible to have both strength and endurance. There are a lot of long distance runners who have significant upper body strength because muscles process oxygen better and help with running. As Eric says in the comments it is hard to be elite in both strength and endurance training because to be elite at strength training you are all but guaranteed to have to put on some weight while to be an elite runner you will probably need to keep your weight down. These are the adaptations that your body will require as well as the increase in cardiovascular and muscular strength. Basically the takeaway is that it's possible to be quite good at both. Soccer players are a good example. They can run > 10 miles per game but many maintain a large amount of muscular strength in order to play effectively. 

High intensity interval training and weight lifting are both very good protocols for insulin resistant people. Studies that point to weight lifting increasing insulin sensitivity $URL$ $URL$ HIIT effect on insulin resistance study $URL$ You can search around as there are a lot more, i just quoted a few As with all studies the only way to know if they are really true is to try them out (where there is no risk) and see for yourself 

To answer which one burns more calories, that's pretty straightforward math. Steady state cardio burns calories based upon intensity level x amount of calories per minute . In order to get that number you would need to know your heart rate during exercise and either have the hr monitor calculate the calories burnt totals for you or plug it in to a online calculator. Either way it's pretty simple. Sounds like the treadmill option is more intense and is burning more per minute however if you are doing it for less time you might be burning more with walking outside. My advice,Collect the data and run the numbers. Once you have clear which one is burning more, that still doesn't answer the question of which one is the better deal. The best exercise for you is the one you will stick to , only you can answer that question 

So I am not entirely sure I understand what you're asking. You may have over-trained initially which could lead to an increased recovery time. So typically what I would recommend would be that you make sure you have sufficient protein intake. I would also recommend stretching your core with something like yoga would help. I would highly recommend upward facing dog. If you don't have a place to take a class I would suggest either Nike Training Club or YouTube to find routines. 

So my friends and I theorized this while in undergrad and being industrious college students we did some research and could never find any evidence that sexual arousal significantly helped or hurt training. Here is an article on the topic that cites additional sources. 

Shoes are a good place to start but the key is to find a goal and then look at a plan to meet that goal. A reasonably good goal for a beginner is to finish a 5k. There are myriad good plans for "couch to 5k" and they are all just a google search away. I would recommend looking at something like active.com or something similar. The key when you start is to remember that the hardest part of running can often be the first two minutes aka. getting out of the door and getting going. You should be running at a pace where you can hold a conversation but not too easily.