During the interview, it is very important to ask really good, pointed questions. It reflects well on you and if you really care about the quality of your work environment, you will listen carefully to the answers and evaluate them seriously. However, at the end of a long session of interviewing where both parties have had plenty of opportunities to ask and answer questions for literally hours, it is really hard to be authentic when asked "Do you have any questions for me?" If you really did ask all the questions you needed to ask during the discussion, there is nothing more to say other than to go over what the next steps in the process are (if this hasn't already been covered in detail). In other words, it is OK to say "no" if you've already asked all the questions you needed to ask. Forcing out a trite question just because you feel obligated to on the spot is awkward and will leave both parties with a bad feeling. 

Well, you just tell a joke. If you can't think of one, then say so. This is the type of question which is designed to gauge how at ease you are interacting with others. I don't think it is a very good question, nor do I think the interviewers are necessarily prepared to be able to interpret "the answer". Whether this is question is so bad that it makes you walk out is up to you, but I would assess the interview process as a whole rather than base a reaction on just one little thing. From the point of view of the interviewer, one bad answer or a punt is not going to have much impact on the interview as a whole, so don't worry about it too much. It could very well be that they're trying to get "clever" with their interview questions and this is just an attempt that failed. 

In the middle there are people who failed a couple of classes, people who worked during academic time, people who were sick, in need to assist sick relatives, or carrying a handicap affecting the ability to complete classes in time. From what I can see in the question, and excluding people who complete in less than the expected years, I find nothing that could raise a red flag on your resume. It can be an opportunity for your to train your self-selling skills not to "justify why you took so long" but rather to focus the attention on what really matters, e.g. on your actual skills, non-academic work, etc. Really, if a couple of more years did matter, a lot of people would find a hard time seeking for a first occupation. 

From what I read, you are just requesting what you deserve: proper compensation for your contribution to the company. Congratulations for being extra-productive and passionate for your work, I would hire one like you. But under most regulation, if not all (as soon as slavery is still forbidden) you have the legal right to request what you deserve. Your boss is at a serious jeopardy from the legal point of view, because, ultimately, and as last resort, you may sue him. For office jobs, working overtime without any form of compensation (either a +15% bonus for each overtime hour or a forfait bonus at year end) may be a criminal offence. Requesting Allowing an employee (regulator assumes that if an employee is working extra, he's not doing that by his own initiative) to work overtime longer than a yearly quota of 250 hours is a criminal offence in my regulation. I wouldn't threaten your boss. I would sit with him and discuss about your importance in the company, your successes and your constant effort. Your boss would be definitely a moron if he refuses to negotiate a raise that is proportional to the extra time. A professional like you can find a job in no time, possibly without slavery. Some points for the conversation: 

Change is a difficult thing for organizations to go through and it is really hard for everyone in the org to change at the same time. The good news is that scenarios like yours have been studied extensively. You'll want to read about the "technology adoption lifecycle" (and related concepts) and how to apply those ideas in a practical setting. This was originally applied to the diffusion of technology for farms, but it applies very well to organizations which are releasing new tools to their workforce. To boil it down into a nutshell, there are three phases to such a roll out: 

I realize that I am answering a paleo-question from a year ago, but I think it is a good question.... When it comes to career choice, it is vital to find the "right question" before trying to find the "right answer". What I mean is you may NOT want to choose a career path because it is (or may become) "high demand". Sure, you'll want to choose something that makes you employable and that yields a sufficient salary and on the surface it sort-of makes sense that high-demand jobs will do that. The problem is that with high demand eventually comes throngs of competition which is composed of wannabe's to super-elites and everything in-between. Unless you're talking about fields with very very long educational requirements, you're going to quickly find yourself in an ocean of similarly qualified candidates all looking for "the best" opportunities. Some will find their dream jobs but many will find themselves in unsatisfying career ruts after making a bad choice simply because it seemed like a good idea at the time. Moreover, it is truly a guessing game to try to select what the hottest technology or career path is going to be in the future, or what will fall out of favor or be sustaining. It might seem that Java web development, for instance, is the most flush with opportunity for now and the near future, but what about the next things coming down the pipe. I would have sworn in 2003 that .NET was going to bury Java-- but guess what, it hasn't. Who is say what is coming next? Nobody really knows and it is dicey to make career plans based strictly on such reasoning (not saying either .NET or Java would be mistake). Basically I am trying to say two things: 

Eventually two possible results can be both positive for you: you can either get a permanent paycheck raise or your boss may choose to give you a one-time bonus, this is particularly true in some regulations where bonuses are taxed differently (or not at all) from salary. 

I work in a software company. I am one of the senior-most developers with good knowledge of DevOps practices. For example, not intended to show my pride, I was the one who twice convinced the boss to switch from CVS to SVN to Git. Often I get interrupted by coworkers about technical problems they cannot solve. I understand that in a transitional phase some recurring problems may occur and it is a friendly idea to help other coworkers. However this led to other developers being lazy and treating me like the help desk. I often (this happens since years) get interrupted by people, or get mails, asking for the solution to a very specific technical problem for which the offender did not show any research. I mean he/she got struck in a Git error (to make an example) and instead of Googling he/she directly reported to me, CCing senior staff members who likely do not know the answer. Sometimes, in order to encourage Googling and Stackoverflowing, I called those people to my desk, opened my browser and started a search with them. I wanted to show I am no magic well, no guru, no professor. It is true that in the past I fixed a lot of problems in a few seconds time thanks to having experienced them myself People today still call me for silly problems that a simple Google/Stackoverflow search may solve. In a period I was busy with my own tasks I tried to become unfriendly, answering "I have my stuff to do", "The help desk is open only 30 minutes a day". This resulted in panic and few chats with executive staff (who became aware that staffing me to the help desk could drain my time over the project, jeopardy deadlines, etc.). Today I have got another mail with Cc some senior members who are too busy with their own activities. Note: I interpret ing instead of addressing the mail as an attempt of escalation ("Hey, team leader, I can't proceed until /usr/local/ΕΨΗΕΛΩΝ fixes my problem"). I politely answered "Have you looked or asked on Stackoverflow? I would have done the same". Note 2: we are not motherlanguage English speakers, but there is quite a decent level of English here at least in written form. Question: what kind of attitude or social exercise should I adopt in order to encourage people to first try to solve problems on their own, and then ask other members for advice? And to keep friendly with them. If the staff member proved me to have done some research, instead of vomiting a screenshot on her client, I would have been happier to lift my shiny metal bu** [nsfw] from my chair and go to help. 

It certainly was wrong of the senior member of your team to over-react in such an offensive way. That kind of behavior, in addition to demoralizing the rest of the team, encourages others to hide mistakes rather than admit to them lest they face the wrath of this person as you did. You should not expect that this behavior will be "addressed" by the offender or anyone else by any kind of apology or reprimand. You made a technical mistake and he made a mistake by behaving unprofessionally. No good will come out of forcing judgement on which transgression was "worse" and having the loser pay the balance in an apology. However, keep in mind that his over-reaction most likely has hurt his reputation MORE than it has hurt yours. We all make mistakes, your co-workers make mistakes too and they know that you are not, as he said, "insane". They know you made a mistake like everyone else. His outburst is harder to justify: in the best case scenario it was a forgivable isolated incident but every time it happens again the loss of reputation will get worse and worse for this person. The best thing to do is to move on from this incident and do not bring up his behavior. 

What HR wanted was not "a list" of skills. They can already see that on your resume/CV. When they ask for more details, they don't mean the minor version of the application server you worked with (for example). They want to understand the context and some narrative of HOW you work and solve problems using your skills. In other words, you should have picked some of your skills and described a successful project in which you used those skills. The goal is to give them an idea of the scope and complexity of work which you do. 

If you are going to stay more in that company, never ever leave negative feedback. Full stop. This will only go against you. Even if you are not the single employee in that position, reducing the chances to two or three people is too risky. You might be recognized as the author even in the future. For example if for whatever reason you unwillingly show you know Glassdoor more than your coworkers. Legally Your boss may or may not do anything to you. In my country he may fire you without a valid reason if total employees are < 15. Otherwise the company is not enough "small", but there could always be ways for premature termination. Practically You might be subject to mobbing/stalking. That is a crime under several regulations but is extremely hard to prove. Examples of mobbing are under-assignements, or under-qualification of assignements. It is difficult to prove that such behaviour originates from an harassment. If you are going to leave your company, you can honestly write whatever you deem useful. Please, for respect of the others before the law, don't exagerate or say false. Defamation is a crime for a reason. Be objective, keep proof for yourself, use facts 

The boss thinks, without evidence, that diverse people are underqualified. This is the most outrageous possibility. The boss found, after interviewing plenties of diverse candidates (law of huge numbers), that those people were less qualified on an average. Being more "non-diverse" people than "diverse" in the market of candidates, and maybe also due to geo-societary factors, that could be true. It is a fact, dictated by numbers, that people of "different" race have minor probability of having achieved university or post-university grade. So that means that if you want to hire a hispanic, for example, he/she has more difficulties to compete with a white. It's a matter of numbers. 

The fact that John has some distinct strengths in his skills and chooses to "punch down" on your weaknesses and even use sarcasm against you, points very strongly to two possibilities and maybe a 3rd: 

There really is no "right answer" to behavioral questions. You just have to answer in a way that is authentic and that displays that you're a reasonable person with some level of integrity. Behavioral interviews are intended to gauge whether or not you are tolerable to work with. It is TOTALLY possible to draw a blank when asked a behavioral question like "tell me about a time when X,Y,Z ?" If you can't think of anything, just say "Nothing comes to mind at the moment, let's go on to the next question and I will come back to this if I think of something." You can punt on an answer once or twice on a behavioral interview as there are typically a pool of questions that the interviewer draws from. As others have stated, it is not your specific answers that count as much as how you answer them. If nothing comes to mind, you're better off passing on the question than trying to improvise a forced response on the fly. Many people, myself included, have found behavioral interviews to be excruciatingly difficult. Not everyone frames their work-experience as a series of easily re-callable "short-stories" that illustrate positive traits or themes. YMMV, but I have found that the only effective way to deal with behavioral interviews is to practice. There are not an infinite number of behavioral questions. You CAN prepare for these by googling long lists of behavioral questions and practicing your answers. The best advice is to answer with some kind of easily digestible conclusive narrative. In the literature this is called a "S.T.A.R." response: describe a Situation or Task you were faced with, the Action you took, and the end Result. Good luck. Practice and prepare as much as you can. Don't worry if you choke on a question or two (most people do).