The dialetheist wants A to mean "A is true," and ¬A to mean "A is false." But the dialetheist thinks some statements are both true and false. "This statement is false" is both true and false; the Russell set contains and doesn't contain itself. It's not that the Russell set sort of contains and sort of doesn't contain itself; it completely, 100% contains itself, and completely, 100% doesn't contain itself. Usually the dialetheist doesn't think that this happens in any "ordinary" situations. In particular, if A is provable in classical set theory (ZFC or whatever), the dialetheist usually wants it to be true that their system doesn't prove ¬A. So while we think it's OK if our axiom system proves that the Russell set contains and doesn't contain itself, we don't think it's OK if our axiom system proves that 2+2=3. It's only in self-referential contexts, and other contexts that only arise when you build an inconsistent set theory or a theory with full truth predicates, that we get paradoxes. Ordinary math is business as usual, or at least it's supposed to be. OK, but I still haven't even slightly addressed the central thrust of your question. What does it mean, on an intuitive level, to say that the Russell set contains and doesn't contain itself? Having spent the last year researching inconsistent mathematics, I can say that I still don't have any serious intuition that I can convey in words about that. I am sincerely sorry. I can, however, explain how I (myself, personally) arrived at the intuition that some things are both true and false. In what follows I do not speak for other dialetheists. In reading mystical literature (Hindu literature, the poetry of Aleister Crowley, etc.) I came across the idea of nondualism. Merriam-Webster defines it nicely: "A doctrine of classic Brahmanism holding that the essential unity of all is real whereas duality and plurality are phenomenal illusion and that matter is materialized energy which in turn is the temporal manifestation of an incorporeal spiritual eternal essence constituting the innermost self of all things." Some of my spiritual experiences convinced me that nondualism was true. Nondualism says that all is one --- everything is the same. It follows that a table is a chair, a hat is a handbasket, etc. It follows, in essence, that every statement is true and false. I would be willing to say that nondualism is the assertion that everything is true and false. (I realize this doesn't appear consistent with the Merriam-Webster definition; but that is the sort of difficulty one runs into in studying nondualism. Every definition is inadequate and wrong.) I wanted some math to back up the idea of nondualism. Of course it's easy and perfectly valid to build an axiom system where everything is true and false, but that's not very interesting from a mathematical standpoint, nor is it much of a talking point in arguments. It is somehow much more convincing to build an axiom system that agrees with everything we already believe, but also includes paradoxes. This sort of provides a "way in," where it becomes apparent that the idea of logical contradictions might not be irrational. So that's how I (myself, personally) got to dialetheism. If you are truly to determined to get an intuition about what it might mean for a paradox to be true, I might suggest meditating on it, and having a spiritual experience. Anyway that's what works for me. Best of luck, and thank you for reading! 

I think it was Richard Feynman that said the final arbiter of science is observation - aka, it's nothing magical or mystical. Honestly, I do the same thing when I cook dinner ("Hmmm. This didn't turn out very well - it might have been because I cooked the chicken on too high of a temperature. If that's the case, cooking on Medium-Low would solve the problem. I'll try that next time, and see if it comes out better - if not, the problem must be something else.") And once you think about it that way, that it's simply a methodology for figuring out how the world works, it's pretty clear that Science has nothing to do with Religion. (The idea that it does is relatively modern; like another answer said, many famous scientists of the past viewed their works as a way of examining the beauty of creation.) 

I think part of the problem is: Science doesn't prove anything. Science, at its core, is simply a method of generating testable hypothesis that explain events, which are valued because of their use in predicting future results. Let me give an example. Based on observations, science came up with a theory for an orbital period, correlating orbital speed and distance. But it didn't prove this - it's simply the best mechanism for predicting an orbit that science knew at the time. Science could compile evidence that would lend credence to the theory - the more observations that matched the theory, the more likely the theory was sound. But science could never say, "We know this for a fact." Sure enough, we observed small perturbations in Mercury's orbit around the sun - deviations that the orbital theory couldn't explain. Then we came up with Relativity, which neatly patched those holes. So now we have a predictive theory for an orbit that's better - but we still can't prove that it's absolutely 100% correct. There could by any number of phenomenon that we haven't run into that would tear holes in the theory. Science never proves anything - the best it can do is say, "Well, this theory is our best explanation for prior events and is the best predictor for future events." So, let's say there's a God - and not only that, he's completely 100% interactive. Dude just pops in every saturday at NIST headquarters via shining beam of light - even buys coffee for the front desk clerk each week. Science still can't prove him. Because there could always be some unexplained phenomenon that's contributing or even causing our observations. 

So, I can see why you would think that the scientific analysis is "clearly" superior. However, please take close note to what I will present to you. For example, suppose that you are are in a room with a few other people and are perceiving this: apple $URL$ If you describe the shape/state to many others, they may or may not agree with you. Their decision in accepting what you perceive as real is dependent on many conditions. The circumstances must be examined for example: 

As to answer your question, I would like to first clearly define perception (stated clearly in the SEP) : 

Yes and no. This question yearns for the comparison between two views: Moral Absolutism and Consequentialism. Moral Absolutism: 

Therefore, every single thing in our world, even science is based on common perceptions. For example, in chemistry, the states/properties/smell/etc.. of substances are universally agreed upon based on common perceptions. Examining the Problem of Perception This is how the SEP describes the problem of perception: 

So, it's quite simple, really. In short, Naturalism is a system of thought which holds that everything can be explained by nature, where as Materialism simply believes that everything in existence is material. 

The second choice instantly becomes obsolete; the existence of such a magician must first be proved creating an unreasonable burden of proof. Does the apple possess any properties that defy the laws of logic and physics (known to man so far)? For example, is it floating? If none of the conditions are met, then most likely, everyone will agree with you, because what you perceive is most likely not an error. Therefore, it will be agreed amongst all of you that you are perceiving a bright, red apple. Therefore, the problem of perception can (to some extent) be prevented. Comparing Phenomenology to the Cartesian method The Cartesian method is described by Wikipedia as: 

Is anyone under the influence of anything that may alter one's perceptions allowing for errors? (e.g. drugs) Is a magician affecting anyone's perception of the object? Are the properties of the given item common/normal? Is anyone mentally ill? Is this anything that is out of the ordinary? 

If some random guy on the street sees a person wearing an "I Love Jesus" shirt and mocks them, the person thinks, "Geez, that guy was a jerk." If a biochemist sees someone wearing an "I Love Jesus" shirt and mocks them, the person thinks, "Geez, scientists can be jerks." (semi-related $URL$ So, right off the bat, be careful you don't equate "What Person X Does" with "What People In Group Y That Include Person X Do". Now that that's said, I think half the problem is the large constructs we've put around the concept of science, or of scientists. Science is simply: 

Noticing a facet of reality Coming up with an explanation as to why it occurs Devising a test that could prove the explanation wrong Observing the results of your test. 

EDIT: Okay, since there are apparently a number of vocal people insisting that Science can prove things, I figured I should expand this answer to provide some quotes and citations: "Perhaps most importantly, because new evidence and perspectives can lead us to revise them, scientific ideas can never be absolutely proved." -- $URL$ - talking about the similarities and differences between Math and Science. "Well, let me tell you a secret about science; scientists don’t prove anything. What we do is collect evidence that supports or does not support our predictions. Sometimes we do things over and over again, in meaningfully different ways, and we get the same results, and then we call these findings facts. And, when we have lots and lots of replications and variations that all say the same thing, then we talk about theories or laws. Like evolution. Or gravity. But at no point have we proved anything." -- $URL$ "One of the most common misconceptions concerns the so-called “scientific proofs.” Contrary to popular belief, there is no such thing as a scientific proof. Proofs exist only in mathematics and logic, not in science. Mathematics and logic are both closed, self-contained systems of propositions, whereas science is empirical and deals with nature as it exists." -- $URL$ "While the phrase "scientific proof" is often used in the popular media,[13] many scientists have argued that there is really no such thing." -- $URL$ - which goes on to quote Karl Popper and Albert Einstein on the topic. "However, the concept of proof has no place in science. Many people who do not actively practice science do not understand that science is structured so that scientists can never prove anything." -- $URL$ - talking about why it's impossible to prove that biotech crops are safe: because science can't prove it (they can only disprove it by finding a way it's unsafe.) "Another word that is commonly misused (sadly, sometimes even by scientists, who should know better) is "proof". ... Scientists should be wary of using the term "proof". Science does not "prove" things. Science can and does provide evidence in favor of, or against, a particular idea. In science, proofs are possible only in the highly abstract world of mathematics." -- $URL$ Hopefully this helps get the point across, and I tried to stick to purely scientific sources (plus wikipedia, since it has citations to Popper and Einstein). Science comes up with a guess as to how something works, devises a test to determine whether the guess is correct, and then performs the test. If the test falsifies the guess, then the guess isn't correct and was disproven. If the test comes back and matches what the theory would predict, then the test does not prove the theory - it simply is evidence that it might be true. 

These two contrasting views dictate what you may and may not do. While Moral Absolutism is only with respect to the barebones of one's actions (and cares about nothing else), consequentialism takes into account the final objective/result that one strives to achieve. Let me give you an analogy: Imagine you have committed a crime, and thus, you are now on trial. You are given a drink that forces you to only tell the truth when prompted. Scenario A (Moral Absolutism): The judge asks you whether you committed murder. You respond by saying, "yes". The judge then immediately sentences you to 25 years in prison. The judge does not know (and does not care) that you were abducted, kidnapped, and tortured, and that the only way to escape was to kill your captor while he was distracted, take the keys from his pocket, and unshackle yourself and escape. Scenario B (Consequentialism): The judge asks you whether you committed murder. You respond by saying, "yes". The judge further asks questions to find out why you committed the crime. He finds out what the true reasoning the murder was and thus, merely sends you to a rehabilitation center to prepare you to re-enter society. Hopefully, these analogies gave you an idea of each view. Each view has its pros and cons. Of course, scenario A was fairly unjust (no pun/oxymoron intended) because the basis of the deeds was not taken into account. But on the other hand, consequentialism can also be twisted to reflect Machiavelli's "The ends justify the means" and be taken advantage of. Many questions come on the borderline and are difficult to answer such as killing one innocent person to save a thousand. The ultimate answer to your question lies with your decision of which view you believe to be the most suitable for the situation. 

Your questions is fairly contradictory. If a word is undefinable then why would it even be created as a part of the English language? How can we possibly develop a word of whose definition we are incapable of grasping? If you mean concepts such as love, the infinite, or god which cannot be shown through material means, then that's a different story. Or even if you mean things such as 'the' or 'be/are/is' (bringing forth the argument of "How can we define existence), then you must be out of your mind to think that they are undefinable. We know (more or less) what we try to convey by existence: merely our presence in our physical form. Forgive me for being sidetracked. All I wanted to say is that, no, words cannot be undefinable. Think logically. My source: Type any valid English word on Dictionary.com.