I have an paravirtual EC2 instance running Debian Wheezy. It appears that I have two kernel packages installed: one 2.6 kernel and one 3.2 kernel. The 2.6 kernel is the one that is enabled and running. 

When you do this, MySQL lo longer uses rDNS to resolve -> and, since all my s are for , the user isn't allowed to connect from host . Two solutions exist for this particular problem: 

Definitely get a whiteboard. You can use it to setup to do lists, draw up configurations to visualize the problem, and much more. It's also good for when you have a group discussing solutions to network problems. 

I am working with an Enterprise level Access database. This database contains some basic data entry fields and buttons such as "Find," "Submit," "Clear," etc. We are, at the same time, updating our user's Microsoft Office Suites to the 2007 version. What we are now finding is that these form buttons are disappearing from the Access forms when using Access 2007. The strange this is that the buttons are still there function-wise and will appear after you click them. Has anyone encountered this or have any ideas on how to fix it? Edit The file the user is working on is an .ade. As far as I can tell the original database/forms were created in Access 2003. 

(Note the trailing slash before the close-quote.) That literally fixed everything. I'm happy to delete this question and answer if folks want to close it as "simple typographical error", but I'll leave it for now. If I get some up votes on this answer, I'll remove this note and consider it a public service for anyone who might make the same mistake. 

I'd like to switch to the newer kernel and I'm not sure how to do that. If this were bare hardware, I'd make sure that knew about the new kernel, make it the default, and (if necessary) install the bootloader onto the boot sector of the primary disk. Since this is EC2, I'm not sure what the procedure should be. The file exists, and contains: 

I am running into an issue with a user whose Word document is somehow turning itself into Read-Only. The user is using Word 2003 and is accessing a document that is in a Server 2008 share. The document itself starts out as a normal, editable document (user has Full Control permissions), and the user is able to save and do the 'normal' things you would do to a document. However, after a couple of saves, the document turns to Read-Only (according to the title bar) even though the Read-Only attribute is not checked on the document's properties. Here is some additional information about the situation: *User has approximately 5-8 Word documents open at a time *User saves the document frequently (sometimes at a frequency of once per minute) *Once the document is closed it will open as a normal document if reopened *When the document does turn to Read-Only the user will do a "Save As" on the document and save it as FILENAME # where # is some increment of how many times this has happened (some documents are up to their 30th iteration) I understand that there is probably some room for user education here and that they could just be copying the RO document to a new one, closing and opening the RO doc, then copying all the information back. However, I would like to get to the route cause of the problem and try to stop it from happening in the first place. 

It looks like is trying to verify the certificate against a CA, rather than directly-trusting the certificate that is in my file. Any suggestions? UPDATE If I leave in the configuration file but place the client certificate's parent certificate (the one from StartCom) into the file, I can connect using my test certificate. If I change to using with both the test cert and its signer in the file, I again cannot connect. Is there a way to give the exact certificate(s) I am willing to accept from clients? The documentation suggests that using or is the way to do that, but I can't seem to make it work in the way I think I should be able to. 

It all basically comes down to personal preference. Linux distributions are sort of like cars. All of them will get you to where you want to go, it's just that individually they look different, have different feels to them, and that some may require more maintenance than others. If it is your first go around, I would use Ubuntu. That being said, don't hesitate to check other distributions out. 

I have an Apache httpd server running (and ) and I have what appear to be stale locks on files that I'd like to manually expire. I can see the file on the disk, and the documentation says that the file is an SDBM file, but I haven't managed to find any tools that can read the file. I'm running on Debian Linux. The utility tells me that this file is a file. I don't mind writing my own utility as long as I get some pointers as to how to read/write these files. Any ideas? 

From what I understand, it also depends on the file system on the drive. Some file systems are more resilient to things like disk fragmentation. 

It may not have to do with the SSIDs at all. You may want to take a look at the wireless controller itself. At one place I worked we ran two wireless networks from the same controller, one for guests and a secured one for users. What we found was that there would be random losses of connections or, at times, one of the networks would disappear. Eventually, we gave each network its own dedicated controller and the issues were resolved. Granted, this may not be the optimal solution, but it may be something you would want to look into. 

I recently broke a working installation where most clients are Java-based. The CLI tools would work, but the Java clients all stopped dead in their tracks. In my case, the culprit was a new setting that I had enabled "to improve performance": 

We have 3 AWS-hosted web servers all configured (as far as I can tell) identically. Each server has a copy of a web feedback form that submits to a PHP script that ultimately calls the php function to send an email to us. This works fine on 2 of the 3 web servers. On the third, the php function returns (indicating that the mail was sent), on the web server shows the message as accepted for delivery, and then transferred-on to Google's MX which also accepts the message. Example mail log for delivery to gmail: 

We are in the planning stages of deploying a SharePoint server that will be used for our organization's intranet. As part of the deployment, we are going to be centralizing all of the internal documents. As you can imagine, there is no standardization of the filenames for the internal documents that have already been created. What I would like to do is setup some form of standardization between the filenames now and those going forward to keep the intranet organized and uniform. What I am looking for is any resources or wisdom on how others have organized documents for their networks and on any best practices on general naming conventions that are/have been used. I realize that every deployment will be different, but I'm just looking for a general direction to be pointed in to get started. 

That on-disk kernel does exist, but isn't the currently-running one. Also, the package isn't installed and hasn't been updated since 2011. So, I expect it's not relevant, here. What's the process for enabling a new kernel on Debian/EC2? What about being able to fall-back to a known-working kernel if the new one doesn't work? 

I wrote custom file-counting program for this StackOverflow question: $URL$ You can find the GitHub repo here if you'd like to browse, download, or contribute: $URL$