To be explicit: this is my problem. I'm not "blaming" the new guy (actually he's rather nice). That said ... I'm allergic to smoke. When I was younger, I went "out on the town" only once or twice a year, because I would "pay for it" for a few days afterward. I also avoided friends' parties (which sucked) or just came by for a short while to at least "make an appearance". At the office, we have one big room with "clusters" of 4 desks. A new guy started quite recently, and he's sitting diagonally across from me in one of these clusters. A few of my colleagues smoke. They (by law have to) go outside to do their business, and then come back in. Most of 'em, you can smell that they're smokers; a few of them you actually can't; and then there's, um, Joe. I don't know what he smokes, but he reeks fiercely. When Joe is closer to me than 2 metres, I have reactions -- find it difficult to breathe, it stings in my eyes. We've already had a project together, and he helpfully came around to my desk to discuss some code on my screen, and I literally could hardly breathe. How can I ask my manager to relocate him, without me looking coming across as a jerk in the process? I'm always at a loss for how to say something about this -- without coming across as unintentionally hostile. As I said, he's a nice guy, I just can't tolerate his stench. Update: Wow, this really woke people up. I would like to make two points: (a) I do not know for a fact whether I am "allergic", suffer from "asthma" or "vasomotor rhinitis induced by chemical irritation" (thank you so much for the knowledge you've shared), I only know that it's hella uncomfortable, and has been for my entire life; and (b) I will not try to resolve this by adding more chemicals (in the form of chewing gum or air freshener), because it doesn't work that way. I need to have the "offending chemicals" removed, not masked. Update 2: What I believe sets this apart from the "possible duplicate" Smoking with the front door open is that this is not about (a) "breaking a rule", (b) "snitching", or (c) being in any way secretive. The reason I haven't already resolved this on my own is purely due to the risk of social fall-out from me being Bad With Words. Final(?) update: I ended up writing a friendly, open and honest email to my manager, and waited for her to consider it. We then had a private face-to-face meeting. The outcome is that maybe I'll move to the next "island", but for now we'll both stay where we are -- he's got a whole bunch of assignments coming up that would have him be located at clients for long stretches at a time (I did not know of this until today). I might have a talk with him directly at some point in the future, if it proves necessary. As a closing note, I wish to give all of you a big heart-felt thank you for your consideration and inputs. 

You can't change his mind, nor should you. You don't represent all immigrants, you don't speak for any portion of them but yourself, and you have no way of conclusively disproving his point... as he has no way of proving his. In other words you're both pushing a conjecture. Drop it, befriend the guy if you so wish, and if he brings up politics again just stay out of it. 

Your boss may or may not notice your performance decline. He might guess there's a personal issue you might be facing, and choose to ask you if everything's OK himself. If the performance drop is noticeable, it's best to preempt his checking in with you and go with option two: 

Are you noticing a pattern here? I am. You haven't given a timeframe of your actions so we don't know how long you spend at each job. Be aware that by changing jobs often, you come dangerously close to being perceived as a job hopper. You can find plenty of articles online with the pros and cons of that practice. Anyway, the pattern is that when your job becomes difficult, you quit. To answer the title question, no, you shouldn't tell your manager that you hate your job. You are infuriated by working with sub-literate fresh-out-of-college devs, imagine your manager having to manage someone who actively hates their job. What you should do is have a chat with your manager. It's part of their job to make yours easier but they can't do that if they don't know there's a problem. Let them know of the issues you face, and if that doesn't go well, then you should start thinking about looking for greener pastures. 

I didn't assume you were job-hopping, only that you were close to being perceived as doing so. Indeed three make a pattern and I only had two samples to go by. Arguably I could've made the first paragraph less ambiguous. But that was an aside anyway. The pattern I refer to (par. 2) is deduced by info you omitted: By not disclosing any conversation(s) with your manager at either job, I assumed none had occurred. The spirit of my answer was that you should talk to your manager before taking permanent measures, preferably without using terms like "I hate my job" 

Excellent idea. BTW, if working in the software business, contributing to some free software project (e.g. on github) on your spare time is an excellent thing to do (that you can show on your CV) and will improve your developer skills. What would happen afterwards: you'll start searching for new jobs in a few months. You'll find one say in September 2018 (five months from now). Your official resigning period could be of two or 3 or 4 months (I don't really know, details could be specific to your job or country). During that period, you'll work for your current employer and use your newly acquired skills. So for your company's perspective, they paid you a training, and it was useful to them for several months. That is enough. Notice that in most European countries, companies are required to spend a few percent of their work costs in training. Details vary from country to country, from one industrial branch to another, from company to company. So the company might not make you a special favor to follow that training. alternative situations Your situation might be completely different. Some rare jobs require very specific and quite long training (e.g. driving helicopters for someone who have no pilot license at all; or soldering nuclear reactors) and certification. In those rare cases you could have to sign some specific contract (defining how long you'll work at your company, or what part of the training would you have to pay back when leaving). But you did not mention that! 

Since it is a software development job, I would recommend to actively participate to some existing free software project (perhaps on your spare time). If you actively contribute to some quite large open source project (think of something with a million lines of source code), it has a large team of contributors and you'll learn a lot by working on that project. But it is really difficult. You could use some Linux distribution and choose some large software there (e.g. Libreoffice, Qt, GTK, GCC, ...). You may need several months of work before having your first (small) patch accepted! If you are unfamiliar with free software development, I would recommend to start first to contribute to some smaller open source project (e.g. a few hundred thousand lines, just a dozen of active developers). You'll find many of them (e.g. on github). Choose the one you are interested in. You'll learn a lot of things (both technically and socially) by actively contributing to some free software project. And prospective employers would notice you. 

The tool I use is time.is, particularly the compare function. For example, to set a meeting with London and New York for later today: 

Not too long ago I was talking with a friend about the viability of joining software development as a woman, because women in tech these days have an easier 'in' due to gender quotas. I argued that if you rely on affirmative action to get hired, you should probably consider other options. I say the same to you. Those minutes you spend worrying about gaming the system would be better spent reading a tech blog or honing your skills somehow. If someone requires affirmative action to be considered for a position, they're already on the left side of the skill curve a fair way. By competing with them you effectively place yourself at the same level, so you've already lost the job to everyone on your right side. Lastly, it's much more likely for a quota policy to inform the hiring phase rather than the initial interview. 

You are in control of the amount of information you disclose. You can say oh nothing, watched some GoT and sat in my pajamas covered in pizza crumbs all day and be done with it. Manners require you return the question but even if you don't some will let you know of their day regardless. Whichever way you cut it, there's an amount of interaction you will have to face every day. Therefore my advice would be: 

Then technically (and actually) you are not in breach of your contract. Let's imagine having a software contractor friend. Would you feel guilty asking them to explain a programming concept to you? If your answer is no, then you shouldn't feel guilty about joining the course, because the way you've written this seems to make my example equivalent. An educational institution benefits from your time by providing you education in exchange for money. Your employer benefits from your time by your UX work. The non-competing entity only benefits by looking good in the tech community, because any work you do in their tutorials won't be sold for money. They're advertising themselves to you and others. I don't see how joining their sessions would be immoral. If still in doubt you can always bring this up with your manager, and I'd be very surprised if the answer is anything other than sure, no problem.