maybe you dont eat meat based on other Bodhisattvas you have or other holy perosns views which are not the historical buddha ?? About theravada which i follow : the buddha we are talking about at least didnt ban eating meat i think in theravada its all about kusala and akusala and i can think at the moment on benefits from being Vegan : Restraint which helps in many ways - and it might even help in metta probably more benefits also - and like all things you can have bad sides like if you give money and you get to proud of the fact you give money and think your better than others same with not eating meat ect the problem with this issue is that meat tastes good - so people will look for ways to justify eating it but not so much why not to 

When you dont do akusla actions you do kusala actions ? and im aware of the middle way - harming yourself is not and another question (you can answer whatever you like or both) when you dont do stuff for fun do you do good things ? .... of course with 2 imortant exceptions : you have right view and you dont avoid fun stuff (meaning not to do on purpose stuff cause they are fun but you can do stuff that are fun if it serves you) and my main question is : if i avoid doing bad stuff (akusala) will i do only good stuff (kusala) or neutral ones ? cause im pondering a way to advance in the path after trying many many ways as to just focus on avoiding doing bad and cause i have right view more or less i will be pushed to do good also many stuff for fun are akusala (bad) so it seems avoiding them i am pushed to do good (and yes i know there are "levels" and you can look at actions in general or moment by moment - and i ask this on each level - also in the big picture of actions and also moment by moment) sorry if its a mess of a question - but i hope the smart people here can give their opinion on this line of thought non the less - you dont have to answer the question directly 

is it possible to send merit for a future action ? may the merit i do donating the 100$ - help this old lady cross the street etc go to X person ? what about may the merit i do today go to X what about the merit i do tomorrow go to X 

If you hear noises "hearing hearing hearing" -- thinking it might be a bug crawling to the fire "worry worry worry" or thinking*3 but if you see a bug crawling to the fire and know that its hapening for sure - than practice karuṇā and metta and save him - stop the formal meditation mindfully get up mindfully labeling all your actions and pick up the bug and put it far away - i wouldnt think it needs feeding but if you do than yes put him some water and food why not thats extra - no dont go to china - you help him enough with common sense than you get back to the formal practice .... but helping the bug is also part of the practice and not helping the bug can come from aversion and greed and ignorance quite as easliy even if you are not aware of it 

How are habits seen in buddhism - how are they explained ? read now about habit making - and would love to hear users views on habits - and what they see habits as And what people think about habit making and its effectiveness and why 

can a pesron decide to do X action and be able to do it forever ... from a mental point of view - if physically he can do that action what im trying to say is many times i decided to not do anything for fun or to meditate Y time every day but even when it was 5 minutes every day i didnt do it every time either i didnt want to sit to meditate or even be mindufl of actions - or i wanted to watch a youtube video and pass the time with youtube videos etc is it possible to decided to do something and not break it at all ? I mean for example i keep the 5 precepts by default and will probably keep them at the future hard for me to see a situation i wont - but for example if i decide to keep the 8 precepts and never break them (again mentally) even if i never have to face something like a physical injury or even friend begging me to go to a movie etc but just in dealing with my own defilement - can i decid not do break it in advance and guarantee myself i wont break it in the future (again if physically its possible to avoid it) 

As far as i understand the having opposing views about what happens between after you die until you are reborn again right ? or do they "sit together" some how ? 

Maybe i misread this but i read again now that in buddhist view life span will become shorter and shorter until 10 year life span did i misunderstand somehthing ? it seems that the lifespan is getting bigger and not shorter 

If i understand correct (would like a confirmation or saying its wrong by someone who knows) when you dont have a hindrance you have the opposite of it - so when you dont have ill will - so its not something you need to try to do cause you have it so an arhant automatically would like to do generous deeds it would be his natural state so the opposite of ill will i believe be empathy - the 5 hindrances which arhants dont have : Sensory desire (kāmacchanda): the particular type of wanting that seeks for happiness through the five senses of sight, sound, smell, taste and physical feeling. .... opposite will be to be content with what is Ill-will (vyāpāda; also spelled byāpāda): all kinds of thought related to wanting to reject; feelings of hostility, resentment, hatred and bitterness. .... opposite will be metta to all Sloth-and-torpor (thīna-middha): heaviness of body and dullness of mind which drag one down into disabling inertia and thick depression. ... opposite will be enregetic Restlessness-and-worry (uddhacca-kukkucca): the inability to calm the mind. .... opposite will be calm Doubt ... opposite will be to have faith in the dhamma 

a non-buddhist reply : it depends - people who feed their dogs not bought store food should really be experts on the subject of what dogs eat -- and if you feed the a vegeterian diet i belive its much harder to mess up There are some good quality balanced vegan dog food actually of some known producers like natural balance which have their experts advising them on the food .... but im not sure that you have that in india (your indian right?) It might be more compassionate to feed your dog a good diet with meat than to give him a home made diet without meat but also if you give your dog home made with meat you still need to become an expert on the subject so you wont mess up on it ............ that being said - the longest living dog ever in the world which lived to 27 years ate a vegan diet of "rice, lentils and organic vegetables" ..... but im sure her owners knew what vegetables to give her - they might have been organic - i dont know where the dog got b12 from - maybe his own body can make it....this are issues you need to check first - and understand them very well anyway i dont think feeding a dog meat is the same as eating it yourself which is much more important : not in an atheistic way and in my personal understanding of Theravada it has benefits to you personally cause it reduces attachment and even might help develop metta So keep with the meat until your sure ...... !!! You can try to get free leftover meat from butchers - my grandpas brother used to do that - he got leftover meat from butchers to feed his dog and they were quality parts also - this seems like a good solution - making good kamma for you and the butcher !!! 

I would say that usually meat involves a bigger desire = less wholesome than eating non-meat food i will not even adress the moral aspect of killing as being much worse than other stuff cause i dont want to say something im not sure of its more clear this day and age that consuming meat involves killing - that you dont need to eat it for health - that it causes bad effects to the environment now in a decision to eat something you have a lot of elements into it wholesome and un-wholsome ... like maybe not to offend the host etc - in the past people might have thought they need it for their health which we know is not the case today etc but really if you are in the supermarket and you can buy a chocolate to snack on - its pretty clear its not wholesome and its out of greed instead of choosing something to eat purely for nutrition ... if you buy an expensive chocalte that harms your health a litte and your money which you could have used for better purposes to buy a more expensive food is less wholesome cause it will involve usually more greed - unless for example its a healthier food To give up on tastier foods for other more wholesome purposes (saving money- being healthier - prevent the death of animals - not harm the environment etc) .... is good kamma How bad kamma wise it is to fund the killing of animals (and more accurately making someone get the bad kamma of killing animals) in comparison to buying something overly expensive for taste is im not sure - but i do think you can say this day and age most people buying meat will be something with a good percentage of akosala intentions 

It is true that its not a good bad thing ..... BUT it actually almost sits on definitions of good and bad one on one What you said is said in almost all places that talk about karma in buddhism and its always in this funny way they start very bold in stating on how karma is not about good and bad but just the law of karma the way things are .... but than if you continue to read you see that good is almost one by one the same as wholesome and same with bad and unwholesome *** no one is punishing you (also said almost everywhere that they talk on karma) but you will be "punished" not on purpose when you will receive the effects of your action it has differences like for instance meditation is considered wholesome karma - and can be considered even better karma than donating money for example giving money for example is good cause its letting go of attachment - also it developes metta --- which are things which will benefit you edit : but karma can be unfair (like real life police actually) some stuff you do can be very little and have great effect and huge stuff you do have a tiny effect what is said for sure is that an unwholesome (akosala) action has bad results and good action good results .... when the time is right (i belive you heard about comparing karma to seeds the unfair part of karama can be different than good and bad which is if you give 40 you might get 20 or get 4000000 its not tit for tat 

Would love to get a word by word trnslation to this verse dhammpada 183 Verse 183: Not to do evil, to cultivate merit, to purify one's mind - this is the Teaching of the Buddhas. i mean what every word means - and yes im a bit lazy to do it not that important but i guess some people here know pali and it will be easy for them to do - if it takes more than a few minutes than leave it ... its still beneficial people see this verse which i think is great i just seen that sabba in the first word Sabbapapassa means "all" and "ku salassa" is kusala meaning good ? is it made of two words ? Sabbapapassa akaranam ku salassa upasampada sacittapariyodapanam etam buddhana sasanam. taken from this link : $URL$