I believe that Rishis hadn't said a clear-cut answer to this question. So I think it is very difficult to say an answer to this question very easily. As I said above we should use our power of discrimination properly. 

This is because you are not quite sure whether that is a good thing and also that (good thing) would happen smoothly. Something that works against your ego would also make you sad. But this depends on your character. Otherwise the outcome would be in the form of rage. 

Your observation is right. But not in all cases. My humble opinion is that you needn't bother about that. You can take good ideas from the down voted ones also and create an answer for your needs. It will take time; sometimes years to happen any changes in down votes. At present there is no solution to this problem. Stopping down voting might be a slightly hopeful solution. If one is brilliant he will certainly identify the brilliant one. Often brilliant and wise persons don't care about votes...they just share their ideas... and take only what is needed. 

Anything which is 'physical' it will exist for a certain period and perish eventually. So there is nothing physical which is not impermanent...(means permanent). But you can find a permanent thing that helps you to know even about physical things. It is the Chaitanya (consciousness). See this: $URL$ 

Yes, you can make an ethical argument for saving one at the expense of many. In fact, you can probably make several. The most obvious one is actually cheating - if you postulate that saving the one saves many more in the future (say, a medical doctor on the verge of a breakthrough discovery that will eliminate a deadly disease). Excluding the cheating (because in the end, you don't save just one), to make an ethical argument you have to step away from the "all humans are equal" assumption, which aside from practicality and an unsubstantiated emotional feeling of justice (aka fear that we ourselves might end up on the losing side) has no functional basis. If your core assumptions allow for attributing value to human life, then it becomes a simple matter of math. Such reasoning might seem intolerable to us, but is in fact used quite regularily. For example, any universal healthcare system must decide how to distribute its limited resources. It might well decide that saving one person but giving him a full, lengthy life, is superior to prolonging the suffering of a few people for a short period of time. This measurement is called "quality years of life" and was used by the british NHS (maybe still, I don't have recent insight). It is also using in relation to VIPs, where heads-of-state and such are assigned multiple bodyguards with the understanding that these people would lay down their life to save the VIP. 

Most people don't interfere in the quarrel among drunkards. When a person has a great aim to accomplish in his life (e.g. to save the lives of so many people), sometimes he will ignore some issues. Sometimes the harassment may be the reaction of an action. The person may not be willing to react due to his bad condition (e.g.: very weak due to some illness). Sometimes, if the person responsible to solve the problem is there we usually do not react quickly. 

Since we can see love and hatred in this world, when you think that love exists, you should think that hatred also exists. (Not only love) Actually this world itself is an illusion (Maya). In some Indian traditions love is not given with great importance. You may have noticed, when love disappears hatred comes up in its place. So they give importance to 'shanti' (peace) (that transcends both love and hatred). In Buddhist and Hindu traditions they chant 'shanti' three times. The reason for chanting ‘peace’ three times is because all obstacles, problems and sorrows originate from three sources: Aadhidaivika : The unseen divine forces over which we have little or no control like earthquakes, floods, volcanic eruptions etc. Aadhibhautika: The known factors around us like accidents, human contacts, pollution, crime etc. Aadhyaatmika : We sincerely pray to the Lord that at least while we undertake special tasks or even in our daily lives. Please note: Eventually Peace transcends Love. Then only the word 'liberation' gets the real meaning in all its aspects. 

If you apply Aristotelian logic, then an argument containing an invalid premis cannot be valid. It cannot be invalid, either. It is meaningless. 

No. I disagree with the majority of answers given, which all fall into the same logical trap. They all follow the form: 

Obviously, a dress cannot be a sky (category error), so its blueness cannot depend on this non-fact. The fact that it is actually blue fits to the argument by coincident (or because it was crafted this way), but it does not actually follow from the argument. So this is a fallacy. In fact, this one: $URL$ 

The ethical problem is that you pretend to avoid making a decision - but you actually already made a decision, namely that both of these outcomes are equal enough to justify a 50/50 choice. 

There is a great confusion here stemming from language. You use the words "past" and "already happened". But as soon as you invent time travel, those words don't mean the same thing anymore. If you can change it, then how did it already happen? If you change it and it does not happen, did it happen because it happened before you changed it, or did it never happen? Our ethics likewise assume a linear, single-strand chain of events. One thing or another thing could happen, which one is better? This follows our understanding of time as being linear and single-stranded, i.e. there is one timeline. Does this still hold true with time travel? Paradoxes are a main topic of SciFi literature, because you cannot have time travel and not create paradoxes. Any theory of how time reacts to time travellers needs to resolve paradoxes, such as postulating that minor events are smoothed out (e.g. the air molecules that time traveller displaces return to their "ordinary" position instead of causing a chain reaction). This creates a ton of physics problems (e.g. which force returns them to their position?) and is generally ignored in SciFi. The best treatment of time I've seen so far is the Doctor Who approach - time is wobbly wibbly and unpredictable, and stop worrying so much about it because you can't predict the long run anyway, but you can do the right thing in the time and place you find yourself in. From this flows a clear answer to the ethical question: Assuming time travel is possible, you have to abandon your linear, single-causal thinking. Your ethical system just broke down completely, because you can no longer think like that. Between "Bob killed 10 people" and "I go into the past to kill Bob" and "I killed Bob, so Bob cannot kill someone in the future" there is no longer a simple chain of causes. Whatever paradox-resolution is found to be true, it will by necessity negate your logic. For example, if the above causal chain were true, the first statement becomes false at the conclusion of the third one, invalidating the whole chain. You cannot ask the ethical question without resolving the physical first, namely how this all works. Time travel is not a small thing to add to the equation, it's an entirely new equation and will require an entirely new ethics. 

The first clause of your question is misleading and unwanted. Why? We are living in a world created by our senses. And for normal perception mind must function properly. We are able to prove something only when we are in waking state. And in no time the mind begins to do its function without any break. This means mind interferes while proving anything. But some people realize existence in the 'fourth state' of consciousness called 'Thuriya'...without any disturbance of mind. See this also: $URL$ Only such people know what the only reality/existence is. But others can argue against it more vigorously, since they are very great in number. If elected they will certainly win. See the 2 possibilities: Either... (Category 1) Those who knew existence...are in delusion. [So we can't believe their words.] or... (Category 2) Those who didn't yet know existence...are in delusion. [So we can't believe their words.] You may argue for a third possibility also: "Both are wrong." Certainly one of these two categories must be in delusion. But how can we know whose way is real? (or way of Category 1 is real? or Category 2 is in delusion?) We (others) know that the words of Category 1 is true, not at the time they realize existence...but after realization...sometimes after their death...sometimes when we realize ourselves...sometimes when science reaches closer and closer to that findings. [Read the Hyperlink given above.] 

In addition to the wonderful answers already given, I'd like to add a very practical view: "God" as a term is so ill defined that it can mean virtually anything, and it is in fact constantly re-defined by believers to evade any falsification that science offers. For example, "heaven" and "hell" were understood as actual places for millenia. Hell being the more obvious one as being derived pretty much verbatim from Greek mythology, were several heroes actually visit it by entering underground caves. But as soon as science advanced enough to actually visit or check thoroughly both space and underground, both of them became more abstract concepts. The same is happening to "god". Whenever science progresses into an area where "god" was said to reside, and inevitable finds nothing, the concept "god" is redefined to be more abstract, less touchable. Eventually, "god" will retreat entirely into the virtual, where a proof or disproof is fundamentally impossible. But we should not close our eyes to the fact that this has nothing to do with whether or not "god" is fundamentally unfalsifiable, but rather with the fact that the term "god" actually does not possess any definition at all, and evades the grasp of science purely out of ontological reasons. 

If we say "yes" to this question, its implications will confuse most people and they may say that it is nonsense. But we cannot blame them. Those who follow logical thought cannot admit that idea...there would be a break in the continuity of logical line of thought. Also, there is a chance of misinterpretation of the words of great men who transcended the dual-state. You might have known that Advaita Vedanta gives very very great importance to logic/reasoning. If you say that we are living in a simulation, it implies that the original/real 'we' are living/existing somewhere else. Also, (if the answer is "yes"), since 'we' are living in a simulation each 'I' would also be living in a simulation. [Each 'I' must be a part of 'we'.] This means, since all 'I's are always living in a simulation, nobody can come out of it (simulation) and realize the Truth or speak it out. Then Truth realization/liberation would always be a mirage in all aspects. This is a folly. If duality is not ended completely one can say to his followers, "'we' are not awaken". But when duality is ended completely he would say to himself, "Actually not we, I didn't know that I was 'sleeping' (means, what I believed as I was in ignorance)". Or some great men may keep mum about it. This is because he is in a higher level. A person who is not awaken can wake up. He has another state. But a person who is living in a simulation has no other option--just live in a simulation and die there. If all of us are living in a simulation we won't have another option. So, instead of confusing by 'splitting' the term jagat into 'we', 'living' etc they (those who could transcend duality ... when they speak about the Absolute Truth) denied all the plurality and said, "Brahma satyam jagan-mithya". [Brahman is real, the universe is mithya (it cannot be categorized as either real or unreal)]. Since everybody's abilities are not alike, their (those great men's) advice is for self-realization, for serving fellow beings etc. They didn't say that we are living in a simulation. By such statements (approval) people may become inactive/disappointed/gloomy because if it is true there would be no scope for realizing the Truth). If such a society is created by this confusing statement, I would say that this is the ugly face of philosophy. But we can say, we (those who didn't realize the Truth) are not awaken in the true sense. Since there is a higher level of awaken state, there is no mistake in it. You should compare the meanings of mithya and simulation. You can see the variance if you replace the phrase--'in a simulation' by 'mithya'. Please google for explanations of jagan-mithya: $URL$ 

In addition to the excellent answers given so far, you view this question in the light of something you call a "plan" or "laws", which you just pulled out of thin air. Question your presupposition. The butterfly effect is also an excellent philosophical tool to illustrate that there is no plan and cannot be. (the exact proof here is lengthy, but trivial) Now what you might mean by these words is determinism, but if we have learnt anything in the past century, it is that determinism only exists as a law of averages on the macro scale. The main philosophical effect of the butterfly effect is to remind us of this, and of the fact that under certain circumstances, a tiny change in the underlying causes can cause a ripple effect that causes dramatic changes in the result. The butterfly effect is only the most extreme example of that. Another great example from everyday life is what Gottmann calls "sliding doors". Imagine catching the train, and you are almost late. The fraction of a second that decides if you just make it or the doors close just in front of you can make you late for one hour (or more, depending on how often the train goes). That's a factor of 10,000 or so between cause and effect. Maybe that more down-to-earth example helps to understand the butterfly effect also in a less abstract way. 

In this question you have presented men as helpers or saviors. Here I am not trying to answer this question directly; but some clues for thought. Who have more right to kill a cow, to men or to carnivorous animals? 

If so, in my opinion 'jealousy' seems worse than 'envy' because the person can't relinquish the thing once he had possessed/tasted. In the case of 'envy', the person hasn't tasted it yet. It is certainly a bad habit to possess something when another person has more rights on it. The following statements show that 'envy' can only be a 'subset' of 'jealousy'. 

Try to know more about the 5 sheaths from different websites. Just for an example: $URL$ You will understand that mind is not necessary for realizing (not for proving) that existence. Try to understand why the author in the link call 'it' existence and consciousness for salutation/praying as a specially selected word. 

We see so many colors in this world. But we have opposites only for 'black' and 'white'. For our daily activities this is often helpful. One word represents presence of light (the totality of the whole spectrum of sunlight) and the other, absence of light. For adding darkness or giving lightness we use black or white. Since these two colors have a relation to our usual experience also there is no error in saying "'black' and 'white' are opposites to each other". But if we try to say the opposite of any other color we won't get such relation. So they have no opposite. To say the opposite of X, we should be able to 'stop' at a point on the line of thought for imagination. If you say only X, we can't 'stop' at any point to imagine. [i.e., when you say only 'color', we can create only a line of thought. But, if you say 'black', we stop there and fix that word.] You may verify what happens if you say like this in the situation mentioned above: 'X is a color'. The answer will be long sentences. So we can't say the opposite of X as a one-word answer. 

However, a can be true for all Y for other reasons. The conclusion might be valid, but the argument is not. This becomes more obvious with a nonsensical statement: 

The map is not the territory. A dictionary is a map of a language (actually just a partial map, as grammar, metaphors and many other details are missing). The fact that it is its own legend does not change the fact that the dictionary describes a language, but the language is not what is contained within the dictionary. The meaning of words is a question of semantics. A dictionary is using the tool of words to convey this meaning in the same way that a factory of the right kind can produce another factory. But as you noticed, if you look for the meaning of the factory, you need to look outside of it. But you won't be able to express it with the machines and materials of the factory itself. Words can be understood without a dictionary, and are in fact acquired by native speakers (i.e. as children) through use and observation rather than through rote learning of dictionary definitions. The dictionary comes second, not first. Arguing about a property of language through a property of a dictionary is rather backwards. 

So one who realizes it knows that it is the end of knowledge. Otherwise some great philosophers in that category would have changed that term. 

Prayer should be for uplifting (the person, persons, society, .... the whole world etc.) from a 'lower level' to a 'higher'. If one can do this without praying, that is enough. But that person must be a 'real seeker' in all its aspects. Many men who realized the Ultimate truth were not 'believers in God' at their younger days. 

Both will help you to find the truth. Science will help you to find conventional truths. Philosophy will guide you to find the Ultimate Truth. But the path must be right. Philosophy can show you the path only. For the Ultimate Truth you should help yourself. See the Bhagavad Gita 6.5 Though the verses in this link is science as per the Gita (I also like to treat so), for the main question, it is better to treat them as a part of philosophy. The implication of the main question compels me to treat so. I don't know, but believe that the words of Jesus Christ -- “Knock and the door will be opened to you” convey the same meaning.