The simplistic answer would be, and this is the type of answer that easily falls over in contact with any real depth of knowledge, that was no Big Bang, and therefore, no cosmic microwave background (CMB) radiation produced as a relic. if we were living in a Big Bang free universe this could extend infinitely in all directions of space and time. Electromagnetic radiation from all sources, not just alien civilizations, but stars, galaxies and astrophysical whatever, could have eventually mushed together into what resembles the CMB. For good measure, the old hypothesis of "tired photons" could be tossed into the mix. In this case, assume the photons wind over time as they travel cosmological distances to a base energy level of microwave radiation photons. An answer of this sort could pass the this is plausible enough for a certain type of science fiction story. It's doubtful if it could pass the reality test of science as she is practised in the real world. 

Of course, now you have to delve into symbolism and patterns embodied in Tarot. Let's start with spells concerning matters of the heart. 

It is feasible that a geothermal power plant could be built that ran and lasted for ten millennia. On the engineering side it would have to be an extremely robust and readily repairable piece of technology. The subterranean parts of the plant would need to be accessible to robotic repair and maintenance systems. Currently we don't have exactly that level of robotics, but that is not inconceivable that it could be developed in future. Of course, anyone, nation or power company, wanting to build a ten millennia lifespan geothermal power plant would invest in the necessary technology to keep it working for that duration. This will be extremely difficult to achieve, but it's not impossible. Also, the repair and maintenance robotic technology can be expected to improve during its operating life. Are there any problems with maintaining a source of geothermal energy? The answer to that is simply no. 

Is this a plausible punishment? Absolutely, not! Simply look at the types of punishment practised in the 1700s and it will be entirely obvious that such a surgically precise form of punishment is conceptually untenable. People at that time didn't think in these terms. They believed and practised much more robust and brutal forms of punishment. This is punishment by and for wimps. This doesn't make sense when the alternatives are hanging or flogging or even torturing someone to death. The guillotine comes later in the 18th century and that was regarded as a humane form of execution. There wasn't the understanding of human anatomy that would generally make this form of punishment even remotely credible. The only way such an esoteric, arcane and generally bizarre form of punishment might be vaguely plausible was if it was applied specifically and exclusively to members of the aristocracy for any crimes of violence they committed or for which they were found guilty. For peasants and members of the other lower orders (people like us) there would remain the whip and the noose. To be credible, it needs special social and political conditions to make it even remotely feasible. 

Hopefully whoever installed the couple on the spaceship had them matched for long-term psychological, intellectual and emotional compatibility. Otherwise if they have nothing to do except copulate or do maintenance of the spaceship's systems, they are going to get on each other's nerves big time. This might not end well. Any rational agent setting up a Genesis restart mission would populate the spaceship with many more potential couples. This makes the genetic diversity problem a lot easier to manage. It also means that there are more people to settle New Earth and reduces the risks. With one man and one woman, it only takes one death or one serious accident to ruin the entire plan. If the spaceship is effectively a large mansion, then there should be enough for several hundred persons to restart life in the new universe. You need a wide range of skills and cultural diversity to populate a planet. Actually you wouldn't choose young adults from a Western society, you would choose persons from societies where survival skills are a priority. For example, Inuit or Papua New Guinean cultures would have much better survival skills than almost any Eurocentric society. This scenario plays out beautifully as a romantic schmaltzy comedy. Two mismatched people of the opposite sex together working everything out, then they have to make the spaceship swerve to miss that black hole, and it's all hearts and flowers in the end. In the real world, the grim realities of psychology and human nature play out so things may not be so sweet. However, people have a bad habit of just making things work without too much drama. Sometimes people just get on with it. End of story. Look at societies where arranged marriages are the norm. Many of them work surprisingly well. 

Source: Blast, heat and radiation The wizard is 30 miles (48 kilometres) from ground zero or the targeted city. A quick guesstimate from the above effects suggests the wizard will be safe from the blast effects. So he doesn't need a kinetic energy absorbing force-field from protection. He might need a force-field to absorb radiant energy, act as a fire shield, and keep out radioactive fallout. Assuming the nuclear weapon is a typical missile warhead, then the wizard should be reasonably safe from the immediate effects of its detonation. However, a kinetic absorbing force-field won't be of much protection. 

Chemically propelled space whale might start off with the mass of a blue whale but it would be reduced to the size of a sardine after boosting to its cruise velocity for modest interstellar trip. Many interplanetary excursions wouldn't be much better. Fusion propulsion means space whales would need to incorporate fusion reactor technology into their bodies. A space whale now resembles what it will need to be, namely, a cyborg spacecraft. Fusion propulsion will involve low rates of acceleration. Roughly one centimetre per second squared. Interplanetary travel is feasible, while interstellar travel will be at its limits and probably infeasible. Photonic propulsion requires incorporating serious technology into a cyborg space whale (it is unlikely there will be any other kind) and extremely dangerous too. They effectively need antimatter power systems to make them work well enough to be useful. So unless someone is prepared to feed space whales antimatter this is improbable. Space whales are part of a highly advanced galactic civilization. Undoubtedly they would to be created from a combination of synthetic biology and cyborgization. This civilization has fast FTL travel technology. Possibly, the creators of the space whales will have equipped their space whales with FTL drive-systems. Once again whatever power systems are required will have to be part of their bodies. This will enable the space whales to travel rapidly from one location hospitable to their survival to another. Otherwise their travel times will too long for their survival. Although space whales may need to go into a state of cryptobiosis while in transit. The next level of locomotion for space whales requires consideration of exotic physics. The best example of which is the application of negative mass. 

This more of a conjecture than a full blown answer. Based on Cort Ammon's answer and my comment. So feel free to shoot me down in flames. For a biosphere to exist that based on noble gas chemistry the planet in question must have an extreme environment. It must be somewhere where "the pressure and temperature requirements are challenging" (to quote kingledion). This suggests the environment must so extremely energetic that other chemical compounds will be volatile, labile and unstable. The environment must contain large amounts of noble gases either by mass or by percentage composition or possibly in terms of their chemical stability. My first thought was a hot jupiter planet, but their environments may not be ionizing enough. My suggestion is the surface of brown dwarf. While this isn't a planet the conditions in or on a brown dwarf might extreme enough to support the necessary high-energy chemistry for a noble gas compound biosphere. This is simply a speculative train of thought. Most likely, it's completely wrong. But it would be possible to follow up different parts of the reasoning to see if they hold up to careful scrutiny. These include the temperatures and pressures either on the surface of a brown dwarf or in the upper regions of its interior. The composition of elements in a brown dwarf to see if they meet the criterion of availability in the reasonably correct proportions for noble gas chemistry.