Looking around some information about breaststroke technique, I am seeing different information about the timing of the kick. With the recreational breaststroke (with head all time out) I tend to have my legs already flexed when breathing and kick when extending my arms. However I am trying to do this stroke and maintain a straight streamline as long as posible with the head under water. After looking around I see different recommendations about when to start flexing my legs preparing for the kick 

Which one is the right timing? Does it change when keeping the head out always? So far my feeling is that I should delay flexing my legs as long as posible, at least not even start flexing during the time I am taking a breath, with the kick happening only after arms are completely extended. 

When taking the head out (elbows on chest) When going down / extending arms When arms are already extended 

I am a software engineer and been already two years in a gym. As far as my experience goes, I never did really lose until I did something important 

With the above understanding, you're on the right track. Since you're allowed to eat and exercise during the night, it seems that you've basically inverted the day-night cycle as far as nutrition is concerned because quite a few people sleep for 8-10 (your 16 hour fast is still longer) hours a night without eating or drinking in between. If there's absolutely nothing you're allowed to eat/drink during the day then the only thing that you can really do is to ensure that your body gets sufficient nutrition and exercise during the night and that you take long lasting / slow digesting Casein like protein in the morning. If I were you, I would exercise in the evening (after taking a decent protein, BCAAs and other nutrient rich pre-workout shake or a light meal), then take a solid high quality protein meal post-workout and potentially a few protein shakes/bars if I wake up during the night (unless you can just have another solid meal 4-5 hours into the night) followed by another high quality long lasting protein (Casein, for example), BCAAs and nutrient rich solid meal in the morning to last me the day. Casein or equivalent would last for 7-10 hours depending on what else you've eaten giving you a steady trickle of protein for most of the day. All that slow digesting protein might make you more thirsty than usual (my personal experience, everyone is different), but I guess there's just no way around it other than drinking a lot of water during the night and morning if you can't drink water during the day. 

Are you eating better? Are you sleeping better? Added any supplementation? (Wendler has quite the supplementation regime for beyond 5/3/1.) 

Soak you hands in hot water for a few minutes. gently shave the callus off with a shaver. Apply cornhuskers. 

From my experience, getting at least 8hrs of uninterupted sleep and eating like you want it are the keys to moving the weight. If you improved upon these two variables, that could well explain your sudden onset of herculean strength. Best of luck. 

In terms of stretching, I always found simply doing the movements helps to create the necessary mobility. If you don't quite have the wrist flexibility yet to support bigger weights for your work sets, warm up with the clean grip, then use the straps for your work sets. Kelly Starrett has a ton of mobility drills, here is one specific to the front rack. This is a good video for learning form: $URL$ 

Walking is not leg work (unless you are morbidly obese) and getting sore after squatting a 50lb barbell would imply you need to develop more strength in your legs. If this is all you can squat - which would be weird considering you said "I only care for strength and nothing else as part of my workout" - I have to disagree with Macedon93. You should be squatting 3x a week and increasing the poundage each session. The squat is perhaps the single best driver of overall strength, and doing them consistently is a must. I can't speak to how eating different foods affect your body (except that eating bacon makes you happy) but I can say that soreness caused by a certain movement is most often alleviated by doing that exact same movement. While your condition is not D.O.M.S. as stated above, if the sensation is similar, you simply need to keep squatting. Do goblet squats, sit in the bottom position and push your knees out with your elbows. Try stretching your quads in different ways, ice baths, hot tubs, and take an Ibuprofen before lifting. That can reduce swelling and help you work through any pain that may still exist. 

Everywhere I read people talking about how to increase metabolism in order to improve weight loss and fitness. Be it with frequent meals, special foods, developing more muscular mass, etc. Overall people seem to have the idea that is one of the best goals for the human body. No matter how naive it sounds, I can never stop comparing metabolism with a very old proverb: 

I've just started learning how to swim as an adult but I am feeling that one hour lesson a week is just not enough. I hardly can move forward with my arms and certainly I almost move backwards using my legs. As a result, I am already looking for a public swimming pool to practice, but still need some type of swimming aid to keep afloat. What can I do on my own outside swimming lessons? Now the most obvious thing to me looks like practicing my legs kick with some type of board or pullbuoy. Are both of them necessary? Would holding a pullbuoy with my hands do? Even if most of them are cheap, I am wondering if I should just wait a bit longer until I no longer need them. On the other hand, I wonder if people get one to improve their technique on the long run. 

Bluetooth - Most latest HRMs these days use bluetooth to communicate with the fitness devices, including fitness watching and gym equipment. If you use the latest models, it is very likely that they use bluetooth. One extra benefit of bluetooth based HRMs is that they will have higher probability of being compatible with your smartphone (there may not be 100% compatibility because of variations in models and supported standards and what not but most phones have bluetooth so there are very good chances that a fit can be found). ANT / ANT+ etc - These communicate with the fitness equipment using ANT. Many of the somewhat older equipment should be compatible with these because this came before bluetooth. Their added benefit is that they might be somewhat cheaper than bluetooth models because it's an older technology and rest of the world is moving towards bluetooth now, but if your exercise equipment supports ANT based HRMs then you'll save money. Another thing is they can cast the data to multiple fitness equipment at the same time (say, your treadmill and your phone at the same time), I'm not sure if bluetooth can be paired to multiple devices (but it might be worth finding it). Wired - Some HRMs use wires to transfer data to the exercise equipment. They have the benefit of being able to transfer much more data aside from just heart rates. These are usually used for medical testing and stuff but I listed them here just as one more possibility, just in case the exercise equipment in your gym use those.