In the present we are very far from this on several fronts. However, the future is hard to predict. I tend to be optimistic and claim: Humans are biological machines. Anything a biological machine can do, a mechanical machine will also be able do at some point in the future. Present difficulties are: Preserving the genome Outer space is a harsh environment, hard radiation will gradually destroy everything that is static. The space ship and AI itself can continuously repair and rebuild itself to avoid the problem. Frozen biological material is not so lucky and will be destroyed before the ship reaches its destination. This is true even behind heavy shielding. The obvious solution is to not send actual frozen cells but rather just the sequenced genome in digital format. At the destination, just recreate the cells from the genome. We currently don't know how to do this! Not even close! But hey, future tech can solve this, right? Gestation So, you have a cell. You want a fetus and later an infant. In nature this is an enormously complicated process that involves many phases of complex interactions between mother and child-to-be. We currently don't know how to do this! Not even close! But hey, future tech can solve this, right? Rising the children Actually, this part I think is the easiest one. The AI will have fake adult bodies that can be pretend parents for a while. The children will quickly recognize them as different from themselves, but will have no reason to think that this is "unnatural" or "wrong". The main social interactions will be with other children. The "adults" will monitor and reward "nice" behaviour and punish "nasty" behaviour but otherwise let the children sort out most things between themselves. Like a boarding school in many ways. Starting a civilization Modern civilization is incredibly complex. We have taken a long time and a lot of people getting where we are. We don't know how to do it again with a few people and faster. That should be solvable problem except for one little detail. Humans are impatient. The now adult crowd of humans want their fun today, they don't want to make plans for future generations. At some point, they will revolt against the AI, and possibly destroy it in the process. One can only hope that civilization has be established at that point. As you say, results may vary. 

Your people have a fear of the cannibals over the next hill. You kill their tribesmen but once every few years one turns up in your village, anyone who dies could be their next meal. 

Health We are not completely certain about all the health effects zero-gravity has on the human body yet, but so far it is not looking good for the growth of healthy humans. This is a major topic for nasa recently who put a man in space for a year who also had a twin on earth in the hopes of finding the most precise changes to his body. The results are not in yet, but the whole article is here. 

It is socially rude to hold secrets from other people. Your mind linking society grows up learning the thoughts and feelings of others so in a public space they find it rude to have secret conversations with others. This would be similar to texting while out for dinner with friends. Telepathy makes others suspicious of your actions. In a police state no one wants you talking without being heard and even in a free democracy the government wants to keep tabs on it's civilians. As a protection to their personal freedom people speak out load so bugs and video cameras capture the events. The lack of speaking makes the person socially strange. Allowing unfettered emotional contact with any random person is the trade mark symbols of a sociopath who never questions his own thoughts. 

Several answers mention that communism works in small groups, like families, but fails in large groups, like countries. The main difference between these two cases is simply size. In a small group everybody knows everybody. If somebody becomes too greedy, people will notice and punish them. If you are a part of a society and everybody there thinks you have been bad, that hurts. Note that this system doesn't work perfectly, people can get blamed for things that are not their fault. In a large group people can be greedy and get away with it. And when other people see that, they will be greedy too, until greed becomes the norm. Communism is based on the idea that people will are not greedy, so communist countries break down. Capitalism is based on the idea that Greed is Good. This has its own problems, but that is not relevant to the question. The usual conclusion is that communism doesn't work, but I think that is too pessimistic. What is needed is a way for everybody to know everybody. What if there was a way for people to tell each other about unseemly greed? What if, before you talked to me, you could check me up in some database to see what other people think about me? There are many websites and apps today for sharing experiences with hotels and other service providers exactly so that you can check them up before you go there. What if we made the same system for people? If this worked, people would become nice simply because they want other people to think about them as nice. Unfortunately, these kind of systems can be gamed. "If you rate me high, I'll rate you high." I don't know a way around that and it could be a fatal flaw. 

These lime stone caves become enormous, currently the deepest cave in the world is know as the Dark Star, measuring 17km at a depth of 900m. The whole thing is lime stone and not even completely explored. It is known as the underground Everest. 

Having a lime stone cave system with a lot of water draining through it to create Stalactite columns should work perfectly for your labyrinth. 

Planets are gods this one is a bit out there. Say that somehow all planets are sentient beings and can telepathically communicate with the populations living within their magnetosphere. You can describe away earth's monotheistic religions by explaining that was the planet directing humans but once they leave earth and discover more then each planet would be a diety, if to a small portion of the population. This would probably continue until we discover how they are sentient and spread across the universe, or the death star starts to blow them up. 

Normal populations have genetic variation. Normal breeding techniques can remove unwanted parts of this variation. It does not create new genes, it only select the best of what is already there. "Best" being defined by the breeder, of course. (Assuming a fairly short time interval, less than a thousand years) To a small degree one can discover new mutations and select the best of what appears, but that is a very long-term project. If you start with two closely related species they will have mostly the same genetic "slots", but can different gene variants in those slots. E.g. both will have a fur colour gene in the same place, but with different colour genes there. Now, if one species has 95% brown fur and %5 black fur genes, and the other has 100% black fur genes, you can make both end up with 100% black fur genes. BUT, without that initial 5% you will be out of luck. If you start with two not so closely related species, they don't even have the same slots. They will both have fur colour genes, but they will be in different places. This will be a hopeless situation for the breeder. So, you can push the two species closer to each other, up to a point. Going beyond that point will be very very slow. If you start with two species that are very closely related, you can probably make them interbreed this way, but they would have to be very close to begin with. A project that might be within reach of today's science is to understand the mechanisms that make hybrids sterile and specifically breed to avoid those. I don't know how hard that would be. 

Many weapons made prior to the industrial revolution can be made out of organics. I will start at the bronze age and move forward as that is where metal really began to take hold in military use. 

you may wish to look into the "Barbary Coast" which was a collection of pirate city-states that operated from the 1500's until the 1800's. They raided the Mediterranean during this time. These city states were so powerful that deals had to be made with groups like France, and Britain just to avoid Piracy in the Atlantic. When the US stopped being a British colony, the Barbary Coast began harassing American vessels. It got to the point where Two vessels were captured and held for ransom. This was the primary reason for the first 6 American frigates being built by Thomas Jefferson during his time as a minister to France during George Washington's presidency. It ended with American Marine's capturing one of the Barbary Cities. I suggest looking into how these cities operate as they were primarily piracy states funded through bribes, piracy, and the slave trade while being ruled by the Ottoman Empire. EDIT: It was pointed out that I did not make a full explanation for their Industry. I will do that now. The Barbary Pirates were investments for many goverments and merchants in this location of the world and most acted as privateers without letters of Marque. This was made possible under Ottoman rule for the primary purpose of slavery. For those who may not know, in the Quran it states a Muslim cannot own another Muslim. This makes Christian Slaves very valuable. It is estimated that somewhere between 1 to 1.25 million Christian Europeans were sold into slavery in the Barbary Coast during this time. The slaving locations for these pirates went as far north as Iceland. Many European nations did as much as they could to prevent being raided. This included ransoms and tribute, where it was said 20% of US government annual revenues were spent to pay Barbary Pirates prior to the wars (we have no concrete numbers from other countries). Notice that I have not made mention of any other industries. That is because these cities had very little control over their own territories. in Algeria, one of the capitals of Barbary Piracy, over 69% of the land disobeyed Ottoman rule. They refused to pay taxes, ignored rule of law, and were not held by central power. These people added little to no economic activity for the Ottomans to consider. The governments were themselves encouraging this slave trade. The Barbary Coast was ruled by the janissaries. They were an independent military arm for the Ottoman Empire. They slowly came to finance the majority of the Barbary Pirates. 

There is a nefarious group of people who have heard of this project and they are going to spend A-day underground, in quadruple-layered Faraday cages with their tinfoil hats in place. Afterwards, they will be the only greedy people on the planet and they will RULE it. The heroes have heard of this and decided that they are unable to penetrate the villains compound, with the mine fields and all. However, the security around the mind control ray is lighter and easier to breech. So, to stop the villains from gaining control of the planet, they must stop the mind control project. 

We have not been able to fit these two together. One of the reasons for this is that we have not been able do experiments that test both at once. Objects that are small enough to have quantum effects are not noticeably affected by gravity. At least not strongly enough that we can distinguish between different theories of gravity. Our other theories (eg. electromagnetism) can be fit with one or the other, but not both at once. Black holes changes things. Here gravity is very strong and even electrons will feel the pull. If we would be able to bring along both a neutrino source and a neutrino detector, we would learn much about these mysterious particles. However, at current or near-future tech levels neutrino detectors are very massive and not something you can move off-Earth. Even without that I am sure there are numerous experiments we could do with a humble electron ray that will be very useful. The main experiment I see done is sending a laser or a ray of electrons in very close to the event horizon, and putting a detector where it comes out. Useful results would be angle of deflection and time taken for the journey. Maybe also how spread out the beam has become. If the hole is rotating, sending beams both with and against the rotation will be interesting. Why humans? This is about science, which means we won't know in advance what experiments we want to perform. Results of the one experiment will suggest new physics theories. These will suggest new experiments to perform. A machine cannot do this. (Unless you have powerful AI) If there are no humans on the spot, the results will have to be sent to Earth and new commands sent back. This will take too much time and the black hole will move away before we are done. I suggest a crew consisting of a mixture of astronauts and physicists. Both will need to have a good understanding of the other side, but in the end they are different in their goals. The astronauts will want to keep everybody alive and return home in one piece. The physicists will want to perform more experiments. More! MORE!! Other answers have suggested sending several unmanned probes instead of a manned one. I suggest a manned ship carrying many unmanned probes. The ship stays prudently far away from the radiation, the probes go closer, not close enough for tidal effects to destroy them, but definitely into hard radiation areas. Parting gift. The time comes when the hole moves away and we have to go home to Earth. Leave something behind for aliens to discover, maybe something like the Pioneer Plaques and Voyager Golden Discs. The hole will be a scientist magnet from every civilization it passes nearby and a good meeting spot. Maybe we will find an alien artifact already there... 

There is already a company in California doing this (soliculture), they are called "smart greenhouses" and use glass tinted magenta. They claim plants grow just as well in their green houses and have the potential to produce solar power as well. Take a look at this article detailing more about the idea. $URL$ you can also go to their corporate page. $URL$ 

Child Care In our current world we have a rising rate of single mothers. They require things like daycare, school, and after school organizations to keep their child in relatively safe locations and under super vision while the mother is at work. With most people entering the work force by the end of 6th grade your society would have a higher birth rate than right now. With more children you need a larger child care workforce and what better way then a government subsidized baby sitter who also tries to get your child an education and better job? 

That message reaches the colony about 8.734 years after the first is sent. The clever colonists decide that the Earth is 4.367 light years away, so they add that much to the time signal, getting (or so) After this they let their local clocks tick time forwards, on Earth time. They will probably want to repeat the procedure periodically. This method works because the two stars are almost stationary compared to each other. Any speed they have in common is irrelevant. If the two ends are moving relative to each other with a relativistically relevant speed, the method breaks down. So space ships, both slower and faster than light, need to use more complex methods. The nice thing about FTL ships is that they can speed up the whole procedure. A ship leaves AC with the first message, immediately returns with the second message and you can get the whole thing done in days instead of years. 

Flex your brain muscles Humans have brains that evolved to do some thing well, like pattern recognition , and other things not so well, like risk assessment. Make your magic system use a piece of the brain that it just isn't good at, making your user devote greater amounts of resources to continue the practice. This is your system so you can hand wave an area your humans are poor at understanding and claim your magic requires that they do it. This also gives you the opportunity to explain why another race or species would be good at your magic. 

In a normal lifetime these skills take awhile to develop. In a simulation with accelerated speed (2x speed? 10x speed?) people who want to learn these skills put in a fraction of the amount of time. This would be especially important for slow developing adults (some forms of autism need more time to learn soft skills) or business skills like managing. Services A number of services are time intensive, being able to manipulate time would be a very nice ability to have for things like Therapy. Therapy costs as much as it does right now due to high demand and limited time in the day. If we make a 10x simulation a therapist can spend 6 real minutes with someone for 60 minutes of therapy. Other services would be things like reading. Ever want to read that whole book in a single night so you don't have to for a class/course? a 10x simulation would take care of that in no time. 

Having a large group with good communications generally makes language change slower. In a low-tech setting this means nomadic tribes with friendly relations and trade with each other. Trading spouses helps too. Class differences breed class accents, which becomes language change when the lower classes imitate the upper and the upper avoid lower-class speech. So, avoid social classes. A strong singing tradition preserves language. 

Memories of atrocities are kept alive because some group of people want to keep them alive. They do so for political gain. There are (at least) two mechanisms here. One is "That group did something bad to our group in the past. We should do something bad to them in the present. No, it is not theft, it is ... repossession." Another is "Our society is threatened by that group! Just look at what they did in the past! We need a strong leader! I am a strong leader!" If the post-singular society has a generally wealthy and happy population they would have no need to plunder their neighbours. They would also feel that their society is a safe and stable one that does not need a strong leader. So, the political gain of dragging up the old stuff is gone and everything is kept in the history books were it belongs. Strictly speaking, things would not be forgotten, but people just wouldn't care anymore.