Sources linked in the question The second paper in the question concludes that High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT) for teenagers is better for cardio than not exercising. That is not a huge surprise to anyone; Any form of exercise is better than none. Because it doesn't look at traditional endurance training, it is not really relevant to this question. The first paper is a meta-analysis that compares how HIIT and continuous endurance training affect maximal oxygen consumption, a measure "of endurance capacity during prolonged exercise." According to this paper, both HIIT and traditional endurance training increase VO2max by about the same amount, but there is a "possibly small beneficial effect" in favor of HIT. They came to this conclusion by examining the studies that directly compare HIT and traditional endurance training. Four of the 19 studies favor traditional endurance training; The other 15 favor HIT. They found that on average HIT increases VO2max by 1.2 mL/kg/min compared to traditional training. For comparison, both HIT and traditional increase VO2max by about 5 mL/kg/min compared to not exercising, four times the difference between HIT and traditional. 

Humans have 2 copies of the gene TP53. 2 copies is the least number of copies of a gene you can have. This gene protects us from cancer. Humans with one disabled copy are at a high risk for cancer. Elephants have 40 copies of this same gene. 

Literature Summary: Many other papers find a link between homosexuality and mental illness, although most of these attribute this to environmental factors, like abuse or victimization. A few other papers find a link between homosexuality and neuroticism/psycopathy, but I did not see a claim that there is a genetic causal claim. The claim paper seems to be the first to say that. 

Kamil's answer answers the question correctly, but ends with a suggestion that you ask about why this happened on a different SE. This answer will explain how that outcome can easily be caused by a silly mistake. 

This conspiracy theorist blogger sources the quote to the 1946 issue of Psychiatry. That issue is mirrored here, in a format that is text searchable. I searched for the whole quote, the word "achieve", the phrase "world government," and "traditions." None of those searches found the quote. I do not believe that the text contains your quote. (I must tip my hat to this metabunk thread who found this source, and @Nat and @JohnDee who helped find it.) The book, America in Prophecy repeats a longer version of the quote. His source is, "as quoted by Dr. J. R. Church, "The New World Order," Prophecy in the News vol 24 no 4 April 2004, 28." The date, title, and author match this conspiracy theory article. The article does not mention Chisholm at all, but has a similar uncited quote: 

This review article found that people with bipolar disorder are more likely to die from natural causes than the general population. This is particularly true for cardio-vascular disorders. 

Is this a real theory that real scientists take seriously? Not really. It has never been published in a scientific journal. The scientific literature has almost entirely ignored it. Is there a more widely accepted theory? Two other scientists, Paiva and Taft, have done work that has gotten more acceptance than this theory. Their work does not appear to have gotten widespread attention or acceptance. 

The first paper reviews a few other meta-analyses that studied the same topic. This meta-analysis came to the following conclusion. 

They cite the "US Census Bureau" as their source. That is very unhelpful. The most recent census when this article was published was the 1990 census. The article is about 2 pages long, and does little other than restate the census data. This google scholar search seems to suggest that it came from the "News and Views" section of the journal rather than the serious scientific section of the journal. Conclusion Although the claim is consistent with my personal experience and common sense, I cannot tell if any rigorous data supports their conclusion. If this study is based on rigorous data, that data is at least 20 years old. Hopefully my answer will be helpful to someone who can give you a better answer. 

Summary: I present a simple method for estimating the number of published scientific papers about AMR. The number of papers is 5.5 times higher than the 500 in the claim. This seems inconsistent. I am being very careful while writing this answer to stick closely to my evidence, and avoid saying things that are not supported by my evidence. My evidence implies, but does not prove. My logic is partially based on assumptions about scientific research that are based in my personal experience. 

Maybe the ANN was mostly guided by facial features, and maybe by other cues like smiling or wearing baseball caps. The training set was taken from a dating website. I expect gay men and lesbians to choose photos that would be attractive to other gay men and lesbians. The ANN could be picking up on those differences. In response to these questions the authors argue that: 

I skimmed a number of the articles that cite the claim paper articles and found that most of them cited the claim paper indifferently. They repeated the results but do not editorialize about this study's quality. Then I found this open letter that criticizes the methods and conclusions of this paper. They list three concrete objections. The easiest to understand, and most directly related to the claimed study is quoted below. (Emphasis mine) 

The science is conflicted The article was written by real economists, and published in a peer reviewed economic journal. It should be taken seriously as a piece of cutting edge science, but science is messy and cutting edge science can be wrong. I only wholeheartedly believe a scientific theory, when the majority of a large body of research supports it. The introduction to this paper reviews the existing research on the topic, which has shown mixed results. 

This answer looks at the results of three different meta-analyses that look at HIT vs traditional endurance training. The evidence is mixed, but generally supports HIT being slightly better. 

The Monar 2013 report presents the giant battery hypothesis, and presents some data that is consistent with the hypothesis. This data is far from conclusive and the report makes clear that this is just a hypothesis. It was not published in a scientific journal and I have no evidence that it went through peer review. It has gotten almost no scientific attention; According to google scholar, the perspective letter quoted earlier is the only scientific source that cites this report. I do not see any evidence that this theory is taken seriously by the wider scientific community. Is it "the best theory they've got"? The perspective paper mentioned two other theories. Hauge proposed that burning scandium causes the lights. Paiva and Taft proposed that it is caused by a dusty plasma. Hauge 2007, is a "preliminary report" that does not appear to be published in a scientific journal. It presents a little bit of evidence that supports the possibility that burning scandium dust is causing the lights. Although it has been cited by 8 other papers, none of them give it more than a cursory mention. Hauge 2010, was published in a peer reviewed journal and has been cited by two articles other than the perspective letter. I don't take either article seriously. One is short, doesn't really explain its methods or data, and is published in a probably predatory journal. The other explains that an alien "exo-civilization" built a "stealth extraterrestrial visitation probe" that is causing the lights. Paiva and Taft are two scientists who have published extensively about the Hessdalen lights. They have proposed several physical models for how the lights occur (2010,2012,2011,2012,2011). These models discuss dusty plasma, and charged particles emitted from rocks that fracture as they thaw. Most of them are published in peer reviewed scientific journals. Most of them have gotten at least 1 citation. The scientific community appears to take Paiva and Taft far more seriously than Monar or Hauge. This could be because their theory correctly explains the evidence, or it could be because they know how to write papers that will get accepted, or both. Although their work has more acceptance than the other two theories, that is a pretty low bar. Speculation about the show I personally have a good scientific background; for most scientific papers I can understand a decent amount of what is being discussed. Paiva and Taft's papers go right over my head. If the people creating the show looked at their work, they probably decided it was too complicated and arcane to try to explain to their viewers. 

Do the results of this study match the results of other studies in the scientific literature? To answer this, I began by reading the articles reviewed in this article's introduction. A. This meta-analysis read 25 different studies on homosexuality and mental health. The 25 different studies collectively found that homosexuals were more at risk for depression, anxiety, and suicide attempts as well as drug and alcohol abuse. B. This study finds that homosexuals reported "more childhood psychological and physical abuse by parents or caretakers, more childhood sexual abuse, more partner psychological and physical victimization in adulthood, and more sexual assault experiences in adulthood. Sexual orientation differences in sexual victimization were greater among men than among women." These things have been linked to a greater severity of mental illness, and are not genetic as the claim paper believes. C. This section from the intro to the claim paper summarizes findings from other studies have found similar results to the claim paper. 

Everything I have discussed up to this point has been describing what types of men women find attractive. This quote changes gears and asks why? This is a whole new can of worms. The research paper has quite a lengthy discussion about evolutionary preferences and why women like what they like, however they don't back up their explanations with strong evidence. Neither does Dr. Wade. Why is MUCH harder to answer than what. At the end of the Washington post article, 

In other words, if you strap your child in properly, you might avoid the hospital altogether, and therefore avoid being in their study. That paper used statistical techniques to try and control for this effect. These two papers collected data, but declined to make comparisons. Is suspect that their relatively small sample combined with this confounding effect were why they declined to make comparisons. All three papers state that proper safety use is important. This report from the American National Transport Safety Board has a ton of data about child safety seats, their effectiveness, and their misuse. This figure from page 69 compares accident rates in properly and improperly used seats. The children in the improperly installed car seats were more likely to be severely hurt or killed. In the properly installed car seats, none of them died. In the high severity accidents 5 of 16 children, 31%, in the improperly installed car seats were ejected from their seats and died. I do not think these children had twisted straps.