And in fact, he thinks that the sixth central concept of honor—personal honor—is the most important. Interestingly enough, much of the book's inspiration seems to have come from an undergraduate philosophy course that Sessions has taught on honor since 1999. 

The classic answers to Rawls's work come from his fellow Harvard professor, Robert Nozick. In particular, Nozick's seminal work entitled Anarchy, State, and Utopia (1974). It's written as an almost direct critique of Rawls's Theory of Justice, published a few years prior in 1971. In it, Nozick adopts a libertarian approach to justice to challenge Rawls's Second Principle of Justice. Among other things, Nozick's most easily understandable argument boils down to the point that property rights must be included within Rawls's notion of individual rights; that is, the individualist right of and to self-ownership. But once we include that right, we arrive at a subtle contradiction. In order for Rawls's theory to make sense, he must reject the conception of absolute property rights; but at the same time, at least in Nozick's view, the absolute right to property is one of the individual rights that must be protected. But personally, I'd say the best attacks against Rawls are those that fundamentally question the notion of social justice at its core, i.e., F. A. Hayek. As a member of the Austrian School, Hayek is probably most famous for his work on economics. But mixed in with the economics is a lot of fascinating treatment of social and institutional justice. His aptly-named book, The Mirage of Social Justice, is probably the best place to start researching such a critique. A few gems (emphasis added): 

The quotation is from Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism—a monotheistic religion originating in the 15th century as an offshoot of Hinduism and Islam. Guru Nanak was a mystic, which, in a religious context, is one who advocates the practice of pursuing and has the knowledge to themselves achieve a personal relationship (or "one-ness") with God. Mysticism concerns aspects of reality that lie beyond normal human perception, including experiencing the presence of and communion with God. As such, Guru Nanak naturally emphasized solitary meditation. The specific quotation you've found simply reflects Guru Nanak's view that it is not possible to realize either God or one's self without the aid of a "guru", or experienced religious guide. Breaking it down piece by piece… 

Both the English and American legal systems are based in large part on the writings of Social Contract theorists, like John Locke and Jean-Jacques Rousseau. Legally and politically speaking, this is one of the most influential notions to arise during the Enlightenment. The United States Constitution and Declaration of Independence draw heavily from the writings of Locke. Large portions of both documents read as if they were quoted directly from some of his works. And the concepts espoused, both implicitly and explicitly, by both documents are backed by concepts he advanced. In particular, things like natural rights, collective sovereignty, religious tolerance, the necessity to impose restraints on the exercise of arbitrary power of the executive, etc. He even preached specifically in favor of the right to revolution, claiming that because all people have the fundamental rights to life, liberty, and property under the natural law, they could instigate a revolution against the government whenever it verifiably acted against those interests of its citizens. In some cases, Locke even insisted that revolution was an obligation, insofar as it provided a bulwark against tyranny. This, as you can well imagine, was often cited as a justification for the American Revolution. If you're interested in reading more about this, the best place to start is with Locke's extremely well-known Two Treatises of Government, paying particular attention to the second treatise, which is his polemic in favor of a civil society based on natural rights. The entire book is even available as a free download (in various formats) from Project Gutenberg. 

Nietzsche does explicitly name a few people in Will to Power  that he thinks rank among the greatest human beings that have ever lived, and he puts them in this category for traits very similar to those that he ascribes to an Übermensch: 

That last paragraph in particular should really clench your understanding of why an Objectivist would take issue with a law like the one to which your professor alludes. It is inconsistent with the singular purpose of government, it is coercive to the individual in that it prevents her from exercising her own voluntary freedom of choice—to live her life as she sees fit. The state would be compelling the individual to act against her own judgment, and that would be intrinsically immoral. The government, even as it represents a collective of individuals, cannot thus force positive moral obligations upon its individual members. 

He praises Goethe in a number of his works for having been a "free spirit," something that Nietzsche himself expressed desire to be. And again, we recall that the Übermensch is one who embodies the free spirit par excellence. In Twilight of the Idols, IX §49, Nietzsche writes with regard to Goethe's Dionysian character: 

It's essentially impossible to offer definitive proof on the matter, but it's extremely unlikely that Socrates was merely a figment of Plato's imagination. The primary evidence in this regard is the fact that multiple independent sources make reference to him in various ways. For example, the philosopher Xenophon of Athens was a student and admirer of Socrates, who dedicated himself to the preservation of Socrates's wisdom. Specifically, in the Anabasis, Xenophon writes of asking Socrates for advice regarding his entrance into the service of Cyrus when he was a young man. Socrates is reported to have advised him to consult the oracle of Delphi, and later chastising Xenophon for the question he ultimately decided to ask (one that betrayed his mind had already been made up to go). Additionally, the Memorabilia—itself a collection of Socratic dialogues—is notable for containing Xenophon's extended defense of his mentor. He argues that Socrates was innocent of the charges levied against him, and describes how Socrates benefitted not only his friends, but all Athenians. It has even been argued that Xenophon's later exile from Athens was motivated (at least in part; his support for Athens's rival Sparta at Coronea unquestionably had something to do with it as well) by his support for Socrates. Of course, some of Xenophon's writings have come under scrutiny for their historical reliability, much as you've noted that Plato's writings have. And ultimately, this debate is probably unresolvable. But it does seem quite unlikely that both Plato and Xenophon would make up the same figure and agree about many of the details of his life. Beyond the realm of philosophy, the playwright Aristophanes claimed to have known Socrates. His comedy, the Clouds, features Socrates as a character. But it goes without saying that plays, and especially comedies, are an unreliable source of historical information. The Clouds has come under particularly heavy criticism by scholars because it appears that its "Socrates" character is actually a bricolage of many different fifth-century intellectuals. (For more on this view, see in particular, the discussion in the introduction of Kenneth Dover's 1968 translation of Clouds.) 

I'm not sure I understand what the question is here... Essentially, yes. The scientific method can be applied to certain subsets of the general discipline known as "philosophy". It's merely a set of guidelines intended to facilitate a rigorous inquiry. There's nothing particularly unique about its relationship with the natural sciences. Anyone conducting research can apply it. Here are a couple of other ideas on how it might to relate to what we now call "philosophy": 

Marx didn't think that the state should have any role in the economy. The essence of his philosophy is that in the ultimate classless society, the state will have "withered away": 

There are lots of other ways in which to frame a logical argument, ranging from the very simple to the very complex. At their highest level, logical proofs can look a lot like formal mathematical proofs because, well, they are the same. When reading standard philosophical treatises, you'll often find these arguments presented in words rather than in the more complex symbolic notation you might see in a formal logic textbook, but the methods and the process are all still the same. The above example is actually an application of deductive reasoning, which can be more generally defined as reasoning from the general to the specific. Using such a logical framework, you make two (or more) claims about the world, and then attempt to show that a conclusion necessarily follows (or is logically implied) from those two premises. However, it's worth noting that deductive arguments are classified as either valid or invalid, not true or false. The scientific method, by contrast, tends to follow the other prevailing method of reasoning, called inductive reasoning. Inductive reasoning can be somewhat loosely defined as the reverse of deductive reasoning: reasoning from the specific to the general. Using the scientific method, one makes certain, specific observations about phenomena in the surrounding world, and then attempts to draw a more general conclusion based on those data. In this way, unlike deductive reasoning, it does work in search of truth, and an argument framed in this way can be dismissed as false (or untrue) given sufficient contradictory data. Finally, you should note that not all schools of philosophical thought have the pursuit of "truth" as their ultimate goal; in fact, such a goal lies in direct contradiction with many significant branches that would contest the very notion of "truth". They might argue that "truth" is simply unknowable, or they might argue that it is socially determined and therefore impossible to discuss objectively. 

I assume that this derives from Aristotle's four elements of the same names, which he first enumerated in his treatise, On Generation and Corruption. However, these actually appear to originate from an even earlier thinker, Empedocles of Acragas. Of course, I've never seen any documentation confirming this lineage with respect to the more modern school of elementalism. Modern science, of course, has dismissed these early theories about the origins of matter and replaced them with a much more complex list of elements, taking a slight detour at medieval alchemy along the way. 

Yeah, unfortunately a lot of people misquote Nietzsche. It's kind of a recurring joke among those who are familiar with his work. For example, the phrase "God is dead" is often taken completely out of context and used to justify things that Nietzsche himself never intended. In this specific example, Nietzsche is not at all  endorsing the statement that that which does not kill you actually makes you stronger. That's only one part of the aphorism, not the entire thing. And the collective resonance of the phrases is really what makes the aphorism: