The philosopher Stanley M. Rosen wrote a book on Nihilism. It is worth reading. I don't think he uses the word postmodernism even once. Why should he? He didn't need the word. We already had words like relativism, laissez-faire, classical liberalism (now called libertarianism). Anything goes. What did Lyotard have in mind: he was against the violence of the meta-narrative. The big, controlling story. Levinas would agree with him. So would Nietzsche. Foucault, after Nietzsche, wisely focused on the exercise of power. It can be exercised in many ways, and through the rational and the irrational. We certainly live in times of manipulation today. The highest art is architecture. Both Le Corbusier and F.L. Wright not only desired to show a rational possible way to live, but actually to dictate how to live within the interior of their structures. They were both intrusive in this respect. This was just too rational. It was an overdose of rationalism, and there was a rebellion against this totalizing, totalitarian trend of modernism; particularly in modern interior residential architecture. And there was a rebellion against the exercise of rational power by the expert. What have we learned? Yes, it is better for for man to be rational, but not too rational. Even Habermas may have gone a bit too far with his rational expectations for man. There has to be a balance. Title: Nihilism: a philosophical essay; Author: Rosen, Stanley; Publisher:Yale University Press,Pub date:1969. 

Peter, to provide a more direct answer to your question it may be helpful to compare Russell and John Dewey. Here is a book by Bertrand Russell, and if memory serves, Dewey comes into play. $URL$ And here is a book which covers two pragmatists, William James and John Dewey. $URL$ I hope this helps since pragmatism was not addressed in the comments. P. S. I am sorry that the Russell book is not a very good scan. It is possible that there is a duplicate on Internet Archive. 

Well Heidegger would say the primary way we deal with our environment would be the ready to hand, and he gives his famous example of hammering to show his point. We don't have to analyze too closely, we just cope. We hammer without overthinking it. We see the same thing with driving and many other things we do. However, I should mention that this mode of coping "on automatic" can be potentially dangerous. We can imagine the Buddhists cautioning us to be mindful! What Heidegger was keen to do was to draw a distinction between ready to hand and present to hand, and the latter would harken back primarily to Aristotle and what followed from him. Typical Western categorization, analysis and so on (perhaps "analysis paralysis"), representational/ correspondence theories of truth would come in here too. Though Heidegger does not deny the importance of the present to hand, nevertheless I think he wants to show that our primary way of coping (or being) would be the ready to hand. So Heidegger is trying to balance the Western tradition. In my opinion, and I think this is a fairly common opinion, Heidegger was a Romantic character (I refer here to the romantic era). He was suspicious of modern technology. The people of the countryside knew how to cope too without all the analysis and categorization demanded by our new scientific technological world which philosophers like Aristotle etc. had made possible. You know Heidegger had his hut up in the mountains and so on. He wrote more about his concerns with technology in his later works. I am familiar with Brandom from the internet (YouTube interviews etc) and I know he is well regarded, but since I have not read any of his his work, I can't comment on him. As far as Heidegger ever thinking in terms of any sort of praxis or pragmatism. He did not have a high opinion of America/ Americans in general, and on that basis alone I doubt he would use the word "pragmatism". To the extent that "praxis" may be associated with the Marxists, he might have avoided that word too. I can't read German, so I don't know. I did read somewhere he was open to some sort of socialism, but I don't have a source to be able to judge how serious he might have been, or what his mature position was. De facto, however, it could be argued that the ready to hand is a kind of practice. And the whole idea of coping with our world would be amenable to the pragmatists. But I should hasten to add that certainly the later Heidegger would be highly opposed to the instrumentalism associated with some forms of pragmatism. In the end, he was concerned with the dangers of technology for its own sake, technology "let loose", and the contribution that typical Western philosophy had made toward this phenomenon. 

Without a doubt Miguel de Unamuno, great philosopher of the Basque territory, staunchly Catholic, anti-fascist, and for our purposes, a lover of Europe's greatest philosopher, Don Quixote of La Mancha. I say this because Unamuno did many good things, but most of all he loved this knight. Unamuno serves as our medium to conjure up Quixote. What was the knight defending? The age of chivalry and the injustice of its passing. His friend (the best friend anyone could have, and a great thinker in his own right) was Sancho Panza. Panza was forever urging the knight to quit the field, and his chivalry books, and to go back to his estate and live according to the custom of his rank. Quixote, being a man of determined and noble temperament, decided to let himself be ridiculed, beat and battered around for several years, while he put up the good fight. At this point, I forget the story exactly but he was finally taken home almost at the point of death, in a terrible condition. I do think he was able to enjoy a night or an afternoon of harmless pleasure with his peasant-princess, Dulcinea. What does this all mean? First, it probably means that Panza was the greatest philosopher that Europe ever produced, and not Don Quixote. Second, it asks you how much are you willing to be beat around to achieve the justice you seek? You know this better than I do, and only you can decide on the course you will take. You might decide to drop it for the sake of your health, but you don't have to forgive them (some psychologists will say you should forgive, some say otherwise). What would Unamuno say? Well he risked his life at a lecture by defending the honor of Spain against the fascists, but he was fortunate enough that Mrs. Franco, of all people!, respected him and hustled him out of the hall before he could be harmed. So this is what he did, but again what would have happened if Mrs. Franco not been there to help him? 

Let us set up, for the purpose of answering your question, a hunter/prey model. And we will call your friend a hunter, and all the world his prey. This is just a model, but it may be useful to us, or not. You know this person, we don't. A hunter is out for information about his prey, he may not even realize that he does this, it just comes naturally to him. Therefore, beginning today, you should adopt a more circumspect attitude towards this person. He may already know a lot about you and there is nothing you can do about that, but going forward I would suggest that you firm up your boundaries, and raise your force fields at least to medium high as you decide what to do about this situation. Now, looking at your options, Option 1 is clearly out under our hunter/prey model. You cannot have a relaxed friendship with this person. It won't work. You are his prey too, you just don't know it yet. One day he will go in for the "kill", and you will be the victim. Option 2, how does an animal survive if it is in closer proximity to the hunter? It never really relaxes for one thing, and it tries to hide information about its whereabouts (through camouflage it was born with, etc., hide where it sleeps, etc.). As for your friend, there is no teaching by words that will work for you with this person. You teach this person by "teaching" him, with your actions, to respect your boundaries, and by being careful what information you share with him. So a form of "friendship", might be available to you under Option 2, if you remained consistently on guard, but it is risky. Option 3 will probably be the best solution for you. Normally, I would try to ease myself out of such a friendship, but there are many factors here that you know better than we do. So I leave you to choose between 2 and 3, it's up to you. I suspect 3 might be better, but obviously I don't know all the facts. Do you need religion to be ethical?? No. I don't think so. If there is no God it just means a group of men of the period (these societies were almost entirely paternalistic) made up things like the Ten Commandments, usually based upon their long experience. I see no problem with using such things as a guide, even though they may not be "god given". I think most of us agree that things like lying and murder are wrong, though we can all come up with valid exceptions to these rules (E.g. Killing in true self defense is a defense to a charge of murder). Take what you can out of religions without being excessively dogmatic and rigid about it, that would be my advice. They are probably entirely manmade, but they do undoubtedly contain some time-tested wisdom. Most of the ethical training we get is from our parents, and though it may amount to a confused muddle, such training is generally what sticks with us, for good or bad. What does philosophy offer in the way of ethics? A lot of books for philosophers to read and argue about. To send you to such a pile of books and articles when you have a question today, right now, I don't think that does any good. So I am putting forward the hunter/prey model for you. It may work for you in this situation or not. You can decide if you want to use this model. Please note this model is based on the assumption that your friend's bad behavior will not stay confined to others, and that it is only a matter of time before it is directed towards you also. 

Your general question (let's call it the question suggested by your question) requires a long answer. I hope this helps. I would study this first: $URL$ I realize that links can break, and websites can disappear, but it would be difficult to properly answer your question with one finger on my little screen! Once that is done (and completed) you may want to do a search: Pitt.edu Einstein on Kant. There is some very interesting material on these pages prepared by Prof. John D. Norton so you may want to prowl around a bit. For instance, after you read Einstein on Kant, go back toward the top and hit "main text" too. 

You asked for reflections too, so I hope you don't mind this reflection on my part. My own feeling is that there are no breaks in history, but there is "bad" history. Sometimes the record is simply lost, sometimes it is suppressed on purpose, and sometimes the record is neglected (new is better, the old is forgotten). As time proceeds, we generate "unworthy fragments" what I mean by this is incomplete fragments from the past. With postmodernism the idea may be to celebrate these fragments rather than to try to complete their proper history so far as it is possible. This postmodernistic sloppiness and laziness is mankind letting itself be fooled in my opinion. The more good history we have ( as good as we can make it, i.e. the more hard work in an admittedly messy and difficult endeavor) the more seamless it becomes. We humans are mortal, our individual lives come to an end, and in this sense we are discrete, so we tend to think of "breaks" rather than the continuum of history. Maybe a topology could be used in a suggestive or heuristic manner, with due caution that it will likely lead us astray if we adhere to it too tightly. I hope I have understood your question. Since I have posted a paper above in the Comments which may deal at least in some way with your specific question, I will take the liberty of posting an essay that I have found interesting on the subject of history, and teaching history. "Sartre On Our Responsibility For Dead Lives: Implications For Teaching History" $URL$ 

You've taken an aesthetic position it sounds like to me. It's a matter of taste. You are satisfied. How can I argue with this? I cannot. Your tastes may change. You are a minimalist art lover now, we might say (as an example). You may fall in love and go through a baroque stage before settling down to a sort of middle class style of decorative art; on the other hand you may stay in a strictly minimalist mode for the duration of your life, with occasional pit stops in surrealist automatism. The aesthetic dimension is a uniquely human dimension. What satisfies you cannot be argued against, even Kant would agree, your current automaton ideation (way of life) is unassailable. For instance, if you like cheese, how can I argue against your taste? The laws of society still apply though. I may love wine and that no one could argue with, but if I steal wine and I get caught, then I may still go to jail. 

Reason, not logic; logic can be a type of positivism that ignores the concrete reality which is the life of the people. Logic can be a place to hide from the real. It is all so simple, the principle of non-contradiction, just like math; but try to apply to it to people! Capitalism is full of contradictions, and so the life of the people is full of contradictions, so you are often in the excluded middle here when you deal with these topics on the level of the concrete. A book by George Lukacs, a warning, the title: "The Destruction of Reason", not The Destruction of Logic! Lukacs' book can be hard to find in English. It's not a perfect book, it has problems (dogmatic, vulgar Marxism at times) nevertheless it is still well worth reading. ** Habermas also stressed the importance of reason, many philosophers have done so. We should listen to them. What is reason? Look it up in a good dictionary, whatever you want to do. It will not be precise, we don't want it to be too precise when we are working, actually working, and helping to solve the problems of people in the real world. Reason is more subtle than logic, not as neat, but not silly either. You can say that logic is a part of reason, but it is not the whole of reason. We would like humanity to become more reasonable over time. Where does postmodernism come in? As a false consciousness of the people, perhaps. We are on a slightly different level here.* The level of the sociology of knowledge, how did people get this idea, and so on. Most of them don't think too much about it, and this is why it is so sly. They pick the word up from the mass media, wherever it is. (I don't care what philosophers think about postmodernism, because philosophers can take care of themselves. Many of them find that the field can actually be liberating, or they are on their way to exploring post-post-modernism. This is what philosophers do. This is de jure, now back to de facto.) This postmodernism can devolve into plain silliness when it gets to the level of the masses. Don't worry, I think this too shall pass. I think not long from now, 5-10 years, humanity will become more focused. I won't repeat what I've written elsewhere to explain why I think this is (Rodrigo's End of history question). I don't think Rodrigo will be satisfied with this, but what can I do? *Note I first talk of working with people, then go to how the people think, the latter is sociology of knowledge. ** Adorno hurt the sales of Lukacs' book by slamming it in Die Monat, a journal founded by the U.S. Army in W Germany, which was sponsored by the CIA. NB I don't mean to insult the logicians. They may argue that they are more interested in helping the scientists, and the computer scientists today, and by this they help people indirectly. No insult intended to the post-structuralists either, they may argue they are trying to protect us from totalitarianism. They have a right to make that argument. 

Why is it that in America we can talk endlessly of ethnicity, race and so on, and in fact it dominates our media space, and yet we don't talk much about the real details of our budget, or why poor children may not have adequate health care and so on? We can talk about ethnicity, discrimination and the like because it has been deemed safe by the powers that be, and it has been deemed safe because it has been liquidated, or it is well on the way to being liquidated. There will never be, over time, any content allowed to Arab-American or to any hyphenated American under our present system. Mere form will be allowed, yes, but real content, no. All differences have to be flattened out so that the commodity form of the item for sale, matches the commodity form of the buyer. Sameness; the only differences permitted will be meaningless. Difference has the potential to interfere with the exchange (click, buy) and it must go. Why do our young people not realize that what will effect them in the future is for the most part happening behind their backs, while they throw themselves into the contrived news of the day? It's not just the young who do this, but it is more tragic in the young because their precious time could be put to good use in making their future better in concrete ways. Don't be diverted or tricked. Keep your eyes trained on the system that only wants an exchange, it hardly provides a use value anymore before it wants another click. It cheapens everything. Resist being poured down the funnel. Seek real content in justice and not mere rights. Real content in justice, if we bring it into being, will allow real content in other things too.