This is asked in a very ambiguous manner, for one there are many possible definitions of natural law you could formulate each with subtle differences that can affect the final picture(also depending on our initial assumptions we could end up begging the question). I'll answer this question as best as I can: we do not know the answer, and it seems unlikely we ever will and unlikely if we can even know whether we can know. I can be wrong though, Im not ascertaining this as truth (such would be a fun little contradiction :) ). Suppose there is a final theory T that is couched in a logic L_1. But in order to say T is valid we have to justify that the logical system L_1 holds for T but for that justification we would need another logical system that justifies it with elements not in L_1( to avoid circular reasoning). Call this logical system L_2. But then L_2 needs to be justified by L_3 without circularity. And L_3 needs L_4 and so on Ad Infinitum. So it seems impossible to say if we can know whether T is the final theory. Notice T still might be true and have finite number of laws. Also these logics do not need to be formal rigorous logics. Also there are problems that we have been "stuck on" virtually since they were asked: Hume's Problem of Induction being one. If we say "who cares, it just works" then we're implicitly using induction to justify induction. It seems safe to say that any non-inductive logic would be deductive. But if there is a deductive logic that gives us induction then induction is an extensive of dedictive logic which has its own problems and paradoxes. And since induction is absolutely crucial to deriving laws it seems we cannot come to any certain method to justify them. So it seems there would be infinite questions that come about but they could be the result of infinite number of intrepretations of possibly the same ulti.ate reality which we are unable to see as connected due to the issues listed above. 

This is actually an easier question than it seems, largely because it operates on assumptions that are easily conceded to or missed. The first assumption is that reality is absolutely compartmentalized; it is not. 

The second assumption is that perception must be observably identical in dream and reality; they are not. For every instance I ask you what you sense or remember in a dream, there are observable regularities that can be distinguished from the regularities of sense in waking life, lucid dreaming only exacerbating that distinction. Even if you're in a dream right now, then as far as your dream goes, there are two distinct realities which negate the need to even remark on the possibility that this is all a dream. The third assumption is that absolute necessity exist; it does not. Hume dispelled that idea in his Essay concerning Human Understanding and we haven't successfully refuted him since. I hope I'm being helpful. 

How can something not existing play a role in it being transcendent? And how is it exactly transcendence/immanence relate to Being-for-itself/Being-in-itself? Here is a link to the pdf of the book:$URL$ Thanks in advance. I appreciate it. 

Camus' idea to keep the absurd alive by accepting our innate desire for meaning and even pursuing and yet not giving into hope of ever reaching a meaning to life, what he calls the revolt against the absurd, seems impractical to me. He speaks of contemplating and being aware or lucid of the absurd to keep it alive but would such a revolt be sustainable over a lifetime? I know he mentions very elegantly his method(s) of keeping the absurd alive through what he calls the absurd logic, through persistence, avoiding hope and unity(i.e. need to make sense out things),awareness or lucidity of the absurd, etc. Are there criticism of the Myth of Sisyphus, you guys are aware of, besides the fact that his definition of the absurd is based on circular reasoning? I am trying to write paper for class in which I want to show that the absurd and/or the revolt against it cannot be so easily "kept alive" because it would seem against that we gravitate towards hope naturally in our day to day experience of life; that hope is too persuasive psychologically to us to be succesfully revolted. I am already aware of Albert Camus and the Philosophy of the Absurd by Sagi as a resource on google books. Is there any other? Thanks in advance. 

Now, the key to my reading of all this, which is what is in question after all, lies in nature of inner sense. Kant tells us earlier that inner sense lacks content but not the form of sensibility in general, which is time. Space is the condition of external sensibility but all intuitions are subject to the condition of time. It is owing to this strange situation of inner sense that Kant controversially claims that our self-image, or how we see ourselves, is a fabrication: your inner sense is empty, but still receptive of sensation. But its a law of the understanding that anything sensibly intuited has to be combined into a unitary appearance. So the understanding fabricates the unity of your self-image in order to make-up for this strange shortcoming of inner sense. But the same operation appears again in the context of the schemata, but what subtly distinct way? Inner sense is receptive, but possesses only the formal condition of time as its whole sensibility (which is receptivity). Time, however, turns out to fulfill the general condition of a schema: it is pure and non-empirical since it belongs to transcendental aesthetic as an a priori condition of sensibility, and so is not only intellectual but also sensible as the element of all sensation generally. Subsequently Kant will explain that the schemata are nothing "a priori determinations of time according to rules" but remember that the understanding can't provide such without provocation on the part of sensibility. So could it be that Kant answers the question "how do pure concepts interact with sensible intutions?" in the following way?: Because we sense perturbations in time, which is purely formal, and time is primarily registered by inner sense, which is empty of content, the schemata are the way our minds cohere (or unify) the manifold of this kind of intuition, these perturbations in time on the part of external objects (distinct from their peturbations in space); that is, our sense of time is the mediating plane between sensations and concepts. Do I have this correctly? Can anyone suggest corrections to my reading? This was probably overly long and could've been shorter, but I'm not really sure where I would've even begun making that kind of edit (some pointers would be very helpful, thank you). I guess I leave it up to y'all now. I hope I make some kind of sense. 

In Beyond Good and Evil, Section 16, Nietzsche uses "immediate certainties" in quotation marks. Who and from where is Nietzsche quoting this, or is he using the quotations marks to speak ironically? My suspicion is Kant. It would be helpful if could provide as accurate a source as possible. The section begins as follows and here is a link to the entire section if needed. There are still harmless observers of themselves who believe that there are "immediate certainties," for example, "I think," or that superstition of Schopenhauer's, "I will," just as if perception here was able to seize upon its object pure and naked, as "thing in itself," and as if there was no falsification either on the part of the subject or on the part of the object. 

This has been a particularly difficult section for me. Please forgive me if things sound opaque, but Kant is a particularly difficult writer and my reading is hurt by the fact that it isn't occurring in an institutional setting. But enough disclaimers. I'll start by backing up a bit and providing my reading of the preceding few sections, namely a summary of the transcendental deduction, the explanation and outline of book two, The Analytic of Principles, and the ensuing introduction. Against this background I'll present my trouble with chapter one, Of the Schematism of the Pure Concepts of the Understanding. We've just completed the Analytic of Concepts, where we were informed of the necessity that the Pure Concepts of the Understanding strictly refer to sensible intuitions, thereby composing possible (which is to say sensible) experience, owing to the elementary unity of original apperception. Put differently, if it is the case that your particular experience of the world uniquely belongs to your singular, and therefore unitary, consciousness, then it must be the case that experience is composed by some kind of knowledge about objects prior to any actual experience. Or another formulation: if it is possible for me to say that my own or another person's thoughts or perceptions are subjective, then it has to be the case that the structure of subjectivity is objective, and it is this precise structure that Kant illustrates for us in the Analytic of Concepts, specifically the transcendental deduction, and which objectively provides the conditions of possibility for experience, Kant defining experience as determinate knowledge of appearances (I think I needed a semicolon somewhere in there but I'm not sure; also, please free to correct me where you think my readings are inaccurate). So now Kant moves to Book II, the Analytic of Principles. The purpose now is to explain just how the pure concepts of the understanding are applied to or provide rules for determining appearances, for so far he has only described the necessity that they refer to sensuous objects by way of the transcendental unity of original apperception, the bare fact of consciousness. Judgement is the faculty tasked with "distinguishing whether something falls under a given rule or not." Transcendental logic can assist here by pointing out "the case to which each rule is to be applied."(B175, A136) So the first chapter of Book II "will treat of the sensible condition under which alone pure concepts of the understanding can be used, that is, of the schematism of pure understanding."(B175, A136) Still following? To recap, given that we possess pure, a priori concepts that necessarily and strictly refer to sensible objects, how does a non-empirical and non-sensible thing like a pure concept interact with a sensible object? This where things get weird. Kant tells us in the first chapter that, given the heterogeneity of pure concepts and sensible intuitions, there must be some third thing which mediates their interaction. This thing would have to be, on the hand, pure and non-empirical, but on the other hand intellectual and sensible at the same time. Kant titles the thing that satisfies these conditions a "transcendental schema". But just what is a schema? Kant replies: