My spidey sense is telling me some guy 46 billion light years away might say the universe is neither isotropic nor homogeneous. Because when he looks up, half the night sky is black or something. 

Don't forget that photons have an E=hf wave nature. And that even though they are scattered in the air, you can still see the Moon. Yes, there's a bit of light going astray in space. But not so much that the night-time sky is some blank foggy fug. You can see Saturn too. And the stars. And the galaxies, but they are rather dim. 

No. We aren't in a black hole. A black hole is a place where the vertical light beam can't get out because the "coordinate" speed of light at the event horizon is zero. As Stephen Hawking said, the universe is like a black hole in reverse, but it isn't the same as a black hole. 

Inflation started in circa 1980. Guth coined the phrase and generally gets the credit, but it arguably goes back to Erast Gliner in 1965 and his paper algebraic properties of the energy-momentum tensor and vacuum like states of matter. It didn’t get much attention. 

No, it absolutely can not. At .99c the Lorentz factor is 7, so if your journey takes you four years by your clock, your destination star is 28 light years away. When you get there it's circa 2044 according to Earth clocks. There is no way you can get back to Earth in 2016. For that to happen all the motion that occurred has to be undone. And there is no way that that can happen. 

There's some ambiguity about dark energy. It's said to be responsible for the accelerating expansion of the universe as opposed to the expansion. See the Wikipedia dark energy article where you can read that the term "dark energy" was coined by Michael Turner in 1998. This was in a paper that referred to the type 1a supernovae observations made by the Supernova Cosmology Project and the High-Z Supernova Search Team. Their observations indicated that the expansion of the universe is accelerating, which was contrary to expectations and led to Nobel prizes in 2011. 

It just can't work like this. Think about what a clock actually does. Time is a measure of local motion, that's all. It's "how much local motion has occurred". If you move very fast, the rate of local motion is of necessity reduced because the maximum rate of motion is c, because of the wave nature of matter. Hence you suffer time dilation. See the simple inference of time dilation on Wikipedia. Note that if you have two parallel-mirror light-clocks and one stays at home whilst the other goes on a fast out-and-back trip, the light-path lengths are the same. And they meet back up at the same time. They don't miss each other by a week. Time dilation is not time travel. 

No, it isn't room temperature. Interstellar is just science fiction I'm afraid, even though it was portrayed as science fact. 

When inflation was first mooted Alan Guth talked about the Higgs field and GUTs, saying magnetic monopoles were "topologically stable knots in the Higgs field expectation value”. But that was old inflation, which was replaced by new inflation, which was replaced by eternal inflation. As far as I know the Higgs field is not thought to be linked to the inflaton field. 

The guy who says we can see galaxies that were and are receding from us faster than light. As per Rob's comment, see Expanding Confusion: common misconceptions of cosmological horizons and the superluminal expansion of the Universe by Tamara Davis and Charles Lineweaver. Note this: "We show that we can observe galaxies that have, and always have had, recession velocities greater than the speed of light." See page 8: "Amongst those who acknowledge that recession velocities can exceed the speed of light, the claim is sometimes made that objects with recession velocities faster than the speed of light are not observable [App. B: 9–13]." Also have a read of the Wikipedia ant on a rubber rope article. The rubber rope is being stretched as the ant walks along it: "At first consideration it seems that the ant will never reach the end of the rope, but in fact it does (although in the form stated above the time taken is colossal). Whatever the length of the rope and the relative speeds of the ant and the stretching, providing the ant's speed and the stretching remain steady the ant will always be able to reach the end given sufficient time. Once the ant has begun moving, the rubber rope is stretching both in front of and behind the ant, conserving the proportion of the rope already walked by the ant and enabling the ant to make continual progress". There's a section on the metric expansion of space. It says this: "By thinking of photons of light as ants crawling along the rubber rope of space between the galaxy and us, we can see that just as the ant can eventually reach the end of the rope, so light from distant galaxies, even some that appear to be receding at a speed greater than the speed of light, can eventually reach Earth, given sufficient time. However, the metric expansion of space is accelerating. An ant on a rubber rope whose expansion increases with time is not guaranteed to reach the endpoint.[3] The light from sufficiently distant galaxies may still therefore never reach Earth". 

The speed of light. See this list. The escape velocity for a black hole is the speed of light, and you can flip this around. If you drop an object from a great height, it's travelling at escape velocity when it reaches the gravitating body. But like I said, there's a catch. Take a look at this by Einstein: 

See the second paragraph. The body falls down because the speed of light is spatially variable. If this continued unabated there would come a point where the body is falling faster than the speed of light at that location. But since matter can't faster than this the "coordinate" speed of light, the maximum speed it can fall is at the speed of light at that location. Which is circa half the speed of light at our location. 

I would say this: given that we don't know that Friedmann cosmology is correct, we might explain flatness as uniform density of the universe. 

It does just sit in space. And it causes gravity because it's a concentration of energy that "conditions" the surrounding space. It alters it, and this alteration diminishes with distance. Remember the stress-energy tensor, remember that stress is directional pressure, and think of matter as exerting an outward pressure in all directions in the surrounding space. Something like this: 

Not very. See the Wikipedia article on the speed of gravity which refers to dissent surrounding the claims made by Sergei Kopeikin and Edward Fomalont. The dissenters include Clifford M Will and Steve Carlip who are fairly well respected. The 2016 paper about the LIGO detection said the measured speed was less than 1.7c. The more recent paper by Neil Cornish and others said it was between 0.55c and 1.4c. This is not at all precise. Note that in seismology p waves and s waves travel at different speeds. So IMHO it wouldn't be unreasonable to expect different types of waves in space to travel at different speeds. As to whether one should expect light waves and gravitational waves to travel at exactly the same speed is a slightly different matter, complicated by the way a gravitational wave is thought to be a quadrupole wave. 

Image courtesy of the one-minute astronomer. The skin gets thinner and the balloon expands, then the skin gets even weaker, so the balloon expands even faster, and so on. Bubble-gum bubbles sometimes end badly, and there's something about this article by Phil Plait that strikes a chord. 

Light doesn't curve because spacetime is curved. Einstein never actually said that. It curves because the speed of light is lower at a lower altitude, rather like the way sonar waves curve: 

Because there's nothing much between them and us that interferes with the light that reaches our cameras. 

It's good to think for yourself, and it's good to wonder. But I have to say I think this idea is a non-starter. We have galaxies receding faster than light (see this paper). That means it's space expanding, not gravity pulling. 

By understanding general relativity. See the general relativity section of the PhysicsFAQ article: "Einstein talked about the speed of light changing in his new theory. In the English translation of his 1920 book "Relativity: the special and general theory" he wrote: "according to the general theory of relativity, the law of the constancy of the velocity [—Either Einstein or his translator obviously mean "speed" here, since velocity (a vector) is not in keeping with the rest of his sentence. People often say "velocity" when they clearly mean "speed".] of light in vacuo, which constitutes one of the two fundamental assumptions in the special theory of relativity [...] cannot claim any unlimited validity. A curvature of rays of light can only take place when the velocity [speed] of propagation of light varies with position." This difference in speeds is precisely that referred to above by ceiling and floor observers." 

Most people will be happy with the UC Berkeley definition that says homogeneous means "looks the same at every location" and isotropic means "looks the same in every direction". And some will know that as per Ned Wright's article, these attributes aren't quite the same: He says "the figure above shows a homogeneous but not isotropic pattern on the left and an isotropic but not homogeneous pattern on the right". However as far as I know pictures like this just don't apply to our universe scattered with galaxies. 

Image courtesy of William H. Kinney's Cosmology, inflation, and the physics of nothing See Wikipedia for more: "From the CMB data it is seen that the Local Group (the galaxy group that includes the Milky Way galaxy) appears to be moving at 627±22 km/s relative to the reference frame of the CMB (also called the CMB rest frame, or the frame of reference in which there is no motion through the CMB) in the direction of galactic longitude l = 276°±3°, b = 30°±3°.[82][83] This motion results in an anisotropy of the data (CMB appearing slightly warmer in the direction of movement than in the opposite direction).[84]" 627 km/s is quite fast. See this article, which says it's 1.3 million miles an hour. The speed of light is just under 300,000 km/s or 670 million miles per hour, so the Milky Way is moving through the Universe at circa 0.2% of the speed of light. Also see the CMBR physics answer by ghoppe which talks about the CMBR reference frame, which is in effect the reference frame of the universe. 

There's no problem with space expanding. Don't think of space as nothing, Einstein didn't, and nor do modern physicists such as Nobel prizewinner Robert B Laughlin. 

It doesn't. Gravity attracts things at all distances. It follows the inverse square rule. Some people like Mordehai Milgrom say it doesn't quite follow the inverse square law, see MOND. But he isn't saying it repels at large distance. 

We don't know for sure. Note in the paper on page 8 and 9 they talk about an off-axis GRB interpretation. It's possible that this is what happened. Or something else altogether. The tidal disruption idea looks like a good fit, but they don't know for certain. Anyway, have a look at the summary on page 12 for a nice round-up: "The tidal disruption scenario was explored by fitting the event to an amended version of the model presented in Guillochon et al. (2014). The TDE model yielded a good fit to the photometric and spectral evolution of the flare, with the highest-likelihood models suggesting a disruption of a solar-mass star by a black hole." 

It doesn't. It goes back as far as a very dense universe. The stuff you hear about a point singularity and creation ex-nihilo is popscience, not big bang cosmology. 

Reputable people have talked about black holes as baby universes but there's no supporting evidence whatsoever. My understanding of general relativity and cosmology is such that I think such hypotheses are flat out wrong. So I would say no, it is not possible. 

I don't think so. The early universe was said to be maelstrom. Hence I think information about the initial state got scrambled. 

They didn't actually observe a black hole choking on a star. What they saw was an optical transient. Something that looked like a supernova, but didn't fit the supernova pattern. So they think it was the disruption of a star by a black hole. 

The chronology projection conjecture is yet more speculation I'm afraid. It's superfluous because we don't actually move forward through time. Hence moving backwards through time is a non-starter. 

Absolute zero. That's because of the infinite gravitational time dilation. Temperature is a measure of motion of sorts. Gravitational time dilation means things are moving slower. When the gravitational time dilation goes infinite there is no motion, and so no temperature. This is why the black hole was originally known as the frozen star. See the 1939 paper by Robert Oppenheimer and Hartland Snyder on continued gravitational contraction. People often say this is outdated, see for example Brown’s mathpages article the formation and growth of black holes, but I don't think it is. I say that because I've read the Einstein digital papers, and I like to think I know how gravity works. Regardless of that, in 1972 Stephen Hawking, Brandon Carter, and Jim Bardeen wrote a paper and said "the effective temperature of a black hole is absolute zero”. Robert Wald said much the same in black hole physics: “κ has nothing whatever to do with the physical temperature of a black hole, which is absolute zero by any reasonable criteria”. Note that Hawking radiation is nothing to do with the temperature inside a black hole.