This is how a pivot looks like when I apply it to my sample data. This is basically the format that I want, however I want to get rid of the nulls. I need the columns to just 'independently' list the items, like so 

'Total' row is grey, the rest is white. I want to be able to change the color of expanded Category row to light grey, but only when it is expanded, to distinguish between item entries, total for the category and total for all categories. So the final effect would be: 

I'm creating a report where a user will be able to filter the items by colour, category and some other attributes, and then it should simply list items that fit my parameters in separate category columns. I also don't know how many categories the user will chose and thus I don't know how many columns my report should have. 

Yes, that is how we need to roll out patches in the sql cluster with minimum downtime. The downtime will be during the failover part. Process: 

Since the recent patch where TLS 1.0 was disabled and 1.1, 1.2 Enabled , we are having issues where the SSRS in the server cannot make connections to the Database server. 

It depends on what your needs are. Re-organize is a light weighed operation ,generated lesser logs and always an Online operation. While rebuild is online only for the Enterprise edition of SQL Server and is more heavy operation. 

As per Microsoft, having same service account is the prerequisite : All server instances that host an availability replica for the availability group must use the same SQL Server service account. The domain administrator needs to manually register a Service Principal Name (SPN) with Active Directory on the SQL Server service account for the virtual network name (VNN) of the availability group listener. If the SPN is registered on an account other than the SQL Server service account, authentication will fail. $URL$ 

But he was describing SSRS 2005 behaviour. I tried this in 2014 - it seems it no longer works. The Inscope function evaluates to true if the field is part of a group, and false otherwise. Toggling seems to have no effect. So guys, any ideas? 

Apparently there is a textbox.ToggleState property, as shown here $URL$ However I do not think it is exposed. ReportItems!name only gives access to the .Value property I have found this answer on msdn forums 

Since there was no items from the XX category in my sample dataset, the column is not there. The rest gets 'aggregated'. Okay so this brings me to my main question. Or questions, rather, I think I have two. 1) I am new to SQL and I'm still learning so correct me if I'm wrong, but am I right to think that this is simply a task that 'should not be performed' in relational databases? I feel like this is going against the core rule, that one row is one piece of data, one entry. Here my one row becomes three (or more/less) pieces of data, and there is no explicit relation to between them. I previously had to make a report where I displayed two items side by side, the user could pick a shop for the left side, another shop for the right side and see the best selling items from the 'left group' and the best selling items from the 'right group'. So I simply joined the two groups by ROW_NUMBER generated ranking and my data changed from 'one item per entry' to 'Nth posixtion in chosen shops per entry'. That made sense. This here doesn't, at least to my current understanding. But that brings me to my second question: 2)They still want me to do it. How do I? So far I have thought of two possible solutions. One is I pick categories separately, then I join them together based on some kind of ROW_NUMBER, to assure one-to-one relationship (I don't really care about ordering) So if my desired categories were 'OD', 'AL', 'UT', I'd take take them out with 3 separate queries like so 

This is how SQL Server works and there are limitations to make it perform better as the Page limit is 8KB for all versions of sql server. Pasting something from msdn that will be helpful : $URL$ Row-Overflow Data Exceeding 8 KB A table can contain a maximum of 8,060 bytes per row. In SQL Server 2008, this restriction is relaxed for tables that contain varchar, nvarchar, varbinary, sql_variant, or CLR user-defined type columns. The length of each one of these columns must still fall within the limit of 8,000 bytes; however, their combined widths can exceed the 8,060-byte limit. This applies to varchar, nvarchar, varbinary, sql_variant, or CLR user-defined type columns when they are created and modified, and also to when data is updated or inserted. 

Patch the passive node first. Move the resources to the passive node.(This will become active now) Patch the current passive node.(It was originally active). 

So the row number 1 is labeled '1' because it's the first value for 'OD' it encountered. Row 2 is labeled '1' as well because it's the first falue for 'AL' it encountered. That way row number 4 is labeled '2' and row number 5 is labeled '3' because it's the second and third value for 'OD' column respectively. And then row number 6 is labeled '2' again because it's the second value for the 'AL' column. That way I could use MAX() function and group by those assigned numbers. All the rows assigned 1 will get aggregated to one row, all the rows assigned 2 will be aggregated to another row etc. I am certain that there will aways be one item per row in my pivot, because an item cannot be of two categories. I also feel like that solution would be much easier to do in a dynamic way (unknown number of columns - categories chosen) but I cannot figure out how to get such a numbering and if that is even possible. Looking forward to your answers guys, I'm stuck! 

Yes you can do that. Before hand make the log reader job disabled. This will make sure the jobs are not looking for the database. For more clarity look at the below link : MSDN : Replication and Single user Mode 

All you have mentioned should be fine. Just remember to script out the replication before doing this as a backup. 

Now you need to remove the parameters : @CurrentDatabaseNameFS and UPPER(@CurrentBackupType). This will create all your backups to a single location as below 

Other than Logins,Agent Jobs,Triggers and already mentioned points by Max, these 2 can also be looked upon. 

Try making the db to Multi-User from the GUI and not via script in query window.Also run sp_who2 and try to terminate the connection which is accessing the database now. Once the database is accessible to all users, it will not throw the error you have mentioned. 

The above answer from @kin is perfect. If at all you are looking for a script that you can use to backup your desired databases then use the below query. I have been using it to configure backup for Express Editions. Here is the query,i have edited the script accordingly,