At the very least, there is no inherent harm in continuing. The pain could serve as a distraction, and some people feel that it impacts their performance, but it will not injure you to carry on. 

The question as to whether it is "worthwhile" is very subjective. As for safety issues and how to mollify them: 

The 48 hour figure is to allow your muscles to recover. As noted by brentwpeterson above, this can involve different parts of your body. This is specifically for recovering from the exercise itself, so your activities outside of the gym don't really apply. Sitting at the computer for 8 hours at a stretch isn't going to rebuild your muscles faster (actually, if you can, try to get up at least once an hour and take a short walk and/or stretch. I personally do it between cups of coffee or refilling my water bottle at work). On a side note, the 48-72 hour rest is, I believe, partially predicated on workouts that nearly exhaust your muscles. Lighter activity in the gym can be done on a daily basis, but that's more for maintenance, not for gains. Less intensive activities such as moderate cardio and calisthenics or "greasing the groove" (you'll see the term for a number of activities from weightlifting to calisthenics to stretching and basically refers to doing a few reps when you have a spare moment, not even enough to break a sweat, but enough to get you in the habit of exercising) won't require that sort of rest period, but you will want it for something more intensive. 

Handstand with your legs on a chair or bed - Many people can skip this part, but it's important if you don't have enough arm strength to hold your bodyweight yet. With your feet on a bed, chair, or other raised platform of hip height or higher, hold yourself up in a handstand position. Try to get your torso vertical and everything from hips to chest to shoulders stacked over your hands. Handstand against a wall - This can be built up to from the prior step, elevating your feet higher in the air until they're practically vertical. A common method involves facing away from the wall, putting your hands on the ground, and "walking" your feet up the wall, adjusting your hands to get closer to the wall, until you're vertical. Alternately, you can put your hands on the ground and kick up into the handstand. The former is more controlled and less likely to damage interior walls. The latter will start teaching you to kick up into a handstand. Now, you're going to start kicking up into the handstand. This can be the scariest part for people because they're afraid of falling over and hurting themselves, particularly if their feet overbalance forwards. The best trick here is the one-handed handstand escape. If you're in a handstand, and you lift one hand, you will naturally rotate to land on your feet. That solves 90% of the problems, but I would also recommend starting on grass or carpet at first just in case you panic and forget. I have been taught two different ways to learn to go up into a handstand at the start and different people prefer one or the other. The first is to put one foot in front of the other, lean forward, put your hands on the ground, and kick up one leg while jumping up with the other, then trying to bring your feet together. You may notice that this is the same technique you may have used to kick up into the wall in the prior step. It's slightly unbalanced since one leg is going up first, but most people seem to find it easiest. The other is to start in a squat, put your hands on the ground, then lean forward and kick upwards into the handstand. Either way, your two main methods for maintaining your balance are leg position (try to get them above you, or slightly past your head, and you'll probably want to start with straight legs) and your hands (pushing with your fingers or the heel of your hand depending on which direction you're tipping). Really, from there, it's just a matter of continued practice. 

I believe you're talking about retinal detachment and the possible link to high exertion. Yes, it is possible. Lifting heavy weights, particularly if using the Valsalva maneuver, holding your breath to increase your lift. Basically, it increases overall blood pressure, which includes ocular pressure. High pressure in the eyes is linked to retinal detachment, glaucoma, and "floaters" in your vision. This is supported by "Occupational Lifting Tasks and Retinal Detachment in Non-Myopics and Myopics: Extended Analysis of a Case-Control Study", which concluded that there does seem to be a link. 

According to Dr. Jos Verbeek of The Finnish Institute of Occupational Health, "What we actually found is that most of it is, very much, just fashionable and not proven good for your health." 

There are about 13 of these variations at the article I linked, but essentially, the idea is to learn to engage your core as you through positions rather than training it in a static position. I personally hold my plank for a minute and a half, and then move through these variations, as I feel the static strength is also important, plus I feel like I get more benefit by fatiguing those muscles first with static position, then stretching them out with dynamic movement. 

I personally wrap a scarf for a ski mask around my face and I breathe through that for as long as I can. Eventually, after about an hour or so, enough moisture will have built up (and, if it's cold enough, this moisture has started freezing) that I have to lower the mask, but that's usually enough for me. The worse problem I have is dealing with my glasses fogging up from the exhaled heat and moisture trapped in the mask... 

Extra wear on the heel may suggest overstriding and the edge wear suggests that you may not be rotating your foot enough. Although, are these your running shoes? They look more like leather business casual. If you have a picture of the front, it would let us know whether the wear on the heels is simply emblematic of general wear, although the wears on the back suggest either the overstriding or a tendency to shed your shoes by pushing down on the back with the opposite foot. Either way, it looks like you're essentially a) overstriding such that the heel is taking a lot more of the impact and b) rolling your feet inwards such that it's wearing more at an angle. 

When going up a staircase at work, I recently realized that my heel barely ever touched the surface of the stairs. At first, I dismissed it, figuring that it just made sense to put the entire foot on the stairs, particularly since I have fairly large feet for my size and not all stairs are deep enough that I can get my whole foot on them. I also think that I probably got into the habit when I had to scale stairs quickly in middle-school (three floor building with limited time in between classes) and was essentially launching myself up the steps, and landing on the ball of my feet let me absorb the impact better. However, with my current stride, I feel like my feet are remaining flexed out at all times, knees bent, such that there isn't any shock absorption going on. Is this an inefficient way to climb stairs? Is it potentially harmful if I continue doing it? On a side note, I've also found that lately, when climbing stairs more slowly, I find it easier to turn a bit sideways so that my feet are angled on the stairs. It feels more stable. Raising my knees directly in front of me to mount the treads makes me feel like it's disrupting my balance backwards. Could this be related? 

Have a friend quietly count the pushups for you and not stop you until you hit 25. Do your best to not think about the numbers. Instead, concentrate on feeling the technique, focusing on your muscles and your breathing. Promise yourself a reward if you just hit that goal. When you go to your position, think "OK, the goal is 25, exactly 25, and if I can hit that, I'll let myself watch that next episode of Game of Thrones". It doesn't even matter if you actually give yourself that reward, but just holding it out there gives you that additional bit of motivation you need. I do it all the time when running. I feel like I can't go any further and I tell myself that it's just until I hit the next stop sign, then I'll walk. Half the time, I keep going after that stop sign because I'm not as tired as I thought I was. Just proving to yourself that you can hit that mark can be enough to break through. 

Fundamentally, this is a matter of that yoga is fundamentally a combination of exercise and relaxation. Moving into, and through, the poses exercises your body because it has to work to maintain the positions, countering the forces of gravity on your body. Thus, your muscles, including your shoulders in any pose where you're supporting your weight on your arms, will tense during the poses and their transitions. However, part of the point of yoga is relaxation, and far too many of us carry tension in our shoulders, so they specifically encourage people to release tension there. This also has the potential benefit of getting people to use their entire body to support themselves in the poses rather than putting the stress on a few overused joints. In addition, although this may just be my personal experience, if you're supporting yourself in a position with your arms, you're often in a situation where a good bit of your bodyweight is pushing your upper body and head toward the floor. If your shoulder cramps up, the resultant spill could cause additional injury between your head potentially striking the floor and the contortions you automatically go into on your already-stressed shoulder to prevent the fall can screw that part of your body up too. Yoga is not an injury-free exercise, even when you're under proper guidance and respecting your body's limits. 

The difference between the two is which part of your body is lifting. In a back extension, you're lifting your torso off the surface of where you are lying. In a glute extension, you are lifting the legs up. However, this does not seem to entirely match what you are describing above, so since you mention keeping your back on the bench, I'll assume you're doing this supine rather than prone, which would correspond more to a leg lift. As regards rounding of the back, I think you're confusing a rounded back with a flat back. The latter is what you're aiming for. 

As per my earlier comment, I have not found a good source for this information, but I feel comfortable enough from my own experimentation to provide it as an answer. The exercise involves you bending your knee past a standing dowel rod, presumably to give you a goal distance, past just vertical, but not too far to avoid strain on your knee. Due to the physical presence of the rod, you are unlikely to have your knee directly centered over your ankle (your knee generally being wider than your foot or ankle), so you're going to wind up with your knee either pointed a little bit inwards or a little bit out. The hip joint is built to more readily allow the hip to rotate outwards (as per a sumo squat), which means your connective tissue is better able to sustain your weight as you lean forward. Compare to you having your knee move even a little bit inwards, which is a much more awkward position. So, in short, I think this is a case where it has less to do with your ankle (which is what you're exercising), and more to do with your knee (which is still bearing a fair amount of your body weight). You could probably adjust the location of the dowel to ensure that your knee is centered over your ankle, but you're better off going to the outside to err on the side of caution. Probably irrelevant to this exercise, I do Capoeira, and we're taught to always point the knee a little outwards, but that's primarily so that, if someone kicks or stomps that leg, you can just open up your hips and collapse to the floor rather than suffer a blown knee. 

Terminology used on the Stronglifts.com wiki entry on the Overhead Press, consistently refers to it as "Shrug your shoulders to the ceiling." That suggests that it is indeed the shoulders, and the image looks like it takes the shoulder up towards the neck: 

I don't know if this is something idiosyncratic or just something that everyone deals with, but I have a difficult time breathing when my diaphragm is compressed, such as when I'm crouching (which makes things a good bit more difficult for Capoeira) or when I'm bent over as in a pike stretch or doing the yoga plough position. I get a lesser effect when in a deep lunge. I think that what's happening is that, in those situations, my legs are pressing into my diaphragm, compromising how well it can work, but the best I can manage is shallow breathing, not exactly conducive to remaining long in the position, particularly since I have a hard time shaking the idea that I'm just not getting enough oxygen. Are there any tricks to improving this other than just continuing to do these exercises and hoping that my body catches on that it needs to adapt? I'm in reasonable shape for someone in a sedentary position. I can climb several flights of stairs at a brisk pace without losing my breath and I have not tested positive for exercise-induced asthma. 

The people at ParkourEDU got back to me. Indeed, this is the opposite of a scorpion, where you're falling on your back with forward momentum such that you're landing on your back to the top of your head with your legs flopping forward and up. They also sent me a video of Ryan Ford falling into a suitcase as a result of a foam block slipping out from under his feet during a flip routine. It also makes sense in the context of it being mentioned in the context of a peel-out, since that provides the perfect storm of forward momentum and backwards rotation. 

Some people have suggested the shovelglove workout (I'm not affiliated with the guy, but his webpage looks to be the best description I've found). It's basically the sledgehammer workout without actually hitting anything. Alternately, if you do want to be hitting something (and have room in your apartment to do so despite not having room for a tire), people have suggested a roll of old carpet, which they also say is quieter. If you have a Habitat for Humanity ReStore in your area, they usually sell rolls of carpet very cheaply.