The question is whether the observed reliability of the content of our cognitive faculties is likely to be true given a belief that this content is only the result of some neural process of the brain, in other words, given a belief in semantic epiphenomenalism which would justify determinism. If one can show that the content of our cognitive faculties are more likely true than they should be assuming semantic epiphenomenalism that would provide empirical evidence against such epiphenomenalism. Here are the specific questions: 

One place to look for an answer to this is in Stephen E. Toulmin’s The Uses of Argument, last updated in 2003, Cambridge University Press. Toulmin recognizes that there has been a difference between logic and epistemology. Logic has been concerned with analytic issues where standards of entailment predominate while epistemology has a broader reach trying to justify substantial assertions using field-specific standards. His view of how things should be is pertinent to your question: (page 234) 

Indeterminism offers two things to those promoting free will. First, it shows that there are situations where alternate paths exist as potentials. Second, it shows that one of those paths is actualized without having physical explanation. This actualization from a set of potentials can be interpreted as free choice. That this occurs at the quantum level suggests we should expect to see it elsewhere as well. Shimon Malin explores the collapse of the wave function relating it to the philosophies of Whitehead, Schrodinger, Heisenberg and Plotinus in his book “Nature Loves to Hide”. If we consider that the reality we objectify as natural laws is alive, seeing these laws as deterministic may be inappropriate. Laws of physics viewed through the idea of Plotinus’s “Nous” may well be compatible with free will. Code calling a random number generator to add indeterminacy is not what is observed in nature. This abstraction has value in a computer context, but not outside that context. To associate it with what is happening in nature is an example of what Whitehead calls the “fallacy of misplaced concreteness” also discussed by Malin. It is possible that determinism exists only in machines that agents create and program. 

The specifics of your proof will depend on how exactly the prooof system you are working with has defined the rules. Here are the proofs for 1), 2), 3), and 4) using the Fitch proof system as defined in Language, Proof, and Logic (this is a book and software package): 

It can be constructed as the logical fallacy of Affirming the Consequent: If P then Q Q Therefore P In this case: If you are an X, then you hold belief B You hold belief B Therefore, you are an X 

For b): Assuming you cannot have an empty domain (otherwise, all sentences would be vacuously true, and thus true in a finite domain after all), you need at least one object. This object needs to relate to something, but that something cannot be itself, so you need a second object b. b needs to relate to something as well, but that cannot be b itself, and also not a, otherwise by transitivity b relates to b after all. So, b needs to relate to an object c. Etc. And to make that 'Etc.' a little more hard: Note that any model can never have a cycle of aRb, bRc, cRd, ... yRz, zRa, for once you have such a cycle, then by transitivity, all opjects in that cycle end up relating to each other, including themselves, thus contradicting irreflexivity. But if there is no cycle in your structure, then it is possible to 'line' up all objects from 'left' to 'right', such that any R relation goes from 'left' to 'right' as well. But with a finite number of objects, that means that you end up with a 'rightmost' element ... which therefore does not relate to anything, and that contradicts the ∀x∃yRxy So, you can indeed not have any finite model For c) No, you can't just negate the statement to force a finite model. We showed that in order to satisfy the sentences, we need an infinite domain, but all that that means is that in a finite domain, the negation of the statement is indeed true. However, that does not rule out having infinite domains where the negation is also true. Indeed, it is easy to create an infinite model of the negation: just have infinitely many objects, and have them all relate to each other (i.e. define R to be reflexive) 

But "reality" here is meant as the kind of reality we can understand - the reality of observables. Physics does postulate that something behind that might be said to "exist" - the wavefunction. But the use of the word "exist" in this context is problematic. I mean, we can kind of conceptualise Schrodinger's cat... but that's not supposed to teach us about cats, but rather get us thinking about the kind of thing the cat is entangled with. What is it? We cant seem to ascribe reality to it. And at that point, I think it's kind of wide open. You could think of it as Kant's noumenon. Might as well say it's calculations in the mind of god. Or you can just leave it as the wavefunction. Could even call it nothing. It's all equally non-sense, in a way. So I think modern physics can be seen to reinforce Berkeley's idealism, not undermine it. Where Newtonian physics seemed to close a lot of doors, quantum physics seems to open them.... and at those extremities, one is so lost.. the choice of how to view existence seems more an aesthetic choice than a scientific one... and maybe an aesthetic choice at the boundaries can be said to be a religious one. 

I think it is because we are black and white thinkers. That is, we say to ourselves: if we can't prove things with certainty, then, well, every belief is just as 'true' as any other. So, yes, if no logic and objectivity ... then chaos and total subjectivity. ... which is of course a false dilemma brought on by our need to see things in simplistic black or white terms. Indeed, many of us go through these phases as we grow up: first we think that there are clear answers to everything (our elementary and high school teachers certainly make things out to be that way!). Then, we get to college, and our professors suddenly ask us a few questions ... and we revert to claiming things like: "We can't know anything! Everything is relative!". Of course, this move, from 'everything is black and white' to 'everything is equally gray' is still a black and white move. But that phase, fortunately, will pass too: we recognize that while in science we can't prove general principles with 100% certainty, we can nevertheless show that some theories are much more likely than others. And as you say, we are typically quite pragmatic about things in day to day life, thank goodness: we know that cats are fluffy, jumping off cliffs without a parachute is a bad idea, and salad shooters serve little purpose. 

I don't know about Russell, but with Chalmers, I think his position as a dualist arises from his thinking about consciousness. Purely physicalist accounts of existence don't seem able to account for "qualia" - the subjective feeling that accompanies consciousness. Wikipedia tells me it was in a paper titled "Facing up to the problem of consciousness", and that his formulation came to be known as the Hard problem of consciousness. But that alone I don't think is sufficient for a modern philosopher to 'come out', so to speak, as a dualist. Quantum mechanics I think is the other factor. According to the theory, and contrary to common misunderstandings, quantum states (wave functions) evolve in a deterministic way, described by the Schrodinger equation. These are superposed states and not "states" in the usual sense of the word - they're not observables. The transition to an observable involves a measurement event, and that produces a probabilistic outcome of observables from the superposed state. Chalmers has said of this that there's no consensus on what a measurement event is. A purely physical interaction with a measuring device is problematic, as that evolves as just another superposed state. What seems sufficient (but perhaps not necessary) is observation by a conscious observer. He adds: 

First of all: "You drive, therefore you use fossil fuels" is not a fallacy in and of itself. But, in the larger context of this debate on climate change, when Mr.B offers this as a criticism of Mr.A's position on climate change, it is indeed a fallacy. That is, Mr. B is implicitly arguing: "You are saying that in order to mitigate climate change, we should limit our use of fossil fuels ... and yet here you are driving a car! So why should we listen to you? You're a hypocrite, and thus you're wrong!" Well, that's a combination of inconsistency ad hominem and perfectionist fallacy. It's like: "how come you're telling us to become vegetarians when you're still wearing leather shoes!" That is, until the person is somehow perfectly living out their convictions, then somehow their convictions are mistaken ... which is a fallacy in two ways: First, the suggestion is that one should either act perfectly on their convictions or else there is no point to their convictions at all. That's like saying: either this gun control policy erases all forms of gun violence, or there is no point to it. That's a perfectionist fallacy (a form of false dilemma), since doing something can still be better than doing nothing at all. In this particular case, it is pretty much impossible (certainly given the currently existing societal infrastructures) to live in a way that completely avoids the use of fossil fuels, but that of course does not mean that one shouldn't even try to limit one's use of fossil fuels at all. Second, even if one would somehow be able to completely avoid the use of fossil fuels, then the fact that this person doesn't do that doesn't mean that this person's belief that limiting the use of fossil fuels as much as possible is wrong. That's the inconsistency ad hominem: the person is seen as being inconsistent and hypocritical in not practicing what they preach, but that does not mean that what they preach is wrong. The pot calling the kettle black is not wrong in calling the kettle black just because the pot itself is black ... the pot can be perfectly correct in calling the kettle black and is fully allowed to call the kettle black. 

All arguments which turn on observations of some regularity (i.e. appeals to the outside world) and projects them into the future are going to be inductive in nature. When you say "any alternative method", I still think you're thinking of induction - you're thinking of past observations of the world projected into the future. If an argument is made using deduction, it is qualitatively different from an inductive argument. Deductive arguments turn on definitions and what is, and as long as you know what the words mean and what is, you can judge the validity of the argument. Induction seems to require one to accept without any other assurance that what happened today will also happen tomorrow. Induction as a problem I think catches people's attention because it seems to mirror the scientific method (observations of the world), but it seems invalid! I've been a bit perplexed about the "problem" of induction. To me, when we make a statement saying that all swans are white, we're not so much making a statement about the world, as we are making a statement about our (my personal view, or the collective wisdom on the matter) understanding of the concept "swan". When we actually find a black swan, we update our notes on the concept "swan". If there actually is a black swan, but nobody has seen it, and therefore the concept "swan" still allows no black members, then the statement "all swans are white" is true, as long as we acknowledge that by "swan" we mean our concept "swan" - which is what I think we are doing when we're speaking: we're weaving together our concepts, not weaving together entities in the world. So we find a black swan, and we update our concept of swans. Before we found a black swan, all swans were white - I would call that true. After we found a black swan, swans are either black or white - I would call that true too. I don't think there's a contradiction there, nor do I think there's some inductive 'leap' going on. 

Now, to get that disjunction, we'll do a proof by Contradiction. Why? Because if you think conceptually about this problem: we know that every object equals either a or b (or both, since a and b may be the same object). So, we know that there are at most two objects in the domain. Therefore, the conclusion makes sense: if there are two different objects c and d, then everything must equal either the one or the other. OK, but how to prove that? Well, take any object e. We know e equals a or b or both. Now, typically, when you go from a disjunction P v Q to a disjunction R v S, you can trace one of the disjunct you want (R) to one of the disjuncts you have (say, Q), while the other disjunct you want (S) comes from the other one you have (P). So, you can do a Proof by cases (v Elim) to do this. But here, that strategy is not going to work: if e = a, can we say that e = c? No. Nor that e = d. Yes, it definitely has to be one or the other, but we just can't tell which one. OK, so a direct Proof by Cases is not going to work. Well, in that case use the other common strategy to prove disjunction: Proof by Contradiction: 

I get the sense that the later Wittgenstein and the ordinary language philosophers are of this school. They're not designing litmus tests of dreaming (private language), or "proving" that the fact of language means that we cant be dreaming, but to reveal those questions as absurd, and to bring us back to a position where thoughts of skepticism about other minds etc don't arise. The quotes are taken from a pseudonymous work of his, Concluding Unscientific Postscript, extract from Kierkegaard, Søren. The Essential Kierkegaard. Edited by Howard Vincent Hong and Edna Hatlestad Hong. Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 2000. pp. 221-222 

"subjected by reflection" I think means that the state of belonging in all things to an abstraction is caused by reflection (theoretical thinking). I don't think there's any philosophical import there... just the usual sense of the word "subjected". On "reflection", I got the sense in Kierkegaard that the concept is simple, but it's hard to discern because we're so embedded in that mode of thinking, rather than "reflection" in itself being a complicated concept. 

I think Cavell's criticism can be readily applied to this question. How much of philosophy is wisdom, and how much of it is an aversion to ordinary categories - a sense that, like physics, human understanding can and must be broken down to atoms and its boundaries and mechanisms worked out for us not to be made fools - fools to religion, fools to superstition, fools to ignorance? We're driven to dissect, and by dissecting we kill it. Ever noticed how whenever you hear "philosophy of", the meaning of the noun that follows tends to disappear into obscurity? Epistemology is a rumination on knowledge by one struggling to, but never genuinely succeeding in, overcoming a denial of knowledge. The quote is from Stanly Cavell's essay "Must we mean what we say?"