Those 'rules' are really too strong. People are constantly creatively changing how they use their languages, and every minute 'microdialects' form. The new senses people start using will always have some context, and the new senses will usually be related to one of the old senses, though it might be hard to see just how. One way a new sense could begin would be an inside joke some friends share. One word will make them think of the funny situation, but then later they might start using other words. Word X makes them think of word Y which makes them think of word Z which makes them think of the original joke. X is similar to Y which is similar to Z which is similar to the joke, but to everyone else X wouldn't seem like it had anything to do with the joke at all. These little microdialects will exist between friends and families everywhere. Occasionally one new sense becomes very popular and will spread throughout the whole community. The internet is a really interesting place to watch that happen. Urban Dictionary lets you see the new senses people on the other side of the world are developing, while Know Your Meme shows 'search interest' graphs which show you when a term gained prominence on the net. An English example is the word awful. It is clearly derived from the word awe, and originally was an adjective that meant the thing inspired a lot of awe. I don't know the history of the word, but I'd assume that with other words like wonderful and beautiful and impressive the word awful gradually begun to be used only in negative contexts. This pejoration meant that the word now is specifically negative. At the same time awe became more positive, so that it now seems very odd for the words to be related. 

No. All it shows is that the two phonemes /d/ and /t/ have overlapping allophones. Minimal pairs such as /dip/ and /tip/ show that they are still distinct phonemes. 

Teach could be analysed as a non-homogeneous activity comprising the accomplishments explain, demonstrate etc. 

It is often said that Japanese doesn't really have a pronoun word class, such as in the Wikipedia article on Japanese Grammar: 

Just inflection. Conjugate is a verb which means specifically inflecting verbs, and decline for nouns, but neither of those words are needed when you can just say inflect and inflection. 

Evidentiality is very closely related to modality. It isn't related to aspect. But, morphemes very often combine multiple meanings, and they can form paradigms with semantically unrelated morphemes. I don't know much about Turkish, but Wikipedia calls -miş a 'inferential perfective'. It describes it as 

These suffixes are also used as object markers on verbs, to mark agreement on adjectival nouns, and the third person markers are also used to mark definiteness. This means that almost every word can end in -na, and in practice probably half of them do! (This data is my personal research, which has not yet been published.) 

The Minimalist Program has to be compared to previous models in the generative approach to Grammar. Government and Binding was an earlier theory developed by Chomsky which had several sub-theories such as Case Theory for assigning cases to nominals, Binding Theory to deal with anaphors, Control Theory to deal with implied nominals, Bounding Theory to deal with wh-movement, and I'm sure there are more. They were treated somewhat independently, and each had various rules and exceptions. The Minimalist Program proposed that there was a single model of syntax which could replace all of those earlier theories. Morphemes are assigned to syntactic nodes through generic rules that aren't limited to a particular area of grammar. Rather than needing detailed and exception-ridden rules, morphemes are placed and moved as short a distance as possible. In order to do this a lot more syntactic structures are proposed, often each expressing a single semantic feature. The idea is that each morpheme will absorb a lot of syntactic structures in a predictable way. So the minimalism isn't refering to the syntactic structures (which are rather the opposite of minimalistic), but how morphemes are assigned to those. As all theories do it has pros and cons. I'd certainly prefer it to Government and Binding, but I'd prefer Distributed Morphology or possibly even a non-generative approach to the Minimalist Program. 

I think it would not help at all, and could potentially harm your understanding of your primary language. This is because languages are always changing. If you tried to improve your primary language vocabulary through learning one of those ancestral languages you would very frequently be tricked by these phenomena: 

I is one of the Semantic Primes of the Natural Semantic Metalanguage. Though NSM researchers have not considered every language in existence, they have studied languages from every large family (and if a language truly did not have this prime it would be one of the more obvious ones,) so I'd consider this decent evidence that this is something every language will have. Note that the primes may be represented by affixes or phrases rather than just single words. 

If you're wanting a term which will refer to the set of words which are related through current derivational processes and have a current shared meaning, then these related words could be said to be part of a word family. 

There are two possible situations I can think of, and how you'd gloss it depends on which situation it is. The language has both locative and genitive cases, but for this word the allomorphs happen to be the same: if you can determine from context which case it is, then simply gloss it as that case. If you can't, then make a guess and note the ambiguity in a footnote. The language has one case with both locative and genitive meanings: decide what you think is the prototypical meaning and gloss it as that. Then in your discussion of the cases explain the range of meanings it conveys. I'd probably go for the genitive in this case because in many languages it's already so diverse. Or label it Case #3. No need to confuse more people with counter-intuitive case names!