Standard caveat - I'm not a lawyer and therefore can't even begin to advise on any potential legal outcomes (speak to a lawyer or ask on Law.SE if you need any guidance there). It's a very, very tricky situation - anything that carries even the barest whiff of religious discrimination in the UK is a minefield of potential HR and legal issues. The way to handle this is (as Joe Strazze points out in his comment) is to avoid any speculation or supposition as to the causes of his poor performance. When you have the review focus purely on the objective results that his work is producing over the the greater time period and what can be done to resolve these issues. Do NOT mention Ramadan or fasting or lack of sleep or anything along those lines. If the employee comes back with his observation of Ramadan as being the reason for the issues you can use any evidence from previous non-Ramadan reviews so make it clear that this is an issue that is nothing to do with Ramadan and has been a problem for a while. In fact wherever possible avoid making any references to decreased productivity during the time period of Ramadan as there is legal precedent that such comments are direct religious discrimination (e.g. Bhatti and another v Pontiac Coils Europe Ltd) 

Sometimes yes it's a polite blow off, but othertimes it is exactly what it says on the tin. I have to say though that following up every 3 months is excessive and far more likely to sour a contact on you rather than help. 6 months is the minimum time I'd leave between contacts and even then only if you actually have something new and worthwhile to add such as new experience or qualifications. 

By not pushing back on these (frankly unreasonable) requests you are actually perpetuating the problem - the "habit" as you call it has persisted for nearly four years at least in part because you allow it to. Pushing back doesn't need to be done harshly or in a confrontational manner - when you get a request after hours you can reply back that you will get started on that first thing in the morning when you are back in work. This subtly points out what should be obvious - that you are no longer at work and therefore are no longer working. But you aren't saying "no" or refusing to work on the task - but instead you are accepting the assignment and agreeing to work on it as soon as is reasonable. The e-mails that come in at midnight I would handle slightly differently - ignore them until the morning. Then you can send a reply similar to the sort of thing I mentioned above but saying something like "I'll get started on this as soon as I get in" If your employer is decent at a basic level they will accept this - it may take a few times for them to come around to it given the ingrained nature of the culture at this stage but they should come around. If they don't then start job hunting because abusive employers like that, while thankfully in the minority, don't change and you don't want to be working for them anyway. 

Not me personally but I've heard of a few instances of similar length deadlines anecdotally so I'd say that it's unusual but not unheard of. 

I'm sure you don't need me to tell you that raising it may backfire on you slightly if your coworker is a jerk (I'm not saying that's fair but then life rarely is) but if they respond badly to it then that probably tells you that you don't really want to be working with this person anyway. 

I've had quite a few candidates try this drip-drip-drip method and I wonder who on earth is advising so many people to do this, it's incredibly annoying and tends to make me think the candidate is the sort of person who keeps asking the same question over and over until they get the answer they want, and that's definitely not the sort of person I'd ever want to hire! 

Helping before you receive help is nice but non-essential in my opinion. The more important thing is a genuine willingness to reciprocate the gesture. So at the risk of stating the obvious.. ask him. There may be ancillary tasks in his department that he might need help with that you can do or there may be something in the future where he needs your skills. Either way or even if there is nothing you can actually do to help he'll probably appreciate the offer regardless. 

Assuming the release schedule can be salvaged without too significant a cost to the business and your track record is otherwise very good with this incident being out of character then you might survive it but I expect it would take quite some time of you being whiter than white to rebuild the organisation's trust in you. Good luck! 

Carry on as you are - this doesn't really resolve the situation you are facing and there will likely be impacts on progression - promotions etc as well as more of what you are currently experiencing. As you've already seen people do notice this behaviour and, often, view it negatively. I'm not saying they are right or that it's fair, far from it but it is the reality. But I do think your colleague was over the top in their "surviving" comment and particularly in the software industry as long as your work communication is good (which you have indicated it is) then it really isn't that big a deal. You aren't obligated to make small talk or social chit-chat. Fake it - As much as I loathe this suggestion on prinicple it is often the path of least resistance and this is what many people do. You've probably even seen people doing this without realising it far more often then you would think, and as with many other "soft skills" it will help with people's perception about you in the work place and this often matters just as much as (sometimes even more than) the quality of your actual work. It's not without it's drawbacks though - as this sort of interaction doesn't come naturally to you it will require effort for you to do and over time this can become exhausting unless you compensate for it by giving yourself some additional proper "introverted" time to decompress. 

This ruling was subsequently reversed by the Grand Chamber of the ECHR earlier this year, not because the company wasn't allowed to read the personal information but rather that they had intruded further into the man's personal life than was necessary to satisfy their business need and that they had failed to notify him in advance that his communications may be monitored. Basically they had failed to correctly follow procedure. TL;DR - Depending on where you are access to personal files and data may be protected, access to the entire computer is not. 

NB: I understand and sympathize with the reasons you are looking to make your potential employers and colleagues aware of your ASD but from my own experiences I think you are asking for a world of hurt by doing so. That said you have stated that you have made your decision so I'm going to respect that in my answer. The earliest I would say anything about it is after they have made an offer as you know by then that they are sufficiently interested in working with you. I'm not familiar with hiring discrimination laws in Denmark but I'd presume they have something similar to the UK or the US where it would be illegal not to hire you on the basis of your ASD alone. That being the case employers do have something of a get-out-of-jail-free card at the pre-offer stage. They can simply not offer you the job and not mention that it's anything to do with the ASD, it's not fair but it happens. So if you'd like them to be able to make accommodations for you from day one but don't want it to affect the hiring decision then this still gives them enough lead time to do so, including discussing with you how you'd like to be accommodated but minimizes the chances of them running a mile at the mere mention of it. It also gives them time to actually get a sense of what interacting with you is like in a non-prejudiced way - ASD is generally poorly understood by Neurotypical people, all too often their only ideas of what ASD people are like is having watched Rain Man or maybe reading about some of the more extreme examples where people are non-verbal etc. So giving them a chance to know you the individual is immensely valuable. 

This will probably get closed as a duplicate since it's probably been largely covered by the linked questions (it's not far off a combination of this and this) but I'll try and cover the aspects of your situation that they don't quite address: 

In my experience company car benefits like this are generally expressed in terms of a monthly lease cost rather than the retail price of the car. So if lease costs have risen between the company signing up for your colleague's cars and ordering yours then they could easily be paying essentially the same amount for your "lesser" car as they are for the other two. If this is the case and the policy/contract is worded to the effect that it is the lease amount that is the benefit then I don't see that you are going to have much recourse with the employer. They aren't treating you any worse than the others at your level it's just that the timing screwed you over and if they were to raise your salary or otherwise compensate you then it's going to result in them spending more on you than your peers, who in turn might feel hard done by and so on. The fact that it was their administrative error in delaying the ordering of the new car is about the only point you could make really - and while I fully agree that it's pretty rubbish that you lose out through no fault of your own I'd question whether this is really a stand worth taking. Genuine mistakes do happen and if you make too big a deal of it then that may reflect poorly on you. 

It's by no means a certainty that it will cause problems - however all too often it can place quite a strain on the personal relationship and/or lead to a highly dysfunctional working relationship. If you hire a friend to do this work for you they will be your subordinate and when the two of you are in a work context you will be giving the instructions and expecting them to be followed. You have to really ask yourself if the person you are planning on hiring will be able to take "orders" from you first and foremost, and also whether that will affect any existing dynamics between the two of you. If this person misses a deadline, or makes a mistake where you have to remonstrate with them will they be able to compartmentalize that into a purely professional context or will it affect how they feel about you personally? I think we've all been in situations where we've felt unfairly critisized by our manager and felt angry with them for that - will they truly be able to just let that go when you finish for the day and go grab a beer? Equally when managing someone it's not uncommon to get annoyed or frustrated with someone when their performance falls below what you require or expect, will you be able to seperate Bob your employee from Bob your friend? Essentially it can work, but you need to have a really good think about what you are getting yourself (and your friend into) before you go there, and if you decide to go ahead I suggest having a very open and honest conversation with your friend about how you expect the arrangement to work before you start. 

If you are confident that your new system for recording the requests is working then stop asking if he requested it! If he's prepared to be sneaky and not ask for the days off in advance then it's no great leap for him to lie when asked. He's then putting you in the uncomfortable position of having to call him a liar, and that discomfort is of course exactly one of the things that tactic from him depends upon. So don't play his game, if/when he does it again (assuming you're still confident that there wasn't a request you forgot to note) don't ask him if he forgot. Tell him he forgot instead, then you can say that you'll let it slide this time but that all future requests from him have to be on e-mail and that if you don't get that e-mail he doesn't get his day off. Other posters have suggested that you should move the whole process to e-mail, it's not a bad idea and if I were implementing this sort of policy from scratch rather than it already existing I'd do just that. It's a good way to avoid any ambiguity or anything slipping through the cracks but in your situation I'd suggest that if the majority of employees aren't abusing the system then they may perceive this as being a "punishment" of all for the actions of one, whereas what I suggested above will limit any "negative" consequences to those who deserve it. 

You're reading far too much into it. Her response was perhaps slightly brusque but as Kerkyra mentions in comments they are quite possibly worn out with a new baby and all the associated disruption and lack of sleep and with that in mind I can't really see how it crosses the line into "rude". Especially without seeing your e-mail to her. Yes e-mail is less pressing then a phone call but if she is someone who conducts a good portion of her business via e-mail I can see how she might feel a little more pressure than average from one and given she has actually made an effort to preemptively let people know that she is currently on leave it might be a little irritating to have people essentially (from her perspective) ignoring that. That said I highly doubt it will have any impact on any future dealings, so just wait until she removes the notice and contact her again. Putting aside all questions of politeness for a minute e-mailing her wasn't really a good idea - she's not working so wouldn't be doing anything about it until she comes back off leave and it's quite likely that such a mail would get lost in the backlog when she returns and be overlooked so it wasn't likely to achieve anything for you. 

There's no definitive answer to this but it's not uncommon for there to be a clause in your contract preventing you from doing this. It is also common is for there to be a clause in the customer's contract with your employer preventing them from soliciting/poaching employee's so before doing anything else I recommend you check out the contractual situation for both yourself and the customer. This is not an area to leap without looking! 

Texting is a fairly mainstream method of communication and has been for nearly two decades now, it's not like he's asking you to communicate via singing telegram or carrier pigeon. As both magerber and Rory Alsop point out it allows for a good degree of immediacy and sureity of delivery while remaining asynchronous enough to allow him time to get the answers to any questions you have without playing phone tennis. So there's nothing unprofessional about communicating via text with a recruiter when that is their preferred method, what would be unprofessional would be to ignore his preferences. 

Indeed (which is one of the big jobs websites) has many listings for just this sort of thing and you can search and apply for them just as you would for a normal job opening. Here's a page of ones in the film industry. Different companies will have different requirements and application processes but guidance on this is usually included in the listing. Beyond that the advice for how to boost your chances is basically the same as it is for a job - make sure your CV is up to date and highlights any relevant experience or education you have matching the role you are applying for and if the application is looking for a cover letter then you can use this to discuss why you think you would be of benefit to the organisation in the role and why you are interested in it. 

I'm not condoning what he is doing because racism is wrong whether it's joking or not, however there are some factors here that show he's at least not completely ignorant, which is good because getting someone to improve on that is going to be a lot easier than trying to crack the shell of a dyed-in-the-wool bigot. And as you touch upon in the question he hired you knowing your ethnicity and seems to value your work so I think this more a case of "inappropriate humor" then someone with actual racist beliefs (again I'm not defending or conding his behavior) By editing out the explicitly racist parts he's showing that he knows there is a line to be drawn, it just sounds like he hasn't drawn it in the right place. Since you aren't his coworker but an outside contractor you don't have the options to treat this as a grievance or anything like that but honestly I don't think you'd need to in this case anyway. It sounds like you have a good rapport with him and that he values your working relationship so leverage that here and try having a talk with him. Something like: