In the second image you can see the regular bike bolt on the left. When I unscrewed that the arm came off. But looks like the bolt doesn't directly connect to the frame and there is something else (a boss?) between the bolt and the frame and that came off with the bolt. 

The new brake (Shimano Mountain Bicycle V-Brake - BR-T4000 - Rear) is exactly like the old one, but does not have this extra piece. So I need to dissamble that from the old brame arm and reuse. So far I have tried soaking in wd-40 and also freezing the whole thing and then heating the boss(?) but neither worked. Also noticed that this piece is tubular and has threads inside. A regular bike bolt fits in there and probably it goes all the way. So screwing something into that doesn't give me much grip either because it turns the same way. Any ideas other than 'take it to the bike shop'? Thanks. The reason I need to replace the brake is that the small metal rod which pushes the brake away during releaseing the brake broke. 

Is this normal? Do they serve any purpose? Could they be something that was in recycled metal, assuming these are machined and not casted? Above all, could these be causing the noise? My guess is that when the cone is pressing, the bearings can get jammed in these withoug rolling smoothly. Each pin is about 1.5mm wide and jut out about 0.5mm. Update: Added few clear pictures. 

I have managed to repair 10yr old diamondback hybrid as different parts fail. I even disassembled the rear wheel to replace few spokes. But I cannot figure out how to disassemble the rear v-brake arm. (I already replaced the front.) 

In my opinion, track mitts have a much better feel on the palm, even with a comparatively stiffer material. 

Strip the textile parts off, check the construction of the frame. If the frame is a rectangle, put a fitting plastic bin / tub from home depot inside the rectangle. If the frame is interspersed with beams, put a platform on top and put a bin / tub on top of that. Or maybe just a short railing like the one on croozer cargo. You want to have the center of gravity as low as possible. 

In this case, it stands for "Women Specific Design". With regard to bicycles, in some respects, especially the seat, clothing and shoes, women often have different needs than men. WSD bicycles or accessories address this problem. 

In my eyes, it is impossible to make "smart" shoes with cleats. And why would you want to? Almost all smart-looking shoes have a relatively thin sole, just a few millimeters. The cleats add quite a bit to the thickness sole, and to keep it acceptably light, it is invariably strongly profiled, invariably leading to a sneaker look. Also, mesh for breathability looks sneakerish. Smart shoes are not meant for bodily activities. They breathe relatively little, and are relatively tight. They also are not as resilient to scratches, dirt, and moisture. Sweat is the enemy of shiny. Cleated shoes scratch the dancefloor, a strong argument against! A stronger, less flexible sole works better on the bike. Elsewhere, you want a flexible sole. Some people, like me, prefer narrower shoes on the bike than on the street. Why would you want to wear bike shoes for formal situations? Carry a pair of nice shoes, thats what backpacks are for. Or office drawers. 

You need to consider in addition what kind of seats are adequate as covered by norms which provide the restrictions I alluded to: 

See norm DIN 912 / ISO 4762 - the relevant number for the tool head is s given in millimetre: s=5mm (M6) and s=6mm (M8). The '#6' Allen key has a 6mm wide head and fits M8 screws and likewise the '#5' Allen key has a 5mm wide head and fits M6 screws - so there is room for some confusion here. 

Front-mounted child seats are not illegal in Germany but face stronger restrictions than seats mounted in the back. Good sources and discussions (in German): 

From the way a dynamo works in principle, I would expect it to work with either running direction. I would try that first and would not expect any long-term problems when it does work. If you provide details about the dynamo hub, maybe someone can comment on that model specifically. If it obviously doesn't work when turning backwards, I would change the cabling to the other side. 

In summary: take out the inner tube, find the leak, and inspect the inside of the tire before putting in a patched or new inner tube. 

After replacing a bottom bracket with square taper I repeatedly have to tighten the screws that fix the crankset (on each side) to the bottom bracket axle or otherwise I can feel sometimes a slight movement of the crankset on the axle. I understand that this might be needed once or twice for parts to really settle in but I wonder how common that is or wether there are tricks to avoid it. This is an old Shimano crankset and a new Shimano bottom bracket. Since the screws are not very long (about 10mm of thread) I also fear I could damage them in the process. 

Many bike shops, collectors, or racers hang their bicycles by the wheels. The wheels are made to withstand the weight of the rider while going through road bumps. The forces of a hanging bicycle are way less than anything the wheels are designed for. Some very deep aerodynamic rims (say, Campa Bora) might require some special hook with a wider seat. Some people say to hang the bike only by the rear wheel to avoid stress on the headset or fork. This might be true for some particularly light built bikes. On a "normal" road bike, I wouldnt worry. Also, on some aero front wheels with large distances between spokes, I would take care to place the hook near to, or between the spokes. You have to take care not to scratch your rims. Use protective covers on the hooks, and dont hang a sandy-dirty wheel, or you will get sand on the protective cover, scratching the rims. If you have to keep several bicycles, this is probably the most space-conserving way to store them. Hang them alternately by the front wheel and back wheel side by side. If you have to hang only one bike, I propose hanging it by the handlebar, using a forked hook, or two hooks. Park Tools have a cheap hook: $URL$ 

Check your shop's reputation. Consider buying used. Maybe police, town or rail services are holding an auction soon? You might be able to grab a good bike there. Think about your old bike. What would you have wished? Make a list of your plans and wishes, and decide about the suspension first. Gearing. Equipment. 

I believe the plastic part is similar to the one identified by number 21/22 in the diagram below. I don't have a name for it, though. I am also not suggesting that this is the exact model that is on this bike but I believe it is the same principle. 

A front hub contains a few parts that wear out but can be replaced: balls, bearing cone, axle, and hub (more modern designs exist). I would not call that lasting "forever". Put in a different way: if you don't replace these parts over time, the hub will break. 

I can only offer my opinion: a $1500 bike is quite an attraction for thieves when parked in public space late a night: in front of library, station, cinema, pool, gym, or pub. I would not recommend using a such bike in this situation, no matter what locks you use. If you are using your bike in less public situations (to and from work, shopping, mostly during the day), locking frame and front wheel with a U-lock to a stationary object in combination with the rear lock is probably good enough. Any thieve would have to deal with two locks, which is quite a deterrent. 

A 10-speed cassette is spaced narrower than an 8-speed cassette and for that reason will fit onto your free wheel. The problem is that your shifters are indexed for 8 speeds and won't work with a 10-speed cassette. You could make it work if you have downtube shifters that are not indexed or where indexing can be switched off. The article Drivetrain Compatibility has many more details about spacing of cogs and the pull exercised by the shifter.