What you describe is a universe typically described by Ouroboros, the snake that eats its own tail. It is possible to construct such a system, as you say. However, where it gets difficult is in the handling of causality. The naive version of causality gets muddy very quickly with such a cyclical universe, and philosophers have had a hard time defining alternative definitions of causality which fit with such a world and getting those definitions accepted. One particular troublesome point is that the physical world, as we know it, is governed by the 2nd law of thermodynamics: entropy always increases (in a closed system). In the past, this was known in intuitive terms, such as "a teacup which falls off the table and shatters never spontaneously arises and becomes the teacup once more." Nowdays it's known in more formal scientific terms. Something would need to return the universe to a previous state before it could cycle, and it has been difficult to explain why this should happen without invoking religion. We simply have not seen any physical mechanism which could cause this to occur. Given that much of our philosophy comes from cultures that believe in God or gods, it is natural that the explanations we see are in line with the deities of that particular culture. There's nothing fundamentally impossible about it that I have heard of, it simply requires a belief in a behavior which is not found in modern science nor in the most popular of religions in the West, so it is a less popular answer. There are even some answers which mix Ouroboros with the idea of a creator of the universe, such as this quote attributed to Plato: 

The argument seems to lump all behaviors into one of three groups: moral, immoral, or neutral. It also assumes a tremendous amount of isolation. All of the decisions are based on dollars. Very little went to the question of what it means to own stock in X in the first place. I do not see any reason why a person needs to be "consistent" in their attitude towards a company's products and their stock, though consistency does make defending a moral position much simpler. I can think of a few positions where morality makes sense, even when it appear inconsistent when viewed in a vacuum: 

As a point of pedantry, mathematics doesn't use any mode of reasoning, mathematicians use modes of reasoning. And, naturally, like all people, they use a mixture of all different modes of reasoning to suit their needs. However, we can talk about what sorts of modes of reasonings are depicted in the proofs that mathematicians provide to convey confidence in their ideas. In proof theory, we often see an operator known as "implies," typically represented by the turnstyle (⊢) which is a "metaoperator" in that no system defines the exact behavior of "implies." You're expected to understand what that means. In a proof system, we set up a set of inferences which are deemed "acceptable for use" within the proof system in this way. For example, one might write , which can be thought of informally to say "if p is true, and 'if p is true then q is true' then we can infer that q is also true." The list of these accepted inferences is typically provided up front. As a case study, one can look at First Order Logic, which defines a set of inferences in this way. Once the inference is accepted, it may be used in the proof from then on out. So really, to answer your question, what we need to look at are the inference rules that mathematicians use. Many of these get phrased as axioms, so we can look there. If you look at the axioms we tend to use, most seem to be used to convey a deductive reasoning, but there are inductive examples as well. The one that comes to my mind is the Law of Induction, which is part of the Peano Axioms which define the natural numbers (0, 1, 2...). That law is very visibly designed to convey an inductive reasoning, to the point where they actually named the law "Induction!" So mathematicians use both deduction and induction, along with whatever else is convenient to use. If you want to be more specific than that, simply look at the axioms which they use as part of their proofs, and you can see the reasoning they are trying to convey. 

Because "causality" is a word, we can define it to have any convenient properties we please. In particular, this definition prohibiting nothing or non-things from causing an event avoids a particularly frustrating explosion of non-things that we can come up with to cause an event. By defining it this way we define the concept of causation to only be valid for things. If we were to perceive "nothingness" as causing something to occur, we are encouraged to reframe the problem such that the cause can be something that exists (quite often that something is part of our "self") 

As it turns out, society has a general tendency of putting such people into positions of authority. It's certainly not perfect, but one must admit the general trend. There are more than enough corrupt CEOs out there, but the vast majority of CEOs run businesses far better than I would if I were in their position! Thus, if I find someone in a position of authority on a topic, there is a reasonable chance that believing what they claim (regardless of its truth value) will yield a good result. I will not claim the process is perfect, for it isn't. However, it does seem to have a remarkable history of success despite its notable failures (such as many genocides). One reason for its success is that it is not dependent on the truth value of the argument; rather it is dependent on the goodness of the belief in said argument. While the truth value of many arguments of interest is a static value, belief can come and go. Consider an ultimate extreme case in a wartime scenario. A lieutenant orders a sergeant to take his fireteam to a position. The sergeant issues orders to his team, and they act. In taking that position, one of the soldiers under the sergeant's command is killed, but the position is taken. Now consider the orders from the lieutenant to the sergeant. The sergeant does not have a logical proof explaining the outcome of such a move. In fact, if the sergeant took the time to question the lieutenant, that time may cost them the battle. War is a very dynamic environment, and there may only have been a window of a few moments to take that position -- a window lost if the sergeant questions orders. Accordingly, the sergeant relies entirely on the lieutenant's position of authority to decide how to act. He assumes that believing that the lieutenant knows what they're doing, and the decisive action which follows such a belief is "good." The same goes for the sergeant's orders to his fireteam. They must believe the sergeant know best, even if that is not actually true. A lack of belief would cause hesitation which is simply not forgiven in the horrible landscape known as war. In the aftermath, there is time to reflect. The poor solider who gave his life for his country is obviously not reflecting much, but the sergeant certainly is. He issued an order to a man whom he knew was conditioned to believe such orders were good, and that order got the man killed. In the reflection, he now has time to explore the painful question of "did he have to die?" The sergeant has no proof that the lieutenant's orders were actually good ones, and now that the firefight has ended, the value of blindly trusting in the belief of those orders decreases. Now the sergeant may question the lieutenant, striving after the truth value of the question plaguing him: "Did my fellow man have to die?" He may not even like the answer he finds. However, the validity of the appeal to authority did not depend on the truth value of the orders. It depended on the momentary value of the belief in those orders.