This does a couple of things - highlights which day of the week(so there are no confusions about timed deliverables), highlights how long(one day) and gives the specific date. In fact this could be abstracted to a template like so: 

Notice the difference? These answers are full of red flags for an interviewer. Whether or not they are true, whether or not they are something you might say to your friends/support network doesn't matter. What matters, overall, is that they are unprofessional and personal in an inappropriate way. Consider questions like this not as dangerous or bad questions but as an opportunity to interview the company you hope to work for. If someone balks when you say "My company required a lot of overtime. I want to work somewhere when I don't regularly have to work nights and weekends" then that tells you something about that company and can help you decide if you want to work there. Keep answers honest but positive and professional. Use the answers you give to highlight you preferences(or even your 'strengths'). 

No, it would be a ridiculous request (were you not paying attention?). You should have taken written/typed notes. In particular brief details on questions asked, information about the position, skills, buzzwords, hiring manager, team, hiring process, timelines, compensation etc. Writing stuff down is like 5000 years old. You have no excuse whatsoever for being sloppy. Gives a bad impression, like you weren't taking the interview seriously. Before any phone interview, try to do all of the following - should only takes 15-30 minutes: a) print off the job spec and make notes on it / or the back of it (compact, and saves trees) b) check the interviewer's name and background (so you can predict what they might ask you, and read up on it. Algorithm questions? Behavioral questions? Your resume? Knowledge of the sector?). Always try to get the name of the person who will interview you. If the person you speak to doesn't know it (or doesn't care), ask in the email you send confirming your interview date, time and phone number, or else failing that, call them and ask the name of the interviewer and their position. c) take out a notepad and pen, write the date & time, name of interviewer, position, phone number, yada yada. Keep those notes for your next round interviews. (Sometimes you will even pick up on discrepancies in the hiring process or the company's internal communication, which might or might not matter) d) open a vi/emacs/GoogleDoc/task-manager/whatever file to take notes. To the people objecting about typing while on the phone, mute the line whenever you're not speaking, and/or use a headset so it only catches your voice not all teh noise on your end. e) if you have time to kill, read the company's other job listings, product descriptions(/API documentation), whitepapers, press releases/filings, press coverage, (independent credible) reviews of products/services, strengths and weaknesses, who are their customers, sector reviews, webinars, Q&A, Glassdoor etc. Don't waste time reading boilerplate endorses or PR. Identify major competitors and who they lose(/win) staff or customers to(/from). Identify people you know who can give you an impartial opinion of the company's product, people, positioning, customers, future etc. Write down important stuff even if you're pretty sure you'll remember it: why? you might forget, as in this case. Other urgent things might come up and disrupt your schedule and concentration. Also so you can review the whole process later in the future, or in case someone you know is going to interview there or some similar company and position. 

You might have to repeat a couple of steps here. If the first topic you think sounds interesting("Hmm, I think I'll research the mating dance of the blue footed booby") but ends up not being compelling to you("All the research involves cataloging and tasting their poop. Nope.") then try looking at another field. No one here can really tell you, yet, what exactly to do to get where you want to be. The TL;DR I can give you is to get involved. Figure out what field you are interested in and find out about organizations, meetups, current work in the field. Start volunteering or get an entry level position in a lab(many labs will hire folks with 'just' a BS) and get some experience. Really, in the end, becoming a researcher at a professional level isn't much different than getting any other job at a professional level. You find a job in the field that you are qualified for and you start working your way up. 

EDIT: this answer as written when OP's original version implied they were an individual contributor, before the crucial detail that they are a manager managing a team of 10, which completely changes the question. Moreover this makes the boss a level-2 manager, which is a different situation. 

It's probably a bad idea, politically and practically, to skip the collective beating. You don't want to alienate your coworkers. Everyone knows what the score is and that you're not implicated. The coworkers might even appreciate that you share the collective beating with them. You don't want to come across to your boss like you're superior. In the practical sense, you should own your emotional response, and your productivity, so you might as well learn how to either zone out or surreptitiously get productive work or reading done. Think about what you'll have for lunch. Think about what color paint to buy for your walls. Try to name all the countries in Africa in reverse order. Try to figure out what pressures the managers are under and how to please them. Or who to throw under the bus when the going gets tough. Having said that, I have had several coworkers who frequently seemed to schedule doctor/dentist appts/home deliveries/teacher conferences/etc. on 'convenient' occasions. So figure out what the most culturally appropriate response is. 

Notice what these answers have in response. They start with something positive about the target of the question('manager', 'team', 'company'). They then move into a solvable measurable/neutral 'negative'. And they finish up by pointing out what would have made you happier/changed your dislike of the situation. Additionally the responses are filled with 'I' statements. This sounds a little bit janky no? Let's look at some inappropriate or less helpful answers: 

Really what you are asking about is "What should I expect when I am leaving/in the leave period of my employment at a company?" You are leaving in a month for another opportunity. The reality of your situation is that involving employees(even contractors) into a project is an investment for a company. An investment in time, effort and training to get that person up and running. This investment pays off for the company in several ways. Not only do they gather the fruit of the employee's labor but they are also 'investing' interesting and fun work in employees as a bid to keep those employees around. The talented superstars of a department are going to tend to be given more 'fun' projects not just because they can handle them but also as an incentive to stick with the company. As an aside, ideally companies would always try to match workers with projects that dovetail with their interests and strengths, but that is not always possible given business needs and market demands. So, from this, investing in you doesn't gain them anything. You've already put in your notice, you are already halfway out the door. What is the benefit to the company of you getting involved in what sounds like the early stages of a project - you won't be around to finish it, any decisions you make won't effect you, and the rest of the team has to be able to handle it without you there(which makes spreading training to you especially dangerous.) Finally if this is a potential business product for the company your involvement could result in a competitor or other company getting information about the product before it is public. So with all of these risks what are the benefits here? Well you get to work on interesting projects but you have no risks. They have all the risks but no real benefits. So since they aren't giving you interesting projects what should you do? First, even though you are not getting interesting projects you should absolutely NOT work on external or personal projects on company time or with company equipment. In many employment contracts anything you work on on company time or with company equipment may be partially or completely owned by that company. Even beyond that, though, is the fact that this is stealing from your employer. Yes it sucks that you're not being giving cool things to do but that does not excuse the theft of your time. Second, you should talk to your supervisor. You shouldn't ask for a part in the new projects, you should ask what you can do to make the transition easier for everyone involved. Is your documentation up to date? Could another person come in and find the resources and tools you use/have made to do your job? This is how you maintain business relationships like this beyond the end of a job. If you skate out without cleaning up after yourself(ie just do personal projects, prep work for your new job, and avoid grunt or unfun work) you will be burning bridges at your current company. 

Ok this is type of thing is symptomatic of a disorganized small company with an autocratic boss. Your situation might not be fixable. But as @RomanMik and @ChrisLively say, you need to take charge and start standing up for yourself. You might well have some issues yourself you need to identify and sort out. My comments: 

Put it on your resume, in anonymized/generic form. e.g. "Organizer, college religious group with n members - led event organizing, planning, budgeting, recruiting, chaired committee of m people, recruiting". Describe it as much as possible in generalized organizational language. Add quantifiable achievements wherever possible: how many events? how much attendance? how much budget? how much % increase in members? or event attendances? etc. This gives all of the upside, and little risk of a downside. And the older it is on the resume, the less likely they are to care to ask what the group was or other details. This is the same answer as to this similar question (although title is different): Will connections to an institution currently going through scandal harm my chances? 

There are three aspect to this that I think bear talking about separately. a. Your relationship with your team members b. Your relationship with you boss/company c. What the end effect is for the customer/client Let's actually go in reverse. c. Without talking about your feelings or how it effects you. How is this effecting your customers and clients(and by extension the profitability to your company)? I can't quantify this but I would recommend that you take some time to try and quantify this from your perspective. This will be helpful when you go to your boss with why this is a problem which leads to... b. It sounds like your company and your boss are happy with you and your work. Going to your boss with 'I feel' statements is dangerous. While your situation is complex and your frustrations are understandable it's also something that can seem like a 'Babu is complaining' instead of 'This is an actionable issue'. These problems seem like a true disaster waiting to happen, depending on the relationship(who leads the project? which company is the 'contractor' in this situation and which is the 'in house' company?) this is something that could potentially damage your company's relationship with your client. I would approach your boss again but this time I would come with direct, actionable issues. If the other team refuses to meet on something - that's actionable. If the other team is holding you to a higher level of accountability then they hold themselves - that's actionable. Come to your boss with both the problem and potential solutions. Your supervisor cannot change how anyone feels, but they can set expectations for a working environment that could mitigate many of these issues. a. This sounds mean but... get over your uncomfortable-ness with the other team. When a member of a team gets fired, it is understandable that they would close ranks. They certainly weren't told by their company why he was fired and they are potentially his friends/peers which means he has probably said some things about why he thinks he was fired(which is probably totally at odds with reality). If my coworker was fired, even for a logical reason and perhaps especially for work-related reason(ie not producing, poor quality output, etc), it would be a pucker moment for me as it would be for most people. Many of their responses, closing ranks, higher scrutiny outside their group, attempting to discredit the person who was part in getting this coworker fired, is natural(if unpleasant) in that light. So how do you deal with it? Their requests for more formal methods of communication is actually beneficial to you and I would embrace it whole heartedly. When you have a question or need a conversation email it. That way there is proof of a time-line when you made the request(in case they don't fulfill it) as well as the methods and professionalism it was made with. Additionally I would recommend pushing for a formalization of the 'contracts' between your teams. What is expected of you and your company. What is expected from them and their company? What do you guarantee to deliver to them, what do they guarantee to deliver to you? These things aren't meant to divide teams(internal teams in my org have similar formal 'contracts') rather they are meant to solidify everyone's expectations("Didn't support enough" isn't a helpful response. "Didn't meet the expectation blah" is something actionable.) Ultimately these 'contracts'(to clarify I mean contracts in a non legal sense but in a expectation setting sense) foster trust between the teams because everyone knows what is expected of them and what they can expect from others. Speaking of teams... In theory you are all on the same team because you are all working on the same product but in their eyes you are now on separate, potentially competing, teams. Don't expect them to have your back and treat them as you would an external but necessary team. The caveat to this is directly in response to "If I take any attempt to learn more about their work they ask why are you interested etc." Because the answer to that is "We are all on the same team, by understanding how you do things I can make all of our lives easier" When it comes to communicating with them and their company "We are all on the same team" is absolutely the attitude you should take. It can be truly frustrating to have others use a magnifying glasses on our mistakes and flaws(or even disagreements on implementations of specific ideas). But this is another thing you can embrace. If you are professional and keeping your boss in the loop about the situation AND demand the same high level of performance from them that they are demanding from you then you should embrace the opportunity to defend and improve your ideas. The trick is to also expect if from them. If they have an issue with something you have done discuss it without ego. Whatever the decision uphold it and push that same expectation forward. Finally. I think it's important that you take a bit of blame for what happened with Sam. Not out loud, not to other people, but internalize it a bit. You mention what Sam did but you don't mention what you did. Did you bring this lack of support, buggy code and issues to your supervisors early in the process. Early enough that something could have been changed? Not doing this is a failing on your part. A much, MUCH lessor failing that "wrote buggy code and didn't support it properly" but still something that you should keep in mind for the future. When a team member fails it is often a failing of the whole team to some degree, and you were part of that team. 

Memo in writing the terms of contract they verbally agreed with you, and the date they verbally agreed. If they said "medical, pension and stock vesting start on day one", then say that. Include numbers and detail (how much pension? etc). Then you at least have a written agreement of what was agreed. Also document on your memo that they promised you a written employment contract to be signed on you first day. Have all your interactions with them in writing, preferably by certified mail. At this point they're just playing you, and pocketing your $$$ premia and laughing at you. Maybe they will suddenly come up with a written contract if you quit (and maybe they won't), but it's your call whether to put up with that. You could quit, and if they then give you the written contract, ask (again, in writing) for retrospective payment for the period. 

Find out what you want to research in. It can be as vague as "maybe I want to research biology" or as specific as "I want to study the blue footed booby's mating dance rituals". Do a bit of pre-research research. Figure out if other people are working in that field or on something similar to what you are interested in. Go to google scholar, read a couple of scientific papers. Figure out, in a rough high level way, what that sort of research involves. Once you've narrowed down a field/interest and identified some people who are working in it... figure out how they got to where they are today. Do they all have PhDs in advanced booby watching techniques? Did they work in a specific field prior? Did a lot of them go to a specific school? Why bother with this? Because this gives you a rough 'roadmap' of how to get where you want to be. Start looking at that roadmap you developed. You know what you want to research, you know how some other people have gotten started researching that thing... what was the first step for them? Is it a graduate degree? Start making plans. This is number 5 but it's really something that should happen in parallel with the previous steps. Look at local universities and see if they have research happening in a field that's related to or close to your interest. See if you can volunteer in some research that interests you. Google for professors and organizations. Start going to scientific talks or meetups. Read some of those researcher's papers and start a professional correspondence. Follow your roadmap, keep on keeping on. Just ~do~. Profit!