Sci-fi scenario with flights to a colony planet. Tech level is otherwise close to today (e.g. no androids or desktop nanofactories). Planet is quite similar to Earth, so e.g. agriculture works, you can grow wheat and raise cattle. What would be the likely/optimal ratio of passengers to cargo transported to said planet? Let's say it costs as much to transport one passenger as five tons of cargo, and available transport resources could per year bring 10,000 colonists and 50,000 tons of cargo - that would be splitting the available resources equally. At one extreme, clearly there would be no point hauling 100,000 tons of cargo and nobody to make use of it. At the other extreme, you don't want to put 20,000 colonists on another planet with nothing more than carry-on luggage; even though it's a nice habitable planet, they will still need tools and supplies. Does the above even split of one colonist per five tons of cargo make sense, or can we reasonably say each person would need more cargo, or less? The closest analogy I can think of is the colonization of the Americas. (The main difference being that in the sci-fi scenario, there are no natives.) What was the overall ratio of people to cargo transported from Europe to America during that time period? 

In a futuristic setting where people are worried about enemy spacecraft doing things like dropping bombs from orbit, and are building ground-based lasers to shoot back, Given that such weapons have the disadvantage of having to shoot up through atmosphere (putting them on high ground ~2 km helps a bit, but only a bit), What is the optimum wavelength to minimize absorption and scattering by air (and preferably by clouds)? It's definitely going to be some way into the infrared, but what exact wavelength would be best? 

Outsource the NPCs to be controlled by people in poor countries is one option. One person can control a lot of NPCs. This is the idea is kind of like how in a classic tabletop RPG, the DM will play all the NPCs. This does make it a bit hard to coordinate and thus is not easy to hide. With using AI is that humans are pretty easy to mimic given the constrains of a game, we are probably only a few years away from chat bots that aren't that noticeably different from normal language and the calculations of running them in real time isn't actually that high even today. We can probably run a AI that passes the Turing test in the constraints of a game even today, people in MMORPGs don't actually need to be smart and don't even need to make sense to be honest. I'm sure if you put a bot in WOW that does farming and tie it to cleaverbot, people who have never used cleaverbot wouldn't be able to tell the bot isn't a real player. Each NPC also does not need an individual AI, 1 AI can easily control all the NPCs. The company would simply need a decent server to handle all the calculations needed. In 10 years or so, hardware advances as well as better trained AI should make these kinds of things pretty trivial. 

This one is tricky and probably not doable but if you were at the exact right place at the right time, your brain might be able to conduct lightning and kill you in the process. 

If you were taking over Santa's role and had access to all his infrastructure and production, the cost will likely be 0. Santa has been in business for hundreds of years. Either he had a very large sum of money at the start and loses a fraction each year (which highly unlikely). Or he is self sufficient in what he does and his budget is completely balanced each year. Santa likely balances his Christmas budget perfectly every year and if he is personally bankrupt and requires a new Santa, the toy making business can be assumed to be completely self sufficient in terms of capital and the new Santa would not need any investments. Santa's actual job isn't to pay the bills, his job is to compile a list of all children and to check if they are naughty or nice. Twice. As well as deliver the presents on Christmas to all the children in the world. The actual accounting will likely be done by accounting elves. 

I'm working on a science fiction story which includes the following premise: Tony Stark invents an unobtainium reactionless engine, and the protagonists want to build a spaceship around it, big enough to carry a nontrivial amount of cargo. They have a company similar to SpaceX, enough money, political authority to bypass red tape and a mandate to waste anything but time. The current idea is to basically take the design of the C5 Galaxy, cut the wings a lot shorter and replace the landing gear with helicopter style skis (the unobtainium engine is VTOL-capable), make a few other tweaks and that should be pretty much it. (Planned flight times are only a day or two, so no worries about extended life support.) How long would it take to build the first model? 

A setting where we still have the rest of our technology, but for reasons - alien space bats, basically - there are no longer any stable orbits around Earth with an altitude higher than about 1000 km. Could we build a replacement GPS based on satellites in low orbit? I know the existing system is based on geosynchronous orbit, but is that an absolutely necessary quality of any such system, or would using LEO just make the engineering more expensive? 

I'm trying to figure out whether spacecraft could see explosions occurring on the surface of a planet, or under what conditions they could. To be specific: Given a spacecraft equipped with a duplicate of the Keck telescope, using visible light only, watching a planet similar to Earth, at what distance could it see the explosion of one ton of TNT, occurring at sea level at night under a clear sky? 

On a timescale of 1e11 years, all uranium and thorium will have decayed, but planets will still exist, orbiting red dwarf stars. Would it be possible to use lead as a nuclear fuel? In principle, the curve of binding energy says lead fission is an exothermic reaction. Is there a way to do this while getting out more energy than you put in? (Getting out more money than you put in, is of course a bigger challenge, but we are talking about a scenario where there is no competition from uranium or thorium let alone fossil fuels. I'm assuming the minimum size for a viable fusion reactor remains large compared to a few gigawatts.) 

The question of how many generations is moot; evolution is not a destination. If they survive, they survive. But what do they do to survive? And how does this affect the direction of their evolution over time? Before evolution can begin, natural selection of both individuals and cultural practices will be at play. The first few weeks would be sheer hell for these unlucky transported souls. The change in gravity wouldn't kill them instantly, but would wear them down, hour-by-hour, day-by-day. It would be hard on their hearts and circulatory systems. Their blood would weigh 50% more than on Earth, so their hearts would have to work 50% harder to push it around. The elasticity of their blood vessels would be put to the test. Varicose veins would abound. Many would perish by hemorrhagic stroke, and many more would be sporting blotchy, red skin. Feet would swell. Breathing would be difficult, as their diaphragms would have to push up against air and lungs that are now 50% heavier. Blood/oxygen levels would be lower than normal. Fainting and passing out would be common, and would often be deadly; they'd hit the ground with 50% more force. On top of this, their Earth-acquired reflexes and coordination would be hopelessly out of kilter. Bones would be broken, joints wrought, and ankles sprained. On top of that, they would be extremely vulnerable to the predators inhabiting this world. On Earth, we were spear throwing, long distance running primates. On HeavyEarth, both running and throwing abilities would be severely handicapped. Catching food would be as probable as being food. Many people would probably die in the first few months, if not weeks. Pregnancy would, in many cases, end up being deadly. The population would bottleneck. Refuge would be found in salty water. The first generation would head towards the sea; floating would bring them relief from the weight of the world. Sweet relief from sore bones, joints and bulging blood vessels. Pregnant women, and new mothers would spend a lot of time in the water. Young children would grow up being very able swimmers. As on Earth, where the first human migrations followed the shoreline, so too would the transported humans. Net fishing would become a main source of food. The cultural practice of spending time in the water would be rewarded with longer life and more offspring. Over time, adaptations would start arising that would be both advantageous to the gravity and also the sea. Stronger hearts, stronger veins, bigger lungs, stronger bones, webbed digits and upward pointing noses. Perhaps less hair and more blubber. Maybe even eventually an impressive dorsal fin... 

For a science fiction story involving time travel, where the protagonists can go back exactly 33 years from 2013 to 1980, and are looking for a way to make a lot of money quickly: Is there any way today (well, in 2013, close enough) to find a list of winning lottery numbers (in any country) from 1980? I've been checking such lottery records as I can find on Google, and none of them seem to go back further than the 90s or thereabouts. (Granted, other forms of information are available back that far like lists of winners of the Grand National and the FA Cup, but I'm curious about the situation with lottery numbers.) 

On Earth in 2017, finding oil or coal deposits is a tall order. However, consider a science fiction scenario where we find a habitable planet that hasn't hosted an intelligent species in at least a hundred million years, so has fossil fuel deposits in easily accessible locations. Is there a way to find them from the air, or even better from orbit, using today's sensor technology? 

Sci-fi setting where cargo is being shipped to colony worlds. If a spaceship has to land and take off again, that costs a lot of money, so that mode of transport is reserved for people and urgent, high-value cargo; the plan is to get bulk cargo the last lousy few hundred kilometers in drop capsules, which aerobrake, parachute, splash into the ocean and get towed to shore by boat. The maximum speed at which a capsule will hit atmosphere is 5 kilometers per second. (This is very hypersonic, but still slower than standard orbital velocity.) Their size will be on the order of a few meters, and they will be made of ordinary materials like steel and composites. What shape should the capsules be? Aerodynamic considerations suggest they should be round, perhaps ideally the quasi-teardrop shape (lens with short trailing cone) of the early space capsules. On the other hand, that's a terrible shape for efficient packing aboard a freighter. Efficient packing would much prefer rectangular boxes like today's cargo containers. But sharp corners would probably melt when the capsule hits atmosphere. Would it be viable to at least compromise on something like a cylinder shape? 

The ring will not generate any artificial gravity no matter what orbit you are at because the orbit is achieved when the angular momentum balances the gravity of the object you orbit. Which is why there is no artificial gravity on our space stations orbiting the earth. You can think your contraption is the same as a bunch of ISS attached together and no matter how you go about that, none of them will have artificial gravity from just orbiting. If you were to make the stations travel faster than they would in normal orbit and let the cables between them stabilize them instead, then you would achieve artificial gravity. The force the cables are able to stretch is the force of your artificial gravity. 

A really good backpack that is well cushioned is the best idea if you don't want magic or tech that is way beyond what they had in the renaissance. 

Rope is the easiest thing to use. Trip the alien, tie the alien up and then it can't do anything. Then you can slowly break the tough skin and peel it off and torture the alien slowly to death. Everyone who surviving in the neighborhood can come out and do some the torture, it will be a fun experience for the whole family. Each time one is captured and killed the whole neighborhood can have a party. I'm sure everyone will enjoy killing the alien party, especially the ones who lost loved ones to the alien before everyone figured out how to fight them. 

With a black hole that small and that close, you'd easily be able to see it as an gamma ray source. According to your sheet, the thing is outputting 20 Pentawatts of hawking radiation. Which is more 4000x more power than the total power the earth gets from from the sun.