The question isn't stupid - if they ask you to think out the whole process as they want to see how you approach the problem. Mostly from an optimization standpoint. But ya, think about it from an optimization standpoint. Think out-loud, whiteboard, whatever and keep thinking "can I do this better?" 

I would advise not turning down an offer from a company or notifying an employer of change in employment until an offer letter has been sent, signed and the return confirmed. Between an "unoffical" offer and time of receipt things can happen. Whether this be hiring freeze, pay freeze, etc you never know. 

This isn't totally uncommon. Google for instance was known to give study guides out for a while depending on the req they were looking to fill. It was so you could be well read on the items of discussion and be well prepared. 

Sounds like you might be part of the problem here. You shouldn't be whistling in an open office environment, it's annoying and rude 

If you're worried about some "blacklist" in which other companies are all going to look at and keep from hiring you, there should be no concern. However, in the event you turn down an offer after a conditional verbal acceptance it's most likely you would not be working for them in the immediate future. I would also advise to discuss this issue with someone in HR to resolve the matter. Every company you work for will have its own case of hiccups and no job will be perfect. 

Performance Reviews are OK and should be welcome. Now if you go through this and they have issues with your work and throw you on a period of performance or some sort of "performance plan" then you can worry. But for now - don't sweat it 

You should be OK if you gave a solid reason when you declined at the end. In theory a hiring manager would rather hire someone that's there for the long haul instead of taking the job and then leaving 3 months later due to external factors like relocation. You acknowledged there was an issue and did your best to resolve it. If your skills are in line with what they are looking for, there shouldn't be an issue. IF there is an issue, then perhaps it's not the best place for you to wind up. 

I think it depends on the person, management and the organization. I've seen it go both ways as I think many others have. A former developer I worked with was not performing up to task. He was given the dreaded PIP - and from there shifted over to Q&A as an attempt to find a way to use him. 

Let me warn you of the cautions of using a job offer from company B to leverage a raise out of your current company. If you do this - there could be blow back and the company could get the impression that as soon as a better offer comes or more money is thrown your way you'll bail. Is that the case? Probably not. But some people get antsy and worry. Also, even if a counter-offer is made by company A, it may not be what you were offered by company B. Furthermore when/if reviews/raises come out next cycle don't be shocked to find out that the counter-offer basically negates any raise you would have received. The short version - if the only time the company values you is when you're looking to leave, then it's probably time to leave 

I'm not as proficient in MySQL and CSS as I am in C# and Java, but I did write a website for a class that used these things. I don't use Singleton, but I am familiar enough with it to know alternatives when I'm tempted to use it. Other than those, I do have skills in these things that I think are adequate for an entry-level position. I started programming only 3 years ago, and I thought people who'd been programming since they were 15 would have more languages under their belt. The general consensus seems to be that I should apply for my level of experience. Considering my lack of job experience and lack of degree, am I qualified to apply for more advanced positions? How would I get past the resume-trashing bots? Or should I cut things out of my resume to make it more believable for entry-level experience? 

I recently had a phone interview for a subcontracting job at a small programming consulting firm. The interview was very short, and at the end, the interviewer told me that based on my resume, he thought I would be overqualified for the job and find it very boring. I was rather confused by this because I don't have any real job experience and I'm still working towards my degree. Sure I played myself up on my resume --I go to a rather prestigious school, I listed every buzzword I could think of under my skill-set, and I jazzed up my work in high school for my dad's company --but I thought everyone did that. What do employers mean when they say "overqualified"? What qualities of a person without job experience or a degree could make them overqualified? How can I look just qualified enough when applying for future positions? I haven't bothered to apply for anything requiring a degree for fear of being underqualified. (I also hear they have bots that will trash my resume when it doesn't find 3-7 years of experience listed.) Should I scrap the whole resume and just put I LOVE SINGLETONS! as the whole thing? :) EDIT A quick clarification of what I mean when I say "I played myself up." I was very careful not to lie on my resume, and I only put things I could discuss and give a couple quick examples that made it seem like I really knew what I was talking about. For example, under Leadership Experience, I listed a library group I was a part of in high school. We met once a week to mostly eat food and chat, but we did plan 2 events in the 4 years I was there. Without lying, I made it sound like we regularly organized massive library programs the entire 4 years I was there with the intention of describing the 2 events we did do if asked about it. We did legitimately put a lot of time, effort, budgeting, and planning into those events though. As far as buzzwords go, I wasn't sure whether stuff like Object Oriented Programming would be more eye-catching or Test Driven Design would excite them, so I put everything I was familiar with. We didn't get a chance to talk about either the buzzwords or my work experience during the interview. He mostly just asked some questions about school. I was really trying to make what I had actually done sound impressive to make up for not having work experience or a degree. Ironically, I was trying not to sound underqualified. EDIT 2 I was talking to a friend about it, and he said the skills part of my resume sounded like I was lying. It looks like this: 

In short, I think you've passed damage control and are now presented with options for the future. You have the credibility and flexibility to plan for the future. Do so and reap the benefits! 

In short, this is a great way to start a conversation with a possible new hire in a venue that's not an across-the-desk interview. The candidate gets to choose the topic and style (within some bounds, I'm sure). The audience then gets to participate as a group in the discussion. This is an excellent distillation of the standard team effort. 

None. There shouldn't be a need for any action at all. Their role on one Board should be entirely separate from the other. Anything else would be a conflict of interest. 

tl;dr: This is a great idea and you should probably take it as a compliment that you made it to this level in the interview process. 

Who are you talking to? Senior management? The team that you'll be working with? This can drive the formality vs. chatty style of your presentation. What's the venue? Big room vs. small room, do you need a pointer or can you just point to a screen to make a point? How many people? If it's a huge room (and I doubt it is), you might need to wear a microphone to be heard in the back. What's the technology for the presentation? Powerpoint? Mac vs. PC? Are you handing them a disk of slides? Will you be clicking next page or will someone else be advancing the slides? Will you have some setup time before the presentation? You're going to be nervous so take as much time as they offer to get all the technical ducks in a row. Make it clear that you cannot present any sensitive information from current or prior employers. That will come as no surprise but it's a level of maturity that not all candidates will show. 

Your job is to help people work with other people and you think that they're going to approach perfection without help? I think you are a bit overly optimistic about human nature. 

Is there anything that they feel strongly about at all (technical or otherwise)? If not, they're likely not an interesting person to work with. Can they string enough sentences together about their favorite topic to fill a Powerpoint presentation? If not, it's highly unlikely that they'll be able to write work-related words and will be nearly incapable of presenting concrete ideas to the team. Can they get up in front of a group of people and speak at all? Many people are deathly afraid of public speaking. Can this person make the mental transition from "I'm doing public speaking" to "I'm talking to my team and this is an important part of my job"? If not, they'll never be able to take even the smallest leadership role: if you can't talk to a group, you can't lead an effort. Can they respond to questions and critical feedback? There will almost certainly be questions during the presentation (unless the topic is toxically banal, putting everyone to sleep). How do they respond in this situation? Are they defensive? Do they panic? Are they constructive?