A hybrid is going to have a larger gear inch range than a road bike, typically - translation: You'll have a few more lower gears for those hills. It's going to have a more relaxed frame angle - translation: It'll feel like a softer ride but with less nimbleness in the reaction of the steering which you may or may not like. With the more relaxed geometry, that allowes room for racks, bigger fenders(mud guards) and larger tires if you feel the skinny tires are not your thing. It stretches things out when you have a relaxed geometry. The frame will have more braze-ons too for those expected add-ons. Hybrids also typically come spec'd with a straight handle bar like a MTB but that can be easily changed out for a traditional drop bar which gives you loads more positions to hang onto plus you can get dual brake levers - hooded brakes for the drops with two-finger brakes in serial on the uppers. Mind you with a road bike you can change the drops to an upright straight bar too. Usually people change to a straight bar because they feel they won't be able to grab the brake levers fast enough if they have drops. However after you get the hang of things you start to ride with your hands on the hoods and have a couple of fingers resting on the levers ready to feather the brakes when you need them. With a road bike you have a very small point of contact with the road (skinny tires high preasure) which is why it feels (and is) more responsive. You could get road bike tires for a hybrid and get the same feel. Lastly, hybrids are designed more for rec riders so they make them a little bit more beefy than a road bike, which are trying hard to be as light as possible. Chances are at a given price point you'll see the road bike win the weight battle. Mind you it might only be by a pound so once you factor in the gear you'll be carrying with you you won't really care about that too much. 

Touring bikes, as you said, carry way more weight. Beacuse of this additional weight they are prone to brake squeal and you need to pay closer attention to your wheels for loose spokes and out of alignment rims. Make sure you have good spoke tension that is even all around the wheel and that the wheel is true. The only major difference in brake setup from any other brake setup is just to nose in your pads more so than you would usually for an unloaded bike if it's needed. It all depends on how flexible the brake mounts/arms are on your bike. My Surly Long Haul Trucker doesn't need any nose in when unloaded but when I have an addition of a trailer and fully loaded touring bags the brakes howl when going down hill so I nose them in and the howl goes away. 

Time...going to the same store just to browse and buying little things over the year. That's the best way to get deals. They see you on a regular basis, know you're serious about cycling and will be more willing to cut you a deal when you start asking about this year's models because they know you are not just a one shot sale. Your LBS survives on the lifetime customer. They make more money on the add-on sale than on the single bike sale. If you're a regular then they'll be giving you a price of cost plus 20% so they don't loose but then they'll start giving you a 10%-20% off on your on going items like helmets, shoes, clothes, tubes etc. Those Items are usually at a 100% mark-up and that's how they keep the lights on. They will also start doing little things for you at no cost like swapping out a flat tube for you if it's slow. Remember it's a relationship you are making and that's how you get deals. You agree to keep coming back and buy your tubes, grease, brake pads and they agree to not over charge you and give you good advice on future purchases. 

I had a persistent problem with squealing Shimano LX V-brakes years ago. Switching to XT V-brakes and trying 5 different kinds of brake pads didn't help. Toe in, toe out, no toe, mistletoe - nothing made any difference. Eventually I got a new fork with disk brake mounting tabs and installed an inexpensive mechanical disk brake (Avid) and never had to worry about any part of the brake ever again. It was easy to install and 100% trouble free for over 5 years. 

I think the rust on the pad surfaces will go away on its own when you use the brakes. It's probably just a thin layer on the surface. I don't think it hurts the brake disks, since rusted metal is softer than the original metal before rusting. The rust on the backing material probably doesn't matter much either, since you were still able to remove the pads in their current rusty condition. By the way, brakes on cars also rust when they get wet and sit for a few days -- you can hear that they sound different the first time you use them after they got rusty. But that doesn't seem to hurt them -- they still last for tens of thousands of miles. I think the technology is similar to the disk brakes on your bike. 

If you can find some other tube on the bike frame that fits the clamp better, that should be fine. Obviously if you attach the clamp too high, the trailer will be tilted at an angle which would be uncomfortable for your kid. I used to have a trailer with a similar attachment. I noticed that the clamp can have a tendency to come loose from vibration, if it's not super tight. If the trailer doesn't already have it, I would rig up some kind of safety backup system, where a string/rope/bungee will hold the trailer arm if the clamp suddenly lets go. The idea is that you notice that something has happened to the trailer and you can pull over and fix it. It's not designed to keep riding without the clamp, except for 20-30 feet until you can stop. 

The only missing part is that we don't know if the initial setting (corresponding to the torque of the wrench's own weight) is accurate. You could find the center of the mass and measure its distance from the point where sockets are attached to the wrench, then calculate the torque from the weight and distance. 

I also have Shimano M038 shoes that have a recessed SPD cleat and are very good for walking around. The cleat doesn't touch the ground. 

I have a Norco Threshold cyclocross bike ($URL$ . It has a PF30 bottom bracket and an FSA Energy Cross PF30 46/36T crank. The BB is making a lot of clicking and creaking noises, and if this cannot be fixed, I am thinking about replacing the bottom bracket with a Praxis Conversion BB ($URL$ That BB is designed to replace a PF30 BB. It is supposed to work with "Shimano™ Hollowtech II steel spindle road cranks only". Praxis also offers variants of the same Conversion BB for Shimano Mountain, SRAM road/mountain, Campagnolo. I assume I can ignore the Campagnolo variant. I am trying to figure out if it will work with my existing FSA Energy Cross crank. I am unable to tell what the difference is between various types of cranks. A lot of websites talk about "24mm standard" but I have no idea what that means. Is it the same as Shimano Hollowtech 2 ? What characteristics must be the same for two cranks to be compatible ? Diameter, Length, something else ? This is the crank: $URL$ On the page, it says "BB30", but it also has a "PF30" logo. Does that mean it works with both types of bottom brackets ? 

If the shoes seem a little too big, try some insoles. Start with the inexpensive ones you can find in a drugstore for $10. That will keep your foot from moving around inside the shoe without having to tighten the straps/laces so much. And maybe the extra cushion provided by the insoles will make the shoes feel a little more comfortable.