In general terms, Marxs theory seems to have been borne out empirically; this doesn't mean that there are parts of his theory that will be wrong or evasive - there will be; but enough is true that its worth understanding exactly how it fits together. Its also worth adding that the social democracies of Europe can be seen as non-capitalistic because of the use of progressive taxation; they can be seen, in Marxs terms, as a synthesis of 19C pure capitalism, with the antithesis of communism to synthesise the current political consensus; but with increasing globalisation, one might expect a similar but also very different regime globally - the notion of a global civil society. Negri & Hardt analyse this motion in their triplet of books - Empire, Multitude & Commonwealth; Empire is the regime of Capital in its global situation (thesis), Multitude is the response (anti-thesis) and Commonwealth (synthesis). 

Whilst true, the relative importance of these facts at the frontier of mathematics will change; for example, group theory was once called 'gruppenpest' whereas now it's generally recognised and known as the mathematics of symmetry, though symmetry is a wider concept than this, proof: look at the concept of groupoid, which is a wider concept, and rigorously defined. Euclid, is generally noted as the paragon of the axiomatic method; but look at the term 'geometry'; geo, of the earth, metry of measurement, and from there one can discern where mathematics as geometry began from, mensuration, or the measurement of the earth. Feynman divided science roughly into Greek-style mathematics, and Babylonian style; it's the former that takes the lions share of attention in the discussion of the philosophy of mathematics, but the very fact that Feynman divided science into these two parts should alert us to the fact - and I am using this word deliberately and deliberatively - that the latter is important, and is understudied and under-theorised; such a study one might call this an anthropology of mathematics, the study of how men (and women) make mathematics and why. 

There are parallels between Orphic and Pythagoranism, which differed from popular Greek religion on three counts: 

The word where bears examining here; for something to be located somewhere, there must be a place for it to be located; the table I see before me is located in my room - this is it's where. Now before jumping in and asking about parallel universes, it's worth asking where is this one - the one we are actually living in; the question can be asked - but does it admit of an answer? For the universe is where everything is located, how can it itself have a location? Were it to be located somewhere - it would need to be in something larger; but there is nothing larger - the universe, is after all, all that there is. Aristotle in his analysis of location, put it like this (Physics IV): 

It's a complex problem as to what constitutes the legitimacy of sovereignty; a possible route into this are Hobbes analysis of the various powers of sovereignty, and Lockes notion of the social contract - there's also the Confucian/Daoist notion of the Mandate of Heaven. Eichmann, according to Arendts report on the court proceedings, which by the way, she considered something of a show trial, called himself a Kantian; she said, that he didn't think. Which neither absolves him, nor the regime; but posits the question - how can a man not think? Or another - what is it within a man, or without - that stops him from thinking? And more - what are the conditions that enables or disables this suffocation of spirit? 

Descarte was an idealist, although not commonly seen as such (grounding mind-body interaction in God); and it was Spinoza that completed Descartes programme in his own way; mind-body are only two attributes of God, and not of his essence; so in God, but apart from Him. Berkleyian idealism is a variation of Spinozas; and Kants innovation was find an argument that substituted the human consciousness for God (in a sense); its real, as its not grounded in anything so super-natural or transcendental as God; but note that Kant does have the inaccessible noumena; in the terminology of Jain logic, (in some sense) it is true but indescribable; one could argue that Kant has simply kept Spinozas God, but simply pushed him aside, or rather unknowable; in line with his dismissal of dogmatic theology. 

Of course, this notion of symbol is only tangentially important to your quote above, which is a discursive definition, and relates to no particular philosopher (or poets); but it does shows its reality in the particular world of poetry - which is an empirical fact. 

Plotinus is a neo-platonist, it might worth looking in Platos Phaedrus where there is a discussion of contemplation; I'd also suggest his philosophy can be categorised as emanationist, of which more modern types are Spinoza and Hegel; and in Hegel there is definitely a motion towards more perfect contemplation - one might quite usefully call Hegel a modern neo-platonist. 

I take it this is why Arendt focuses on the notion of natality rather than mortality in her theory of action; action being only possible when men come together in their plurality; plurality being for her the condition for action. She essentially, in common with other modes of thought in modernity, is overturned the category of the vita contempletiva for that of the vita activa. The highest form of this is action, one mode of this is politics, in its wide sense where men come together to act, and to decide how to act - it's within these constellation that power manifests itself - the power of the plural - as opposed to the strength - the strength of man in the singular; it's lowest form, is the biological mode of existing that is closest to nature and is mere subsistence - she calls this labour; intermediate between these two is work where man, as Homo Faber builds the human world of artifice. I'm not sure that she would call herself a Marxist, but she certainly takes Marx into account, at least critically; for example Marxs notion of Labour & Capital fits into her notion of Work. In the essay by Sartre, put forward as a possible answer by Weissman to your question, Sartre distinguishes Kierkegaard - who is sometimes taken to be a precursor of existentialism, from Hegel, calling the former a Romantic Christian; perhaps one can think of Marx as a Romantic Materialist, given his espousal of the proletariat as world-historical. I take it though, that for the proletariat to become world-historical they cannot remain merely the proletariat; as trade cannot become world-historical simply by remaining trade. 

Godels incompleteness theorem, which really should be called the undecidability theorem given that the paper of Godels which this theorem is taken from is named 'On formally undecidable propositions of the Principia Mathematica', essentially shows that there are statements in the formal language which cannot be shown to have a proof or a disproof. Another way to say this is that its truth value cannot be established by the usual means. Are there 'unusual' means for giving it a truth-value, say by expanding the notion of turth from the simple binary of true/false to a multiply valued truth? For example, in model-theoretic terms, a statement that is undecideable is one that is true in some models and not true in others. Suppose that there is some natural probability measure that we can put on the set of models, then can't we have a probable notion of truth? 

In Marxs theory of Capital, he suggests that the origin of profit (in a factory) is surplus labour. (A factory may as well be a company, a record label or a health-care unit). The government by taxation appropriates a proportion of profits; the purpose of which is to provide services for society as a whole. A couple of questions arise here. First, the classical perspective on profit is to see it as a wage to the owner for organising the factory. Why does Marx not in fact take this position? Is this because he sees, for a factory labour as a commodity, but organisation as not? The second, isn't taxation returning (a certain proportion of) surplus profit to society at large and thus back to labour?