Officially, it can be 'valid' but not 'sound'. As all of the Lewis Carroll logic exercises involving flying pigs and boiling oceans attest, logic has nothing to do with reality per se. Validity, the primary property logic pursues in an argument, preserves truth, but some source outside logic needs to fill in the truth-values of the source premises. Many authors introduce the separate notion of a 'sound' argument which is one that is both valid and 'grounded in reality'. Of course, at that point they have departed from logic in its strictest sense because logic cannot tell you how to verify your axioms. And, as to the example, yes, deducing anything from a contradiction is always a valid argument. If your premises contradict one another, logic can't help you, and you need to address your sources of information, instead. 

Your interpretation is a bit wide of the mark. Inanimate things do not appear to work under purely deterministic principles, at least at the quantum level. The accepted version of Everett's ($URL$ view in "Many Worlds" as a model is that every particle constitutes an observer. But the more particles are involved, the more the mass will behave like a macroscopic measurer. If one particle bounces off of another, the effect is determined by the interaction of the two particles as waves, so it is just as uncertain as our human observation via an instrument would be. But we do not observe one particle as it bounces off one other, we see objects with significant mass collide. We don't see uncertainty because two more uncertain things together are more certain than each uncertain thing separately. Simultaneous probabilities do not add, they multiply. The uncertainties for each particle involved in a macroscopic physical event all multiply, and since all of them are probability distributions with values less than one, the result quickly gets very close to zero uncertainty in the resulting outcome. In other words, as far as "Many Worlds" goes we are not special because we think, we are just special because we're big and we stick together. The worlds that accommodate our macroscopic experiences are more likely as "pasts" for future events. All the highly unlikely worlds in between also exist, but they readily merge into more likely timelines as irrelevant deviations. 

Avoiding purpose-built problems, there is one basic error of context. As a Christian, he buys into the monotheistic tradition. The wager ignores the potential disapproval of all the other gods for believing in the wrong one. If believing in Baal is worse than not believing in the Lord, in the Jewish world, and vice versus in the Samaritan world, and you live between them, you might be best off ignoring them both. Even if your god's aren't jealous, they are likely to place different and opposing requirements upon you, which you don't have to reconcile if you simply avoid the concept of worship altogether. 

Most humans share a bias toward the value of empathy, which makes a Kantian notion of ethics natural to us. On a worldwide scale, we find people who lack this bias to be ill, as the IDC-10 contains the diagnosis of Antisocial Personality Disorder. And it seems obvious that murder contravenes even the most basic values of empathy. So even if murder were not forbidden by taboos and laws, it is likely that an individual would still feel guilt for doing it. Freud explains some possible reasons in Totem and Taboo. It is unlikely that the same bias would arise pointlessly in so wide a sample space. For those reasons, from many perspectives, the injunction against murder is more than just a social convention, it is an evolved or psychogenetic trait, and thus an anthropological universal. From that point of view, yes, murder is wrong, in a fairly objective sense, and not just a socially constructed one. 

Below the Masters' level, outside of very progressive curricula, one is generally not required to propose a new, proper experiment to measure an observation you have made yourself. That is what would be required for students of science to need to do science. You might repeat classical experiments or experiments devised by someone else, or you might propose and execute experiments that are not expected to expand the coverage of the subject area -- but that is rehearsing science, not doing it. You may also 'do' the math or the philosophy of the science as you take in its history and learn the reasons why it is the way it is. But that is not the science itself, those are simply its tools. Likewise, when we study history, we are not required to bring fresh perspective to primary sources and integrate them into the narrative. We can accept predigested secondary sources, which is not doing history. It is doing something simpler than actual history. Philosophy and math have a different flavor. As one reads math or philosophy even at the undergraduate level, one cannot get anything out of it unless one 'does it'. Natural objections, alternate constructions, etc. need to arise as you are taking in the information. One almost can't help doing so, so pointless is the result when this does not take place. So these more abstract subjects cannot really exist in an entirely secondary form. They can only be interpreted as they are experienced, and not as they have been decided. 

The murdered person would count, in Utilitarianism, (positively or negatively according to the happiness he contains, even if he produces no effect on anyone else), and his absence would change the sum of "utility" in the world. I think what you are after is material consequentialism. There are very few absolute holders of this position in the Western tradition, since it means that no act is moral or immoral when you do it. So it is impossible to behave morally. You just have to behave, and find out later whether it was moral or immoral. Which is not how we intuitively want the world to be. Even the most absolutist Utilitarian wants to be able to compute the odds of his action helping or hurting, and have the decision matter. So most forms of consequentialism involve the intent or expectation behind the act, rather than the material outcome. Skepticism and the associated (but better developed) Hindu or Buddhist traditions that encourage peace through detachment sometimes favor material consequentialism as a criterion for morality, as a way of making the point that these computations really do not matter and just encourage worry and other investment in suffering that might limit equanimity or compassion. 

From a more abstract point of view, we would like to have a full body of science that human beings could comprehend. But no one can comprehend an inherent contradiction. If all the existing domain-specific theories never contradicted one another, we would have a unified theory, even if it were not elegant. There are situations we can imagine about which each separate domain-specific theory has something to say, where every force is relevant to an equal degree. And every such situation is a potential place where two domain-specific sciences will offer different answers. We don't have some magical tie-breaking apparatus to decide which theory wins. So those situations remain something we cannot explain. And the ultimate goal of science as a whole is to explain as much as possible. So getting rid of those unexplained areas is obviously on the agenda. 

As I understand it the essence of 'modern' thinking lies in its contrast to 'classical' thinking. Classicists consider the past valuable in itself and in need of preservation, and either take some kind of Golden Age position or expect full integration of the important aspects of the past back into the present on an ongoing basis so that what was important is not lost. Moderns consider the present more important than the past, and consider history valuable only to the degree that it shapes or explains the present. This implicitly presumes progress as a natural part of history. Otherwise reaching back into the forgotten past could improve the present at any moment, dispelling the notion that it is not equally important and should be consciously preserved. From this most stripped-down notion of modernism as a concept, modern art is marked by its refusal to let its values be dictated by tradition, or negotiated in terms of our place in history, and attempting to derive them from internal sources or from our current mindset. Some of it is decidedly psychological, sociological or topically political, for instance, and constructed to have its effect via a given theoretical prediction or chosen current opinion. At the other extreme, some is focussed on being in the moment, free of other influences, and producing what speaks to the individual moment, and therefore to the present period. So post-modernism, in its purposely oxymoronic construction, was initially a movement to consider older ways of thinking and modern ones more evenhandedly, without making this decision, and to re-mix the two. In particular, they often aim to reinject romanticism, primitive reaction, supernaturalism, the religiously numinous, the weight of anachronism, etc. into conscious awareness in the present to improve its depth, because late modern thinkers tend to report the impression that a scientifically-based society seems to lack depth of feeling or full immersion. This requires directly rejecting the notion of overall progress and the unquestioned value of the scientific approach (which aims for progress), without overly romanticising or attempting to retrieve what is lost from the past without good reasons. From that most basic version of the post-modern point of view, this is a misplaced emphasis, but not altogether bad. The modern moment is, after all, still a moment. But to insist upon it at the cost of being incomprehensible due to the vagueness of the context and the way right now lacks traction because it has not sunk into our awareness quickly becomes silly.