As Veredomon already explained, German does have ways to express the progressive aspect, and even more than one. The real difference is that English, like the Celtic languages, has the unusual feature that marking the progressive aspect is not optional. Here is why it makes sense that German hasn't developed obligatory progressive marking (yet?). Many languages develop a way to express the progressive aspect because often you want to stress that something is going on right now. Once there is an established way of expressing that, people tend to generalise it further and further for much the same reason that people say brilliant or tremendous instead of just plain good. Example: "I promise I will pay tomorrow. I am not just promising it, the paying tomorrow is such an irrevocable fact that one could say I am practically paying right now. (Though of course I can't because I can't access my money yet.) You could say I am paying, though not right now but tomorrow. That's it: I am paying tomorrow!" Among other ways of marking the progressive aspect, German and Dutch have a construction that is similar to one that may be the origin of the English progressive as there are some similar examples in Old English. (Old English didn't have a progressive like modern English does, but a few sentences have survived that look suspiciously like the Dutch/English progressive. I can't find the source right now, but I think one example was, in literal translation, "[be] on the hunting".) 

It is actually Swiss German that is the special case. The Swiss used to use Swiss Standard German (a very different beast with little difference to standard Standard German) about as much as Germans speak and spoke Standard German. But during the Second World War, for obvious reasons Standard German suddenly had very low prestige. The Swiss extended their dialect use enormously and even started writing in dialect. (This is still tricky even today, as there is no standard.) Surely there was no such situation with standard French, and as a linguistic minority, French speakers in Switzerland have an incentive to identify to some extent with French culture. Dialect leveling is of course a pretty universal phenomenon. I am sure it was accelerated by French policies, but I guess it's hard to say by how much. It certainly happens with German as well, with the notable exceptions of Swiss German and Luxembourgish, which are on the path towards full national languages for political reasons. I'm a native German speaker myself who never learned to speak a dialect. As has always been the case, while languages and dialects disappear, new ones are formed and, initially ridiculed or marginalised. E.g. in Germany a new sociolect of urban youths is developing, in which a Turkish influence and special features of some German dialects are supporting each other. 

One problem with this question is that when dialects become too different, they may be called separate languages (subject also to political factors, of course). To make sense of this question, I think we should also include all languages inside the dialect continuum as dialects, though not minority languages that are not part of the continuum at all, such as Welsh (for English), Breton (for French) or Sorbian (for German). Now if we ignore English outside England, this means cutting off the dialect continuum at a political border. So we should do the same for French, German and any other languages we might want to consider. With these clarifications, it is my understanding that English, French, German and Italian are roughly comparable in the variation of their accents and dialects. What differs between them is primarily the status and penetration of the standard language and the extent to which non-standard accents and dialects are used and the status they have. But for each of these languages, if you take pure dialect speakers from distant regions, they will have a very hard time understanding each other without resorting to some degree to the common standard language. And in each case, a distant dialect becomes relatively easy to understand after only a small amount of exposure. 

Why is English almost finished with suffix shedding? Why does it look as if German has hardly started? English branched off the German-Danish dialect continuum when people from around the German-Danish border moved to Great Britain. The various constitutive languages were mixed in a natural process in which nobody tried to make the result behave like Latin. Some who were originally speakers of Celtic languages or of French were also involved. The result was a rapid simplification. The other Germanic languages have been a bit slower with some changes, and German much slower. For a long time it was just a dialect continuum, not a standard language with dialects. The endings got simpler in each dialect, but I guess in different dialects this happened differently. When scholars wanted to create a written language standard (17th-18th century), they were not interested in simplifying the inflections, but in making them as similar to Latin as was possible by picking suitable endings from the various dialects. The result was a standard language more conservative than all the dialects. If you compare the recent history of German and Dutch, you can get the impression that German is changing much slower because standard Dutch updates when the dialects change, whereas German doesn't. It seems that for most Dutch speakers, standard Dutch is an averaged dialect, whereas for most Germans, standard German is an almost unchanging standard which dialect speakers learn like a foreign language. That's why the endings haven't started to disappear in German yet. 

Native German and Russian speakers have no problem with cases for the same reason that native English speakers have no problem with choosing between definite article, indefinite article and no article at all (this is hard for native Russian speakers), or between prepositions: They pick up the rules naturally because everybody around them uses them correctly. In fact, today's case endings were originally postpositions (like prepositions except that they come after the word they refer to) that eventually fused with the preceding words, whereas English and French have developed a new rudimentary case system with the prepositions to and of (in French à and de) after losing the original Indoeuropean one completely. However, a phenomenon in German is that the inevitable loss of case distinctions is happening faster in most dialects than in the standard language. As a result, children who grow up as dialect speakers and don't hear much Standard German may not learn naturally about the distinction between the two object cases dative and accusative, or may not be exposed to the genitive at all. They will then learn these distinctions in a natural, unsystematic way (i.e. not taught explicitly) along with reading and writing and all other aspects of Standard German. 

This is where it gets weird, because literally, in Dutch and German you say "I am the food at the cooking". (Since het eten / das Essen is literally the eating, we could even translate this as "I am the eating at the cooking".) In Dutch this is already firmly established. In German it's definitely colloquial, and even when it is used colloquially, it indicates that the speaker comes from the Ruhr district, a large and populous area near the Dutch border. It's unlikely that the progressive will become obligatory in Dutch and German before it is simplified a lot. There is already a construction that is structurally essentially the same as the English progressive: 

By varying the probabilities slightly you can easily create different registers of the same language (spoke, advertising, bureaucratic, literary, ...). An even simpler model would be just using n-grams on the word level. And to create the words, you could use n-grams on the letter level. A more sophisticated approach would combine the first (grammar) and second (n-grams) approaches. However, you may be interested in sentences for actual communication situations that may actually repeat, so that in case of normal human languages a 'consumer' of your languages might actually learn them. Dealing with this perfectly is much harder. If you can do that, don't waste your time on toy languages - make a lot of money by the first translation software that really works well! (In other words: this task is probably too hard.) 

Quite logically, singular or plural is used according to whether the sentence negates a singular or plural. What is true, though, is that only the plural works with the number zero. This is by the same principle by which the plural is used with 0.7, 1.2 etc. It's not impossible that some language might use the plural for -1, 0.2, 1.5, 2, 3 etc. but the singular for 0 in addition to 1, but I don't think it's very likely. 

English has not lost its cases completely yet. The distinction between nominative, oblique case (result of the merger of accusative and dative) and genitive has survived in the personal pronouns, e.g. he / him / his. The general genitive has turned into the clitic 's. Dutch, which branched off German relatively recently, has reached a similar stage recently. Not too long (less than a hundred years) ago, Dutch still had cases. But nowadays it looks like in contrast to English even the genitive is going to be lost completely. There are clear indicators of case loss in German as well. 

Now that this parallelism exists, it is natural to interpret aan het / am as a progressive marker. Which interpretation of course makes it even less likely to be dropped when expressing a progressive. Due to these problems, the most common way of expressing the progressive aspect in Dutch and German is still by adding adverbs such as nu / gerade (right now):