The ancient state of Osroene did it earlier Regardless of the validity of the claim that Armenia became Christian in 301 AD, it isn't the first. Osroene - at the time a client state of the Roman Empire - formally adopted Christianity as the state religion under Abgar the Great in 201 AD. 

Novgorod is a great fit Novgorod (meaning New City), founded before 859, was a major city on the trade route from the Baltic to the Black sea. Later on, it became a prominent city of the Hanseatic League, and produced many trade goods such as furs, honey, and religious artworks. It enjoyed a high degree of culture and literacy. Starting from 1136, it was an early democracy where even the lower classes (but not serfs) were able to vote. From its inception, Novgorod has been a crossroads between Scandinavian, Baltic, and Slavic cultures. Novgorod was the capital of the eponymous Russian principality for centuries, and was one of the few places that emerged relatively unscathed from the Mongol yoke. Sadly for Novgorod, it was annexed by Muscovy in 1478, and its influence and prosperity declined rapidly. 

Sam Langley was the secretary of the Smithsonian institution for 19 years. As you point out, this institution includes the Air and Space Museum. The Smithsonian wanted "their guy" to be recognized as the father of aviation because it would be very prestigious. A third party, Glenn Curtiss helped perpetuate the feud between the two parties in order to improve his case in a patent lawsuit. This did not help to reconcile the conflict. 

This is discussed in great detail by Jared Diamon's book Guns, Germs, and Steel and boils down to a few ideas: Firstly, Eurasia is horizontal. Plants and animals adapted to the climate of one place can flourish anywhere east or west of the origin point. This made it easy to spread domesticated animals and plants. By comparison, Africa is vertical, and also much smaller than Eurasia. There were fewer plants and animals suitable for domestication, and those that were domesticated could not be easily taken to other parts of the continent. Second, Eurasia is connected. The Silk Road is a testament to how easy it was to travel between Europe and Asia and exchange goods, resources, and knowledge. Repeated waves of invaders (from the Volkerwanderung to Timur's hordes) accelerated this process. Africa is isolated, not only from Eurasia, but also within itself, by impassable deserts. There was less knowledge and trade exchanged as a result. In Europe and Asia, great cross-continental empires (such as the aforementioned Mongols, or the Byzantines) arose, which created stability and promoted trade. They had their fair share of conflict, leading to adoption of progressively more powerful weapons. The printing press made it easy to distribute knowledge of those weapons. Asia fell behind at this point - being able to connect scientists and thinkers across Europe proved to be an unbeatable advantage. Then Europeans started colonizing. Not only could they defeat the locals using their weapons, they could also bring along the quality animals and plants they had been domesticating over centuries, and settle areas suitable for those animals and plants to live. This allowed for a quick population build-up - a population that was genetically resistant to the diseases those animals carried, unlike the locals. The outcome - a snowball effect that led to more and more settlement by Europeans, and indigenous peoples losing ground to the winning combo of guns, germs, and steel. 

WWI left a huge impact on the European landscape - thousands of miles of trenches, torn-apart earth mixed with unexploded ordnance and chemical weapons fallout, and other nasty surprises from the "iron harvest" rendered huge areas of Belgium and France off-limits. Even today, many areas remain too dangerous to go into. When Germany invaded France and Belgium in 1940, they would have had to pass through this treacherous terrain. Then in 1944 and 1945, the Allies would have pushed Axis forces back through the very same area. Did the Zone play any role in the fighting, or were all sides able to avoid it without making use of the area-denial opportunity that the Zone provided? 

Kazakhstan could be considered one such country. While the dissolution of the USSR was a fairly long process that included many republics declaring themselves sovereign within the Union, the secessions started in 1990 with Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia jumping ship. In August 1991, the Soviet government made one last attempt to regain power by staging a coup against Gorbachev, but it failed, and with it, the Communist Party effectively ceased to function. The remaining republics quickly deserted. On December 8th, when the Belavezha Accords were signed, only two republics had yet to declare independence - Russia and Kazakhstan. Russia would officially declare its independence from the USSR four days later, with the parliament ratifying the accords. This left Kazakhstan as the only member republic from December 12th to December 16th, when it also declared independence from the USSR. Though the USSR did not officially vanish until December 26, it could be argued that it stopped being a union as soon as there was only one member, and Kazakhstan was independent as soon as Russia checked out. 

I often see the thesis that European nations became good at warfare because they never united, and improved their technology and skill at warfare due to competition between one another. Compared to, for example, China, which united early and then stagnated. But this doesn't really make sense when looking at other nations. The principalities of Rus were divided among competing rulers, and then the Mongols came and conquered them. The various states of the Indian subcontinent were also divided, but the East India Company was able to conquer them and rule them for a hundred years. Ireland was divided, and the English beat them. England itself was divided, and couldn't stand up to the vikings. Hence the question - was the disunity and war in Europe somehow special, or this entire argument essentially wrong? 

The same Girandoni Air Rifle used on that expedition was in service with the Austrian Empire before and during the Napoleonic Wars. It was difficult to manufacture and upkeep in the kind of volumes the army required, very slow to reload after a reservoir was spent, and required a lot of training. The fragility of the rifle was a very serious problem, since many infantry battles were decided in hand-to-hand combat with bayonets. A fragile, expensive weapon had no place in such an environment. A regular musket fired often enough, was rugged and easy to make, and was very easy to use, so your average cannon-fodder line infantry kept using them. For these reasons, the Girandoni was only really issued to small squads of elite sharpshooters and marksmen, who could sneak up on an enemy, unload their bullets in rapid succession, and then sneak away before the enemy was upon them. It was actually pretty effective at this job, and Napoleon famously decreed that any soldier captured with one of these guns should be executed as an assassin, and not afforded the dignity of a prisoner of war. Eventually, technology such as rifled barrels, percussion caps, and breech loading made the air rifle obsolete. 

For a very long time, French was, well, the lingua franca. All courts spoke French, from England to Russia. Everyone else, as always, tried to emulate what the nobles were doing, and learned French if they could. This made me wonder - what did that mean for bilingual nations? The Quebecois have a unique position in that their side was the losing one, and Canada was an English possession. But they still spoke French, this fancy language of the courts and nobles. Did this ever work in their favour - were they seen (either in Canada or abroad) as more sophisticated than their English-speaking countrymen? 

This source is from 1905; there is another book from 1988 listed as a source on Wikipedia but Google Books doesn't have that page. 

The Ottoman Empire was not an Arabian empire, but a Turkish one. So they had no reason to uproot their capital from Turkish lands and move it to an Arabian region. In addition, Constantinople Istanbul was way better than Damascus, Cairo, and Baghdad at everything. It had a strategic position on the Bosphorus Strait, and was also close to Europe, which allowed for better coordination of war and trade. It was the crown jewel of the Eastern Roman Empire in terms of culture and wealth, and it was even close to the previous Ottoman capital, Edirne. It was well-defended with two sets of famous walls. 

Yes, the People's Republic of China has the MSS, and before that, the CDSA. Other China (Taiwan) has the NSB. 

Adapting the colours of the naval ensign made sense because the Union Jack was originally meant for naval use only. See the original decree: 

It was considered a menial position wasted on Lenin himself, Trotsky, or Zinoviev It's not completely accurate to say that the General Secretary was created in 1922. The position evolved out of Technical Secretary of the Central Committee, which then became the Chairman of the Secretariat as the administrative needs of the Bolsheviks evolved. Then it became Responsible Secretary, and finally General Secretary. At its creation, the post was a purely administrative one, like the Secretaries before it. Lenin even referred to Stalin as "comrade card-index." However, one of the things it controlled was the membership of the Communist Party. Stalin took advantage of this as a way to build up a power base in the Party and reduce the influence of his enemies. The General Secretary post became influential because Stalin was influential, not the other way around. Originally, the Chairman of the People's Commissars (Lenin's position) was the leader of the nation. 

You are conflating a bunch of different things. The creation of Poland and Czechoslovakia Poland was not a result of Germany's defeat in the Great War. When Russia signed the humiliating Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, one of Germany's demands was the creation of a sovereign Polish state out of a portion of the ceded lands. The Treaty of Versailles attributed a bunch of new land to what became the Second Polish Republic, carved out of the defeated Central Powers on the basis that this land was inhabited by Poles. The same treaty recognized several new states, primarily those that sprung up out of Austria-Hungary's collapse. Czechoslovakia was one of those states. The trouble with this situation was that not everyone agreed exactly where one nationality's lands ended, and another's began. A series of wars between Eastern European countries continued until the early 1920s, including battles between the Czechoslovaks and Poles. Fate of Czechoslovakia Hitler's annexation of the Sudetenland severely weakened Czechoslovakia; much of its military installations and industry was now gone, and it became clear to the world that the Czechs were at the mercy of Germany. Poland took the opportunity to annex a small region with a strategically important railway center in a contested province; the choice for Prague was between giving it up to the Germans, or to the Poles. At the same time, 10,000km of Czechoslovakia were ceded by Hitler to Hungary. The visual comparison between who got what is striking. Poland did not get any more land from Czechoslovakia. When Hitler invaded in March of 1939, the land of the former Czechoslovak state was split between Germany, its puppet Slovakia, and a briefly-independent Carpatho-Ukrainian state that was immediately absorbed into Hungary. 

Russian soldiers first used firearms in 1382, against the Mongols (it is not mentioned in the article whether the Mongols also had guns). This would prove to be an insufficient advantage at the time, but a century later the firearms helped secure victory and break Mongol power in the West - according to Muscovite chronicles, the Mongols did not have any guns during the Great Stand, which contributed to their retreat. However, according to this answer gunpowder got to Europe through the Mongols, or through the Silk Road (of which the Mongols controlled large sections), originating from China (which the Mongols controlled). The Mongols even used gunpowder weapons in their invasion of Korea, and used rockets against the Magyars in 1241. Why then, many years later, did the Mongols lose access to firearms and gunpowder weapons, while their subject Russians gained them? 

I know that Stalin was only one of several successors to Lenin (and not a favored one at that) when Lenin died. However, Stalin was able to quickly forge alliances within the Party to oust his most powerful rivals (Trotsky, Zinoviev, and Kamenev) and establish control of the USSR. Even Bukharin - a former ally - was expelled in 1929. Stalin banned Party factions, removing official voices of dissent. And yet he still felt the need to have all his disgraced and defeated opponents put on trial and murdered. He then proceeded to purge other prominent Communists (as well as many ordinary people). Did Stalin face any resistance to the Purge politically? Was there anyone powerful enough left after Stalin's rise to power but before the Purge began, or was Stalin completely "punching down"? I am interested in the political figures, so while "such and such general controlled so many million troops" is potentially interesting, the general would also need to be somewhat politically active to merit a mention. 

Technically - the Soviets, or more accurately the Bolsheviks. The October Revolution of 1917 was followed by civil war almost immediately, but first there were independent uprisings that the Bolsheviks put down with their brand-new government apparatus. The White movement (a very loose alliance of monarchists, democrats, capitalists, and even socialists) picked up steam, starting the Russian Civil War against the Bolshevik regime. At the beginning, the Bolsheviks practiced what was known as war communism in order to keep their armies supplied and their lands under strict control, with oppressive side effects. After the civil war ended in 1921, Lenin instituted the New Economic Plan that ceased the "forced requisition" of goods and labour from citizens. While the NEP didn't last long (Stalin ended it in 1928) it was a major reprieve from the policies of "we take your stuff whenever we want it, and then force you to work to make more stuff that we can take too." 

This would have varied by region and culture. Medieval Europe Dueling has its roots in trial by combat. Presumably, if you refused such a duel, you were conceding your wrongness in the case, and the penalty would be whatever the judge decreed based on the crime and whether you were the accuser or accused. Renaissance The church frowned on duels, and strong centralized authority made it easier to pass laws against duels. Dramas of the period record excuses that gentlemen were permitted to make; appeal to the law was one of them, unsuitability of the occasion might be another. It does not seem that refusing carried any penalty; indeed, accepting might have been considered to stain one's character more than declining! Early Modern America By the 17th century, duels were all about defending perceived slights to your honor. If one refused a challenge to a duel, the challenger would post about it in the newspapers. This sounds fairly mild in our day and age, but such an insult would have ruined a man's social standing and - for a politician - career prospects. Interestingly, one could refuse if the duiel's cause was frivolous, there was a great difference in age between combatants, or if one did not consider the challenger to be a gentleman which was a mortal insult. Given that duels in America were considered to be the better alternative to feuds between families, one imagines that an insult like this would lead to such a feud. This would also be an insult to the accuser's seconds, since it would imply that they were acting on behalf of a man of low social standing. Interestingly, a public refusal to duel by war veteran Joe Wise may have led to the decline of dueling's popularity in the USA. Wise was known to be honorable, so his refusal did not tarnish his reputation, and the threat of dishonor for refusing was shown to be toothless.