If it's a one-on-one meeting, feel free to be honest. Though also don't expect your honest opinions to bring about any change by themselves. Better than simply complaining about something that has already happened and which can't be rolled back (or at least, certainly won't be rolled back over the complaints of one employee), would be to propose a solution to the problem. For instance, maybe "I'm not a fan of the move as I find it's been detrimental to my productivity in several aspects, I think I'd get more done if I started working from home [X] days a week; would that be okay?". Or something along those lines, proposing whatever solution you'd actually prefer. The point is, focus on what would make things better, not on how everything has just gotten so much worse. Though there's probably nothing you can do about the 'moving-floor' problem, beyond arranging to work from somewhere else from time to time. The other issues around increased commute-time/cost and it taking longer to get food/go on breaks are things could be addressed in a wide variety of different ways (flex-time so that you're not traveling at rush hour, allowing longer lunch breaks, installing a company cafeteria, adjustments to your compensation, etc.). So think about what you'd most like to see happen (and maybe one or two fallback options), and advocate that instead of merely complaining and hoping that someone else will solve the problem for you. 

As far as a practical solution goes, it sounds like you're actually learning some valuable new skills. And getting paid to do so. That's not something that needs to be seen as a negative. Perhaps you're unhappy with the additional workload at no additional pay, or the client's behavior in general. You can bring that up with your employer in the context of requesting a raise (or that they bring the client in line). However, some of that just comes with the territory when IT contracting. If you'd like to get away from that sort of thing, consider updating your resume with your new skills and seeking out a position further outside of the contracting space. If you like software development but don't like dealing with external clients and their unreasonable demands, consider applying for a first-party dev position somewhere. Pretty much all of the major players are constantly hiring, and there's no shortage of new minor players if the idea of jumping into a startup appeals to you. 

Perhaps they feel that the law doesn't demand enough to satisfy their sense of corporate ethics. Or perhaps they are trying to make their organization more attractive than their competitors'. Or perhaps it was influenced by large external players, such as a union and an important contractor/customer insisting upon such terms for one reason or another. There are many possible reasons, but not enough context provided to know for certain which (if any) apply. 

I can't envision a single scenario in which making this kind of decision from the top, without consulting your developers, wouldn't be completely insane. Say you're a Java shop, with several teams of very talented Java developers. But the hotshot new CTO comes from a Ruby on Rails background, and his decision is to convert everything to RoR. The only possible (realistic) outcome is unmitigated disaster. On the other hand, if you take the time to consult with your developers and they point out the obvious "nobody here knows the first thing about RoR", then perhaps you can avoid catastrophe. Or see if your developers think a migration of that kind is even possible. Or get an informed opinion about whether or not switching to RoR will provide any ROI or if it's just the CTO's expensive new boondoggle. The point is, making a decision like that which affects the people in the trenches in such a massive and fundamental way, without even bothering to check the trenches, is just asking for trouble. 

Yes, there are always plenty of assholes in the world. However I think it's a bit naive to think that using sarcasm to "take him down a peg" is going to accomplish anything useful in this situation. From your post it doesn't sound to me that the boss is necessarily aware of the other guy's behavior at all. It seems a bit presumptuous for you to assume that your boss is intentionally treating his friend as a "sidekick". The only thing you've indicated that your boss has actually done is discuss business details with his friend. But there's really nothing wrong with that by itself. If the guys are friends then probably they make small-talk from time to time, and possibly they hang out together outside of work and talk about whatever they feel like. It seems possible that your boss would tell you the same sort of information directly if you made an effort to talk to him about it. I think talking to your boss is a reasonable first step. As I noted above, it kind of sounds like he may not even be aware that he's doing anything to create the impression that an "inner circle" exists. He might also be completely unaware of the superior attitude that his friend has adopted behind his back. 

Something about what your employer is doing seems questionable to me. If I understand correctly, they approached you saying that they have a couple of HR positions that are vacant right now. Then after you indicated interest in one of those positions they told you that you couldn't actually have them, but that they could transfer you into GB and then eventually into HR. That sounds a lot like bait-and-switch to me. The problem is, if they don't promote from your current position into HR, then there was really no reason for them to approach you about filling the HR vacancy in the first place. They would have known this in advance, and they would definitely not be planning on waiting two years to fill a current vacancy. Based on that it kind of sounds like they approached you with the first position as enticement to get you excited enough to accept the second position. I agree with your impression that in two years they won't remember about placing you into HR. By that point there may not be any vacancies in HR anyways. Anyways, yes, you can request a letter, though I doubt that will be met with much success. I suggest being honest with them and telling them that what you really want is the HR position, and request that they explain why they offered you a position that you're not elligible for in the first place, and how they know that there will still be a position in HR for you in two years. If their explanations make sense to you, and if you're comfortable living with the risk that they may not honor their word (or that in two years you may be dealing with completely different individuals who have no knowledge about your situation at all) then take it. Otherwise politely refuse. 

She cooked up the punishment in the heat of the moment, without really thinking about it, and unintentionally treated you more like a child than an employee. She's one of those managers who thinks that being a manager means you get to order people to do/not do whatever arbitrary thing you feel like, and has acted as she believed was appropriate. 

Just be honest, and apologetic. Tell them that you're sorry for what's happened, but that shortly after you accepted their offer (and don't beat around the bush on that point; just admit to having accepted the offer) you received another offer from a different company that was too good to pass up, so unfortunately you have no choice but to rescind your acceptance as you can't work two jobs at once. Thank them for their time, and apologize once more, and that should be it. They may or may not take it in stride, but as long as you're polite, apologetic, and honest that's about as much as you can do on your end. If they're a larger company, they've probably had this happen at least a few times in the past and won't be particularly irked by the situation. 

I think that will probably vary by country and by company, but at least some of the larger companies handle this by having a company/subsidiary registered in each country which they have staff. Employees are associated with the organization appropriate to their country, and each company/subsidiary operates under the hiring/employment laws associated with its country. There's a lot of accounting and bookkeeping overhead in that approach, so I'd have to imagine that smaller companies might use a different solution. I'm not sure what that might be, apart from possibly treating foreign hires as contract workers rather than regular employees. Then in theory all you'd need is a lawyer competent in the relevant country's contract law to draft up some sort of suitable agreement. 

How do you feel about telling the truth creatively? It's not terribly inaccurate to describe a job interview as "an important errand that I can't do at any other time". Or "a pressing obligation that just came up". Or "something that I need to do for my own health and well-being". As an aside: 

Scrum really isn't about your work, it's about the team's work. Its merits have little to do with whether or not the process works for your personally, and much more to do with whether or not the process helps teams within your organization work effectively. Which isn't a question that can be answered by looking at just one person's experience. Anyways: 

The question of 'should' is quite vague. You can include it or not, and it's basically your choice. Each choice has different pros and cons. The purpose of a resume is to sell yourself as a skilled, experienced, employable professional. In terms of selling yourself, a gap of several months without employment (which is what you have, if you don't list the job) doesn't look that great. It's not the worst thing in the world, but it will likely raise eyebrows. You should be prepared to answer questions about what you were doing during that time, and you may have to lie if you really don't want to admit to having worked there. That can carry its own consequences if you get found out. On the other hand, if you list the job but keep everything simple and factual (not in terms of the whole police thing, but in terms of what your roles and responsibilities were, the dates you were there, and so on), that will look better and it's generally unlikely that anyone will actually contact the company to ask about you. Just don't volunteer that employer as a reference, and offer other references who will speak more favorably of you. Of course, someone may contact the company and then you might have to explain the situation. Though like I said, that's relatively unlikely. In no case should you speak negatively of your former employer when interviewing with a prospective future employer, no matter how bad they actually were. Just keep things calm, factual, and focused on positive subjects. And always think twice when considering whether or not to call the police to your workplace. There are times when it's the right thing to do. But if you don't have clear evidence of wrongdoing, it's unlikely the police will be able to provide much help and you may end up with only a dramatic scene and a quick firing as a result. 

Has any harm been caused by the lie/perceived lie? Is the lie/perceived lie likely to be repeated going forward, and if so what harm will that cause? How much good will come from confronting the issue head on? 

Not necessarily, as long as you handle it correctly. The rumor-mill does what it does, doubly so when you've got a new company taking over an existing one. Unless you announced your news by something that leaves a trail (such as an e-mail, SMS message, etc.), then the rumors that you were offered a better position can't really be traced to you personally (as you say, people were already spreading manufactured news around before you even mentioned anything). So as long as you don't spill the beans about having been the one who spilled the beans, probably nothing will come of your mistake. Or if you must discuss the issue, frame it as you have above. Your understanding was that you were to keep the matter quiet until you received the formal/written offer, and that once you had the formal offer you were free to discuss it. In other words, frame it as a miscommunication/misunderstanding as opposed to "I deliberately did something I was told not to do". Note that depending upon your location, you may have a legal entitlement to openly discuss your terms/prospective terms of employment with your colleagues regardless of whether or not your employer wants you to. Not that it should be necessary (or wise) to invoke such an entitlement in this instance. Just keep a low profile and probably it will all blow over on its own.