I was swapping the cranks and bottom bracket on my karate monkey from a Truvative stylo crankset (Mountain Double, GXP bottom bracket) to a Race Face Evolution DH (Mountain Triple, Race Face bottom bracket, It's Shimano Hollowtech II compatible I think). However, the width (Q-factor?) of the Race Face triple crankset is wider than the Truvative Stylo. If I install it and tighten the bolt, it looks to be 5mm+ of exposed space on the crank spindle and the crank arms can slide side to side through the bottom bracket since the spindle is so long. I'm pretty sure my BB shell is 73mm (according to surly). What do I need to do to compensate for this space? Spacers between BB Shell and BB Cup? How many spacers will I need, and of what size? Is there some common spec listed for the cranks that I should have been able to tell this from the start? 

You can use gear oil if you want to, it will lubricate your chain. Some thinner motor lube will tend to spray off the chain when pedaling. I did an experiment and used chainsaw chain oil on my own chain on my fixed gear bike. It did a good job of lubricating the chain. However, it tended to pick up a lot of dirt and grime. It was also much harder to totally clean off unless I used really harsh solvents (like paint thinner). So, I'm going to recommend buying bike specific lube. It is easier to strip and re-apply using citrus degreasers or other products (simple green) and will not pick up gunk as quickly (especially dry lubes). However, I'm not going to convince everybody. Chain maintenance is a religious issue and everyone has their own set of beliefs about how to do it properly. Lot's of esoterica and info about chain maintiance here: $URL$ 

Depending on the derailleur, you may be able to get 10 speed shifters to work if you also swap the cassette to 10 speed. The derailleur may have enough range to sweep the whole cassette. I've had luck using a deore lx 9-speed derailleur with 10-speed shifters and cassette. Worst case for the rear is that you'll need a new rear derailleur. 

Get Cane Creek Drop V levers for the drops. Then use your existing mtb brake levers for the tops of the bars, and get a pair of problem solvers cable doubler 2:1 to split the cables to work with two levers for a single brake. OR Find a pair of Tektro RL740 cross levers which can pull v-brakes and use those instead of your mtb brakes. I'm not sure these are still available from tektro, but i saw a pair on ebay for about $25 USD. OR Follow WTHarper's solution and use travel agents with short pull drop bar levers and regular cyclocross interrupter levers. 

The newer Surly Hurdy Gurdy chain tensioner is actually designed with the cross check dropout in mind (and should work with most semi horizontal dropouts). It's not going to get in the way of rack and fender mounts like the tuggnut. From surly's site: 

Several options: Public bikes - has several frame styles with step through design Linus bikes - has several frame styles with step through design Soma Buena Vista - a nice mixte frame style, available as a frame or complete bike. May want to consider adding fenders with a skirt guard if she frequently rides with a longer skirt. 

This may be one of those bikes with a weird scandanavian bottom bracket, called a fauber bottom bracket. Not even sheldon mentions this style on his site. You may need to get an adapter to adapt this to fit english thread bottom brackets $URL$ The link will send you to a finnish website, so you may need to call (the owner speaks english) to place an order. After putting in the adapter, you should be able to use any standard english bottom bracket. Just want to make sure you get the right spindle length on the new BB. 107mm should probably work if you're running the chainring on the outer facing side of the crank spider, 110mm if you're bolting the chainring to the inside of the crank spider. Probably wouldn't be bad if you got a longer spindle than you needed though. Your crank may come with specs for a preferred spindle length. See wikipedia entry about bottom brackets for more details. Here is another link to fish for info: $URL$ 

Unfortunately, if the bead is popping out, you're going to need a new tire. Your tube could have a blow out through the gap. You may want to inspect your brakes and make sure they were not rubbing on the tire. This could be causing pre-mature wear around the edge of the tire near the bead. 

Product Link: $URL$ I prefer the 2 separate sides vs dual sided for the reason that dual sided pedals tend to be uncomfortable on longer distances due to the cleat mechanism being present when riding with non-clipless shoes. This model also doesn't seem to have the issue of the cleat mechanism being too recessed and causing trouble clipping in with some shoes, since it does not have to accommodate both types of footwear on each side. 

So, I'm looking for drip style containers to keep in my messenger bag and my home shop to dispense bike chain lube. I want to just buy a 32oz container of lube for cheap on amazon and fill my own dispensing bottles since I need to clean a lot of chains on a lot of bikes. $URL$ However, I have maybe one small bottle of chain lube, which I'm not sure how to refill (it doesn't appear to be made to be dissassembled). Does anyone know where I can find dispensing bottles that can be securely closed for transport with all the other crap in my bag? I've checked a few science supply places online, but havn't found anything that would drip dispense and also have a screw cap. 

Unfortunately, You can't use 10 speed shimano road brifters with 10-speed dyna-sys mountain bike drivetrains. They just have different cable pull ratios. Your limited to a few options if you want to run drop bars with 10-speed shimano: Mount your existing MTB trigger shift on your drop bars. This means you have to take your hands off the hoods and drops to shift. Get 10-speed dyna-sys compatible thumb shifters from microshift. You must take your hands off the hoods and drops to shift. Get 10-speed dyna-sys compatible bar end shifters from microshift. You must shift from the drops. Get Gevanalle GX brake/shifter kit, you must shift from the hoods using indexed bar end shifters mounted on front of brake levers. You could try road brifters and a long cage road derailleur with a 10-speed mountain casseette. Definitely unsupported by shimano. May be limited to 11-32 cassette instead of 11-34 or 11-36. YMMV. However, you can mix and match road an mountain components with most sram 10-speed drivetrains. So you could use something like force shifters with x9 derailleurs with less trouble. 

The salt from excessive sweating will corrode your headset bolts, bottle cage bolts, can corrode aluminum alloy in handlebars and can affect the paint on your frame. Riding outside on the road is less of an issue because sweat evaporates more easily and the force of the air rushing by keeps the sweat from settling easily. However, on a trainer, everything just runs right down off of you and on the bike and floor below. Sweat can build up on and under the bar tape if you let it. Google corroded handlebars, you'll find plenty of examples. Replace the bar tape at least once a season, it will give you time to inspect the bars for any corrosion. It's most likely to happen where there are scratches in the anodized coating. In between rides, you can use a bit of water and tiny touch of dish soap to clean, be sure to rinse well. Remember, use enough of water. You want to pull out the sweat and not let it build up there. The solution to pollution is dilution. You can buy sweat guards which cover the headset and top tube to protect the other parts of your bike or you could just drape some towels. Additionally, a little lemon pledge furniture polish is a nice touch to keep your frame shiny and moisture resistant. 

Yes. I own a north st bags convertible pannier and think it works great. It hangs a bit low, so don't try and use it on low rider racks. $URL$ 

I got a North St Bags Woodward Convertible Pannier/Backpack and use it all the time. It has hidden backpack straps which make it easy to wear on your back and quickly converts to a standard pannier for mounting on your rack. 

I recently aquired a full suspension bike. However, I have had a hard time finding resources which tell me comprehensive strategies for setting up the suspension (Air pressure, adjustment, dial settings) for my fork and rear shock. What resources are available (outside of individual product manuals) to teach me more about how to set up my suspension properly for optimal performance. Sheldon brown just doesn't cover supension tuning for 5k wonderbikes, who would have guessed. 

A local pittsburgh bike shop, Thick Bikes, put up instructions on how to DIY some cheap studded mountain bike tires and I thought it was really useful. These are geared more for off-road mountain bike riding than on-road riding (with studs in the center of the tire), but you could easily just leave out the center screws. They line tire with an old road tire to protect your tube from the butts of the screws/studs. Just check out their blog here for the details: $URL$ 

If you can't figure out how to fold it back like it came, you can try a method of looping it 3 times to fold it in to a smaller size which works for non-folding tires as well. How to fold a tire $URL$ or a video version of this method from sheldon brown $URL$ 

It's pretty easy/light to carry around a couple extra spokes per wheel and a pretty good idea for a long tour. You'll probably need a few different lengths though for the front, rear left, and rear right sides. Another good option is to carry an emergency fiberfix spoke that can be used with most wheels, which will help in an emergency. $URL$ You may want to work on your skills with truing a wheel without a stand as well. You can use a couple zip ties on your seat stays in place of a truing stand. Just make sure you are comfortable with this process before you go on the road, and don't forget your spoke wrench. You may need a cassette tool / chain whip as well if you need to replace a spoke on that side of the rear wheel. 

Just eat the cost and take the bike to a shop you trust and have them fix it properly. It's probably way more hassle to deal with a shop that sucks if it's not a major repair. Second step should be to be prepared to fix a flat at any time. I never ride without A patch kit Tire levers Multi-tool Mini-pump or co2 Tire boot Usually a spare tube as well. All of this stuff fits comfortably in a small under-seat bag, there is never any reason not to have this stuff all the time. 

Yes, there is much more clearance with cantilever brakes for both tires and mud. I swapped in 700x41c tires and I had to remove the boot from the brake cable on the mini-v brakes because it would occasionally rub on the tire. I have a lot more mud clearance using the cantilever brakes, probably at least an inch above the tire, where I had only a few millimeters using mini-v brakes. Regular v-brakes would probably have about the same mud clearance as the cantis, but don't work well with the cable pull from STI shifters. 

If you're only using it for riding a bit around town, possibly using multi-modal train or bus connections (they are popular with London tube riders), small shopping trips, or commuting to work and you are not concerned about doing fast road rides, off road riding, or super long rides then a folding bike could be a good fit. I borrowed a folding bike and found that I could fold it up in about 30 seconds and put it in a carrying bag rather easily after I did it about 5-10 times. At first it will take a minute or two while you are learning the proper order to fold and unfold (single speed and internally geared hub models are less complicated to fold). They store very small and you can toss them in a closet when not in use. They are a bit heavy to carry around for long distances, but a lot of them can be pulled around by their seat while coasting on one wheel or a caster installed below the bottom bracket. Hell, some people even tour on their bromptons: $URL$ If you're going to go this way, I'd stick with the small 20in or smaller wheeled models from Dahon or Brompton. Larger wheels mean more weight and larger folded size, which negates a lot of the benefits of having a folder. 

I am replacing the rim on my rear wheel with a new one. I've brought up the tension on the spokes close to the final tension by truing / increasing tension / truing / increasing tension. I've got myself a park tool TM-1 tension meter. I've been measuring the spoke tension, and they have a deflection reading varying from 19 to 21 or so, giving tension between 85kgf to 105kgf, using double butted 2.0/1.8 spokes according to the park tool deflection to kgf conversion chart. How close of a tolerance between spokes tension readings should I allow for the final tension? How should I even out the tension to the ideal tolerance? 

BikePedia has an entry about a bike that looks to be the same as what you posted. It's a Cannondale Adventure 400 femenine model. It appears that this came with a front shock initally, but may have been fitted with a rigid front fork (or there were alternate models without the shock). These appear to have been produced for several years, with a mostly similar design. I'm not quite sure what year that model is. 

For cleaning my bottles in the worst case scenario, mud/dirt/grit on the outside, drink mix on the inside and then left for days my car to get funky after a ride. 

I'm looking at getting a wheelset with disc hubs and rim brakes to run on my disc and non-disc cross bikes. There are stock wheels that have velocity a23 rims, which are a poupular rim brake compatible rim. However, the stock wheelset tend not to have machined brake surfaces. Is not having a machined brake surface a problem? Does it matter whether the rim is painted or anodized? Update: It seems like some old heads seem to think that a machined sidewall was a marketing gimick made to stop brake squeal on new showroom bikes. Rivendell sell a lot of rim brake wheels without a machined surface. Jobst Brandt via Sheldon Brown: $URL$ Rivendell (probably via Grant Peterson) $URL$ 

I have a pair of Chrome Midway Pro SPD cycling shoes. These look like sneakers, but have a cleat mount embedded in them. Mine have worn down a bit and now the cleat crunches against the ground all the time. What can I do to make the cleat stop grinding? Maybe build up the front of the shoe around the opening with a few layers of gorilla tape or glue strips of old bike tires to the bottom of my shoe, any suggestions?