However, he was likely telling the USA that at least partly for propaganda purposes. Many in the USA figured the UK would quit the war (eg: Ambassador Joseph Kennedy), and were against giving them any material support that was liable to go to waste with a soon-to-be non-combatant (or worse yet, end up in Nazi hands). 

Apparently there is (or at least used to be) a theory floating around that the story of the Argo represented organized Greek attempts to expand their maritime influence in that direction (eastward), and the Trojan War represented Anatolian (Hittite?) resistance to that. Here's how Colin McEvedy put it: 

The CCC was shut down in 1942, NYA and WPA in 1943. You can see from the graph that its was pretty clear by that time that they were no longer needed. So it wasn't the war directly that caused their demise, but it probably indirectly did. 

This is kind of tough to answer, as few people look upon themselves as "evil", and there are adherents to pretty much every religion that will happily tell you everyone else is worshiping devils. That being said, the best candidate I can think of is the Thuggee (Thugs). Yes, we got the word from a historical people. This was a society in India that believed they were descended from Kali (Hindu goddess of death), and made their living by murdering travelers and caravans. Its debatable how religious they actually were though. There are millions of modern-day Kali worshipers who would quite strenuously object to any insinuation that Kali is an "evil" goddess. 

Probably not. I'm unaware of any serious historical speculation (or more importantly evidence) along those lines. At the time having the King's babies was essentially a queen's one and only job. This went double for King Henry, as he had already executed one previous wife essentially for not producing male heirs. Its possible of course. While not as effective as what we have today, birth control (and abortion) methods certainly existed back then. It is true that she was never known to be pregnant. However, seeing as she died at 21 that isn't entirely strange. Moreover, we have no real evidence that she was doing that, which cannot be more simply explained by other means, so any such theory runs afoul of Occam's Razor. Of course Hanlon's Razor would instead tell us to look for stupidity, so I suppose stupidity is one possible explanation for her behavior. However, once you play that trump card at our remove, you could explain away literally any behavior (documented or not). Another possibility is that she was feeling the pressure to produce heirs, felt that her interaction with the king wasn't certain to do the job, and went searching for others who could ... er ... act in his stead. Sadly the historical portrayals we have for her aren't a lot of help here, as they have really been all over the map. Most historical speculation about Henry VIII's troubles with siring heirs center on the man himself. After all, with 6 wives, he is the one constant in the equation. 

It looks like they were in fact in use as late as the 17th century by rural folk, although there is some doubt as to how ancient at least some of those runes were. The more practical ones seem to center on fishing and herding activities, which indicates the kind of people who were using them. Since the finds are in relatively recent books, you could argue the practice may not be that old. However, it indicates a persisting belief in the power of runes, and the simplest explanation for that is that its a holdover from the beliefs Icelanders held and practiced at the time of colonization. 

Before the first US Mint established the late 1790's, the matter of legal currency in the new nation was left entirely up to the states. As a result, many states had their own currency. Amongst the general public, the most popular form of currency in use was the Spanish Piece of Eight (aka: Dollar). When the Federal Government finally started minting their own coins, they were made the same size, and out of the same materials, as the Spanish Dollar. Mexico did the same with their pesos. As a result, all three were circulated as currency interchangably until 1857. So most likely, all government employees were paid in Pieces of Eight, or one of the currently circulating monetary equivalents. 

Seeing as all parties involved live in Cuba, it is in fact quite possible that some editing was done for political reasons. Seeing as his widow and daughter were involved, it is also quite possible that some details were altered (or even removed) to avoid bringing any embarrassment to the family, or that might tarnish his memory in some way. Some editing of content was certainly done. His daughter admitted as much in a 2004 interview (translated to English here): 

I believe there were some North American tribes where that was common, but I'm having trouble coming up with proof. There's surprisingly little writing on traditional native hairstyles for women, particularly in individual tribes. However, its incontrovertible that many native men grew their hair as long as possible, so in their case it was at least as long as their women's. 

It wasn't that they were against private property because they thought it was sinful, but rather that they thought it was sinful because they were against it*. To understand this, its probably best to start by talking about common land and enclosures. Under traditional English Common Law, tenants had certain usage rights on common land, even though technically they did not own the land. These included fishing, grazing, farming, mining. All within strict limits, of course, but they did have a right to use the land to support themselves and their families. This was a pretty useful setup in an era where all land was technically owned (because Feudalism), but England had a lot of untended land laying around. However, as the population grew, that problem went away, and land in the commons started to become really valuable. As a result, landowners started using the Enclosure process to take their land out of the commons and reserve it for their own exclusive use. While personally lucrative, this turned all the former tenants into the era's equivalent of homeless migrant laborers. As you can imagine, these people were not pleased with their change in status. There were also way more of them than there were landowners, so this led to a lot of social unrest. This is where the Diggers came in. Simply put, they wanted to undo the enclosures. They were essentially a social reactionary movement. They wanted to find a way to extend the old system of Common Land into the new era. That they searched through the Bible for religious justification should surprise no one. Being a rather large diverse book, the fact that they found passages backing them up should also surprise no one. But chiefly they were just about going back to the old ways of doing things. * - This kind of situational morality happens far more in history than one might naively think. 

Interesting. I'd never heard this before, so I went digging myself. It appears that Michigan's prehistory of copper working really fired some people's imaginations. If you look there are even fanciful stories about Phonecians crossing the Atlantic to get at Great Lakes copper! There's a great paper online by what appears to be a very frustrated Archeologist (Susan R. Martin) called The State of our Knowlege about Ancient Copper Mining in Michigan, where she rails against the hookum pseudo-science writers have been perpetuating on this topic, and tries to set the record straight from an actual archeological standpoint. 

I found two schools of thought on this. School 1: There is not and never has been any official organization overseeing all Pentecostals, and there is not really one single founding church of the movement. Pentecostalism is a set of beliefs that evolved over time among a lot of independent churches, so there really is no single founder. The earliest Pentecostal churches evolved from what they were into that philosophy, as it evolved itself around the beginning of the 20th Century. 

It looks like the short answer is "No". At least I can't find anything historical that explains this, outside of the fact that Chinese culture and Western culture developed independently, and thus were forced to invent their own ways of doing things. I did some digging, but couldn't find any significant difference in how married women are traditionally treated in both cultures. It looks like it may have been a bit easier for a Chinese woman to get out of a bad marriage (and go back to her original family) than for a (traditional) Western woman, but of course in both cases it was far easier for the man to do so. In both cultures, a widow was still considered part of the husband's extended family.