If you are in a world of SkyNet and Terminators, it could be technologically possible. The fastest ones in Greenland move 10 miles a year. A city under a glacier would be transported away at that speed in it's entirety except for the basements, it could be similar to searching for bullion from a ship in the deep ocean. SkyNet has large energy capabilities, and it could blast large access holes through 2km of ice, maintain them, and then mine for debri in the rock bed. if you use nuclear and TNT or major heat sources you can completely get through a glacier and divert it. They could literally just put in black substrate and lazer it using the sun. The gold would not move fast if it was protected by overlying material, and it would always tend to sink under other rocks. If you got there within a some years and you said that the vault was on a protected hillsidre or in a basement it would be ok. A glacier doesn't dig that fast vertically every year. 

The Question has minor flaws. Earth is too near to the sun, and it's only saved by it's moon which provides a large magnetic disruption in the earth. So, the first thing to ask is: how do you create an earth and moon. It's a reason why habitable planets can be alot rarer than scientific extrasolar dreamers say it is, the chances of having a moon able to make so much magnetic shield, in a habitable zone is small. The habitable zone is wide and can be optimized using CO2 and atmospheric greenhouse, you could be 15 million miles and be ok, half way between the earth and mars. Two planets in the same orbit is naturally unstable and doesn't occur in practice. you would have to place a planet further or closer for more safety. If you had the same orbit and needed to adjust it, it would likely create earthquakes and by counterproductive to the colony. You can have one planet nearer to the sun, and one further away, by 15million miles. It should be possible to hurl ice at mars and move it's orbit inwards, if you double it's size, you can provide a certain amount of momentum to send it 15,000,000 kilometers from earth. mars is 30mn away and the moon is 1/4million away. 

You can check out simple radio electronics, and design one using nanotechnology... So, Graphene is used for the antenna, it's a tiny long graphene ribbon implanted somewhere rigid, because it has to be as long as a radio wave, i'd say an endoscopic implant in the top of the head. The capacitor would be a few microns, made of a futuristic ceramic perhaps, and the diode would be a few microns of germanium. describe a radio circuit in nanotechnology and connect it to the ear/the brain. Radio-Waves travel far, because they interact very little with matter. If there was a radio wave signal on earth that helped survival, for example weather forecast or food that transmitted radio waves, I believe animals could have evolved to hear them, but it would be as complex as ocular apparatus. 

Of course, when dealing with exhaust vents, beware of magical farm boys using explosives. Just, you know, in general. 

It's certainly supportable. It sounds like the range that your describing though is more like the Mahalangur section of the Himalayas on the Nepal-China Border, home of the famous Mt. Everest. The geological history of the area is (IIRC) that India was a separate continent that slammed into Asia which caused the ring of mountain ranges to appear after Pangea had their break-up. You could use the same history for your continent - originally two, but collided years ago, causing that mountain range to occur only in the middle of continent where the collision happened. 

What you're essentially doing is limiting the number of votes on any given topic to however much any voting individual wishes to pay. This will have a number of immediate effects. The poor, lower-class and disenfranchised will not vote. If they're struggling to do silly things like "eat", spending any money for something as amorphous as voting. Those on the other side of any bill that is supported by a large industry or wealthy individual(s) would also not want to waste money voting due to the cap (because votes are capped, any rich person or persons would simply have to pony up enough for half of the votes for the cap). The middle class will only vote on a handful of things that matter most to them. You may have members of the Sierra club show up for a big vote on the environment, but not much else. People will "save" their votes for something that would effect their spheres of influence directly, and ignore the rest, as investing the funds in education and retirement would be more beneficial to them. The upper class, and various tiers thereof, would still be the main target of anyone trying to legislate any changes. Instead of American-style fundraisers (dinners, capital raisers), events and entities would be places into motion to encourage those with money to waste on votes to vote for certain things (bonuses that happen right before election time, other soft-dollar movements to encourage those people to go vote). This reality would seriously warp the legislation presented towards those voters... for example, why even draft legislation to raise a money for renovating X side of town or for Y industry? None of the voters live there, or only do business on the fringes. It wouldn't be democracy, specifically, but really an argentocracy, a government by money. This is not a specifically a plutocracy because other people than the wealthy minority CAN have a say by vote-purchasing, but statistically will not in any large mass due to sheer economics. 

I am working on a story where ballistic weapons are completely banned across the entire planet in favor of smell, sound, and drug-weapons. For example, the police are equipped with somnambulizers and hilaritazers, depending on the situation... somnambulizers make someone sleep instantly, and hilaritazers have a LSD related substance, which makes people laugh and forget where they are. A huge metropolis in Texas has become rebellious and has 3D printed guns and ballistic weapons and has walled off the city, and the big brother has to make everyone flee from the city safely, using only smell, sound, and drug based weapons, so they can attend citizen-responsibility classes to read the little red book. What kinds of sensory and drug based tactics can the government use, from rotten fish, tranquilizers, LSD, fluffy toys that sing, to make the city completely docile and make people flee from it, without killing anybody? 

It's an animal behaviour question. Ants and bees and to some extent cows do this. Can humans have no territorial, sexual, racial, criminal, adventurous instincts, and no fear of death in service of it's community? Primates typically don't. It's the same as news reports about racist and sexist issues, they bypass the human rational system because they act on primate self defence instincts that act in the periphery of your concious vision and make you react emotinally faster than you have actually visually identified the subject, through a primitive fast neural pathway. It means that you have to re-program the brain significantly to make the individuals less carnivorous and tribal and more like ungulates like cows. Cows don't have tribal wars and they are settle their ownership disputes once a year and are relatively peaceful, the female cows are not very agressive. Indian Sadhus are supposed to live selflessly, but they have to defend themselves because most of the population still acts with ownership. Legal structures to turn primate instincts into a benign society are very complex in our own society. You have an idealist argument of a utopic nature which sidelines the human behavioural aspect. Everything in the human sphere today is about crowd control and primate emotions, personal thirst for blood, racism, sex, socialising, playing, thrills, and territory. The communist doctrine was written at a time with very low workers rights and worker pay in factories and was relatively good, except that it didn't give a mechanism of action, Ghandi did, and if communism and Ghandhism had some kind of combination of fervor and method, perhaps communism could have survived a bit long in spite of it's flaws. 

I'm quite sure the traveller would have to worry, just because the Bronze Age people had antibodies that the traveller may not have. So a not-so-serious disease for our ancients can be very dangerous for the traveller. It has already happened (lots of Indios died for the european diseases after European discovered America). You should also remember that viruses and bacterias change over time, so the person may have antibodies for those illnesses, but in a different version. That's one of the reasons why influenza vaccines have to be different every year. So the time traveller would have to avoid situations that can put him in danger (crowds, not-well-cooked food, too close contacts and so on). And even so he could be not so safe. 

Yes, feudalism was born so. Dictatorships sometimes are born so. If the danger is felt very strongly by the population and the king appears to be the one who can save them from it, people can renounce freedom and accept higher taxes in order to be protected and safe. However, a lot depends on 2 things: the history of the city and the taxes. A city which has been a republic for much time would not accept very well a monarchy unless it is the only way to be safe form dangers. If the taxes imposed by the king are too high, rebellions are much more likely to happen. So, summing up, a city would accept monarchy if the danger is felt very strong and the king seems to be the best/the one who can keep them safe. But if the king is silly and impose too high taxes or if the city has a well-felt history of democracy, then rebellions are likely to happen, even if people are scared of invasions (they could see them as liberators). 

The two stars are about the same mass. As it is thought that a planet must not excede 1/5 of the minimum distance between stars to have its stability guaranteed, than we have 5,9 AUs of stability around both stars: the habitable zones are deeply in it. For a circumbinary orbit we have a minimum distance of 390 AUs. Additionaly, there are a few G and K stars near it. 

Maybe you could want a silicon-based being.It wouldn't be very Earth-like (silicon cannot do all the things carbon does)and it would be very different, but, if we suppose intelligence evolves when it's needed to resolve adaptation problems, I think it could be sentience. Silicon can work where a planet is too hot to allow carbon to work (look at this). I hope it helps. 

The most politically correct one would be the one selected by that minority group. In all cases of vernacular syntax, there's a wave of names that will be attributed to a certain group or groups. It follows a fairly recurring progression: 

Not really. There's a similar argument that cultures with different languages are better at math due to how their number-words are constructed. For example, in English, the number of 11 is called "eleven" and the number 15 is "fifteen", but in Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Turkish that number is basically called "10 & 1" or "10 & 5". That doesn't sound difficult but for early language learners, adding the extra baggage takes up time. Fifteen plus twelve has to be translated to 15 + 12 then 10+5 + 10+2 and then you get the answer, 27, which is then 20+7 or twenty seven. It's actually worse in other languages... for example, 99 is ninety nine in English, in Korean it's "9 10's & 9", but in French it's quatre-vingt-dix-neuf... which is literally "4 20s & 10 & 9". Because there's less 'lag' in Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Turkish, they've found that children in those cultures as a whole understand math faster, which propagated the original stereotype that the entire culture is just seemingly better at math than Western cultures. However, once those students get into more advanced mathematics including numbers in the abstract, all of that edge vanishes, so all cultures should be on the same level... however, there is a lingering psychological impact. Those who basically learned to hate math starting at those very early ages do even worse once math becomes abstract. Having a base 8, or octal, math isn't going to be structured all that differently in the grand scheme of things. Anything that goes down to base 2 will be effectively the same for any large computations. Now if we had 4 fingers on one hand and three or five fingers on the other... THAT would most likely have an impact. 

It wouldn't. Basically, this new world is exactly like ours, but the barrels of oil are smaller and a different color. Gold became used as a currency for the sole reason that it was rare and there wasn't much use for it (other than being pretty). You have removed both of those things by turning it into the oil substitute. In Earth-1, price of oil is all over the map, due to the supply, availability, demand, locations it's held in, et cetera. In Earth-2, the same thing would apply to Gold. Because of that, it would never be used as currency, just like we would never want the U$D going up & down in value depending on how much the Saudis and Russians drill. You can have economies "Based on" gold in Earth-2, similar to how the Saudi, Russian and Venezuelan economies are "based on" oil, but there is no 1-to-1 correlation between a certain amount of the commodity and their paper currency. The closest thing to describe this concept in Earth-1 terms is actually aluminum and grain. Aluminum - When it was "invented", it was difficult to produce, and thus was quite expensive, surpassing even gold in value. In the late 1880s, there was discovered a way to produce it cheaply... and suddenly the value plummeted. It wasn't rare anymore, thus it wasn't expensive. Napoleon III of France had a set of special aluminum diningware that was made for those guests so honored that gold simply would not do... and today I'm drinking soda out of a aluminum can, and tossing it in the garbage. Grain - Before there were fiat currencies, everything was based on barter... but many things were hard to just carry around. Barley, Rice, or Grain Farmers would deposit their grain in a silo, get a series of receipts and then exchange them for goods & services, and the recipients of those receipts could exchange them again for grain. Being grain (or whatever it was), it does go bad over time, so the receipts were dated and could "go bad" and become worthless. These "Grain Dollars" were highly localized based on the location of the grain storage silos, and while they could potentially be traded further away, there was a risk for anyone receiving that currency that the amount of grain would be worthless if they waited to long to retrieve. Obviously, this system only works in a diversified economy - if everyone grew grain, that system would be useless, because everyone is just growing money. It was also nearly impossible to build coffers via taxes, because any particular amount can be used up, or go bad, at any point. In your idea, Gold would be like grain... a commodity. Anyone can mine it, it has intrinsic value, and whoever mined it faster/cheaper could make a quicker buck than everyone else.