I can't pinpoint the source of my confusion; so please advise. However, I suspect that I'm troubled by the use of who (the relative pronoun) to refer to no-one (its antecedent). How can a pronoun refer to a nonexistent someone or something? Is this nonsensical? In the sentence above, if 'category' should be used by no-one, then no one exists. So how can you continue to consider this no-one, especially with a relative clause? I already deduced, and so ask NOT about, the meaning of the above: One should use 'category' only if prepared to state [the following]. 

Does the adverb cause the logical difference between and ? If the answer to 6 is 'yes', then how does do so? My conjecture: causes the Adverbial to incorporate more Conditions. My conjecture matches the fact, and the picture below depicting, that any SC ⊆ its NC: 

[p 253, from Chapter 14:] Hearing Language Is Seeing Language When you speak, you move — you move your face and head, your body sways, you shift your weight, you move your hands and arms. Many such movements are unconnected to speech: While talking, you can scratch your head because it itches. At other times, these same movements are connected to speech: Scratching your head emphasizes your puzzled state when you say I wonder where I put my keys? Linguists call these movements gestures. You’re generally unaware of your own gestures and may not notice that you do them even when you talk on the phone! However, when you communicate face to face, you present perceivers with linguistically relevant information from two sensory streams — sight and sound — at the same time. We show you how speech and gesture work together in audiovisual perception. [pp 272-273, from Chapter 15:] Producing speech amodally Signals that occur in multiple modalities — sounds from the mouth, movements of the face or hands, and vibrations you can feel — can be multimodal or amodal. Amodal signals all originate from the same activity and just happen to broadcast on different sensory channels. For example, the visible changes in lip shape and face deformations due to jaw movement result from shaping the vocal tract to produce audible speech. Researchers consider these signals to be amodal (without a specific intended modality) in terms of their production even though perception processes them through multiple sensory channels. Amodal signals don’t involve extra planning or additional neural and motor resources. Producing speech amodally means that the signals in each sensory channel have a lot of shared structure and convey the same or, at least, related information. Perceivers take advantage of this when they process speech through multiple sensory channels. For example, it’s easier to understand people face to face — when you can see them — than on the telephone. And if someone is deaf, being able to see how the movement of the lips, jaw, and even the tongue change the shape of the face can be critical for perception. This is a form of speechreading that everyone does to some extent without special training. (For more on speechreading and multisensory perception, see Chapter 14.) 

Are there etymology dictionaries for French available on the Internet? To wit, what's a French equivalent of $URL$ I already know about TLF informatisé (TLFi), but often, it does not retrograde to Latin and PIE etymons; Littré suffers from the same problem as TLFi, but is abrupter. PS: This Area 51 question is similar. 

Abbreviate 'Inanimate Subject(s)' to IS, and any 'direct object' as DO. The links above comprise example sentences of the following syntax: 1. IS DO. Without perpetrating the Etymological Fallacy, but to dig deeper, I paraphrased 'constitute' and 'compose' in terms of their Latin etymons. Then 1 can be paraphrased as: 2. IS DO. But 2 makes no sense, because IS cannot execute any of the verbs coloured in grey. Instead, 2 makes sense only if 2's verbs are interpreted causatively, as in 3: 3. IS CAUSES TO BE DO. So 3 seems to prove com- as a causative prefix, to justify the meanings quoted above and 1. PS: I already read Etymonline's entry on com-. A Google search for "causative prefix" shows nothing helpful for English, Latin, or the Romance Languages. 

Why might the Latin -v- have been lost in French? The following discusses the influence of the Gaulish language on French. So did Gaulish cause this loss? 

In Chapter 6, the book does not appear to explain why these Intermediate Categories cannot be XP again. Why are X' necessary? Why not simply reuse XP? Cannot each X' be replaced by XP? 

Prof Lawler defines 'dimension' on p 11 of 20. However, I don't understand or can't imagine the difference in dimension between the verbs for 2D and 3D above. For example: [4.] A scrawl is written on a thin parchment or papyrus; so the 'height' of the writing material seems trivial. So should a scrawl be 1D? [5.] How is a cap 2D? Similarly, how is a chap 2D? Humans (including chaps) can jump, and so can move along the z-, beyond the x- and y-axes. [8.] How is a stump 3D, but a wall (in 4) 2D? 

Etymonline refers to the "An Etymological Dictionary of the French Language" by Auguste Brachet, translated by G.W. Kitchin, Oxford, 1878. Its entry for achever, on page 152 of 558, states: 

I'm only a tyro at linguistics, but I'm reading Linguistics For Dummies (1 ed, 2012; by Déchaine, Burton, Vatikiotis-Bateson) which seems helpful. Chapters 14 and 15 especially should aid you to explore further, but are too long to quote entirely; so I quote a few pages: 

Source: p 178 Understanding Syntax (4 ed, 2014) by Prof. Maggie Tallerman PhD in Linguistics (U. Hull). The author is using (84) and (85) to introduce Bar Notation. 

Why can prepositions following a verb not affect the meaning of Verb Phrases that differ by only a preposition? I.e., what explains the semantic sameness between Verb Phrases that differ by only a preposition, but that both mean the same? I can't divine why, but to me 1 looks wrong and 2 correct. An example from English is: 

I.e.: What are the Linguistic Distances of Ancient Greek compared to 2000s English, French, and Spanish? I know that each Indo-European language belongs to its own Language Family: Ancient Greek to Hellenic, English to Germanic, and French to Italic ⊃ Romance. 

Source: Blank, A. 1999. Why Do New Meanings Occur? A Cognitive Typology of the Motivation for Lexical Semantic Change. In Historical Semantics and Cognition. Edited by P. Blank Koch, 61-90. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter. 

Finding transfer errors: The three ways Linguists have figured out a pretty good way of detecting whether a language learner has transferred a property of their source language to the target language. If all three of the following patterns are found, then it’s likely that a transfer error has occurred. (This method isn’t foolproof, but it’s pretty reliable.) ✓ Parallelism: The learner speaks the second language with patterns found in his source language. For example, speakers of Egyptian Arabic regularly insert the vowel [i] between consonants in their L2 English forms. Egyptian speakers do this because their source language doesn’t permit such consonant sequences: This is an example of how the phonotactic restrictions of the L1 source language affect the learner’s L2 language. For example, floor becomes filoor and three becomes thiree. ✓ Homogeneity: Learners of a particular target language who also have the same source language all make the same error. For example, learners of English who have Egyptian Arabic as their source language show the same error pattern: They all break up consonant clusters with the vowel [i]. ✓ Heterogeneity: Learners with different source languages should exhibit different error patterns. For example, learners of English who have Egyptian Arabic as their source language have a different pattern of errors than learners who have Iraqi Arabic their source language. (Because these languages are both called “Arabic,” it seems like they should be the “same” language, but in fact, they are so different that a speaker of one can’t really understand a speaker of the other.) While Egyptian speakers insert the vowel [i] between consonants in their L2 English forms, Iraqi speakers insert the vowel [i] BEFORE consonant clusters. So floor becomes ifloor and three becomes ithree. 

Source: p 214 Bottom - 215 Top. Understanding Morphology (2010 2 ed.) by Martin Haspelmath, Andrea D. Sims. 

Source: pp 367-368, The semantics of ‘empty prepositions’ in French (1996) by Kemmer and Shyldkrot, as part of Cognitive Linguistics in the Redwoods: The Expansion of a New Paradigm in Linguistics edited by Eugene H. Casad. 

Am I correct that the bolded is equivalent to heteronyms? If yes, then how was polyphony a fail in Sumerian, by the bolded? English can't have a problem with its many heteronyms, because: 2.1. some are startingly also Functional Morphemes like 'do' and 'quite' and 2.2. if distinguishing the heteronym for the functional morpheme (from the other heteronyms) were too confusing and grueling, then the heteronymy'd end and the heteronyms'd be substituted by words with different spelling, pronunciation. 

Abbreviate Grammatical Gender to GG. This question concerns binary contrarieties and oppositions (Are these the correct terms?) in GG between French and Spanish noun cognates. Are there any books or resources or studies that explain this? Lists without explanations are off-topic. References: 1. This Quora answer by Dan Lenski (BA Linguistics; PhD Physics) lists but also explains one: 

When I first encountered this word, I interpreted ob as a negation/negatory prefix, in opposition to probum. This interpretation is wrong, because it would mean that oppobare meant the opposite of its true meaning. Prefixes still bedevil and beset me; so please disambiguate the meaning? Etymonline's separate entry on ob-, states one use 'as an intensive'. However, this use seems unlikely here, because then Etymonline would've have written thus in the entry above. 

Suppose 1 false: now [x] is not defined by Ken, but [x] means any arbitrary individual. Then: how does (31a) compare with (31b)? Do they still differ? would 2 change? Would no value assignment be cancelled? 

Exactly which nodes do 1 and 2 above mean? I know that 1 and 2 refer to different ones, because 1 refers to 'V head' but 2 'VP'. 

Source: The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Linguistics (Oxford University Press, 3rd ed, 2014), by Matthews, P. H. 

I understand the definitions above, but what motivated linguists to choose these terms to describe the above cases for this Morphosyntactic Alignment? I am conjecturing the word choice not to be random, and know that 'ergative' originates from Greek and 'absolutive' from the Latin absolvere. 

  Why did English lose all this inflection? There are probably two reasons. The first one has to do with the stress system of English: in Old English, unlike modern English, stress was typically on the first syllable of the word. Ends of words were less prominent, and therefore tended to be pronounced less distinctly than beginnings of words, so inflectional suffixes tended not to be emphasized. Over time this led to a weakening of the inflectional system. But this alone probably wouldn’t have resulted in the nearly complete loss of inflectional marking that is the situation in present day English; after all, German – a language closely related to English – also shows stress on the initial syllables of words, and nevertheless has not lost most of its inflection over the centuries.   Some scholars attribute the loss of inflection to language contact in the northern parts of Britain. For some centuries during the Old English period, northern parts of Britain were occupied by the Danes, who were speakers of Old Norse. Old Norse is closely related to Old English, with a similar system of four cases, masculine, feminine, and neuter genders, and so on. The actual inflectional endings, however, were different, although the two languages shared a fair number of lexical stems. For example, the stem bōt meant ‘remedy’ in both languages, and the nominative singular in both languages was the same. But the nominative plural in Old English was bōta and in Old Norse bótaR.2 The form bóta happened to be the genitive plural in Old Norse. Some scholars hypothesize that speakers of Old English and Old Norse could communicate with each other to some extent, but the inflectional endings caused confusion, and therefore came to be de-emphasized or dropped. One piece of evidence for this hypothesis is that inflection appears to have been lost much earlier in the northern parts of Britain where Old Norse speakers cohabited with Old English speakers, than in the southern parts of Britain, which were not exposed to Old Norse. Inflectional loss spread from north to south, until all parts of Britain were eventually equally poor in inflection (O’Neil 1980; Fennell 2001: 128–9)