Do you want to be the person who puts their hand up and be responsible for the deaths of a bunch of school kids (even if statistics say its unlikely, it plays on the mind). It's possible insurance companies would not pay up in this circumstance. There may be council regulations or other policies which sit at a higher level, so it's not the choice of the school or the operator of the pool. 

So does there exist enough study or research to confirm or deny the health risks associated with the inclusion of nanoparticles in sunscreen? If research is limited should people be worried enough that they should stop using these types of sunscreens or is this unwarranted? 

This depends on whether you are talking about packaged foods only. You can see from the sources above that there are alternatives, however the USDA had this to say in 2000: 

FIG. 34. SIGN OF THE MASTER OF THE SECOND VEIL. *In reference to the authenticity of this book or details within, refer to my second point above; this is a secret society. Furthermore rituals in one geographical area may only be for that limited area and not for the entire organisation or even at the country level for that matter. Because of the reasons above it is not possible to make an accurate assumption about the Masons and say "oh yeah, this is something the Masons do". There is no evidence available to suggest that this is an organisation wide gesture. There is zero evidence to suggest that everyone who is doing this is making a Masonic symbol. 

I just came across this news article from TribLive. It seems that the Humane Society is not denying the spend, but stating they are more concerned with other things that they see as more important. 

I've heard that brushing your teeth too often (usually stated as more than 3 times per day) will cause the enamel on your teeth to become damaged or wear away, is this possible? Example 1: 

It would appear that neither bugs nor food scraps would put a spanner in the works. I assume there would also be some sort of prewash before it got to that stage. It appears that a thorough rinse would be a hygiene thing for your own garbage bin, but not going to affect the process. However it is necessary to remove solid food object. 

What Rev. Nile is say is that people misunderstood the purpose of what Parkes was aiming to do. He was not trying to make school completely "non-Christian" or "non-religious". 

Firstly, I'll point out that pornography was available on Betamax because it is claimed and disputed all over the net that it wasn't. From $URL$ 

It links through to this Wikipedia article $URL$ The Reddit title and what has caused it to receive so many upvotes is the claim that squeezing something like a pimple on the surface of the face could cause sever infection, brain damage or death. There are many other similar claims if you search Google. Has this ever happened? Are there any documented cases of someone having brain damage or death as a result of popping a pimple or boil on their face due to infection that transmitted to the brain? 

In many Hollywood movies and other media such as comic books you can see someone pull out a knife and carve an X into the end of their bullets to turn make them like dum-dum bullets. Is this possible in reality with a knife and will it have the intended effect that regular dum-dum bullets have of inflicting more sever pain? Or is this just something made up? 

This is only part of an answer, hopefully others can provide more facts from around the globe. From my own searching, actual statistics are hard to find for miscarriage figures (this may be only in Australia). In referring to this research done by Dr. Stephen Tong of Monash University: Research was conducted on 696 asymptomatic women carrying one fetus who attended their first prenatal visit between 6 and 11 weeks of pregnancy. 

I know Facebook is not the internet, but it has a huge slice of the traffic. These statistics from early 2009 suggest there are more female users than males using* Facebook than males. Although the data is not entirely clear it is at least based on actual Facebook data according to the article. 

The problem is that the people shining the lasers are doing it when the planes are getting near to landing, above suburban areas, so they aren't flying high above the clouds. Although it may not effect the planes control it is a jerk thing to do because you can seriously damage someone's eyesight. 

Source: Kirk-Smith, M.D., and Booth, D.A. (1980) "Effect of androstenone on choice of location in others' presence". In H. van der Starre (Ed.), Olfaction and Taste VII, London: Information Retrieval Ltd., pp.397-400. It is also suggested that we would be unable to sense its presence: 

It would seem from the quote above the exact mechanism is not entirely know. That doesn't sound comforting to me. Just found this: 

Especially in sitcoms men are made out to be slackers when it comes to doing the housework. There is a belief that men don't help out as much with the kids and don't pull their weight when it comes to doing their share of the housework. Does this still hold up in modern times? Have their been any recent studies into the split of housework and whether men spend equal time with children? 

From what I have seen there is no credible source for the claim of an official release coming from Bilderberg detailing an agenda of depopulation. It is claimed in many places on the internet but none of these provide reliable evidence that this is the case. There are some interesting snippets from the wikipedia article worth noting in relation to your question: 

TLDR - FDA granted market clearance based on the paper linked below. Which was a double-blind, randomized, placed-controlled study. With a success criteria of 3 inches and 35% individual success rate which was exceeded. There were no dietary or exercise requirements placed on patients. 

You can avoid HFCS by purchasing whole foods such as fruits, nuts and vegetables (source 1, source 2, source 3, source 4), so it's a matter of choice. 

Over the past couple of years people have been claiming that storms are getting more severe in Australia. Some linking this to global warming. Specifically Professor Ross Garnaut in the opening paragraph of his first in a series of eight updates of his landmark 2008 climate report says: 

I found this study Hearing loss in motorcyclists: occupational and medicolegal aspects Andrew W McCombe, MD FRCS(ORL) 2003 to be most thorough, it also has links to six other studies which you could use as further reading: 

As I child I had the habit of chewing on ice cubes and was told that this damages your teeth. Now my son has this habit and I'd like to know if it is true. Does chewing on ice cubes damage your teeth? 

So this points to the fact that they do have significant power at their disposal, so yes they do have some influence on world events.