In the original question, this was specifically about a "strawman fallacy" which I don't think is the right term. As modified and then answered by Geoffrey Thomas, I think this get's closer to a common objection to Kant that Kant scholars have had to grapple with. In it's current form, the first paragraph states, 

Since your question is why Descartes say this, the answer is that Descartes thinks the physical world is wholly deterministic but the mental or spiritual or psychological world (see all of these as synonyms for him) is wholly free. Or to put it another way, rationalism is a view that's committed to the freedom of reason (and reasonable subjects) but mechanism in the physical world. Here, mechanism means something like Newton's physics. Just to reiterate, Descartes' philosophy requires a gateway between the free will and the determined body. So he picks this one. As far as I know, it's not for a great reason but more for a combination of not knowing how the pineal grand works. But the problem is that these bodies are linked to the minds that are free. Got to staple it somewhere. So Descartes picks a minor part of the body whose function was unclear at the time. In part, he does so because he's compelled by a question from the Swedish princess. The main problem with this theory is that it makes no sense on a physical level based on current science. 

Teleology is a deeply misunderstood idea, because later scholastic philosophers used it to prop up vitailism and other views that were deeply mistaken about life. But Aristotle's idea is not (at least on all occasions) so onerously off. But people who at best have read small snippets of Aristotle's works in biology associate the view with him -- because that's the story they are taught. Regarding 2, he was just wrong. I have no idea why. His father was a physician and he spent a decade looking at animals. Regarding 3, the picture is more complicated, because he gets right what you need to make offspring, but he does not understand exactly what the man and woman bring and associates this with his hylomorphic account such that the woman contributes the hyle (matter) and the man the morphe (form). But if you compare what he understood with the views, he's critiquing, he's a biological genius. Regarding 4, could Aristotle solve every problem we can now with propositional logic, modal logic, deontic logic, and set theory? No, but again, think about how impressive it is that he came up with the syllogistic method that after its rediscovery transformed Western thought. I think Russell is for the most part thinking of a boogeyman Aristotle -- an antiquated ignoramus not well identified with remnant texts we possess.There's a grain of truth in the weakness of some of Aristotle's methods for logic. I would not say this is because they are wrong, I would say it is because they are just limited. (But then I would like to add in passing that many of Russell's forays regarding logical positivism and philosophy of language are no longer current either). 

And the argument depends on granting authority to Y. As you suggest, this can happen with religious texts, etc. But it can actually happen with anything/anyone from Stephen Hawking to Neil Degrasse Tyson to the pope to your teacher in third grade. 

In fact, he discusses this point in his Lesser Logic in a section on "objects" about how objects take different kinds that have different properties. 

They are always going to be practical arguments (whether this is direct or indirect) insofar as their goal is to accomplish a change in belief and behavior. They are often going to be "persuasive arguments". Here, I do not mean they will succeed in persuading. Rather, I mean with reference to Aristotle's Rhetoric that they will tend to include appeals to ethos (justifications for why should accept an argument based on who is giving it) and pathos (roughly speaking emotion) and not merely be composed of logos (arguments after the usual pattern in philosophy). They are not going to be offered with complete neutrality with respect to their claim. 

It is true that people have been asking for a long time how they fit in and what they should do, but it is only recently that people have understood the question in personal and existential terms. More classical questions are: 

The value in Plato's Forms for how we relate to objects requires that you change the formulation a bit: 

In a sense, given this picture, we could say is that consequentialists are question-begging when they assert that actions are good when they promote happiness. But I'm not entirely convinced they are doing something fallacious. I take it what they believe they are doing is observing empirical phenomenon and identifying the word "good" with the empirical phenomenon of pleasure-giving. Thus any time they see pleasure giving, they say "good." People with other views are not convinced because they don't share an empiricist assumption about morality held by the consequentialists. I think for the consequentialist to engage in a fallacy, what has to happen is that they don't acknowledge they are making a metaphysical claim that undergirds how they are interpreting empirical data. Some consequentialists do this; others don't. Bernard Williams has an interesting article on this point highlighting that consequentialist theories often seem to be post-hoc explanations of right and wrong which are always checked against something else. In other words, most utilitarians want murder to be wrong, so they try a quantitative theory and test it against things they already consider wrong. 

I think it's a great question because it's quite clear, but I think many of the answers fall for a problem in the way the question is posed. I take it the question is meant to be along the lines of 

The value of making this distinction is that a belief-that P ties things up in a large amount of literature on propositional truths and their justification and then entangles things in questions of whether you can believe false propositions and then what it means to both "know" something is false and that you "believe" it to be true. Conversely, belief-in-Q or faith-in is to take Q as a veridical source in some way for the self. Using the common example of God. Belief-that-God-exists and Belief-in-God differ in that the former is "belief" whatever that will turn out to be with respect to the truth of (or potentially the falsity of) G. Belief in God conversely does not entail anything about the proposition G. Instead, it's an implication about the relationship the subject has to G and how that impacts their world. The same could be said about an organization. I believe-in the US government is not identical to I believe-that the US government exists, etc. The one indicates whether you think they accomplish something; the other whether they exist (or are truthful, etc.) References Here's a few articles that use the distinction with respect to faith: Robert Audi, “Faith, Belief, and Rationality,” in Philosophical Perspectives 5 (1991): 213-39. William Alston, “Belief, Acceptance, and Religious Faith,” in Faith, Freedom, and Rationality: Philosophy of Religion Today, ed. Jeff Jordan and Daniel Howard-Snyder (Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield, 1996), 3-29. Benjamin W. McCraw, “Faith and Trust,” International Journal for Philosophy of Religion 77, no. 2 (April 2015): 141-58. Trent Dougherty, “Zagzebski, Authority, and Faith,” European Journal for Philosophy of Religion 6, no. 4 (December 22, 2014): 47-59, at 58. 

First off, both religion and philosophy are terms that have had a large number of differing definitions. Looking just at the philosophy side, the epicureans lived together in communities, had parties, and prostelytized. Similarly, there were groups like the pythagoreans, etc. Moving past the Greeks and Romans, there was the medieval arrangement where philosophy is the hand maiden of theology. And then later philosophy is a name for natural science, etc. etc. (Further, what happens when the term philosophy refers not just to the Western inheritors of the Greek tradition but to ideas from India, China, Africa?). Religion, too is a term that has rather varied definitions (as several answers highlight). This clouds things significantly and makes the question harder to answer. So I think it's better to see there as being four possibilities: 

For the first half of your third question, I'm not super comfortable with what appears to be quantifiable account of "respect." In fact, it seems based on Kant's conception of morality as the use of one's own pure reason that only when the self acts freely on the conclusion reached by his pure reason does it count as moral (but the picture is muddy as to whether it is immoral to do the right thing based on a command of God). For your second question, Marcia Baron has an interesting paper that is in her book Kantian ethics almost without apology which suggests that "motivation" is not a good Kantian category to explain why we act. The Kantian term seems to be "basis" for our action. Knowledge of the supreme good does seem on the basis both of CPR and the Metaphysical Principles of Virtue (second half of Metaphysics of Morals) to encourage us to the good, but it's not at all clear how this operates motivationally. Returning again to Religion, there's an interesting issue at the beginning which disagrees with some of Kant's earlier discussion of character. Looking at the Groundwork, it seems clear that Kant thinks any impure rational being has the ability to reason and freely choose the good at every instance. In Religion, it looks like Kant has found a place for conversion like experiences where the self has to choose the good there to be able to choose the good elsewhere. The account in MPV seems closer to the account in Religion. Based on this, I would say Kant at least after the Groundwork does see belief in the supreme good as motivating. But even in Groundwork, it is also probably motivating but on simpler grounds. What we often call the proportionality thesis is a claim implicit in several of Kant's arguments about moral conduct, namely, that people should be happy to the proportion that they are moral. This of course does not obtain in this world, so one of the reasons God is a postulate of morality is to make sure that this obtains in eternity. Regarding your first question, many contemporary Kantians make precisely the move you suggest -- ditching the necessity of God. The person teaching the Kant class I took in my PhD did exactly that, and a good percentage of the literature reaches similar conclusions to yours. But Kant believes in a just universe and he sees no way of guaranteeing that in the temporal and phenomenological world which contains patent injustices. Thus, he posits (in what to many 21st century readers seems a completely ad hoc way) that God guarantees this justice across eternity since he considers God to be a pure being that possesses pure reason but acts immediately on the good. In the paragraph where you start "To put it another way:", there's several points that are unclear with respect to your use of maxim. Also, I would not put too much emphasis on the use of the term "supreme good" for God. That's confusing insofar as that term is not a major part of other texts where Kant talks about God, and that he distinguishes the "highest good" from the "complete good" in later texts arguing that the complete good includes ours happiness and that only God can make that happen ($URL$ but that we should pursue the highest good (which is when the maxim for our actions agrees with the moral law -- during which we can experience the objective feeling that occurs in respect for the moral law). 

Maybe to parse that out a bit, let's imagine that something is unconditionally good (following NE book VIII let's say "friendship"). What this would mean is that having friendship would be good for anyone (if they can have it) (per 1). But let's say John is severely co-dependent. That would mean that he both desperately wants friends (which is good) but also that due to his co-dependency he suffers harm from pursuing friendship because he can't balance how he relates. Thus, the good remains an unqualified good, but in John's case due to a qualification of John (or condition of John) it's not a good thing for him to pursue. Ergo, what John ought to pursue as the good for him is help to not be co-dependent on people before he pursue the genuine good of friendship. Aristotle provides a diagnostic for this in Book II (the section escapes me right now) where Aristotle explains that pleasure and pain are great signals of what is good or not -- but only for the phronemos (the man of practical wisdom). In the absence of this pleasure and pain are horrible mis-indicators because they indicate our proclivities which are not ordered towards our own good. Or to give another example, maybe physical exercise is good. But clearly this is not the good a person who was just severely injured in an accident should pursue. Again, the problem is not with the good in any way; it's with the confused pursuit happening in a person that has a mediating condition (whether physically mentally or otherwise) which makes it not a good that they can achieve. The unjust man is confused with this issue because he doesn't recognize that the challenge at hand is to distribute a good fairly rather than to take as much of this good for himself. In this sense, he is recognizing the unqualified good but not recognizing the senses in which the situation qualifies what one ought to do. (As in the above examples, the qualification is a property of the situation not the good). 

I take it that a lot hinges on how we are defining simulation. Rather than quibble, I'm just going to cite Merriam Webster on this: 

you could also reach this answer by thinking about the goal of her article: she's trying to provide a defense of abortion on moral grounds. Since abortion is a woman killing in Thomson's own words her "unborn child", she's got to justify de minimis killing an innocent. But it's doubtful she wants to do so by saying torture is okay (since that would be a pyrrhic victory). Instead, she's going to want to establish a category where she thinks it's fine, but it'd be bizarre to openly argue "you have the right to kill someone as long as they are innocent." 

Piety = Dear to gods "what is dear to the gods is holy and what is not dear to them is unholy" (6e-7a) gods disagree about piety (7b) 

With that distinction in hand, we can turn to the quotation you provide, note the last phrase "directed to moral interests only". It has been argued by several thinkers that the Critique of Pure Reason is a propaedeutic to Kant's moral philosophy, and this is one of the passages that supports that interpretation. Thus, to see how God and causality differ, we might turn to Kant's moral philosophy, which on a very crude sketch makes causality in the world the antithesis of rational autonomy. This rational autonomy in turn depends on the existence of God. First, God serves as a final judge meting out proportional happiness to the goodness of agents at the end of time (this is called the proportionality thesis). In the Critique of Practical Reason, Kant calls "God a postulate of practical reason" (See 5:122-134). Also see Religion from around page 96. To put it another way, God and causality belong to two distinct realms that the Kantian moral self finds itself in. In the one realm, the self's actions are determined (causally) by what has preceded the self. In the other realm, the self uses freedom (rational freedom) to determine the course of its actions in a way that is imperceptible when that self is viewed as an object (rendered through the categories of others or even the self) but which is intimately tied to the existence of God.