Very briefly, Quine's doctrine of ontological commitment is the thesis that ontologically, or metaphysically, logic is not neutral because the existential quantifier, '∃', commits logic to the existence of an entity, or things, of some kind. Whether the existential quantifier does carry this commitment in fact, I am not sure. In 'S believes that (∃x)(Fx & Gx)' - S believes that something with F has G - the existential quantifier does not presuppose or entail the existence of either A or B. It simply reports S's propositional belief. 

A minor point but in (2) does the doubter need to say anything ? Why not just 'in order to think' ? If the doubter has a language then doesn't the doubter have beliefs - beliefs about the use of language ? If so, this is not a universe is which there is, beside the ultimate doubter, only doubt. 

Diachronic identity - identity over time. If I am the same person now who defrauded a client a year ago, then I now am responsible for what I did a year ago. I am the same person, after all : I am not someone else, e.g. you. Without X = X (GT at time 2 = GT at time 1) by legal criteria, personal responsibility for past actions would not hold. It might be convenient if it didn't ! 'By legal criteria' : this brings out an important point. There is no single set of criteria by which to apply X = X. By biological criteria I might not be identical now to myself a year ago : pretty certainly I am not. This suggests the familiar point that identity is relative to a description. Not everyone accepts this thesis of Peter Geach's but I do. Suppose (an unoriginal example) I bought a clay statue last year, a statue of John F. Kennedy. I change my political attitudes and remould it into a statue of Richard Nixon. For all practical purposes, it is the same clay and it is important to insist on this. 'Of course, it's the same clay', I say : X = X. (X at time2 = X at time1 as above). But I can also say, 'Yes, I now have a different statue'. If I simply say, 'I have a different statue' this leaves out the X = X factor, the fact that it is the same clay differently configured. X = X is empty out of context. In context - the context of diachronic or relative identity - it is informative. 

But is 'relatively true' a coherent notion ? That depends on the coherence of the notion of 'relative truth'. Meiland confronts and seeks to vindicate this coherence : 

There is no canonical formulation of utilitarianism. Classical utilitarianism - that of Jeremy Bentham and JS Mill - ran on happiness. Happiness was the moral metric, so I don't see why we shouldn't address your question as it's framed. (I agree with Conifold that a formulation in terms of utility is preferable.) 

There are no particular attributes needed to be a philosopher, academic or other. In this sense there is nothing special about philosophy. Some philosophers are keen mathematicians, others can't solve the simplest equation. Some are quick and articulate, others slow and obscure. Some have a fine ear for nuances of language; others have linguistic tin ears. Descartes did some of his most important work alone in a room with a stove; Socrates did philosophy by talking to all and sundry in the Athenian market-place. Some are sharp observers of life; others are barely aware of their surroundings. I think these attributes are common in any type of inquiry or discipline - except for mathematicians and equations, I presume. Being a philosopher isn't a matter of having any special attributes but rather of a capacity for a certain kind of puzzlement. AJ Ayer put this not at all badly when he said that philosophical problems and the work of the philosopher begin when 'all the facts are in'. This is not to be taken literally but his meaning is clear from examples such as the following. Set scepticism aside for a moment. Queen Victoria died in 1901; this is as reliable a historical fact as any we have. But how can we have any knowledge of the past since in some sense it quite plainly doesn't exist? Can you have knowledge of the non-existent ? The past doesn't exist yet there are facts about it ? How can this be ? Whatever the answer (and I have stated the question crudely) it does not involve acquiring more facts about the past since the entire issue is whether there are or can be any facts about the past at all. This is the sort of question that puzzles a philosopher. Being a philosopher entails having the capacity for a certain kind of puzzlement of which I have just given an example. It needs a certain mindset, not a set of attributes. Or take a question such as immortality. Some believe in this, others don't and yet others don't know. Everyone has wondered what if anything happens after death. A philosopher might ask : Would immortality be endless bodily life ? Is my soul, supposing myself to have one, distinct from my body and is it the soul that is immmortal ? If it is, what would it be like to survive as a non-corporeal person ? I don't think I can even imagine this last possibility but that may just be my problem. Whatever the answer to the question of immortality, what it needs are hardly more facts. The Society for Psychical Research might have evidence of life after death; it can hardly have evidence for immortality. These are just two examples out of indefinitely many - knowledge of the past, and immortality. If we look at the issues with a certain mindset, a certain capacity for puzzlement and (I'll add) curiosity, we are philosophers. If there is more to being a philosopher than that, I don't know what it is. But I am pretty sure it has nothing to do with personal attributes peculiar to or specially valuable in philosophy. 

The quick answer is that as you use, or refer to, the terms there is no difference between 'analytic' and 'descriptive'. But let me go a little deeper. ▻ ANALYTIC = DESCRIPTIVE BUT ... 'Analytic' has a wide variety of meanings. Perhaps still the commonest in philosophy is 'true by virtue of the meaning of words' as in 'A bachelor is an unmarried man'. But this is not the sense relevant to your question. What you term 'descriptive' ethics, philosophers would call 'meta-ethics'. Background : we certainly do 'conceptual analysis' in philosophy and this matches the sense of 'analytic' in your second paragraph. Conceptual analysis is not normative. It does not prescribe what we should or shouldn't do or what attitudes we should take. Rather, concepts and theories are classified; questions are exposed as ill-conceived, problems as spurious, unexpected presuppositions brought to light, inconsistencies disclosed, or reducibility revealed (where one theory is reducible to another). ▻ ...WE WOULD NOT CALL IT 'DESCRIPTIVE' This scrutinising activity is what we would contrast with normative ethics but we would not call it 'descriptive ethics'. What we would normally contrast with normative ethics is what has come to be called 'meta-ethics' : ethics that 'stands apart' from normative ethics and conducts the kind of scrutinising activity I've described. 'Descriptive' ethics, as you characterise it, doesn't seem to me to have much to do with philosophy, or philosophical ethics, at all. It's moral sociology or moral psychology. In sum, 'normative' appears to have (roughly) the same sense in jurisprudence and ethics. But what corresponds to analytic jurisprudence is meta-ethics and not (at least as you've defined it) descriptive ethics. Hope this helps. Comment if you need further clarification. 

Try Jaakko Hintikka and Gabriel Sandu, 'The Fallacies of the New Theory of Reference', Synthese, Vol. 104, No. 2 (Aug., 1995), pp. 245-283. 

Misogyny seems a conceptually rather complex attitude for such an early human to adopt. Could the early human in question have been a woman or is misogyny exclusively a male phenomenon ? Might the male, if it was a male, have been a misandrist rather than, or even as well as, a misogynist ? Not the least baffling element in the question is that there is no logical, sociological or anthropological connection between fire-lighting and a sexual or gender attitude of any kind. But I guess the questioner knows that, which adds to the puzzlement. 

Wants form a hierarchy. This is the key. Not all wants are on a level; some wants refer to other wants. Simply put, we can have wants and also wants about our wants - meta-wants. For example, I can want to smoke at time t (this minute) but also want, still at time t, that at time t +1 (a future time) I will not want to smoke. I have a want (now) to smoke and a meta-want that in future I will not to want to smoke. This is the kind of phenomenon Harry Frankfurt was concerned with in 'Freedom of the Will and the Concept of a Person', Journal of Philosophy, 68, 1971, 5-10. It this phenomenon that Schopenhauer has in mind. Freedom comes into the picture because even if our intentional actions are determined causally by our wants and desires (on the Humean model) our meta-wants can cause our other wants to weaken or disappear. Our meta-wants have the capacity to free us from our other wants. @Canada - Area 51 Proposal. I don't think Mill's distinction between higher and lower pleasures ('Utilitarianism', c.2) comes into it. The want that I want to be rid of may be - yield - a lower pleasure; but I may well want to be rid of it - I may want-not-to-have-that-want - in order to cultivate a want for another lower pleasure, say horse-racing. I may want not to smoke in order to have more money to spend on the horses. 

▻ INTRINSIC You refer to intrinsic value but if this is a property (X has intrinsic value) then 'intrinsic' needs separate consideration. And since you don't ask about the sense or meaning of 'value', I take it that your inquiry really just centres on intrinsicality whether of value or any other property. I mention this only because your Question, which is in perfectly good order, gets narrowed from the merely intrinsic to the intrinsically valuable in your explanatory text. ▻ SENSES OF 'INTRINSIC' - THE NON-DEPENDENT An intrinsic property of an object is one the object has purely by virtue of being the way it is, where the way it is is not dependent on the existence or properties of any other thing. So, for instance, a circle is the set of points that lie at an equal distance, the radius r, from a central point, P. If nothing else existed or whatever else existed with whatever properties it had, this would make no difference to these properties of a circle. One might call this the metaphysical sense of 'intrinsic'. ▻ SENSES OF 'INTRINSIC' - THE NON-RELATIONAL There is a different though related sense, the non-relational. An intrinsic property of an object is one which is describable non-relationally. It is describable by a monadic predicate. If a property needs a polyadic predicate to describe it, then it is not intrinsic to the object. 'Life is good' : 'good' here is monadic. Life is not 'good' in relation to something; it just is 'good'. 'Life is better than it was' is polyadic; life is 'better' only in relation to how it was. This non-relational, monadic sense might be called the logical sense of 'intrinsic'. ▻ THE CASE OF BEING HANDSOME Can you be intrinsically handsome ? I don't doubt of course that you are handsome, the question is only whether you are intrinsically so. I'm afraid I have to say, probably not. What is involved here is not just the all too familiar issue of whether aesthetic judgements are subjective and the appropriateness of aesthetic predicates relative to the preferences and reactions of makers of such judgements. Rather, I have in mind the question whether your handsomeness is dependent on the existence or properties of any other thing. It is a supervenient property; it supervenes on the physical properties of your face. It is not independent of these; if they change, it changes. This inclines me to say that it is not an intrinsic property. ▻ NOTE Naturally I am aware of the subtle and sophisticated definitions of 'intrinsic property' offered by David Lewis and Jaegwon Kim. However, Kim's definition has been shown to be defective by Lewis; and Lewis's definition relies on his notion of possible worlds which I find as obscure as the notion of an intrinsic property. To use the obscure to explain the obscure (obscurum per obscurius) is not my preferred method in philosophy. But Lewis' baton is there for anyone to pick up and run with. Kim : J. Kim, (1982) 'Psychological Supervenience', Philosophical Studies 41, 51-70; Lewis on Kim : D. Lewis, (1983) 'Extrinsic Properties, Philosophical Studies 44, 197-200. Lewis' own view : D. Lewis, (1986) 'On the Plurality of Worlds', Blackwell, New York. 

We have some idea of his views on modal necessitiarianism in regard to laws of nature. Schaffer distinguishes three different forms of such necessitarianism (Alastair Wilson, 'Schaffer on laws of nature',Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition, Vol. 164, No. 3 (July 2013), p. 654) : ▻ Modal necessitarianism 

How do all virtues stem from prudence in Epicurus' view ? The following passage, too dense to summarise so I quote it, throws some light. The second paragraph contains the key material but the first is a necessary lead-in. 

▻ BOGUS MATHEMATICS Talk of numerical utils is only a mode of convenience. Utility cannot be measured with any mathematical precision in real life. But we can and do make judgements of rough relative magnitude, and the above calculations are based only on this assumption. ▻ READING Henry Sidgwick, The Methods of Ethics, New York: Dover, 1966/ 1907, 415. John Rawls, A Theory of Justice, Cambridge, Mass., Harvard University Press, 1971, chapters 1 & 3. Gregory S. Kavka, 'Rawls on Average and Total Utility', Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition, Vol. 27, No. 4 (Apr., 1975), 237-253. A. Rodriguez, 'The Dependency Ratio and Optimum Population Growth: The Total Utility Case', Journal of Population Economics, Vol. 1, No. 2 (Oct., 1988), 141-156. 

Przybyslawski's claim is that at least part of the convergence between Nietzsche and Heraclitus is due to Nietzsche's interpretation rather than to deep philosophical agreement. Whatever the case, Nietzsche held views about Heraclitus and highly favourable ones. 

The thesis-antithesis-synthesis idea is definitely present in Hegel but it was Engels who imposed this formula on the interpretation of Hegel as the major key to his entire philosophy. M. Allegranza is, of course, completely right that Hegel's philosophy operates above the level of everyday life. Hegel's view of history, to which you draw attention is, very roughly that human history exemplifies through different civilisations at different times progressively deeper understandings and embodiments of freedom. That's the view, shorn of all detail, subtlety and illustration. Hegel himself doesn't think there is any mysticism in his philosophy of history. The progressive realisation of freedom is also a rational process. The Hegelian relation between freedom and reason is too involved to go into here. Reading your question sympathetically, I think I can see your point. Regardless of how Hegel on a grand philosophical level used the ideas of thesis-antithesis-synthesis, could you use them illuminatingly to interpret your own 'everyday life' ? Quick answer : I can't see why not. If it works, use it ! A sound pragmatic attitude. 

In Iliad XXII Achilles slays Hector, Priam's son. In XXIII the spirit of Patroclus appeals to - pleads with - Achilles to bury the body but XXIV sees Achilles dragging the body about. Apollo intervenes with Zeus, who persuades Priam to pay a ransom for the body of Hector. Priam, now aged, needs help to make a deal; Hermes assists him over the plain. Achilles receives him graciously and accepts the ransom. Priam then returns to Troy, where Hector is mourned and buried. The Iliad ends, then, with the defeated Hector getting equal mention to the victorious Achilles. '"This were well," she cried, "O lord of the silver bow, if you would give like honour to Hector and to Achilles'. The following translation, even if not particularly good, by Samuel Butler provides the context (sorry, it's wordy) : 'Thus shamefully did Achilles in his fury dishonour Hector; but the blessed gods looked down in pity from heaven, and urged Mercury, slayer of Argus, to steal the body. All were of this mind save only Juno [Hera], Neptune [Poseidon], and Jove's [Zeus'] grey-eyed daughter, who persisted in the hate which they had ever borne towards Ilius with Priam and his people; for they forgave not the wrong done them by Alexandrus in disdaining the goddesses who came to him when he was in his sheep yards, and preferring her who had offered him a wanton to his ruin. When, therefore, the morning of the twelfth day had now come, Phoebus Apollo spoke among the immortals saying, "You gods ought to be ashamed of yourselves; you are cruel and hard-hearted. Did not Hector burn you thigh-bones of heifers and of unblemished goats? And now dare you not rescue even his dead body, for his wife to look upon, with his mother and child, his father Priam, and his people, who would forthwith commit him to the flames, and give him his due funeral rites? So, then, you would all be on the side of mad Achilles, who knows neither right nor ruth? He is like some savage lion that in the pride of his great strength and daring springs upon men's flocks and gorges on them. Even so has Achilles flung aside all pity, and all that conscience which at once so greatly banes yet greatly boons him that will heed it. man may lose one far dearer than Achilles has lost- a son, it may be, or a brother born from his own mother's womb; yet when he has mourned him and wept over him he will let him bide, for it takes much sorrow to kill a man; whereas Achilles, now that he has slain noble Hector, drags him behind his chariot round the tomb of his comrade. It were better of him, and for him, that he should not do so, for brave though he be we gods may take it ill that he should vent his fury upon dead clay." Juno [Hera] spoke up in a rage. "This were well," she cried, "O lord of the silver bow, if you would give like honour to Hector and to Achilles; but Hector was mortal and suckled at a woman's breast, whereas Achilles is the offspring of a goddess whom I myself reared and brought up. I married her to Peleus, who is above measure dear to the immortals; you gods came all of you to her wedding; you feasted along with them yourself and brought your lyre- false, and fond of low company, that you have ever been." Then said Jove [Zeus], "Juno [Hera], be not so bitter. Their honour shall not be equal, but of all that dwell in Ilius, Hector was dearest to the gods, as also to myself, for his offerings never failed me. Never was my altar stinted of its dues, nor of the drink-offerings and savour of sacrifice which we claim of right. I shall therefore permit the body of mighty Hector to be stolen; and yet this may hardly be without Achilles coming to know it, for his mother keeps night and day beside him. Let some one of you, therefore, send Thetis to me, and I will impart my counsel to her, namely that Achilles is to accept a ransom from Priam, and give up the body." '