There is no definitive "right" answer - it's totally dependent on the individual circumstances at the time. I've known people that have had essentially nothing to do during their notice periods whereas my last three have all had me working flat out (and beyond) until almost the very end due to project state and the need to hand things over. At my last perm role I was flat out until <30 mins before I was due to leave - I was even late to my own leaving presentation as a result! As Rishi talks about in his answer there's plenty of good reasons to stay professional and keep on working away during a notice period and to be honest it's not that onerous to do so. 

Is this deadline really a make-or-break one for the company as a whole? If not then you probably don't have to worry too much right now, many companies can survive one or two big blows even if it means things will be unpleasant for a while. If it is that crucial then it may not necessarily mean that company will shutter it's doors the very next day. I'd keep your head down and crack on with your work as best as you can - you mention this deadline as being in a "few months" so the longer you can stretch this one out the better it will look on your resume. Plus (and obviously opinions will differ) I think that leaving a job after say 6-9 months because the company went under is easier to explain in future job hunts then leaving after three because it "looked" like it might go under, especially if at the time of the interview the "sinking ship" is still floating! The first outcome shows you as a committed employee who moved on through circumstances outside of your control, the latter looks more like someone who runs away at the first sign of trouble. 

Doesn't sound like it if they didn't cross into rude or abusive words or actions. It's not unreasonable to expect a certain amount of frustration from them since it's going to cause them a fair bit of hassle to accommodate your unexpected departure given the situation with the new client etc. They are only human after all. 

This is a tough situation - and you can't really control what they are going to do, if they want to be difficult about it when someone calls them then they are going to do so one way or another. Any legal action for defamation or whatever is a) not going to make them give you a good reference (they can always just refuse to give one) and b) is going to take a while and your need for a job is probably more immediate than that. What might be a better strategy would be to get in touch with people that you worked with there with whom you are still on good terms and ask them if they would mind being a reference for you. If someone (let's call them Joe) agrees to do this then when you are next engaging with a potential employer you can explain the situation that you've had problems with this employer during previous reference checks but that if they would like to contact Joe directly he would be able to provide a reference for you. If you can't get a person such as "Joe" (and I'd be surprised if there wasn't someone who would speak well of you - even if it was a peer rather than a superior) then all you can do is be up front with the potential employer 

If you can stick it out that long try and make it to the year - you won't (or shouldn't!) be labelled as a job hopper with only one short stay on you resume but given you have been out of the sector for a while it would be good to have a some demonstrable experience on your record to help bolster potential employers' confidence. 

You're well within your rights to decide that three days is too much time to spend on this and either ask for it to be changed, of course doing so may severely limit your chances of getting the job because they are well within their rights to decide that a candidate who doesn't want to follow their hiring process isn't someone they want to hire. For what it's worth this seeming trend towards three day long tests (and similar) is a bit crap IMO, I understand why employers do it but I think in the long run it's counter-productive. 

Given the previous history you probably should have informally approached your boss before the direct e-mail you sent but that's not a big thing really. The actual issue is more that your boss is being a bit useless and won't manage an underperforming/disruptive coworker. The good news is that it sounds like they are aware of this coworker's tendencies towards playing the victim and unless the boss crosses the line from "a bit useless" into "out and out rubbish" they are unlikely to be taking the coworkers accusations seriously or acting on them. Of course if they show any signs that they are doing anything like that I'd be running. Very fast. As for how to proceed I hate to say it but this is probably one of those things you aren't going to be able to "fix", about the best you can do is cover yourself the best you can and gently remind them that managing the job of, well the manager. Try talking to your boss one on one and say something like: 

If they were aware beforehand that you didn't know Python then it's possible that the "real" test was seeing how quickly you can adapt to and pick up new technologies. You stated this was after the technical interview so presumably that was primarily focused on C# If you have another interview round after this then it may be worth inquiring as to what languages and technologies they envisage the role using, if nothing else to ensure that it is still a role you'd be happy to undertake. 

It's not great but the fact that you are being up front about it will help and may incline them towards taking your side of the story into account. If nothing else getting your version of events across first will help as they will be bearing that in mind when they talk to the previous employer rather than automatically taking it at face value. 

Please don't do this! As JoeStrazzare points out in his comments this system (and pretty much everyone I've ever seen that was similar) can be gamed and that will allow bad workers to get really good appraisals while the geunine "good" employees will suffer, and ultimately they will be forced to pad their estimates as well just to avoid the negatives. So your productivity will actually drop from this alone and that's before you take into account the extra overhead from actually administering the system! Even worse your employees will probably feel that you are dehumanizing them - treating them and their work as just + and - numbers on a spreadsheet and not as colleagues. There will be ambiguity in what constitutes a "genuine" reason for a deadline changing, which will cause arguments, resentments, accusations of bias and so on. I could go on but (and I'm sorry) this really is just a terrible, terrible idea! If you look at the scenarios you say lead you to this "solution" 

While it's certainly unethical and unprofessional of him to be doing this there probably isn't a lot you can do to stop him. Assuming this is a personal LinkedIn site as opposed to one paid for by the company then it's kind of up to him what he writes on there. He's technically violating the LinkedIn Terms of Service by posting inaccurate information but I highly doubt that LinkedIn are going to get involved in any sort of he-said/she-said situation like this. He's not really crossing into the sort of territory where he is defaming the company and unless there is something in his employment contract preventing him from posting this sort of information there isn't going to be much they can do to stop him either, while they might not like it from an honesty and integrity point of view they may well view any complaint about it as being petty and reflecting poorly on you. I'm not saying I would agree with them or that its' fair but neither is life in general. Realistically if he's using these false claims of accomplishments to try and make himself look better it's not going to end well for him. Like lying on a CV he is professing skills and experience he doesn't have and that will sort of fall apart on him if an employer (either his current one or any in the future) expect him to be able to perform based on them and he can't. I'd just take what heart you can from that and let it go. 

Seems to me that you handled it pretty well, you're circumstances changed since you initially applied and you were honest and gave them professional feedback. Nothing wrong with that at all 

No, you shouldn't Depending on the local/company culture sometimes seniority (in the sense of length of service at the company) can justifiably earn you some level of deference or "perks" but simply being older should not (nor should someone be treated worse because they are older). While it might be tempting to give in to her position "just this once" I strongly advise against it or worse then just spending the next 20 years sitting in the dark corner you'll be spending those 20 years doing everything her way! 

Oh dear, you really have been handed an unpleasant task there, you have my sympathies! The first thing to realise is that you won't be able to please everyone, with such a large diverse group as you describe there really isn't going to be something that pleases everyone so you are going to have to aim for the something that will appeal to as many as possible. Some won't like the activity you prepare and some just plain won't like doing company activities (I know I fit into the latter category, I can't stand the things!). Your question doesn't provide any detail as to the parameters you've been given so these points are pretty general and might not all apply: Have the activity take place during working hours This is often a sticking point for the company since they lose productivity during the time spent on the activity but people are generally more inclined to do something company-related when it doesn't impact on their free time. Also even those who aren't massively enthused at the particularly activity will often prefer it to working so that reduces that barrier to buy in. Something that extends after hours in a purely optional manner isn't quite as restrictive but if it requires them to stay late then it will cause problems for many in terms of their outside lives - picking kids up from school etc. Ensure it doesn't cost the employees anything The amount of companies that expect their staff to pay out of their own pockets for company activities is something that continually surprises me. It's rubbish and people hate it! Remember when considering this aspect that even if the company is covering the cost of the activity itself there maybe ancillary costs (transport, childcare etc) that can end up falling on the employees so be aware of this. Booze It's a cliche but in many cultures (particularly western such as the US, UK, Europe etc) alcohol is a social lubricant and the phrase "Free bar" is practically a magic spell. Not to everyone of course but it sure can win a lot of fans. Ask the staff what they want Depending on whether you already have some ideas you could put a shortlist out to a vote, or if you are completely stumped you could ask for suggestions and take the one that has the most votes while remaining feasible. Offer incentives Organise something with a friendly but competitive element and offer prizes that the staff would want, this can be anything from "real" prizes such as vouchers/gift cards etc to extra vacation days. Don't make it "mandatory" While this might up the actual attendance figures in the long run it's utterly counterproductive. Even people who would quite like to take part could easily end up resenting being compelled to attend.