(answer for previous question about sunburn) Perhaps one would wear red clothing to hide a sunburn, or make it less noticeable. For prevention, however, there is no scientific basis to prefer any color. Sunburns are caused by ultraviolet light, whose waves are outside the spectrum of human vision. The hue of whatever garment you are wearing has no bearing at all; you can even purchase black UPF-rated clothing. Rather, a garment's thickness, the tightness of its fabric weave, and the UV-reflective qualities of its dyes are more important. 

I would say the answer is somewhat subjective, and in order to make a fair assessment you will need to invest some time. Carrying a 30-pound pack up and down hills with a week's worth of food and gear produces different stresses on your feet and joints than a water bottle and rain jacket. The fit may seem less perfect if the material between your toes starts to dig in when descending a steep slope. Of course, being so accustomed to the VFFs, it might take you an even longer time to break in new hiking boots and get conditioned in them. Personally, while I might wear my VFFs or sandals on a short day hike, I am skeptical they would be sufficient on a serious multi-day trip. That is no indictment of Vibram the company or the FiveFingers as a product; for many of the same reasons I would not attempt a mountain hike in Tevas, for example. The reasons include the following: 

Heat illnesses are about heat, not light, and while the two are not unrelated, the hue of your clothing would be a very minor factor— red would not provide better or worse protection than green or blue or any other part of the visible spectrum. The shade may have some impact: since darker clothing absorbs more energy than lighter clothing, it warms up and stays warm in sunlight. Various guides will advise wearing light colored clothing— better a light red than a dark blue, but better a light blue than a dark red. But heat stroke can be a danger even for a well-hydrated athlete even on an overcast day. Breathability and fit are more important for choosing heat-appropriate clothing, and clothing is only one consideration among many. 

Your feet will stay warm You retain the feel for the surface you're walking on Weights practically nothing Protects your feet from sharp rocks 

Suggestion Keep hiking with the friend of yours. It may be that you were not chosen as the host due to him. Reasoning There are active and passive host finding strategies when it comes to ticks. While active ticks run to you, the passive ones will cling on vegetation and wait for contact. In theory it may sound plausible that for the passive ones body hair would provide more to grab on but there's no scientific evidence on whether human body hair is easier for a tick to grab on or if the tick would find it easier to grab onto the skin directly. For active species, body hair probably won't make any difference. A more significant factor is the body odour 

Do NOT try this at home. But if your life depends on it and you can't find anything you know is edible, you can follow these instructions. Again, you may die by doing this but if the odds are you'll die anyway, you can play roulette with your life as safely as you can. 

For smaller trips I always take my 85L backpack, for longer trips I always take my 110L backpack. If there's extra room, I use the compression straps to make the backpack slimmer. But here's what generally affects the size required. 

Geological map can help you to estimate in beforehand the ease of travel, potential of springs and type of vegetation. Highly useful in my book. 

Since birds use water to clean up their feathers, it makes sense to keep the water clean at all times. But nothing to support the claims that birds prefer running water or that they'd locate water by sound. If you keep the bath full and clean at all times, it'll attract birds and they quickly learn it's the cleanest and most dependable source in the neighborhood. Once you have birds in your yard, they probably make enough sounds to attract others. Making the potential water sound a negligible factor. 

Know your woods. In addition to materials that fly away, which are obvious no-no's for safety reasons, the other source of burning cinders is wood that pops, throwing embers at you. As a very broad generalization, wood from evergreens tends to spit and pop quite a bit more than hardwoods. If you've got any choice at all in the matter, use evergreens to get your fire started, as they tend to catch pretty easily, but switch to hardwoods for fuel after that. Hardwoods will burn hotter, more evenly, and with less popping and sparking than pines, cedars, and so on. 

No question about it -- use a life vest. Make sure you're using a secure, tight-fitting jacket, though. The ones I've always used have several straps across the front so you can get a good, snug fit. If the jacket isn't fitted properly, you stand a good chance of the jacket popping up around your face when you go in the drink. A tight-fitting jacket also helps the people in the raft haul your sogginess back into the boat -- it's a lot safer and more reliable to grab your jacket to haul you in than to try to pull your arms out of their sockets. While you're at it, don't forget a lid. When you get sucked under the boat, you may go head-first into the rocks, and you'll be glad you're wearing a helmet. 

A couple years ago, I ended up on a little island while canoe camping, and the tent pads were literally solid rock. Although this was far from optimal, I did my best to secure the tent by tying the tent cables to rocks, trees, etc. I'd consider this a last resort, but it got us through a fairly windy night. This solution works better if you can manage to get a couple stakes in the ground and supplement that with anchors.