Like Feynman, it is this appreciation of scientific description that Dawkins is talking about, and feels awed wonder towards. If we define awe and wonder as in (4): 

If we assume explanatory scientific reductionism, then the fact that objective mechanisms predeterminate subjective experience doesn't automatically negate the reality of subjective experience, or its importance. If instead we assume ontological scientific reductionism, subjectivity becomes a mere emergent illusion underpinned by a more fundamental reality. Point 2 refers to personal beliefs impacting the response one has to scientific claims. For instance, similarly to what atheists like Dawkins and Feynman are describing, a deeply religious person may experience more awe and wonder because of an added scientific perspective, although for a different reason: she may marvel at how a deity has constructed the world to be full of such and such physical interactions, etc. However, some people may feel that ontological reductionism imposes materialism, which is in contradiction with some beliefs or hopes. In this sense, scientific knowledge can taint experience as a harbinger of unpleasant truths, and stands in opposition to the type of awe and wonder grounded on convictions that science undermines. References (1) 19th Century Romantic Aesthetics. $URL$ (2) Edgar Allen Poe, “Sonnet—To Science”. $URL$ (3) Richard Feynman: The Beauty of the Flower. $URL$ (4) A Neurophenomenology of Awe and Wonder: Towards a Non-Reductionist Cognitive Science. 

Many theists would say the laws and rules are set up by a God, and God guarantees that these laws and rules hold true. Newton was a theist and trying to discover the laws of God when he wrote the Principia. Some theists would argue that believing in laws without something to guarantee they hold true makes far less sense than believing in a God to support them. 

The big bang is fully supported by many theists, in fact it was first posited by a Catholic priest. The Catholic church accepts evolution and the universe being billions of years old. The creationists really aren't as big a group as many believe. There are even some philosophers/historians/scientists who argue that science cannot survive without theism and/or argue that theism is responsible for science They can both can live quite happily together. 

I am extremely doubtful that anyone that reads about philosophy, has not read about philosophy of the law. If you've ever stumbled upon Hobbes, Locke, etc. Even Kant wrote about the law. The law, and its philosophy, are almost everywhere. The best you could do is to check an Introduction to Law or Jurisprudence course at a law school. Most of them provide such introductions. I acknowledge that they are not short, but the insighful chapters are not so long. I personally recommend the following list (which is from a Jurisprudence course taught at the University of los Andes): There is an Oxford Handbook of Jurisprudence. I would encourage reading these first ("introductions"): Hans Kelsen, Pure Theory of Law (1934), pp. 193-278. H.L.A Hart, The Concept of Law (1960), pp. 124-154 (THIS IS THE OPUS MAGNUM OF PHILOSOPHY OF THE LAW) Duncan Kennedy, A Critique of Adjudication (1996), pp. 1-70, 157-212, 215-297 (AND THIS IS THE MOST RENOWNED CRITICAL APPROACH) This deals with the problem of interpretation: Ronald Dworkin, Law’s Empire (1988), pp. 1-15, 31-76, 176-258. These are not "introductory texts", rather concrete theoretizations: Thomas Hobbes, Leviathan (1640), chapters 5; 14-19; 26-29 (Positivism, the law is only the one emanated from the State) John Locke, Second Treatise on Civil Government (1690), chapters 1-9 (Natural Law, there are rights and law before the existance of the State) Savigny, The System of Modern Roman Law (1852), pp. 6-53. Gustav Radbruch, Introducción a la Filosofía del Derecho, México, D. F., Fondo de Cultura Económica (1951), pp. 23-52, 171-180 Also not introductions, but critical approaches Oliver Wendell Holmes, “The Path of Law” en 10 Harvard Law Review 457 (1897) MacKinnon, C. A. (1982). (Legal Realism) Francois Geny, Método de Interpretación y Fuentes en Derecho Privado Positivo (Comares, Granada, 2000), pp. 1-15 y 100-156. Feminism, Marxism, method, and the state: An agenda for theory. Signs: Journal of women in culture and society, 7(3), 515-544. MacKinnon, C. A. (1983). Feminism, Marxism, method, and the state: Toward feminist jurisprudence. Signs: Journal of women in culture and society, 8(4), 635-658. March, James & Johan Olsen. 2006. “Elaborating the ‘New Institutionalism’”. In: Rohdes, R. A. W, Sarah Binder & Bert Rockman (eds.), The Oxford Handbook of Political Institutions. Oxford: Oxford University Press: 3-20. Marxism on the law Althusser, Louis. Ideology and ideological state apparatuses. In: Lenin and Philosophy, and Other Essays. [1971]. New York: Monthly Review Press, 2001. 

There are inherent problems with attempting to prove or disprove metaphysical concepts using physical means. God, being a singular metaphysical concept, can neither be proved nor disproved by physical data. However, attributes and acts of God can be called into question. For example if you believe an act of God is that He designs everything through a single time specific creative act, as in the story of Genesis, then this is a physical act that can be called into question and subject to scientific reasoning. If you base your belief in God on acts of God, then yes, you could use scientific data to prove or disprove God. But if you believe that God, being a metaphysical agent sitting outside time and space, could create outside the rules of physics, then the act of creation is outside science(dinosaur bones put there to test us for example) Neither position is scientific, both are talking about metaphysics. If you take your epistemology to be entirely scientific then God is a non-question, and you are correct, agnosticism is the best position 

Are such accusations of science justified and arise due to its inherent nature, or are they instead based on a misunderstanding of it? Phenomena such as warmth, awe, wonder, inspiration, fear, hope, meaning, love, grief etc. are the domain of our primary subjective experience. Scientific understanding can be interpreted as a move from subjectivity towards objectivity; in the process, our subjective experience is abstracted away. Science doesn't attempt to explain the world as it is to us, but as it really verifiably is. Scientific approach to understanding the world as it is to us refers merely to understanding of why and how the world is to us as it is (e.g. in neurobiological terms), but in a universal manner agnostic of individual experience. Thus, science objectifies nature, or in more romantic terms, depersonalizes it. The move away from subjectivity can be understood as a reduction of experienced warmth in some sense of the word. This is probably why Edgar Allan Poe calls science “a vulture, whose wings are dull realities” (2). For example, consider a relationship someone has with her loved ones. This relationship is significant to the person because it involves shared experiences, appreciation of character traits, etc. The loved ones are appreciated as individuals. Thinking of them only in terms of organized organic matter that is perceived as appreciated due to evolutionary benefits is a dehumanizing abstraction. Similarly, contrast marveling at a magnificent old tree that has provided shade to generations and withstood decades of storms to viewing it in terms of biophysical interactions. What about the argument that scientific understanding enhances our appreciation of perceived reality, instead of diminishing it? This is the problem that Richard Feynman talks about in (3): 

If you like reading you must check out Copleston's A History of Philosophy. The most thorough 'introduction' that I know of. 

I'm going to answer the title. The model of the earth rotating around the sun is a much simpler and more explanatory model than the universe revolving around the earth. You could well build a model with the sun spinning around the earth along with everything else, but you'd find the model gets very complicated very quickly and it becomes more difficult to use the model to change the world around us, hence its abandonment and the Copernican revolution. Your second question depends upon what you care about. If you care about space travel, satellites, weather forecasts and star gazing; it's very important. If you care to learn the mind of the creator, also important. If you care about acquiring more knowledge for its own sake, it's important. If you care about none of these things (or things similar to these) and you don't interact with people who do, then it has no impact on you and you have no need to care. Does it impact upon our survival? As mentioned already, space travel, weather forecasting, satellites, space science, these are all shaping our lives at the moment. And if you think we should only study things that impact on our survival, then we must care about the earth going around the sun. 

I would say the first question is the only one regarding philosophy of law (jurisprudence). You can answer that question by reading Locke or Gustav Radbruch. You can also read Kelsen for the opposite perspective. From my point of view, the answer is yes. The battle between legal positivism and naturalism has been over for a long time ago. As countries follow ius cogens rules of International Law (which is to a huge extent connected with the existence of natural law), we can say that people believe in a super set of rules independent of positive law that should not be broken, because they are moral rules. The concept of natural law is connected with the existance of limitations prior to the entrance of the state of civility. You should really read Locke's 2nd treatsie, read it all so you can see the big picture (if you are entering law school the Treatsie should be a piece of cake).