"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic" (Arthur C Clark) Human technology has changed immensely in the last century, and it is not going to stop any time soon. If an alien species is just a thousand years ahead of us, they would be using magic as far as we are concerned. And a thousand years is nothing on a cosmic time scale. For example, at that point, I would think our old-fashioned biological bodies are just not worthwhile anymore. Bodies are built to specs, giving large individual variations and "magic" powers. If these aliens visit Earth they would probably wear seemingly human bodies to be polite, but inside they would be very very different. You say "defying physics". If you mean "physics as we know it", then they just know more physics than we do. If you mean "physics as the world really works", then they can't defy that by definition. Omnipresence and telepathy sounds like a logical extrapolation of the Internet. Reincarnation sounds like having a prudent backup policy. But there are limits. Thermodynamics seems likely to be one of the parts of physics that is here to stay. This means, energy is conserved and entropy will keep increasing. One interesting possibility is that the aliens can have this "magic" technology without understanding how it works. Most Earth people don't understand most of our technology and the same could be true of the aliens. Somebody working in a tech company on the home world would, but they are not here, are they? Like one human can do amazing things with Photoshop$^{TM}$ that most of us just don't know how, one alien can do amazing things with their Transmogrifier$^{TM}$. Still, the final decision is up to the world builder. As long as you are consistent, anything goes. 

Privacy is broken, but safes are not. Combination locks can no longer be used, but good old key locks would still function. Computer passwords will be broken, but key cards and other physical dongles will still protect you. Modern computerized encryption is built on keys so long humans cannot remember them, so nobody can steal them. The good old-fashioned guard is also working. In fact, guards will work better than before since their employers can find out if they are loyal, and the guards can find out if other people are honest. There will be a period of chaos where things protected only by secrets will be stolen, but I think we will sort things out quickly. Also remember that thieves will have a hard time hiding. They can't sell the stolen goods without the buyer knowing they what they are buying. Those buyer can't show off their new stuff without radiating "This is stolen goods." I think the criminal underworld will have a very hard time surviving in this new world. Most people have a vested interest in society working as normal, and we will conspire to keep things going. Having banks and money is so useful that we will all continue pretending nothing has changed. Consider a locked glass door. Anybody can break the glass and enter, but very few people will actually do that. The new society will have a lot of "locked glass doors". And very few of them will be broken. (I think) Some rich people are probably going to isolate themselves and only speak to people by phone. Their loss. 

Long memories "That valley was ours five thousand years ago. I remember well the day the humans drove us out. Preparations took a while, but now we are ready. WE WILL TAKE IT BACK!" "That mountain over there was ours too. My friend Whatstheirname has told me about how the dwarfs stole it ten thousand years ago. WE WILL TAKE IT BACK!" 

Making the atmosphere more reactive is simple, just add more oxygen. This will make any fire more volatile and dangerous. But, a competent engineer will be able to design engines for any constant increase of oxygen. Also, a rocket that carries its own oxidizer will not be affected anyway. For a variable oxygen level, you need processes that either increase or decrease the oxygen level quickly. For increase, have a large plant that stores the oxygen it generates and releases it all at once. (I must admit I am somewhat blank at both the why and how of this process) For decrease, forest fires. If you generally have more oxygen available, you will get really bad forest fires. Above and nearby these fires oxygen will be relatively scarce, even after the fire has burned out. If you don't think plain oxygen is enough you can try ozone (O$_3$). Ozone is a nasty stuff that will generally oxidize anything it meets, including itself. Getting a glob of ozone into your jet engine is likely to lead to a very bad day. Ozone is not stable and will decay into ordinary oxygen in a matter of hours or days. Ozone can be produced in nature by lightning and various chemical processes, but rarely in concentrations that are dangerous. As for the biological reactions, plain oxygen is not dangerous at all. However, if you follow my suggestion with forest fires, those will produce all sorts of nasty pollutants. Stronger oxidizers like ozone can be dangerous, but not to your skin. Human skin is pretty durable. You are not going to get any damage from a short exposure, but if you make a living this way you could get some damage. (I tried to ask Google but got only tentative and contradictory answers) Human lungs, however, are much more fragile. Inhaling ozone will damage your lungs, giving asthma, bronchitis, and other problems. 

Over a hundred thousand years, civilizations can raise and fall many times. In times of low to middle civilization, the "protected vault must mean treasure" reflex will overcome any message you may leave. Only in highly civilized times will people even look at the message before fetching their pickaxes. And the ancients knew this. Make it inaccessible To protect the vault in bad times, make it inaccessible without high technology. Since you have limited the technology of the vault builders, I see only one way they can do that: Dump it in the sea. They would need a prison that is small and light enough to fit on a ship. They did not need to be able to actually toss it overboard as they can sink the whole ship. One can only hope they brought another ship to bring the crew back. Ships at the time weren't very sea-worthy so they could not go very far from the coast. This limits the depth you can dump the thing. There is also the risk of the land rising and exposing the wreck and the vault. If, for example, they dumped it in the Mediterranean Sea and the Gibraltar Strait closed, lots of sea bottom would become dry land. Let us assume that the ancients foretold a time would come when people would be able to get at the thing, so they still left a message for the future. The only symbol for death and danger that is truly timeless is skulls and skeletons. Engrave the thing with lots of skeletons. Many enough that people understand it doesn't mean "contains skeletons" but "causes skeletons, lots of skeletons". Write it up One of the technologies Egypt had was writing. Write up the story of how the Big Bad was captured and imprisoned. Describe the prison in enough detail that people will recognize it when they see it. Do not write down where to find it, since there is always that one idiot who will go looking. "Dumped at sea" is enough for that part. Make as many copies as you can, translate into as many languages as you can, spread the word! Make the copies as durable as possible. That means stone engravings in protected locations. Pray that people will keep spreading the story without too much distortion in the millennia to come. Speaking of praying, this story will probably spawn a religion. This is both good and bad, as religions are good at keeping stories alive, but very bad at understanding and interpreting them. Translations done by religious people will tend to distort the story towards what is the accepted theological truth at the time. 

Sports What you describe is a sports tournament. People meet, compete, somebody wins. And then everybody hug and go home. People do this today in fencing, kendo and other martial arts. As @Baldrikk wrote in a comment, in medieval times, they had tournaments which would look very much like a battle. Though in those days people dying in a tournament was not uncommon so this may a bit fierce for your purpose. In between the tournaments, people train with others on their own team. This training can get pretty fierce too. The prize can be those rare resources suggested by others. There will be rules, the most important will be "No Killing or Maiming!" The penalty should at least be that the guilty part can no longer take part in these tournaments. People on both sides have heard that once long ago people were actually fighting seriously over these resources. Both sides agree that the sports tournament is a better idea. 

Tribalism "Us vs. Them" is deeply embedded in the human psyche. We ally with some people to beat up on other people. That is how it has been since before we were chimps. Let me call it "tribalism" for short. Getting over that is not going to be easy, but I am optimistic. Education What is needed is education. We need people to recognize tribalism when it happens. Recognize it in themselves and recognize it in others. We need a culture that understands that tribalism is destructive and therefore wrong. However, we need to avoid making it a fight between tribalists and non-tribalists, because that is just another Us vs. Them conflict we don't need. Politician likes to provoke tribalism since that makes people easy to control, and also makes people willing to give power to their leader. Politicians like power. We need a population that recognizes it when they are being manipulated. We need a population that won't vote for manipulators. I am an optimist, I think we can get there. Other enemies Being invaded by aliens would indeed make humans unite. But that wouldn't solve the problem, only move it up one level. There would still be war. Instead, I hope we can reach a state where it is "Us vs. the Universe". And if we meet any aliens, they can be our allies in that fight. 

Yes We are entering the age of the Internet. Everybody is talking to everybody, all over the planet. This is going to accelerate the trend towards a single global language. I suspect that language will be English. Chinese is simply too computer-unfriendly to catch on. If the Chinese were to start using a phonetic alphabet, they would stand a chance, but I don't think they are not going to do that. Exactly which language will be dominant depends on near-future political and cultural dominance, and is hard to predict. Maybe Brazil will be the next superpower and everybody will learn Portuguese... I expect that in less than a hundred years, everybody will understand the global language, but will keep a native language for talking to neighbours and family. A few hundred years more and more people will stop bothering with the native language and just learn the global language. By 2500 the whole thing will be over. 

Mining. When humanity came around, metals were found in (relatively) easily accessible places and we could get them out with fairly primitive tools. As all the easily accessible metals were used up, we got better tools and started digging deeper. And deeper. Today we dig very deep for rocks containing small amounts of metal that we use complicated processes to extract. If the dinosaurs, or anybody, had been at a comparable level of civilization, the scars of their mining would be very visible. Every mountain that was old enough would be mined out. There has been a few years since the dinosaurs roamed the Earth, and new mountains has risen. However, most mountains are older than the dinosaurs and none of them bears the scars of mining other than those we humans have made ourselves. I am assuming that all civilizations want metals. I feel that this is a fairly safe assumption since metals are so very useful. They are hard and strong, they can be forged. Humanity knew nothing better until very recently. Sure, wood is better for some things, bone for some things, glass for some, but the overall champion is the metals. Trash One of the hallmarks of civilization is that we make trash piles. We don't want our garbage to be in the way of our activities so we pile it up in one place to get it out of the way. This is were all the metal that is "used up" go. We haven't found any dinosaur trash piles. After so many years, we wouldn't be able to recognize any of the items in the pile, but it would still be an area of the ground with a very peculiar composition, and not looking like any rock we know about. We have fairly good theories on how rocks are formed, and this patch of ground would look wrong in all sorts of ways. It is possible they were even more advanced than us and recycled everything, but they would still have large concentrations of odd materials in various places. Most notably cities, but also air ports, rail roads and others. Again, we would not understand what we were looking at, but it would definitely look unnatural. 

Economics Sure, losing soldiers is bad, but losing money is worse! Remote control to the level needed will be expensive. Shipping people is cheaper. (Note, given the cost of life support this point is somewhat doubtful. You might want to find some explanation like FTL communication needing some rare component that is hard to make or find) Also, people who sit in some remote location tend to be somewhat sloppy with their hardware. People sitting inside their hardware will be much more careful with it. Less ships lost that way. This all sounds very cynical, but wars are often decided by the ability to outproduce your enemy. Then you need this level of cynicism to win the war. 

Suggested reading: "The Dispossessed", by Ursula Le Guin. (Wikipedia link) As mentioned by @TimB, education would have to rethought. In most countries today, you invest time and money in an education, and then you get a higher salary at the end. For the communist model to work, education itself must be considered paid work, so that you don't lose out. Another problem is motivation. People today are largely motivated by money. If you were to suddenly place these people into a communist society, they would feel no incentive to make an effort. The result would be Soviet Russia. It did work, sort of, but not well. Not well at all. If you have a rich enough world you might accept a society that only sort of works, if that is ideologically important to you. If you don't have some sort of ideology preventing it, it would be very tempting to pay people in important jobs more, to attract the best people. (Of course, what is considered "important jobs" might not be the jobs you would normally think of) However, there are other motivations possible than money. Prestige is the main one. If people know that making an effort can result in promotion to a higher-prestige job, that will motivate some people, even if there is no pay raise. You could also have a "Inventor of the Year" award to promote progress. Again, no money, just prestige. There would be a danger of corruption at the highest levels, where the top decision makers decide their own benefits. They would be unlikely to increase their own salaries, but there are all sorts of other benefits they could get. It's not like the US President pays rent for the White House, fuel for his cars etc.