A quick search for "Danube long profile" put the following image in the second position of the results 

The type of convergent boundaries is not the only factor. From the current configuration of the world one could be tempted to say that Continental-Continental collisions would form the tallest mountains. And they are indeed the most dramatic tectonic collisions and they formed the Himalayas, that are almost 2,000 m taller than any other mountain on Earth. However, the india-Asia collision wasn't any collision it was the most dramatic collision in a long time with convergence rates of 16 cm/year, way more than any current convergence rate. 

On an ocean planet, nutrients can come either from space or from the bottom of the ocean, where they can leak from the crust trough different processes, perhaps with the help of submarine volcanoes or hydrotermal vents if the planet is geologically active. The latter is likely to be the case, because assuming you meant water oceans, to have that much water at the right temperature to keep it liquid, the planet will most likely be a super earth orbiting a small star, like Kepler-22b 

The end of the Tethys Sea and the initiation of the continent-continent collision that formed the Himalayas is thought to have happened about 65 Ma ago (recent studies suggest maybe only 35 Ma). And since then, that colossal collision have produced an estimated 2,500 km of crustal shortening. That means that 2,500 km of continental surface is gone. A fraction of it was maybe subducted, other fraction squeezed under the other continent and perhaps the larger fraction shortened by thrust and folding. This massive transformation would have been enough to erase a preexisting volcanic arc, that could easily end up under kilometers of rock that came from sediments in the Tethys sea or the sourthern edge of the Eurasian plate (for example mount Everest summit is mostly composed of sedimentary rocks with fragments of trilobites from the Tethys sea). Nevertheless, part of that volcanic arc indeed is visible now in the surface. No volcanic edifice have survived the cataclysm that give rise to the Himalayas, but the rocks that formed the arc are now known as the Dras Volcanics, a band of volcanic basalts and dacites outcrops that are part of the Indus suture zone. And that are though to originate in the Mesozoic (from about 252 to 66 Ma ago) volcanic arc that existed in the Eurasia plate as a consequence of the subduction of the oceanic crust under the Tethys sea. This geological map of the Himalayas shows in geen the outcrops of the Indus suture zone. 

It is an interesting question, and despite that latitude is the main control of the amount of solar radiation that reaches the top of the atmosphere at a given location, the answer will be determined by how exactly weather patterns distribute across the different latitudes. Therefore, a solid answer will require to be supported in data. A good dataset for this propose is the one at the Surface meteorology and Solar Energy. I recently used it to answer a somewhat similar question. In this case I'll use the Insolation Incident On A Horizontal Surface dataset, that provides a 22-year average (July 1983 - June 2005) of solar insolation in kWh/m^2/day (kWh per square meter per day) derived from satellite measurements, allowing worldwide coverage at 1° resolution (~110 km). The dataset looks like this: 

Altitudes are referred to a geoid (an imaginary surface of equal gravity strength), that is chosen to fit the mean sea level. Therefore, if we were to constantly adjust the geoid to fit the rising sea level, all the altitudes would indeed be decreasing in average. However, it is very important to highlight that "in average" part, because of the rates involved. Let's have a look at the sea level rise rates: 

The Atatacma desert comprise a very large area of more than 100,000 square kilometers, that host very different climates. The main factors driving the climatic variability are the distance to the Pacific ocean and elevation. This latter factor is very strong, as the Atacama desert covers a formidable elevation range, from sea level to almost 7,000 m, at the summit of Ojos del Salado, the highest volcano in the world. The highest areas, that also happen to be further of the sea, are the driest and less cloudy. The weather pattern you mention of common foggy conditions only happens very close to the coast, extending inland only about 10 km or a few tens of kilometers trough low lying valleys. And is produced by fog that forms over the sea penetrate inland. It is called camanchaca, but it doesn't cross the coastal mountain range. The pattern of cloudiness throughout the desert can be visualized using a dataset produced by NASA's Surface meteorology and Solar Energy, in particular the satellite derived Monthly Averaged Clear Sky Days (i.e. cloud cover less than 10%) over a 22-year period (July 1983 - June 2005). It has a resolution of 1°, so about 110 km here. That means that the central area of the desert is covered by just 12 cells, nevertheless it will be enough to see the pattern I mention. The following figure shows the central section of the Atacama dessert using official IGM 1:500.000 maps in the left. And the mean clear skies dataset on the right for the very same area. The numbers refer to the 22-year mean clear sky days per month. 

Just taking a guess from the context, I think it could be a "view shed", the term used in GIS (Geographic Information Systems) to refer to a visibility analysis. In other words, it is a calculation that determines which areas of a given terrain would be visible from a specific point. It is used to know, for example, what would be the coverage of a radio transmitter on a given location, or from which areas would a lighthouse not be visible, etc. To calculate such diagram you need a DEM (Digital Elevation Model) of the area. To give you an example I just loaded a DEM and run a calculation (using Global Mapper) of the areas visible from a 20 meters tall tower in the top of a specific hill, and within a 40 km radius. And this is how the results looks like: 

As the continental crust is too buoyant (light) to be subducted, when two continents collide they smash against each other creating a mountain range, in this case the Himalayas. This process happen trough thrusting and folding of the plates, leading to something called lithospheric shortening. Which basically means that the plates (lithosphere is the stuff of which plates are made of) gets shorter. In other words: the area of the colliding continents gets smaller. And the missing area is used to build up the mountains by thrusting and folding, a process that is nicely illustrated by the following animated GIF that I put together from a video by the Department of Earth Sciences of UC Santa Barbara. 

Refers to the biomass within soils (i.e. roots, fungus, bacterias, arthropods, etc.), which is indeed very large. You might include deep ocean ecosystems also. But in all those cases, the energy used by organism was originated by photosynthesis and ultimately by the Sun. The energy get to those sub-surface ecosystem in the form of buried dead organic matter or marine snow. Some works hypothesize about other massive subsurface ecosystems living deep within the oceanic crust, hosting perhaps up to 1/2 to 2/3 of the global biomass. However, as pointed by Whitman et. al. (1998) (the source for the above figure): "current evidence suggests that most of the subsurface biomass is supported by organic matter deposited from the surface". Therefore, it would constitute just one more photosynthetically supported ecosystem. That been said, the core of your question is "What is the size of biomass that does not derive it's energy from photosynthesis?" And that can be boiled down to: What is the fraction of global net primary production that come from chemosinthesis?. I don't know of any estimation of that fraction, but to calculate an upper limit for it should be pretty straight forward, at least to have a sense of how good is the approximation of saying that "all life gets its energy from the sun", and how important could be chemosynthesis for the global biomass at most. Let's crunch some numbers: First consider how much energy is there available for chemosynthesis. To do this it is important to note that no organism can get its energy from the energy gradient within the Earth, so the amount of energy available IS NOT the Earth's internal heat budget. Instead, it correspond to the amount of energy available to life in the form of chemical compounds that come from Earth's interior. According to Gaidos et al., in the most active hydrothermal vent fields, it correspond to 0.157 $MJ/m^2 year$ (read as Mega Joules per square meter per year). The same paper point that 

Taken from The Tethyan Himalayan detrital record shows that India–Asia terminal collision occurred by 54 Ma in the Western Himalaya 

So $E_{out}=\kappa (T - T_{air}) + \varepsilon \sigma T^4 S$ Where $\kappa$ is the thermal conductivity of air, $T$ is the temperature of the object and $S$ its surface area. $\varepsilon$ is the emissivity (that is 1 for a black-body), and $\sigma$ the Stefan-Boltzmann constant. The three equations above are sufficient to solve for the temperature of the object, but as you can see there are many parameters that depends on the object shape, and material, so it is impossible to generalize. Also, in the absence of wind, the temperature of the air in contact with the object won't be the same as the surrounding air, further complicating the problem. Furthermore, in addition to $A$, $\varepsilon$ and $\alpha$ can as well change with solar elevation and azimuth (if the object is made out different materials). And to further complicate the problem, the thermal conductivity of the air $\kappa$ is a function of temperature, pressure and humidity. And it is not an easy relationship, it is usually tabulated or calculated using empirical formulas. At engineeringtoolbox.com you can find tables and graphs of $\kappa$ for dry air, here is one example: 

The second one is pretty reasonable: look at the global distribution of precipitation on the era of satellite data (reference). With these assumptions we only need to compute the amount of solid precipitation on land (outside Antarctica) and subtract it from the global total. And we can do so using the data provided by the Global Precipitation Climatology Centre, which provide both the global mean precipitation on land: 

To better pin down the location, I georeferenced the map getting good match of all land and sea features with a reference map. The figure below shows it overlaid over a reference map with seafloor releif: 

Steady state is when the size of the reservoirs doesn't change with time (because inflow=outflow). The size of each reservoir is the number inside the boxes and the flow rates are the numbers beside the arrows. If you calculate the total inflow/outflow from each reservoir, you can use the relationship you did enunciate at the start of the question to easily calculate residence times. However, according to the diagram those reservoirs are not in steady state. So either the question is ill posed, or you are supposed to make some approximations (or a more complex calculation, but I don't think that's the case). 

I would say geophysics and geology for locating the resources. The actual extraction is in the domains of engineering. 

PS: This is an adaptation of a question asked in the private discussion board of a first year university course on Earth Sciences, that I'm copying here so a wider community can benefit from it and the corresponding answer. As suggested by the moderators, I'll donate any reputation received from this question in the form of a bounty awarded to exceptional answers (in particular by new or low-rep users). 

I can't imagine a moving object more suitable for remote sensing tracking than Iceberg A-68, with such slow displacement and huge size. So I don't think it will be particularly useful to install any instrumentation to track its position on site. However, there would be plenty of other measurements that can be done, about mass balance, stress fields, etc. I'm not aware of any plans to install such instrumentation. I've emailed Thomas Rackow (the author of the paper cited above), and he is not aware of any plans either, and confirmed that no instrumentation have been installed so far. But, that can easily change in the future. He pointed me to an expedition happening next month to study the marine ecosystem that have been exposed by the departure of A-68, you can find out more in this link. By the way, a cool tool to track A-68 position is Worldview, this is an image taken on January 16th (there are images as fresh as today, but it have been cloudy sice then): 

To be clear again, those circles surround the places where on winter solstice there is no tace of daylight (i.e. they doesn't get any daylight according to the different twilight standards). In a map, these 6 circles, plus the Polar circle (at latitude 66° 33′ 46.7″ and in red) would look like this around the North pole 

As you can see in the above image (taken from Hawaiʻi Climate Adaptation Portal), the rates of rise are in the order of 4 mm/yr, a value that is small in comparison with other processes that can also change elevations. When you go down to the millimeter-scale, the topography is much more dynamic than you would think, for example: