It's just a ripple, seen at slightly different times from two different observatories. The shift fits perfectly by shifting it by the speed of light difference in their locations. Thus is the proof of gravity waves. It should be noted that the reason there are two instruments is to provide a cross check against other vibration sources. Each observatory works by detecting vibrations on a 4 km scale, down to a very small order of magnitude (1/10,000 the width of a proton). When the two are compared, then one can assume the signal must have come from a non-local source, which only Gravity Waves fit that definition. 

I've seen a number of news reports indicating there is likely a 9th planet in our Solar System, something with an orbital period of between 10k-20k years, that is 10 times Earth's mass. I haven't seen any real indication of where this object might be. If I had access to a sufficient telescope, would I be able to find this planet, and what way would I point a telescope to find it? How far is it likely to be, or is that not well known? 

Nobody has been able to find an answer how anybody may be able to see the inner organs of the human body as Natalya Demkina is able to see. In this context, I want to mention that the same way as we are able to see things in the light of an electric lamp or the sun-rays even though our eyes don't emit the visible band of the electromagnetic rays may it not be possible for her to see the inner organs of other people because the sun-rays contain X-rays also. According to me, it is wrong to say that since human eyes can't emit X-rays she may not be able to see the inner organs of other persons the same way as we are able to see everything even though our eyes don't emit the visible band of the electromagnetic waves. I want to know whether it may be possible that her brain's circuitry may be allowing her to see the inner organs through the X-ray band of the sun-rays unlike the rest of us or not. The chances of her having some special brain-circuitry of this type can't be ruled out according to me. 

If you point a flashlight up, then the light will reach as far as the other ends of the universe, if one has a sensitive enough measuring device, so long as it is not absorbed. Of course, said device might require a lot of work, and a huge telescope. Lights can easily be seen by satellites, but it would take a huge telescope to see a single light from, say, the Moon, and even larger the further you go. In the case of your moving light, I would suspect a laser of some kind. Lasers are focused enough where one could easily see a reflection from the clouds, and pretty focused as well. It could be a moving light source, such as a plane or balloon of some kind as well. 

So to look for it, one should look along the ecliptic, concentrating mostly on the area directly overhead in late November. Note that this is the part of the sky where the galactic center also appears. The inclination is estimated to be 30 degrees, plus or minus 20, so that distance from the ecliptic should be searched as well. 

The planets all have differences based on where they are and their compositions. The outer gas giants are so large today because of how quick they were to accrete material. In a protoplanetary disk, once an object gets massive enough, it can attract others through gravity, making the process much quicker than granules sticking together through electromagnetic forces or random collisions. The reason the outer planets were able to get massive much quicker than the inner planets is that there is more material with larger circumferences and that material was able to stay a solid rather than become gaseous. With a larger mass, the outer planets attracted material quicker and the process was self-perpetuating. In addition, these gas giants had the opportunity to collect more gas that the sun did not end up taking as they are farther out. Hot Jupiters can confuse scientist because of how close they are to their host star when they could not have formed there. The Kuiper Belt and Oort cloud are also two interesting topics in planetary formation and are most likely relics of planetary formation. This would result from the material that was created around that area, but also material that was flung out by gas giants to larger orbits. The Oort Cloud could also have been formed from interactions of the sun with neighboring stars but we do not have direct observation of this cloud yet. 

We know that the reflected sunlight will make detecting the 9th planet very difficult in the visible light. Is there another band that will be more likely to detect it? What is the surface temperature of this object likely to be, and what would that mean about its optimal detection wavelength? 

Batygin and Brown made a website which describes the search for the 9th planet in clear terms. They specifically note the following: 

The original paper states the methodology used to determine the location of the gravity waves. The bottom line is that they were detected in two different locations. Using the difference in timing, one can estimate the location in the sky to an area of about 600 degrees squared where the origin of the wave could have been. The two signals had an offset of 7 ms. Pure speed of light differences would have been 10 ms. This can be used to effectively identify a circle in the sky where the merger might have happened. Of course, this doesn't reveal the distance. The distance was figured by a number of things. First of all, the frequency pattern was used to estimate the mass of each black hole. Using these masses, one can find the estimated total power of the event. Using this estimate, and seeing the estimate of the amplitude from the signal, one can use the inverse squared law to estimate the distance to said event. 

If we convert the mass of all the stars and all the planets which must be weighing trillions and trillions of tonnes by the equation E = m.c^2 it gets converted into an unimaginable amount of energy. Would so much of energy not have gone into the evolution of the Universe? I am at a great suspense whether the Big Bang theory or any other theory at all answers from where so much of energy would have come that would have got converted into so many trillions and trillions of tonnes of the mass of all the galaxies put together. How we can believe in the big-bang-theory unless we know from where so much of energy would have arrived? 

According to me following reason of mass accumulation of earth has been completely overlooked so far. The sunrays that fall on the oceans travel deep into water and finally get converted into mass which eventually results in "mass-accretion of the earth". So earth is continuously getting heavier due to the mass being added to it due to this reason year by year. Therefore, should this also not be one of the reasons why the orbit-time of the earth (time taken by it to take one round of the sun) is bound to change (increase or decrease) with time? 

While a circular orbit is possible and consistent with equations of gravitation, elliptical orbits are almost a necessity due to the surroundings of any orbit. If you take our solar system as an example, the center of mass will change as not all planets orbit at the same speed. The center of mass is found with the equation: $$x_c=\frac{\sum\limits_{i=1}^{n}{m_{i}x_i}}{\sum\limits_{i=1}^{n}{m_{i}}}$$ As the planets mass distribution around the sun changes, the point which the planets orbit changes slightly, disrupting any circular orbits. All orbiting bodies will have some disruption, preventing orbits to always be perfectly circular. In addition, losing energy and angular momentum to other sources can cause bodies to lose their orbital shapes and degenerate into elliptical orbits. In addition, please use this link also posted as a comment. 

The namesake of dark matter is because it does not emit electromagnetic radiation. Humans have built detectors on all ranges on the electromagnetic spectrum and a single particle will likely not emit wavelengths that are very large. However, dark matter may produce light in collisions with other dark matter particles or normal matter. That is the premise of large scintillator detectors.