Not long ago, my husband and I were at a restaurant in Massachusetts. At a nearby table, a man and woman were discussing a large yacht they had seen moored in Boston Harbor, which intrigued them. They made a plan to go back the following day and look at the boat's HIN number so they could get more information. Since we're not boaters, we're curious what they meant. What is the HIN number, and what does it tell about a boat? 

People all over the world also eat ant larvae. They're known to be very safe and delicious. They don't have the sour taste that develops as the ant matures. You can find them in clumps in the ant nest, either at the top or close to the center of the colony, and under rocks by the edge of the nest. Sources recommend searching for them specifically because they're a delicacy unlike anything else we've tasted. Ants can be eaten cooked or raw. Their natural taste is sour, and like vinegar, so cooking them, especially with other ingredients, makes them taste better. According to Edible insects for humans, ants can be roasted, toasted, stir-fried, baked, used in salads, chocolate-covered or honey-buttered. The most popular recipe found on the internet using ants is called Ant Brood Tacos. If you try those tacos, report back to let us know how they were! As for termites, which are the second most eaten insect on the planet, I couldn't find any ways to determine which are edible just be looking at them. As I said above, that's probably because most of them are. As with ants, they can be eaten cooked or raw. 

The short answer is yes, if the rules are followed, it is technically legal for personal size sailboats, 16ft (4.9m) or under, to be out in a thunderstorm in Nantucket Sound. The Sunfish, which is 13.9ft, (4.23m), falls into that category. However, it's not smart, and is highly discouraged! Classification: Massachusetts State Boating Laws break watercraft down into two classifications; those with motors and those without. Registration: For use in public waterways, registration is only required for watercraft which have a motor, even if the motor is not the primary means of propulsion. Watercraft without motors do not need to be registered with the State. The Sunfish was designed without a motor, and I believe that's still true. Therefore registration is not necessary, and would not have been the cause of your dad's trouble. Federal Safety Regulations: All boats, of all sizes, registered or not, must comply with Federal Regulations for safety. Federal laws are classified by boat size. The smallest category is 16ft (4.9m) or smaller. As I said above, the Sunfish is 13.9 ft, (4.23m) so it falls into that category. Among other things, boats in this category are required to carry: 

It looks like you left that one where you found it, which is always important with anything we come across outside. Also, it's unlawful to take or own one in California because it's protected. 

You have a leg up as far as canoeing experience is concerned, but there's a definite risk of getting lost, especially the first time you're doing swamp canoeing. The terrain is different from other types of waters you've traveled, but according to my friends who have done swamp canoeing, there are things that you can do, both before you go, and during your trip, which will make it easier and more fun. This advice is based on their travels, not my own, but I believe it's pertinent and hope it's helpful. Since you've picked your specific spot, check with local people who have navigated it before. Ask where the landmarks are, to help keep yourself oriented. Ask where the pitfalls are, such as areas of deeper drop off or a higher concentration of vegetation or other marine growth or rocks which might surprise you. If it's a well-documented area for swamp travel, look for a guidebook which you can study beforehand. If it will fit in your gear, take it with you. Take a smaller map too. If you know you'll have reliable GPS service, take the GPS with you. Program it beforehand, including stops at areas you may want to pull out along the way, either for safety or for sightseeing. Even if you have a GPS, take a compass. Check weather forecasts before you go. If fog or stormy weather arises, it will make it harder for you to see where you are, especially since swamps are generally dark and murky already. Even if you're experienced in canoeing in difficult weather, this type of situation is different, so you might want to choose a time where the forecast is for clear skies. When the sun shines down into the swamp, you can see even subtle changes in the terrain under the water, which are helpful. Time of day is easier to measure by sun also. If you're alone, let someone know where and when you'll be going. Check in with them when you get back, so they don't worry! Take a camera! The swamp areas will give you glimpses or wildlife in, out, and under the water which you may never see in other areas where you canoe. 

The map on this page is marked with dots representing actual sightings, each with specific details as to where and when. Many are in the exact area where you were hiking. 

I live in Northeastern United States, where it's spring at the moment. We keep bird-feeders throughout the year, so those that over-winter always have something to eat. As is usual at this time of year, a massive group of common grackles (Quiscalus quiscula) recently arrived, along with other birds of similar size and color, including starlings and red-winged blackbirds. There were hundreds of them, quite a magnificent sight. Some have already dispersed, especially the red-wings, but a large number will stay until the late fall migration. Over the last few weeks, we've been witnessing a behavior we don't remember having seen before. At least five grackles perch near each other on top of a grouping of bird feeders or, less often, on the ground. They stop eating and stare straight up into the sky. Some puff up their bodies and flap their wings. They screech at each other, but it doesn't sound like the usual grackle call we're used to hearing. After a minute or so, some fly off to join the groups scattered in the yard or trees, and the others will continue eating. When they all leave, it's only for a few minutes, and then it happens again. It could be the same group returning or a different group altogether, as we can't strictly identify them. We've seen it a few times over the course of a few hours on a number of different days. At first we thought they were on the lookout for some kind of predator up high in the trees or in the sky. However, because they only see out of the sides of their eyes, if their heads are straight up they can't be watching the sky, or even the tall branches above them, so we've pretty much ruled out that theory. Does anyone know what this behavior means? Unfortunately, they're quite skittish, so every time we try to take a picture, they fly off. They very much resemble the picture below. 

For the last few months, we've experienced long spells of drought and heat in Massachusetts, on the East Coast of the United States. At least thirty birds and three generations of squirrels and chipmunks are drinking and bathing here at any given time, and they're not alone. At night, we've seen raccoons climb clumsily up the birdbaths and knock them over. We have a number of different water vessels. Keeping them filled is very important to us, but we don't always have time to thoroughly clean out the dirt, old food, and bird droppings. Not surprisingly, algae is more prevalent this year than usual, especially in the cement baths, where it hides in crevices. We really don't like that slime, and generally scrape it off with a wire brush, but it is time-consuming and we're probably not doing it as frequently as we should. We could stop using the cement and stone vessels, but many of those we're feeding prefer them over all others, so that's not our first choice. Depriving the animals of water seems dangerous, even for a few hours on an intermittent basis. However, we're concerned that after having what looks like a refreshing drink and bath, they go off and become ill or die due to negligence on our part. Is anyone aware of a consensus as to whether or not dirty birdbath water is worse than none at all? 

Note: Since my reference links are about the circumstances causing it to fall, there are videos of the actual destruction, and the people who were caught in the act. I don't want to sensationalize this, and I'm not interested in who the people were, legal action, or anything related to the incident itself. I'm also not interested in reports of accidents or lives endangered in the past. I just want to know about beautiful, fascinating Duckbill and how it came to be! 

The Smithsonian has a beautiful story of a couple who have spent 15 years protecting an endangered pod in Zimbabwe. Although they've become as close to friends as one can get, they've spent many hours up in trees, when a hippo on land gets too close. I infer from this that if you're able to climb a nearby tree to escape, you should do so. (For animal lovers, it's a really cool article. The wife, Karen Paolillo, from Britain, is lovingly known in Africa as "the hippo whisperer.") Another helpful way to know where a hippo is on land, is to memorize and listen for the call of an Oxpecker bird. They spend much of their time eating ticks and other bugs off the skin of the hippo. The bird call is a good way to warn you that you're in hippo territory. The bird feeds off other large animals in the area, so it's not always a hippo, but better safe than sorry. Hippos also have a very pungent odor, so if you don't see or hear anything, a sharp strong smell can alert you to their presence in the vicinity. For the best view of the hippos in water, and for your own safety, don't schedule your visit during the dry season. (This page lists weather patterns in various areas of Africa. It can be helpful when planning your trip.) Hippos are primarily in the water for much of the year. During the dry season when the waters recede, they spend much more time on land and are much more dangerous during the dry season. They tend to be found in larger groups on land, and much of the feeding and fighting takes place out of the water. If you're walking or camping near an area where a larger group of hippos are on land, risk of fatal encounter increases greatly. On water and land, don't bother to try to distract them. They don't see well. Trying to distract them by swinging arms, clapping, or making noise doesn't work with hippos. Don't throw anything either, like rocks. It doesn't incite them, as with other animals, but it doesn't prevent attacks either. It's just wasted time that should be spent retreating. The end of the article I started with offers a good basic summary: