You need data to back up your claims. You can certainly go to your boss and suggest adopting all the shiny stuff (being a junior notwithstanding), but be prepared to answer the question, "what would be the benefits to the project by doing that?" Vague statements like "it makes the code more readable/maintainable/testable/etc." (or much worse, "so and so recommends it") doesn't convince anyone to change their tried and tested methods. Remember that the "poor" code of your seniors has been getting the job done for ages. "Getting job done" is among the most important things in business. Telling people there is a better way of getting job done with only your "opinion" to back it up will not convince them to take the risk. I would certainly encourage you to push the team to adopt the shiny stuff, but be prepared to put in the effort required to gather the data to support your claims. As an additional tip, I hope you won't use the tone you have used in this post when you set out to convince your seniors. "Ha ha, you guys suck, I will teach you how it is done" will definitely not work, "I have a suggestion to improve X, and I think these are the reasons why it would benefit us. What do you think?" has a far better chance of getting accepted. 

You could thus pay back $200 to the company, and claim a refund of $35 in your tax return. Unless the tax department pays you a substantial interest on the excess tax paid, you will still end up making some loss. 

The actual answer ends above. The below fluff additional commentary is only for entertainment information. It is based on my real work experience (and not taken from an HR handbook), and may not apply to every situation. Many companies prohibit their employees from contacting employees of client/vendor companies directly, for a number of reasons: 

Hence, I would strongly advise you to wait for a good employer to come along, rather than trying to get it over with by landing into some job. Despite the long notice periods in India (usually 2 or 3 months), changing jobs is not that difficult, as I can notice from the "last working day" mails that I receive once a week, on an average. :-) 

She will likely respond with an apology, and you can then move on. You have made your displeasure clear politely and firmly, and received an apology, which is enough of "something" in my opinion. If she doesn't apologize and instead tries to defend herself, you can decide if you want to push the case further up or not. Be aware that she might choose to tell your "friend" about this conversation, and be prepared for dealing with her ("friend"'s) reaction. 

Since you are looking for a senior developer, I feel qualified to try to help. I suggest not to write this in your cover letter. A cover letter is meant to tell the employer how your previous work experiences and skills qualify you for the job. It is not the place to put in your interview expectations and other irrelevant information. I understand that you are frustrated with the "unpaid coding challenges" from the past, but do not give up your professionalism just because someone else was unprofessional (or you perceive them as such). Avoid projecting bad past experiences on to future actions. Your next job application is completely independent of all your previous ones. The people reading it do not know of your past experiences, and neither should they care. A line like this in the cover letter would make them wonder, "What does he mean by that? Is he implying that we put our interview candidates to work for free?" Even a company that does not have a coding challenge will not have a positive impression. Coming to your actual goal of avoiding these unpaid coding challenges, you can back off from them professionally when you are presented with one. That way, you still leave the door open to companies that don't have coding challenges, as well to unpaid coding challenges that you might be willing to take. It is almost always a good idea to keep your cards close to your chest. 

If you want "something" to be done but don't want to escalate, then you can ask the HR person directly about the incident. 

This leaves room for your boss to correct the mistake without losing face. Moreover, it also leaves room for you to save face if your calculations are wrong. 

Don't overthink this. Just ask the HR person or your manager. Onboarding is a rather lengthy process (especially for first time employees due to the additional paperwork required), and it is not unusual for relatively lower priority steps to be deferred to later. It appears that as per your company's policy, the onboarding team is supposed to give you the appointment letter on the joining day. However, it is not of utmost urgency, so they may have decided to hand it over to you later. There won't be any undesirable consequences for you in future, provided you don't screw up badly how you ask for it. Don't mention "you were supposed to give me the appointment letter 3 days ago". From your question, it is clear you are actually not complaining about the delay, so don't make it unintentionally sound like you are complaining. 

Focus on your own work and career. What your colleague is (not) doing is his manager's responsibility, it is not your problem. You can certainly discuss with your manager about moving on to more interesting projects. Restrict the discussion to your own career, and do not bring up your colleague's work. You can suggest to your manager that when you move on to another project, you could hand over your work to the colleague. However, it is your manager's call if/when you can move on and who would take over your work. 

Short answer This company is lowballing you taking undue advantage of your situation. You should rather wait till you get a job which acknowledges your complete experience. Detailed Explanation There are multiple other ways to document your work experience in the absence of a relieving letter: 

Decide what is more important to you. Then it will be clear if you should accept or reject the job offer. 

I would totally understand you being concerned about what people think of you, but why do you care what X thinks of Y? It is their life, let them figure that out, you just focus on your own. Long story short: just let it go. 

Team building events are serious business. You have a huge misconception if you think they are not work-related. Look at it this way: why would any company take several dozen employees on a paid "pleasure trip" and also pay them for not doing any "work" during that time? No business would splurge money for fun without expecting anything significant in return. The business makes substantial gains when employees get along well. Employees collaborate better with coworkers that are easily approachable. Work gets done faster without a bossguy having to gather status and be an intermediary in the communication. This is even more valuable in case of cross-department collabaration. When people can just walk up to each other without having to go through the usual BS of procedures and approvals from boss and boss's boss, not only does work get done sooner, but it may also opens up new opportunities1. Conversely, when people socialize to the minimum extent necessary for work, as seems to be your preference, it adds to the company's costs 2, and they may miss opportunities lying right under their nose. So you might wonder what my lecturing has to do with the company social event. The company organizes such "non-work" events to allow people to lower their guard for a bit, and make them more approachable at work. In a formal office setting, people monkeying around would be perceived as unprofessional, or at least less serious about the job. I would hesitate to chit-chat with my boss about my "stupid new idea which could potentially save us millions" without doing a thorough study on its feasibility, etc., but if he and I have done stupid fun things together like dancing around a tree wearing straw hats and clown masks3, I may not be so hesitant, and I would even demand that he use his better business acumen to evaluate my idea! In the long run, the company gains. Did I say anything about team building events being serious business? 

Then you should do what the boss says, in either case. However, with the above approach, your boss would see that you are actually thinking about the work you are doing. This is also often an important consideration when deciding on promotions at the junior levels. A junior developer who just does what he is told needs constant supervision and will not be promoted, while someone who persistently tries to contribute and understand how things work can be trusted with greater responsibility. 

My advice would be stop feeling "ashamed" of your accent, I am sure your American and British counterparts don't care about it as much as you think they do. Most people in the world are nice, they see you as a human being, not as an accent. :-) 

Edit OP clarified after I wrote the answer that she is a student, not an employee. Nonetheless, I will leave this answer here as I think it is still useful to others who might be in a similar situation. It could also apply to the OP's case if "manager" is taken to mean her Dean/Principal/Career Counsellor/whoever is her "supervisor" in regards to this interaction with the "mentor". It does sound like he is misusing the mentoring to try to hit on you. Sending an email describing what to expect in the mentoring, getting to know coworkers better, and sharing one professional photograph is okay, but the rest of it is entirely unnecessary. If you are uncomfortable with his advances (as I expect you would be), you have a few options to stop it. 

Assuming this is an IT company in India (guessing from your name), it is almost certain you will get an offer from the company. Your current salary is an important factor for companies to make hiring decisions, but they ask you for that information during the interview. They ask for salary slips for verification as part of their process, and they only do this for candidates whom they are interested in making an offer. Moreover, they ask for the earliest joining date so that the your prospective project manager can plan your training/assignments, should you accept the offer. As the other answer and comments show, this works differently in other countries (US?) but in India, I am fairly certain it works the way I have described above. Edit: Despite mentioning 'India' twice in the answer, some people still have a problem understanding that the "American Way" is not the only way people do business (see the comment below), so let me share some fun facts.1 

You are potentially putting yourself on the blacklist of company B, C, D as well, besides company A. You certainly have the freedom to choose between what is ethical and what is right for you, and it is a decision you alone should make. It is possible that none of the above scenarios will actually occur, and even if they do occur, it may not affect you. If you feel the short-term gratification is worth the long-term risks you would be taking, then go ahead. 

1 I have experienced this first hand. My boss sent me a resume that he had shortlisted, and asked me to interview them the next week. I was "pleased" to see this candidate was a former co-worker at my previous company, who had "disappeared" abruptly. The interview did not happen. 2 I have been the "audience" of such "show and tell" events on a couple of occasions. 

Don't overthink this. Forget about the interview and move on. You have nothing to gain from filling out an "anonymous" survey. They clearly wouldn't call you back and tell you something like "Thanks for your honest feedback, it helped us a lot in improving our process. We would like to redo the interview." because they still have to pretend that the survey was anonymous. The more likely scenario is the "anonymous" survey responses will be fed into some database to generate "metrics" to be presented to middle management, and then nobody will look at it again. It is not your problem to "fix" their interview process. Besides, in the big scheme of things, it is not even an issue that needs fixed. They will find a suitable candidate eventually and you will find a better job.