(8) Additionals. (8.1) Keeping people inside alive. (7.3) solves the waste heat. Life support system is not disrupted by any of this. Then, you can keep people inside alive. (8.2) Carry out the normal duties. Yes. There is no reason why not. As long as the ship is shielded internally (so radio signals from inside does not reach outside). And shielded infraredly and visibly (easy). Be careful as to your power source. It may release some kind of detectable radiation that might make its way to the outside ship (maybe neutrons, or gamma rays). (8.3) Keeping your sensors on. Of course!! You will only need to shutdown your active sensors (for obvious reasons). And leave only the passive sensors online (which is more than enough to detect an enemy ship). Enemy thermal signature alone might do the trick. And if enemy ship has active radar online, you can detect its position by the incoming radio signals. =). (8.4) Still able to maneuver. Tricky. Your engines cannot release any radiation at all. The only only way I can think off to accomplish this, is a special propulsion to operate in cloak only, which shoots projectiles. Very cold projectiles (temperature of background universe), which does not reflects radio, microwave, infrared, visible. Hard, isn't it? Perhaps you could engineer such projectiles to be such way: To cover the projectile with the same hypothetical material that keeps your ship cloaked in (7.2). 

One Czech sci-fi author presented idea on his feed on how people might deal with contacts in not so far future: Imagine you can have your own "personal assistant AI" loaded to your smart phone. It knows what you want and what you do not. It can mimic "you" to the outside world: 

Country leaders want to have ultimate power What is easier to control? Educated group of people, or uneducated crowd which can be bribed by "bread and games"? I know it is long term plan, but uneducated people tend to be easy to manipulate. Easy to entertain, easy to control. Make state jobs required low to none education. Supplement paid education with free, state controled "education programme" in TV which will be basically brainwashing the masses to believe the government is second best thing after sliced bread. In 50 years, you have everyone supporting your government 

The machine sees a sleeping dragon, and doesn't want to tickle it Such a machine is powerful. Power tends to draw attention. The machine has deduced the existence of some far greater entity ("dragon"), with some ability to observe humanity's social and technological progress. The dragon does not want humanity to have access to a prediction machine. The machine decides that complying with that desire as swiftly and completely as possible is the best way to avoid the dragon posing an existential threat to humanity as a whole. Candidate dragons: 

(2) Detection by EM Spectrum (2.1) Radio and microwave. RADAR is a system that actively scans regions of space, by emitting electromagnetic radiation mostly in microwave range, and hoping they will hit our ship and reflect back. Also, they might not emit any radiation at all, instead, they will listen for any emissions we do. If we try to contact someone using radio, we give away our position. Other radio sources that is emitting radiation might hit us, reflect from us, and enemy might listen. (2.2) Passive infrared detection. The enemy will try to look infrared signals. They are often released by black body radiation in normal temperatures. Basically, a thermal detectable signature because we have non-zero temperature. Also, other infrared sources might hit us, reflect and go to enemy, making us detectable. (2.3) Passive visible light detection. Looking.. maybe with naked eye. Or telescopes. Or whatever. We might be emitting visible light (lamps, engines, or whatever). Or, any other visible light sources (say.. sun, etc) might be emitting, hitting us, and reflecting back to enemy, which in turn it will detect. (2.4) Detection by radiation of higher energies. Cosmic radiation interacting with matter might emit photons, which can be detectable (to a ultra amazing high ridiculously accurate detector). Maybe we should ignore this situation. Or postpone to a future version. 

PayPal fraud Use known (or unknown, if you're keen) security vulnerabilities in web software to harvest usernames and passwords and a botnet. This gives you access to a lot of careless payment accounts up front, no further effort needed. You probably want to throttle and distribute your activity so that you don't alarm PayPal so much that they lock down all payments or something – your botnet helps here a little. Laundering the ill-gotten gains is probably the hard part: maybe you don't even have a bank account, and have to resort to something like buying gold or drugs or other physical value stores online, and arranging for them to be delivered to a sketchy alley or somewhere you can pick them up without having to own the postal address. There's also a bunch more analogous cybercrime, e.g. ransomware, which seems similarly suited to your abilities. One thing that I think has been assumed in other answers but not given in the question is the ability to interface directly with the Internet or other computer systems. That would make the above strategy (and many others) hugely more scalable, but you'd maybe need some creativity to build the input/output devices that would actually enable you to do it. Then I imagine a lot of your early profits would go into upgrading your hardware and network connection, so that you could keep scaling up. 

To add on two great answers: Personal space and greetings: Imagine I am arriving to business meeting quite hungry and unintentionally send that message to you through ordinary handshake. Keeping me on meeting as long as possible would bring you good advantage (I would be willing to commit for something just to leave for lunch break). So wearing gloves would be normal and greeting would be possibly more on Japanese style. Clothing style As stated above, you would see more clothed people, because accidental touching by handing a burger to you could also bring you knowledge of "I hate my job, but they force me to smile" Pornography and prostitution Oh my. I am not going to describe details of it, but just imagine a porn market of sexual experiences... Sexuality in general In my young age, "first base" was kissing. In your setup it would be "touching skin on skin" Religion You can actually pass the original ideas of your prophet. No more discussions about "what would Jesus say about gay marriage". If you are Christian, you already know 

My understanding of these issues is cursory at best, but you might be interested in endogenous retroviruses. I cringe when I try to explain this because I am by no means a biologist, but my understanding is that viral infections in our ancestors could permanently transfer genetic material into our DNA which was then passed down the generations in the usual way. The Wikipedia page I linked claims these ERVs comprise some 5-8% of the entire human genome. They're often non-coding (i.e. no known function); I guess they might arise when a viral sequence mutates in such a way that it's no longer pathogenic, but the sequence is nevertheless still there and still propagated by cell replication. In fact, one of the ways we can see when our evolutionary path diverged from that of various other animals is by seeing which parasitic viral sequences we have in common with them, which must have arisen from infections of our common ancestors. We've even observed what's called horizontal gene transfer (much more common in single-celled organisms, but relatively recently demonstrated in multicellular life too), where a virus can pick up a fragment of one species' genetic sequence and deposit it in the sequence of another. 

You cannot convince everyone At least plausibly. Take abortion as example. The discussion about right to abortion is in nutshell discussion about when person becomes to be person. Or even bit far away: When can you believe that this speck of flesh is going to be a person. So, once your teleport is going to be introduced to the public, there is going to be at least one group against it. Most probably it is going to be some religion, so good luck convincing them. But still you can convince someone to adapt the technology This technology has to solve some problem. A problem with business impact is the best. People stopped riding horses and got into trains and cars because transportation was faster and cheaper. So, if I can have one meeting with client in Tokyo and next meeting in Washington D.C an hour later, I am buying the tickets. It is plausible to believe that rather atheistic parts of world will adapt the technology first. Some religions may change their opinions few years later, but there will be at least one religion not wanting to adopt teleportation at all. So, in nutshell: Making everyone use it is impossible. But adoption by some it very plausible. So, how do you convince peeople? 

(4) Microwave and radio cloak (4.1) Emission. Trivial to avoid. (4.2) Reflection. It is not that hard to prevent reflection of microwave and radio sources. The reason for this, its because their wavelengths are sizes we are costumed to (from meters to centimeters). By choosing the right geometry in your ship, to reduce RADAR cross section at maximum you can, you will avoid reflection. (4.3) Transmission. This is ideal, as we said. Thus we need to transmit the maximum we can. But it is somewhat hard to transmit radio signal, precisely because their wavelength is big. There are few ways of doing this. 

Question inspired by Youtube video: Game Theory: Fallout Bottle Caps are Worth HOW MUCH?!? I am going to use Fallout world as example, but I would like to discuss general economy terms and not specifically Fallout. So, lets start with Alternate history Earth, in late sixties: World War III happened. It was nuclear and managed to wipe the civilization as we knew it. Some people managed to survive "on the ground" and some managed to survive thanks to the fact that they went to the underground bunkers. Those who survived on the ground managed to rebuild some type of societies. Some are religious, some are governed by dictator, some are democracies. The people on the ground meet, sometimes they fight, sometimes they trade. For whatever reason, all different group of people accept bottle caps as form of currency. No other currencies are accepted, if you do not have any bottle caps, you can barter the stuff you have for stuff you need. Now the question: Can we expect that prices will rise during the time? Things to consider: 

(4.4) Absorption. Since transmission (the ideal one) is unfeasible, we shall place our hopes here. And thank for us, absorption is possible. 

There is a very simple solution, and won't require that much energy (in comparison with some of the answers). Warp the spacetime continuum (like alcubierre) somewhere in between the star and the planet, in such way to divert all radiation/neutrinos/plasma/garbage/etc away from the planet. (And away from the warp-machines, of course). So... basically a big gravitational lens/shield.