That isn't to say that a number of ordinary people wouldn't have been able to gain access to these regional bunkers in case of attack, the largest had room for 6,000 people, but the vast majority of us would have been left to fend for ourselves. A series of leaflets, radio broadcasts and public information films were circulated throughout the 1970's and 1980's called "Protect and Survive". These instructed the general public on what steps to take should the UK have been attacked. 

Well, as stated by Monster Truck there are many theories about when the "weekly off" was introduced to India. For those of you who are interested, one of the more common theories is that it was introduced during British rule in the country due to the observance of the sabbath. It is also highly likely that rest days were observed amongst members of the various religious groups in India. As a result, it is likely to be nearly impossible to accurately judge when the concept was first introduced to the sub-continent. However, as best as I can tell the weekly off was legally introduced to India in the 1940's in the form of The Weekly Holidays Act, 1942 and in the Minimum Wages Act, 1948. The Weekly Holidays Act applies specifically to Restaurants, Shops and Theaters and specifies a legal requirement for workers to be accorded a weekly day off. 

What was the largest battle, by number of participants, in which ancient Rome took part? Not counting sieges. A quick Google search reveals nothing authoritative, but some discussion threads mention the battles of Adrianople (295K), Arausio (280K), Vercellae (260K), and -although a bit of a siege- Alesia (260K) - suggested by @ed.hank. All these numbers come from Wikipedia, and can vary a lot, so I'm looking for something more reliable. My hope is some historian has addressed this, being the question so basic (and quite infantile). 

Not as ancient as Babylonian recipe tablets from 1700 BC, but still I think they're worth a mention. Archestratus of Gela, a "Sicilian-Greek gourmet" and poet of the 4th century BC, known as "the father of gastronomy" and "the Daedalus of tasty dishes", wrote a book on food very popular in antiquity. This work has been cited under different names: Gastrology, Gastronomy, Hedypatheia... According to Wikipedia: 

Note: As far as I can tell, "Being sawn asunder" was a method of execution by saw, whereby the convicted would be sawn either horizontally or vertically in half. For the most part, it seems that non-roman citizens would be executed by Crucifixion rather than by ax - a method of execution that was illegal for use on Roman Citizens (crucifixion) - but it is not impossible, or likely, that the use of the ax was stopped when executing non-romans. However, I have yet (But I am not an expert on this, and have not done a huge amount of reading) to find any indication that Roman citizens were only executed by decapitation by sword and were never executed by crucifixion. For example, both sources I've cited above indicate that people were executed by being thrown to the beasts, although it is not clear about their citizenship or class, and one lists several other methods of execution used at the Colosseum. 

The Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology also says that Archestratus had a teacher, Terpsion: 

In your edit you mention the Battle of the Golden Spurs, as Courtrai, its other name. Quoting the Historical significance part in Wikipedia article: 

Besides being found in Dresden (I guess), What reasons have led some historians to identify this as Arminius? Doesn't look much barbarian to me (what, no moustache?) 

Of course Crecy and Agincourt are more famous for the Welsh archers, but Courtrai, Bannockburn, Aljubarrota, Sempach and Grandson are good examples of "peasants with pitchforks" tactics being decisive. EDIT: A case could be made that the Battle of Stirling Bridge belongs to this group too. 

I've spent a little while looking around online about the origins of US Presidential protection - while it has become apparent that the US Secret Service became officially responsible for Presidential protection in 1902 (As part of the reaction to the assassination of President McKinley) I can't find much information about any protective measures before that date. So, was anyone responsible for the protection of a US President before 1902? If so, who? This final question may be impossible to answer, was there any reason why presidential protection was considered un-necessary, or was refused/resisted, before 1902? 

Also according to that website, in 1805 the Great Britain (presumably including state owned trade ships etc) had a total fleet size of approaching 950 vessels. The website has a list of sources at the bottom of the page for further reading. 

During the Crimean War (1853–56), Charles George Gordon took part in the Siege of Sevastopol (1854–55), calling it "the last of the old sieges". What made Sevastopol so "old fashioned" for a comment like that? I can think of two reasons: 

Gaius Pius Esuvius Tetricus was the last emperor of the short-lived Gallic Empire (260–274 AD). "Tetricus" in Latin means cheerless or dark, which makes me think there may be an anecdote on how he got that nickname. So far, I searched in Google, Wikipedia, and the Historia Augusta and I have not found anything about its origin. 

About the circulation of books, in his "Lives of Eminent Philosophers" Diogenes Laertius tells this anecdote about Socrates: 

This makes it appear to be the case, at least in US Naval Ship design (and therefore it is not inconceivable that other large navies were following similar trains of thought), that pre-1905 ships were designed with a ram bow as a method of protecting against bow on collisions when fighting a close fleet action and post-1905 what appears to be a ram bow above the water is in fact an early implementation of a bulbous bow. This may also explain why the RMS Titanic appears to have a ram bow, but I can't find anything that indicates the Titanic did have a Bulbous bow or indeed a ram bow. It is possible that is bow design was chosen to increase the impression that this class of passenger ship was "unsinkable". In fact, the Olympic (Titanic sister ship) was involved in 5 collisions/rammings during it's service life. 

The beginning of the Roman Republic is traditionally dated to 509 BC, when the Roman king Tarquinius Superbus was overthrown. Wikipedia article about the Crisis of the Roman Republic states that political instability and social unrest began with Tiberius Gracchus in 134 BC, and his proposal of land reforms. Between the death of Tarquinius in 495 BC and the election of Gracchus as tribune in 134 BC, was there any internal political crisis serious enough to menace the Roman Republic? Besides the outbreak of the First Servile War in 135 BC, that is. 

Alexander the Great founded many Alexandrias. Following his example, the Diadochi and the Epigoni did the same: Antigonia, Demetria, Lysimachia, Seleucia, Antiochia, Cassandreia... This trend seems to have started with Philip II of Macedon and Philippi: 

According to various sources (including the Wikipedia Article on Omaha Beach) 2 Battleships, 3 Cruisers and 12 Destroyers were tasked to Omaha beach. One of the battleships involved was USS Texas (The other was the USS Arkansas) fired 244 14" Shells in the first 34 minutes of D-Day, which equates to 7.5 Shells per minute (Source). Assuming at the USS Arkansas achieved a similar rate of fire, in excess of 450 14" shells were fired in this time frame. On it's own this is an incredible amount of fire and when you factor in the secondary batteries of both Battleships as well as the gunfire from the Cruisers and Destroyers the preliminary bombardment of Omaha Beach cannot be considered insubstantial. The aerial element of the preliminary bombardment was tasked to the 2nd Bombardment Division of the US Eighth Air Force. ("Omaha Beach: D-Day, June 6, 1944" by Joseph Balkoski, Page 76) which was made up of some 400 B24 Liberator Bombers. A B24-J could carry a maximum of 8,800 lbs of bombs on a short range mission. This means that the 400 B24s assigned to Omaha Beach could drop a maximum of 3,520,000 lbs of bombs on Omaha Beach. However, due to the fact that the nature of bombing in Europe (in that it was inaccurate due to the altitude it was conducted from) the bomber force was limited to using 100 lbs bombs in order to prevent the beach from becoming heavily cratered and therefore impeding the effectiveness of the bombers against the bunkers defending Omaha Beach. ("Omaha Beach: D-Day, June 6, 1944" by Joseph Balkoski, Page 78) While this bombardment was considered insufficient, it was not all that insubstantial. The bombardment described above represents the expenditure of a substantial amount of munitions in a confined area and time space. The insufficiency of the bombardment can be seen when the preliminary bombardment of Omaha Beach is compared to the bombardments seen in the Pacific Theatre. For example, the Invasion of Noemfoor, in 1944, saw a preliminary bombardment that was carried out by 5 Cruisers and 25 Destroyers. (Source) Granted, there were no Battleships but there is a large difference in numbers. While the bombardment of Noemfoor was considered to be highly effective, the same cannot be said of the 1943 battle of Tarawa Atoll. At Tarawa the Japanese were bombarded for 3 hours by the flotilla (that consisted of 17 aircraft carriers, 12 battleships, 8 heavy cruisers, 4 light cruisers and 66 destroyers, although I am unsure of how much of this Flotilla was involved in the bombardment). This bombardment failed to cause any major disruption to the Japanese defenses. This shows that even a preliminary bombardment that was nearly 5 times longer in duration and from a larger flotilla than at Omaha Beach failed to cause any major disruption to the defender. When all of these factors are combined, along with other salient factors such as the time of the bombardment (~5.50am) which hampered the ability of Naval gunners to spot their targets due to low light, it is evident that the bombardment was never going to have the desired effect on the defenders of Omaha Beach. 

Wikipedia has a list of people excommunicated by the Catholic Church, with a little explanation of the causes for each case, but (understandably) none of the effects. I'm curious if this measure has caused the downfall of any ruler, specially in the Middle Ages, when the power and influence of the Catholic Church was most strong. 

The success of these reforms can be quite surprising, but Athens was just recovering from the rule of the Peisistratids and, after the banishing of Isagoras, Cleisthenes was virtually unopposed. Thomas R. Martin, An Overview of Classical Greek History from Mycenae to Alexander has a chapter called Persuasion and Cleisthenic Democracy that may interest you. And, just for the record, the traditional four tribes before Cleisthenes were called Geleontes, Hopletes, Argadeis and Aegicoreis. Glad I asked you in comment before answering this :)