This is totally plausible, albeit with much larger separations than you show in the animation. You can easily have two bodies orbiting each other in space. Now, take one of those bodies and turn it into two bodies on a much smaller orbit. This works as long as the two smaller bodies are close enough that their mutual gravity is much stronger than the gravity of the other, distant body. (In technical terms, this means that the binary planet has to remain within the Hill sphere). The punchline: there are plenty of little technical issues like tides, but this is totally plausible in principle. It's basically analogous to multiple star systems, which tend to be set up in a hierarchical fashion, where any star is much closer to its closest companion than to any other star. If you're interested, I created a couple of fake systems in this mold. See here and here. 

A "binary planet" setup is totally plausible. The Moon is already not all that much smaller than the Earth, and the Pluto-Charon system is even closer in size. Simulations of giant impacts sometimes find close to equal-sized planets orbiting each other. It would look something like this: 

In a civilization, some people are born with the innate ability to do magic (say like Harry Potter universe). All the people, magical and non-magical, have personalities like those in today's world; magic users aren't inherently evil, but some are...there are also those who are extremely good. No physical trait or characteristic distinguishes a magician from a normal human. Why would those without magical abilities fear/avoid, hate/shun, hunt down, or discriminate magic users? Would it have to be a massive almost world taking over event (like the Holocaust)? Semi-related question but on racism 

Based on the assumption that this human can just fly and is invulnerable (can't be damaged) without any other powers this is quite simple. To neutralize is to render (something) ineffective or harmless by applying an opposite force or effect. If the human is average in other regards all you need to do is to contain and/or restrain him. This could range from a straight jacket to solitary confinement. Depending on how much he can lift while flying to bring the man down might include heavy nets, ropes, or missiles (he can't be harmed but the force of an explosion could knock him down). If the goal is to kill the man I think suffocation or drowning would be the best options. 

I think what you are talking about is not really the stellar metallicity but the heavy metal abundance relative to rock (e.g., measured as X/Si). To have a planet with a high abundance of heavy metals, you need the ratio of metals to rock to be high. I think that is what you are after: rocky planets with lots of heavy metals, right? The stellar metallicity is the grouped abundance of everything heavier than He relative to Hydrogen. So, a higher metallicity gives you more planetary building blocks but not more metals relative to rock. One important fact is that the occurrence of low-mass (presumably terrestrial) planets does not correlate with metallicity. This is an observed fact (for example, see this paper: $URL$ Higher metallicity stars form more gas giant planets, which tend to become unstable and destroy terrestrial planets. Back to your setup. First, it's definitely plausible to imagine lots of planetary system in relatively dense stellar clusters. There are plenty of planets in open clusters. Globular clusters are an extreme example but why not. As long as there are no encounters closer than, say, 5 times the planets' orbital distance. Now, how to get your planets lots of heavy metals? Well, to enrich them in, anything heavier than iron requires R-process nucleosynthesis and therefore a supernova. Different types of supernovae produce different elemental patterns but I don't remember enough from grad school about the differences ($URL$ I know that supernova ejecta is clumpy, so it's easy to imagine some stars being polluted by heavy metal-rich clumps while others are not. Of course, there are other ways of packing lots of rocky planets within 1000 AU (shameless plug: $URL$ 

Chicken Slayer Buy a chicken farm, and kill lots and lots of chickens, thus increasing his mana reserves and strength. Then once he has gained sufficient strength go out and slay a more powerful. This is under the assumption that like a video game doing anything gets you experience and power. Chickens are a slow way to gain power but they are easy, cheap, and good practice. 

Desalination- Involves heating saline water, collecting the steam/condensation Polar Ice caps- Glaciers store about 69% of the world's freshwater, so find a hunk of ice and melt it. Freshwater underwater- There are freshwater springs under the ocean, find one and stick a straw in it. The article/reference mentions: 

Metal The ability to control metal would be quite effective with the amount of metal there is in the world (cell phones, cars, parks, wheels, etc). This would also allow him to stop bullets if he was shot at. See Magneto from X-men for further reference of possibilities. Other Powers Gravity- Increase gravity to crush your targets. Increase or decrease around the to stop bullets from reaching him. Force- Force choke, lightning, push, pull, etc. See the game Forced Unleased if you want specific ideas of what you could do. Air- Steal the air from people's lungs, cut people, or push people (off of, into, or in front of things). Side note depending on how he manifests his powers he could have any number of super powers and no one would know who was doing it and then couldn't shoot him. 

Mike is right that the kind of rings we generally think of -- like Saturn's -- are only found within the Roche limit. This is so close to the planet that ring particles don't grow. Now, it's possible to imagine a binary planet on a relatively short orbit with a moon or two orbiting both planets. This system would have to be far enough from the star to have a large Hill sphere. This is kind of like Pluto-Charon, which are almost the same size and have several other small moons in orbit. Imagine a collision between two small moons in this system. If the objects are weak (maybe small icy bodies), they may shatter into lots and lots of pieces. The pieces would quickly be smeared over the moons' orbit, creating a ring of debris. This is not the same as Saturn-type rings. Since this debris is beyond the Roche limit, it could re-grow into a larger body. So it would only be a short-lived phenomenon (say, 100s to 1000s of years as a ballpark guess). Here is a pretty picture of an asteroid disintegrating. This is the kind of object that could create a short-lived ring. 

While most Mexican states don't have their own flags, each US states do and the provinces of Canada do. There is also already a vague ethnic diversity among the states/provinces, you can tell where someone is from just from their accent, slang, or language. Also to take into account is the Native Americans who were here before colonists. Their land could have become a country if colonists respected their land/rights more. 

Any entrance/exit/doorways windows/viewing opening Space being a vacuum The type/amount/duration of damage being inflicted 

I would address both questions with the same solution. To host more and more people underground mine the rock (carve out chunks) where you want another room or where you wish to enlarge a cavern. With the mined rock, you can then build defenses (walls, rock-fall traps, ammo for catapult/slingshot, etc). 

If you look at Europe countries can get pretty small. Theoretically, North America could contain hundreds of countries. If you wanted maybe a more realistic number you can counted just the states/provinces of Mexico (31), United States(49-not counting Hawaii), and Canada(10) there could easily be 90 nations/countries. Wikipedia describes nation-building: 

We know planets orbiting in both categories. The extra star can be bad or neutral for planetary life, depending on its orbit (see here: $URL$ There are also planets known to exist in systems with 3 and even 4 stars. Those get more complicated. 

A super-Europa with a rocky core and an ocean covered with a few miles-thick ice layer. Assuming an Earth-like abundance of lon-lived radionuclides such as Uranium, the ice layer acts as a thermal blanket to maintain the ocean in a liquid state. This planet can be free-floating in the galaxy, as it has no need for an external heat source. An Earth with a thick hydrogen atmosphere (10-100 bars works). In this case the hydrogen atmosphere acts as the thermal blanket that maintains liquid water on the planet's surface. 

The more Earth-like possibility is the "hot Eyeball planet", which is very hot on the sunlit side and cold on the night side. The night side has ice caps that slowly melt and provide a trickle of water. The best place for life is in a narrow ring around the planet at the terminator (where the Sun is always near the horizon). See here for more details: $URL$ 

If the creature had refractive hairs on its outer shell, it could refract light into prismatic colours. Depending on the environment, this could either dazzle predators or blend its outline. This is evident in creatures such as the bobbit worm, which has an exoskeleton covered in fine hairs. At a push, these could be used intelligently to blend in with an environment. 

Firstly, I don't think your humanoid creatures would have troubles with predatory arthropods larger than 1cm by the fact that they'd be just too small to be viable prey - which cuts down the size of the enemy they'd likely be facing. A five centimetre tarantula, for example, has fangs much too broad to cause any damage to a 0.2mm creature. To the tarantula these may as well be parasites. Assuming they are warm-blooded and potentially mammalian, your creatures could live in a cold climate where arthropods would be slowed by the low temperature. They would likely build into a defensive structure such as a rock wall or earth, much like ants, where they are able to control the access points and the temperature of their dwelling. An alternative option is to become a parasitic host to a large mammal, such as a dog or a cow, where they can live in relative warmth within the fur of the creature and even harvest its blood/flesh for food. By tying the hair into barriers and shaving large clearings of hair around their safe area, they can create barriers to other parasites. Another alternative would be to dig a burrow into a narrow tree where they can set up splinter barriers against things climbing up - or down - the bough of the tree. Keep in mind that the biggest enemy to your creatures is not predators, but the environment. Sudden changes in temperature, flooding (a small population can drown in a single drop of water) or fire would be enough to kill a population that would fill a small country. Finally, addressing the most core of your question - if they have access to spider silk it is most likely that they would set up a series of complicated webs to trap and hinder any arthropods that would trespass on their territory - though setting up such an area would be a massive undertaking for a people so small. 

Freshwater Assuming the several magnitude 9 earthquakes, resulting tsunami's, and general destruction somehow didn't kill you and destroy any flotation device; there will only be 4.5 viable ways to get fresh water. 

The simplest solution: Slime sealant Similar to what is used in tires to fix holes. When there are no holes it sits on the inside of the armor. When there is a hole the slime will get sucked out (by the vacuum of space) and harden (chemically?). This will only be a temporary solution though and won't last forever. Replacements With a smart system, and an armor system made of up equally sized segmented parts, when the exterior receives damage then said segment(s) could be discarded and replaced by new piece(s) until the new pieces run out (from storage/armor repair layer). You would need an additional minor armor/layer of protection to protect against radiation. 

Plausability There are other methods of sleep, see polyphasic sleep schedules, where you can sleep for multiple periods of time instead of once or twice a day and still get the needed REM cycle. Here is a site with some various polyphasic sleep cycles. The side effects seem minimal, but most concur that a full 8 hours of rest is better than short periods of rest.