What about various attempts by the southern states to poll their own people? While this may be peaceful, it is not diplomacy. As explained earlier in discussion Compact Theory, the Federal government rejected the idea that a state, or even its people, could decide alone to secede. Declaring you're going to ignore Federal decisions is not diplomacy, it is the end of diplomacy. 

Yes, the wartime expansion and recovery of the USSR's production was nothing short of amazing, but so was the German and American. They did it at a great cost of human suffering. "Efficient" is a very slippery word. We don't know what that person meant. I'm going to stick to simple material numbers. I also think the statement "from scratch" implies the person thinks the USSR was militarily and industrially backwards at the start of the war. Let's address that first. In the 1930s the Soviets were at the forefront of tactical thinking. They recognized the importance of the tank and the aircraft in achieving surprise and mobility. They used it to rapidly penetrate the enemy lines and cause havoc in their rear faster than the enemy could react. They called it Deep Battle and it was very similar to the Blitzkrieg tactics the Germans would use so successfully. Unfortunately, the Great Purges of the late 30s killed or sent into exile over half of their officers, especially the most imaginative commanders. They were left with the most unimaginative officers mostly concerned with politics. Deep Battle was politically discredited and the Soviet armored strength was dispersed. The disastrous Winter War with Finland in 1939/40 exposed the woeful state of Soviet arms. A victorious but humiliated Soviet Union began to, very slowly, return some of the previous military professionalism to their army, but not fast enough. Meanwhile, the Soviets were developing some of the most advanced arms in the world. The T-34 medium tank, KV-1 heavy tank, Yak-1 fighter, and IL-2 "flying tank" were all in production at the time of invasion. They were all equal to or superior to the equivalent German units at the time. They all stayed in production for the whole war. Trouble is, there weren't nearly enough and they were incompetently used. No, the Soviets did not rebuild "from scratch". 

The other slavic states were either not in the way, or had acquiesced quietly. They were either seen as integrated into Greater Germany (Czechoslovakia), acquiesced to German threats (Bulgaria), allying with the winning side (Romania), or puppets to be exploited (Independent State of Croatia, Territory of the Military Commander in Serbia). The situation in post-invasion Yugoslavia, with different factions of different ethnic groups fighting each other, and also with or against the Nazis, illustrates very well how ethnic perceptions are flexible to circumstances. Ethnic tensions there were exploited to have the population pacify themselves, particularly by exploiting Croatian ambitions and grievances to use them to suppress the other ethnic factions and "stabilize" the region releasing German troops to fight elsewhere. The opposite happened. 

Close Quarter Combat Military rifles, particularly prior to WWII, were very, very long and cumbersome. Black powder burns at a slower rate than modern smokeless powder and needs a longer barrel to get the full effect of powder charge. Even after the switch to smokeless powder, long barrels were retained to allow for a longer sight picture (ie. the distance between the rear and front sights) to allow for more accurate long range shooting. We now know this rarely happened, and modern military rifles are optimized for a max of 300 meters. For example, the French Lebel and ubiquitous German Gewehr 98 (aka "the Mauser") were 1.3 meters long! These were later cut down into carbine versions like the Karabiner 98k, but still very long at 1.1 meters. The US WWII M1 Garand service rifle was also 1.1 meters. Even a modern M16 rifle is 1 meter long. Add a bayonet that's up to half a meter long, and you can see how this rapidly gets unwieldy. Bayonets were designed to give musketeers a sort of pike to prevent massed cavalry charges (more on that below). This worked well against a massed charge into your fixed defenses, the enemy basically runs into a wall of blades, but they're terrible on the attack, especially into the tight spaces of a modern defensive position. Such a long weapon is not very good in the tight spaces of a trench or building. InRangeTV has an excellent video demonstration of the limitations of bayonet fighting and the use of the knife, club, and spade in WWI trench fighting. Yes, a shovel like this Russian/Soviet MPL-50 entrenching tool makes a pretty nasty and ubiquitous close quarters weapon. 

The Soviets were caught by surprise and off guard by Operation Barbarossa, after all they had been cooperating with the Germans for years and had a non-aggression pact. In their rapid retreat they evacuated whole factories to safety beyond the Ural Mountains. Conditions were brutal, but they set about cranking out war materials. Part of the efficiency of Soviet production was their focus on a relatively small number of models. For example, they had three tank hulls, the light T-60/70, the medium T-34 and the heavy KV. They used them for everything with mixed success. As tanks they were very successful with excellent armor and guns. As vehicle hulls, the shortcomings of Soviet drive train designs became more apparent. Once a factory began production it often continued to make that model even once better ones were available; it would take time and money to retool and retrain. Is this "efficient"? It certainly produced more stuff. Let's look at the production numbers for medium and heavy tank hulls. I've included America for comparison. I've excluded 1945 because it is a partial year and Germany was collapsing. Overconfidence caused American production to slow down in 1944. The Americans did not believe in heavy tanks. 

Source But they found the ferry missing, the approaches covered with German AAA and fighters, and the drop zones crawling with Germans. The planned crossing of the Rhine failed. Ironically a morning patrol by 1st Airborne discovered the ferry was missing, but the Poles were already en route. The ferry was found later, its moorings had been cut by artillery, just a few hundred yards beyond the search area. The Germans recognized the threat to their flank and counter-attacked the Poles sapping German strength away from Oosterbeek. Over the next couple days they got a few hundred men across, only enough to cover the 1st Airborne's withdrawal. 

Yes, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) included many Nationalist POWs including a whole Nationalist army. The People's Volunteer Army which attacked Korea was made up of PLA units. However, I find no evidence they were considered disposable. According to The Chinese Communist Army in Action: The Korean War and Its Aftermath by Alexander L. George on page 6, the first wave included armies with significant numbers of integrated Nationalist POWs. (Note: Wikipedia uses the Western term "corps" while this source uses the Chinese term "army"). 

The first wave would also include the 50th Army of particular note, it was formerly the 60th Nationalist Army. It had been incorporated in to the PLA for at least a year, fighting against Nationalist forces. 

A Bridge Too Far, Cornelius Ryan, p 328-329 At this point on the 20th the drop zones in Arnhem, open fields, were overrun or under German observation. The remnants of the 1st Airborne Division had fallen back to Oosterbeek where they intended to hold onto a bridgehead until XXX Corps arrived, already late. Only Lt-Col Frost's 2nd Battalion had made it to the bridge, and they would lose it in the night. Rather than cross the bridge, the plan was now to reinforce 1st Airborne's position with the Poles by using a ferry across the Rhine. Driel was near Oosterbeek across the Rhine, and there was a nearby ferry at Heveadorp large enough to carry tanks. The Poles were to take the ferry, use it to cross the Rhine, reinforce 1st Airborne, and hold until XXX Corps could cross in force. The Polish drop on the 20th was aborted due to bad weather, but they were finally off on the 21st. 

This can explain a lot of apparently odd decisions on the part of US tank designers. They liked the 75mm gun because it fired an excellent high explosive round, very effective against infantry, whereas the 76mm gun with better anti-tank performance had a less effective HE round. They considered maneuverability and mechanical reliability more important than heavy armor and anti-tank performance, because the US army was a very aggressive and wanted to make sweeping attacks and avoid slogging matches. On to the question. The US had a huge advantage over Britain and Germany in 1940-1942, an enormous, underutilized and experienced automotive industrial base. This meant US tank designs would be mechanically well-designed and reliable. Better engines and transmissions can carry more armor at better speed. Their excess of productivity meant the designs could also be lavish, especially relative to the extremely overstretched British. The US had another advantage. Prior to the war they had almost no tanks to speak of and a very small army. This meant they had no prior stock of parts and ammunition to consider. They didn't have to rush half-finished designs into combat either. They could sit back and watch the development in Europe and stock their new army with the latest and the greatest. While the US Army had little experience in armored warfare, and budgets were miniscule, they knew a war was brewing and had laid the ground work for armored tactics and design. Rather than working on a whole bunch of different tank chassis (the Germans had at least six in production in 1942, the British were probably as bad) they focused on one. Starting in 1935, they gained experience with the M2 Light Tank, which developed into the M2 Medium Tank or "the tank that proved you can have too many machine guns". But it was fast, reliable, and pretty easy to build. When a layman considers a tank, they see the gun and armor and that's it. It cannot be overstated how important it is for a tank to have a good drive-train, and how many otherwise excellent tanks were crippled by bad transmissions and weak engines overloaded with too much armor. Tank engines have to move 30-70 tons at 30mph, and their transmissions have to transmit 400-700 horsepower at high torque. It doesn't matter how good your tank is if it breaks down or gets stuck in the mud every 50 miles. It doesn't matter how thick your front armor is if I can drive around behind you. The Tiger never solved their drive-train problems. The early Panther production was crippled by them, in the Battle of Kursk nearly as many were lost to breakdowns as to enemy action. The KV/IS series of tanks was, in some ways, Soviet engineers learning to make decent transmissions. The Americans avoided all that by using the same Wright/Continental radial aircraft engine on the M2, M3 and early M4. It was a compact, reliable, existing engine, with an existing production line. It had the torque and power necessary to drive a well armored tank at a good speed giving it a better power/weight ratio than the PzIII or IV). When they couldn't produce enough engines, they grabbed another existing aircraft engine, the Ford GAA V8. This had the trade-off of using gasoline, more flammable than diesel, but the Americans thought the extra power was worth it. The invasion of Poland and France showed the M2 was under-gunned, under-armored, poorly laid out, and too tall, but the British army, having littered France with much of their heavy equipment, needed tanks RIGHT NOW, so the US went about designing an expedient tank. It was known that the 37mm gun was inadequate. Everyone else was incrementally upgunning, the US wanted to leapfrog everyone with a 75mm gun (a huge gun in 1940, the Soviets had the same idea earlier with the T-34), but designing a new turret takes a long time. The M3 Lee/Grant used the same chassis, drive train and 37mm turret as the M2 Medium taking advantage of a known good design and existing production lines. It deleted most of the machine guns, added some armor, and, most obviously, stuck the 75mm out the side of the tank. The M3 was awkward, but it did the job, and it was quite a surprise at the Battle Of Gazala. The 75mm was far superior to the 2 pounders the British were fielding and could out-range most of what the Germans and Italians had. The best the Germans had was the Panzer III with a 50mm gun and thin armor. Its armor was flawed (the rivets had a tendency to become projectiles), but adequate. It was also fast, as fast or faster than most tanks at the time. In some ways, the M3 was the first Main Battle Tank (ie. it could cover both the infantry and cruiser tank role) fielded by the Western Allies (the Soviets already had the T-34). With the M3 in production, and the British reporting painful lessons back, the US got down to the business of designing the M4. They chose the simplest. It kept the good parts of the M3 (suspension, transmission, chassis and 75mm gun), fixed the layout, and added a new turret. Like the M3, the M4 was designed to do it all. It had the armor and HE round to support infantry, it had the speed, reliability and cross-country performance for breakthroughs and cavalry dashes, and at the time it had the gun and armor to defeat anything in the Axis arsenal. This was all true until it met the Tiger (and later Panther). There you have it. A cadre of professional, pre-war officers made sure to keep the US Army up to date and in practice with tanks despite a miniscule budget. They used their extensive automotive industry and experience to design a fast, reliable drive-train and chassis which they continually improved and upgraded. They observed events in Europe (particularly the battles of Poland and France) and altered their plans accordingly, only committing to their final design (the M4) in 1941.