You can't stop anyone from talking to anyone else. It's not something that requires your permission. The way you typically handle this is by having a list of references who will say good things about you, and give that list out. It's pretty common that this list doesn't include every manager you've ever had, so you'd typically handle this by checking with your other old managers to see if they'd be willing to be a reference for you, and providing that list of references to your potential new employer, if they ask for it. (For whatever it's worth, only a couple employers have even bothered checking my references.) It's generally unwise from a legal/liability standpoint to say much about a former employee, and for this reason, a lot of companies have policies that they'll only release factually verifiable information about ex-employees (dates of employment, job title, maybe the job description, etc.). This means it's probably not going to be an issue, but if it is, it is. This particular employer may regard you less favorably without a reference from your previous manager, or may contact him and try to talk to him about you, but there's nothing you can do about that, so don't sweat it. It's just something that's outside of your control. Given that it is something out of your control, if they ask if they can contact your previous manager, it's generally not advisable to say "no" - they can contact him anyway, so saying "no" doesn't have any effect other than telling them that you expect him to say something bad about you. If asked, specifically about this manager, I would approach this by saying that you haven't kept in touch and don't have contact info for the bad boss in question, but they're free to look him up if they want (since they can do that anyway). If they push you on why, be honest. You had different working styles and didn't work well together. There's really no lie you can come up with that will reflect better on you, so embrace the truth. 

Nothing. You could copyright it, watermark it etc., but back to the previous question, it's going to cost more than it's worth to try to enforce, and people who sue prospective employers have a hard time getting job offers. Often in life, there's just nothing you can do about getting screwed over. This is one of those things. Better to just approach it on the assumption of good-faith and not waste you time and money on the things you can't do anything about. 

To provide an alternate opinion, no, you shouldn't "turn yourself in" at this point. It might have made sense before they had it repaired, but after the fact, it doesn't. If they're not trying to find out who broke it, they don't care. If they want to know, they'll ask, and you should tell the truth, but I see no reason or sense in volunteering the information that you did something stupid and broke a piece of company property. It happens, it's not a big deal, and companies carry insurance and have contracts/retainers for this very reason. Cost of doing business/part of life. You should probably be asking yourself why you're so concerned about this, when it seems that no one else is. 

Quite obviously, you need to avoid telling the truth. And, in general, the rules are the same regardless of which side of the question you're on. Whether you're an employee being asked what your worst qualities or, or an employer being asked what your worst qualities are, being honest is a bad idea - even the best people and the best places to work have dark sides that would send people screaming for the hills if revealed in a brutally honest light, in my experience. How, exactly, you go about doing that is as much a matter of your personality (and perhaps ethics) as anything else, and there's no one-size-fits all answer to this scenario, except that you should not bad-mouth your manager in front of your manager, even (or especially) when that's the truth. I'd also point out that you generally don't go wrong by following the lead of those above you, so that's probably the way to go. Your manager's being evasive and deflecting, so you would probably look good in his eyes by doing the same. If you can make a good impression on the candidate at the same time, so much the better. If it were me, I'd make a joke and deflect, which is largely a function of my personality, but I'd avoid actually lying, which is also a function of my personality and ethics. Something along the lines of: 

The person is a superior and [presumably] quite powerful in the company, so it's unwise to do something that could be taken as inappropriate or offensive. 

Having said that, it took me 6 years to get, in part because it wasn't my only one, in part because I was working to put myself through school, and also, [other stuff], but so far, no employer has even asked why it took longer than 4 years, which would be elementary to deduce by my age and the year I graduated. If you include your military service on your resume, and handle the issue of the degree with just a graduation date, it's unlikely anyone will notice it took you more than 4 years, and even less likely that anyone will care. After all, people do get better careers or climb the corporate ladder by going to night school part-time, so it's really not a big deal to an employer how long it takes you to get a degree. 

In addition to Garrison Neely's excellent answer, I'd advise that how you say this is almost as important as the fact that you say it. Instead of something like , try framing it more positively - something like In addition to allowing you to potentially salvage success here, it serves a dual purpose in explaining why you're behind schedule, as well as proposing a solution to that very problem. 

Bring it up with the hiring company - tell them that you can't give notice until the offer is final and you've passed the background check. If they're worth working for, they'll understand, and if they're chomping at the bit to get you hired on, they'll take measures to expedite the background check. At least in every country I've ever been in, finding an agency that will take fingerprints and perform a background check is not a difficult task, and I'd be surprised if your potential new employer is unable to direct you somewhere local where this can be done (at their expense, of course). I'd make sure that got done and that I'd passed the background check before giving notice, or incurring expenses related to a relocation for a job that isn't yet final. 

To take a slightly different approach - if you don't ask, the answer is always "no", and it generally doesn't hurt to ask. In my experience (primarily as a Systems Administrator/Engineer), most places aren't going to care much, so long as you don't cause problems with your personal use of corporate assets. Check your company's acceptable use policy - there may be a "reasonable personal use" clause in the policy, or if not, you can always check with your IT personnel to get an inside view of the AUP. Most often, those clauses are really more about having an ironclad reason to take disciplinary action against an employee who causes problems. However, as noted in Snow's answer, you're exposing yourself to a lot of liability if you go down this road, and it's much easier to be that problem-causing employee than you think it is, so make sure you know what you're doing, and that it's worth the risk. My inclination is that it's probably not, even though that's a bit hypocritical of me to say, given that I use my corporate laptop (and smartphone) for personal use on a regular basis. I've run into that problem myself, a couple weeks after starting a job, when my manager and our CIO called me into a rather awkward talk, asking about whether I was looking for a new job or not. Turns out that my workstation was hitting up a domain called jobs.stackoverflow.com at a very high clip, so they were concerned. That worked out alright, and wasn't even "really" personal use, but I've seen a lot of cases in my career were it was personal use (that was originally sanctioned or not-cared-about), and ended badly. For example, I worked at a major computer security firm (anti-virus vendor) for a few years, and while they were happy to let people use their corporate laptops and such for personal use, we ended up terminating several people when their personal use of corporate assets brought malware back to the corporate network. (As you can imagine, that was kind of a hot-button issue for us - "Anti-virus vendor spreads malware from corporate network" headlines would have destroyed the business.) Similarly, an employee an at a different employer got himself noticed in a bad way by the executive team when our web filter started denying a lot of requests to explicit, homoerotic-themed web domains. I investigated, and quickly discovered that the person in question had installed a hookup app for use while out-of-town (generally on business). Although he wasn't using it at work, it was running at startup, tucked away in the system tray, and was ad-supported. And so, the poor guy ended up [unintentionally] trying to download explicit pornographic [ad] content at work. That also didn't end well. The last example I'll bore you with is an employee who ended up at some site in the rural US on temporary assignment, and decided to set up social networking and email and so forth on his corporate iPhone. Again, no one cared much, until the end of the month, when there were $1500 in overage and roaming charges on his line, all for personal use. So, bottom line, even if you get an OK to use corporate assets for personal purposes, it's probably not a good idea. There are a lot of ways for it to go bad, and assuming you're a relatively well-paid knowledge worker, it's generally better to drop a few hundred dollars on a personal device than risk your job using a corporate one. 

This is what's often referred to as a "career limiting move" (or CLM). Regardless of whatever else happens, you're the guy who almost cost the company a £200,000 a year client. (Or the guy who actually did, should the client take its business elsewhere). You made two mistakes that I can see. The first was deploying to production without a written directive from your boss - you should have sent an email outlining the risks, advising against it and requesting written confirmation of his decision to do it anyway. This is how you protect yourself when a decision like this backfires. The other mistake was expecting your boss to simply volunteer that it was his decision when you met with upper management. Hopefully little else needs said on this note. Expecting people to voluntarily take the fall for you is ... unwise, to say the least. You can appeal the decision, but both these mistakes will make a favorable decision that much harder now. And even if you do get one, so what? Upper management knows/believes that you are one of the two people responsible for this disaster, whether you have an official reprimand or not. Both these mistakes are learning experiences for your future, but I would advise that regardless, you have limited your future at this company. They may or may not decide to get rid of you (and/or your boss), but even if they don't, your opportunities for advancement will be very limited. Therefore, in your position, I'd recommend trying to find another job at a different company, where you don't have a black mark against you. 

What you ought to do is independently verify what you've been told by this junior developer. For one, you don't actually know that what he said is accurate. There could have been a miscommunication somewhere, he could be misunderstanding, maybe he doesn't have the whole picture from a technical standpoint and is passing on incomplete data, etc. As they say, "trust, but verify." For another reason, verifying what you were told protects your source. No one needs to know that he told you anything, because you can hold up the data as evidence of what happened, and completely omit the fact that you got tipped off by anyone. You haven't provided enough technical details to advise on how you'd be able to verify this, but it doesn't sound like it would be difficult at all for a decent sysadmin or systems engineer to do so. Of course, there's always the option of simply stating what your source told you, and saying that to prevent retaliation, you'd rather not/can't/won't name your source. But verifying yourself, so that even having a source is beside the point, is the better approach. 

I can't believe no one's suggested it yet, but personally, I would just be honest and direct. "I appreciate the invitation, but I really don't like large, noisy crowds, so I would not enjoy attending a live sporting event. Thanks for the offer, though." There's no reason why you have to explain that you dislike noisy crowds because of your autism, and I don't see any reasonable person prying further. Simply state that you dislike noise and crowds, so you would not enjoy the activity, and thank the person for the offer. No reason to over-think or over-complicate it. 

I think you have a valid reason to take the other job, if that's what you want. My current employer recently offered me a raise to stay after I'd gotten an offer elsewhere, and I did, but accepting their offer to retain me didn't mean anything more than passing on the job offer I had at that moment. If I'd received a better offer later, I'd have taken it, and if I receive a better offer now, I'll take it. I didn't agree or say that I'd stay for any period or time, nor did they make the offer contingent on my staying for any period of time, so the deal was simply that I'd stay, at that point in time. If they tried to switch up the terms of my retention after the fact, I definitely would have left, and it sounds like that's what's happened to you. Can't be sure without knowing all the details, but it sounds like they retained you, and then dumped more work on you in exchange for the pay raise, without telling you upfront that they were going to do so. Therefore, I would view this as the terms of the arrangement having changed - you stayed for more money, on the assumption the job and workload would be the same. With them changing their part of the deal, you have the right to change your part, and accept the other job offer, if you wish. 

The short answer is that they're using it as a recruitment pipeline for future software engineering employees, a position for which they require a four year degree. See this (cached) copy of a different job at Google. 

The better way to approach this is simply not to have start and finish dates on your studies. For example, my degree on my resume looks like: 

I have been in this position before, and while it could be something illegal or unethical, it could just as well be a perfectly legitimate request with a legitimate reason. When someone in a high access position like this leaves their position, there's often legitimate concern that he/she will destroy company data that they feel entitled to (or want to deny the company), and/or use that company data in their next role to undermine their former employer or for personal gain (think poaching customers, or bringing business relationships with them to the next place). Obviously, making sure this doesn't happen is a matter that must be dealt with discretely, as tipping the person off will only make it happen faster, and generally speaking, no one wants these suspicions to be common knowledge. You could ask for written permission... but that would probably conflict with the goal of discretion, and especially if it's a company owned laptop, in the US, that data belongs to the company, not the ex-employee, regardless of his position. So the company's agents (the new CEO) are legally entitled to that data, and allowed to be as discrete or as obvious as they want about getting it. My advice to you is that rather than just copying the files requested, is to take a backup of the laptop, with whatever means you have at your disposal and document the request and process. (Disk image, same software you use to backup your servers, scripted robocopy or whatever.) Compared to a targeted copying of important files, backing up an executive's machine when they leave is hard to frame as snooping or unauthorized access, which makes it difficult for you to get thrown under the bus, especially if you keep a written record of what you did when you did it, and at whose request. In this case, you would then give the backup to the new CEO, and instruct him on how to search and extract the files he wants. That way if there's any malfeasance going on, you just did what a good IT guy does, and made backups, while the new CEO was the one who went snooping through the backups. And, going forward, it's a good idea to get this process enshrined in an official policy - it protects you from any accusations if it's just the normal process, and every now and then, you'll get to be the hero when you can pull the critical files that some ex-employee had on their machine that no one knew they were missing, until they need them, NOW.