I've seen some managers bat their pitchers 8th. Tony LaRussa was one of the more noticeable ones. Is this move statistically sound? Why or why not? Ignore cases like Dontrelle Willis early in his career or Michah Owings, both of whom are good hitters anyway. I'm talking about run-of-the-mill, bad at hitting, pitchers. 

This happens so much that Grey at razzball even has a term for it. The "Disgraceful List." The problem with regulating this is that the MLB is very concerned about protecting their players. If the office of the commissioner incorrectly rejected a DL stint for someone that was actually hurt and the Player's Union could prove that there was indeed an injury, there would be hell to pay. There is no doubt that the disabled list is abused from time to time, but keep in mind that putting a player on the 15-day DL doesn't add an additional spot to the 40 man roster, it only allows for a player on the 40-man roster to be called up to the active 25-man roster. It adds to that player's arbitration/FA clock and uses an option year if they haven't been called up yet. Basically, it benefits both parties, the MLB and the MLBPA to turn a blind eye to players landing on the Disgraceful List. 

In addition to the financial benefits detailed in Dor Cohen's answer, Spain also achieved: Fifa World Ranking Points Spain will have picked up a considerable number of Fifa World Ranking points by winning this tournament and via the manner in which they did so. With continental cup tournaments carrying a 3.0x multiplier, Spain will have further cemented their World #1 status. Source Record This is the first time in history that a team has won 3 back-to-back major tournaments, those being: 

Let me offer my advice about what you can improve quickly in addition to the existing answers and working on fitness and ball control: Positioning You already watch football. Start watching the players' positions in various scenarios, especially the right-back in your case. You give yourself a much better chance at everything in the game if your positioning is correct. Some things to consider as a newbie right-back: 

The safety car will actually be positioned further back on the grid or at another pre-defined location on the track or in the pit lane before moving after the first corner. Safety car driver Bernd Maylander says: 

tl;dr - It's not worth it for the Commissioner's Office to battle the MLBPA over it, especially when some of the "injuries" are things like "arm fatigue" or other conditions that can't be accurately measured by a doctor. 

I doubt that this would be public. The Umpire's Association is typically quiet about this kind of thing. They don't want to throw their members under the bus. If they came out this year and said "2012 is better than 2011" but then don't say anything in 2013, it's safe to assume that there was a decline, but the Umpire's Association doesn't want to hurt their members publicly. Umpire discipline and performance review has always been pretty tight-lipped. AFAIK, this is no different. 

As far as I am aware, there is no provision in the CBA or official rules that allows for a player to be banned from playing a specific position. It's either they are suspended, or they aren't. 

The sign-and-trade is relatively common when stars leave a team that they've been with for a long time. I don't understand why this practice exists. Take Lebron going to the Heat, for example. He was a free agent. He could have gone anywhere, but he chose to re-sign with the Cavs so that they could trade him to the Heat and get draft picks in return. Seemingly, this weakens the team that Lebron had just signed with, as they had weaker drafts in his first (two?) seasons there than they likely would have if he had signed with them outright. Why does this practice exist? 

2005 Italian GP - September 4, 2005 Kimi Räikkönen qualified with the fastest time but was given a 10-place grid penalty for changing his engine. Juan Pablo Montoya took up pole position as a result. 2007 Hungarian GP - September 4, 2005 Fernando Alonso recorded the fastest time in qualifying but a stewards' inquiry before the race adjudged Alonso to have impeded Lewis Hamilton during Q3. Alonso was subsequently relegated 5 places on the starting grid, moving Hamilton up to pole. 2012 Spanish GP - May 13, 2012 In this event, Lewis Hamilton was excluded from the qualifying results due to having insufficient fuel to return to the pits. As a result, Hamilton had to start the race from the very back of the grid. 2012 Monaco GP - May 27, 2012 The fastest qualifier at Monaco was Michael Schumacher. However, Schumacher was carrying a 5-grid penalty from the previous race in Spain for causing an avoidable collision with Bruno Senna, thus moving him back in the grid. and it nearly happened in: 1990 Japanese GP Ayrton Senna had secured pole position but was unhappy that pole was situated on the side of the track which was not on the racing line. Senna requested that he be moved and the stewards agreed, only for the FISA president to overrule the decision, meaning Senna started in pole at the original location. And to close, you ask: 

Take a look how quick professional players are on the T and fast they move around the court. They are well-trained top athletes and can easily reach all four corners from the T. Against players on this level a drop shot is a high risk shot to play if the opponent is in front of you on the T. The opponent has a short way to the ball, probably even shorter than your way back to the T. If your drop-shot isn't inch-perfect it'll backfire: You'll either get a counter-drop or a straight/cross drive against the direction of your movement, and suddenly find yourself under pressure. Even worse, your drop shot might go wrong and end up in the tin or bouncing back towards the T and your opponent. These are gifts to your opponent (in the latter case the opponent will hold on the ball until you've committed to a corner, then send the ball another way, beyond your reach); your attack gave the opponent a cheap and easy point. 

In addition to the execution (E) score, there is a separate panel of judges scoring the difficulty (D) score. This comprises of three elements: Difficulty Value (DV), Composition Requirements (CR) and Connection Value (CV). 

In addition to this, there are a myriad different rules and guidelines for shorts, relating to numbering, manufacturer's logo and team badge but nothing specifying the length of the shorts. To that end: Shorts below the knee are permitted. However, I doubt we'll be seeing them any time soon because, from personal experience, the extra fabric inhibits the movement of the knee joint. This makes longer shorts impractical, which is likely why FIFA doesn't need to mention them. 

So, there is nothing that states explicitly that the ball is out of play in the event of a collision. Now, if we look at the interpretation of the rule, we have the bullet above which states "play has been stopped by the referee". So we ask, should the referee stop play? The answer is "No". The referee is deemed as part of the field of play. A player colliding with the referee is, for all intents and purposes, the same as a player colliding with the post, tripping over on the grass or catching his foot on the corner flag. One exception to this would be if the player was substantially injured (such as a head injury). The referee would then use his discretion to stop the play if desired. In summary, the referee will do his best to keep out of the way of the ball and players but, if he does collide with the ball or a player, play shall continue.