No While this might work for most cases, it won't work for "hard cases" - stuff that depends a lot on circumstance, or where there is no precedent - for example most cases involving slayer laws or in emergency situations such as the speluncean explorers (where some of the decisions are based on stuff such as what does the public want, or if there is an expectation of executive pardon) It also fails to ensure that the law is enforced as intended - for example Adultery is illegal in many places, but not prosecuted - is this a law? - times changes, opinions change - be it if alcohol is legal/illegal, marijuana, LGBT, etc. - and normally society changes before the written law changes, so if the written law was enforced as written, then there would be many problems. Computers are also horrible at reading intent or motives, which is a critical part in evaluating many laws, such as what supercat's answer wrote - consider anti-monopoly laws where a large corporation may be willing to accept the slap-on-the-wrist fine while enjoying huge profits - or big Phara companies suing each other to continue being the sole source of drug X, and thus get an injunction preventing anyone else from selling X, even if their patent has run dry because of bogus quality concerns or other issues - they continue getting tons of $, at the relatively minor costs of lawyers in comparison. Or what happened with lavabit when it technically complied with a court request to turn over it's SSL keys, and they did so by printing it in a tiny font 

When reading fantasy novels, I have as a rule been left with the impression that exact timekeeping is either avoided as a topic, or referred to only vaguely and obliquely. In many cases, the author would freely use "hours" as a metonymy for a part of the day spent doing something, however never actually imply that these hours can be counted and consist of minutes and seconds, or let his elven queen invite the orc delegates to convene in her throne room at precisely 10.30 in the morning for trade negotiations. It is true that for most intents and purposes in a medieval fantasy world, the protagonists can safely and realistically use dawn, morning, noon, etc. when referring to the time of day, just as our ancestors in the real world didn’t need to worry that they will oversleep for the autumn harvest or be late for an evening round of beers at the local inn. Still, I believe that a developed fantasy society does need to keep track of time and that there are situations when coordination of efforts between numerous persons is essential and can only be achieved if people have a way of keeping exact time. In my opinion, simply transferring our timekeeping system into a fantasy world seems lazy and, most of all, robs this world of its rugged romanticism and faux historic flair. Yet in order to be believable and feel natural when referred to in prose, this system needs to convey the sense that it has developed organically in the course of the world’s history. Therefore I ask you: What is a realistic way of creating a unique timekeeping system for a fantasy society that is mainly high to late medieval in its phase of development? (The planet of this world is identical to Earth from an astronomical perspective, so there’s no need to account for anything strange and exotic in the day/night cycle. There is also no magic whatsoever.) Thank you in advance for your thoughts. 

Their legs are vulnerable - they have a large surface area to volume, which means that they won't be able to be heavily armored, as any added mass on the legs would greatly restrict mobility (moving legs -> moving tank, adding weight -> slower legs -> slower robot) - very similar to how cars try to minimize their unsprung wheel weight as much as possible in order to remain fast & efficient. Furthermore they have many exposed joints which are vulnerable to getting gunk / sludge / stuff stuck in them, which would make them unable to move Speaking of efficiency, jumping is not an efficient maneuver - while I won't doubt your 15m jumping ability, as you can hand-wave an energy source, you will also need to hand-wave it as to why it won't make sense to use that energy source in a more efficient method (i.e. traditional tank, flying robot, whatever) You mentioned wheels on the legs - All of the above still applies, you need to not only make it possible, but make it somehow better than the alternative (normal wheeled vehicle, or even compared to a tread-drive tank). Strong, light-weight armor? Why not put a plate 2x as thick on a regular tank for more protection? That said, there is one distinct advantage that the legs give your tanks - that is they can step over large obstacles or cross very difficult terrain. You may want to reference the AT-ATs from star wars and see how their legged tanks could adapt to various terrains. 

A large group of people has been banished from Earth and punished to scrape out a perilous existence on a strange planet. The planet has breathable atmosphere, and consists of an immense ocean teeming with wondrous marine species (some of which are catchable and edible), and small islands far apart from each other that are mostly barren and with very little flora and fauna. Partly because they need a sufficient source of nourishment, and partly because of their large numbers and need for living space, people are compelled to live near the shore. They have a problem, however: The planet has incredibly high tides. Accordingly, the shoreline moves many kilometres back and forth with the tide while the sea level rises and falls hundreds of metres. At low tide, there is a considerably larger area to live in but food is far away. As their dwellings need to be on dry land and they have no resources or tools with which to build floating vessels, at high tide, the living and breathing space becomes so cramped that people start suffering from phobias and can barely stand each other’s presence. In order to survive and not lose their sanity, people will have to adapt. There is a plethora of unexplored questions concerning the society that will emerge as well as the abilities these humans will develop. The first question, however, has to be: What kind of planet could have such extremely high tides? What unique features do its geosphere and hydrosphere and/or planetary system need to have? Thank you for your help! Note: If you find the living area constraint unrealistic, please consider for instance an island that consists of a high plateau rendered unreachable by fabulously tall vertical cliffs. (I am not sure how geologically possible this is, but I guess this can be dealt with in another question :). The humans live at the foot of these cliffs and during high tide there remains only a narrow strip of dry land. In any case, while researching, I found a nice simulator of what it would look like to have a higher sea level on Earth. 

If there was to be a habitable planet, similar to earth, but with varying gravity at different points on its surface - lets pretend that it varies from .8g to 1.2g - what sort of terrain or form would be necessary in order for this to exist? it would still need to have a large amount of liquid water, so mechanically a very tall mountain range would need to not fall under it's own weight (and ideally also have a breathable atmosphere at such heights). It could spin much faster on it's axis, and have some sort of Centrifugal force, which would reduce the gravity near the equator, but also mess up any sort of day/night cycle, and again, potentially the atmosphere. Are there any alternatives? some sort of weird but feasible planet geometry? a large moon that can reduce the gravity on the surface of the planet depending on it's position in orbit?