I've read somewhere that all known ergative languages are either verb-initial, or verb-final. I find this surprising, but I don't know of any counter-examples. I've seen plenty of nominative languages, and it seems like they can have the verb anywhere. Well, I don't know about languages that have an OS (object, then subject order, as in OVS, OSV, and VOS), but I've never seen such languages so I don't know. Does alignment somehow restrict what kinds of orders a language can use? I find it hard to believe that ergativity would force a language into a verb-peripheral order, considering that the nominative alignment clearly isn't as restricted (assuming it is at all). I started thinking about after wondering about split-ergative languages, specifically the kind that treat noun phrases either nominatively or ergatively depending on where they fall on the agentivity hierarchy (Dyirbal is the only example I can seem to find, and it has SOV order as far as I can tell, but the only sentences I've been able to find have only pronouns). edit: By 'agentivity hierarchy' I mean that some split-ergative languages treat some nouns nominatively and some ergatively. For example, Dyribal treats first and second pronouns nominatively, while everything else is treated ergatively. Another language I know of, called Ritharngu (which I can't find much information about) treats all pronouns nominatively, humans and 'higher animals' are tripartite, while everything is treated ergatively. Page 120 of the Language Construction Kit 2 gives a heirarchy of agentivity, and claims that all languages with split alignment place the split somewhere on the heirarchy. The order is: verbal agreement, first person, second person, third person, proper nouns, humans, animals, and inanimate objects. Basically if two of these categories are given the same alignment, then everything between them will have the same alignment. 

If you are interested in the syntactic category, you could say it is a prepositional phrase, because the head of the phrase is as which is a preposition1: 

I don't know what the symbols are intended to mean, but I could imagine this is a grammar describing algebraic terms (like 1+2, (3*4)+6 and so on). With a mixture of terminals and non-terminals on the RHS, but only one non-terminal on the LHS, this would be T2. 

Yes. There is a non-terminal () on the LHS which transforms to some sequence of non-terminals () on the RHS, so it matches the rule format for Type 1 grammars. 

No, not in general. "Relationship" could also mean, e.g., "semantic relationship", "phonological relationship", "genealogical relationship", ... Depends on context, usually it is clear from the scope of the article what kind of relationship is meant, but there certainly are many more kinds of relationships in linguistics apart from "grammatical" (which is already a very broad term). In the particular example, the given wording is rather vague, but it most probably does refer to some kind of grammatical (morpho-syntactic) relationship. 

My guess is that this is not a matter of the language, but rather of the sound quality. Most films come with the original audio in (American) English where the actors speak right during the acting into the microphone placed somewhere in the background at the set. Synchronisations in other languages, however, are recorded in a studio where the synchronisers speak directly into a professional speech microphone. Additionally the speakers focus solely on pronounciation, often making numerous attempts until they reach perfection - as opposed to the actors who mainly need to pay attention to their acting, where crystal-clear speaking is only secondary. The combination of these aspects makes the speech quality in the synchronised audio noticeably better. You can actually hear the difference if you switch between different language tracks during a film. The speech in the original audio track is always of slightly lower quality than in the synchronised tracks. It might be interesting to compare the perceived clearness in an originally Russian film with the English synchronisation - I wouldn't be surprised if the tables were turned then. If it was not about the speech quality of the movie audio, but about the language itself, the apparent understanding difficulty should not be restricted to watching films but extend to everyday communication in American English, i.e. A.E. speakers would generally have more difficulty flawlessly understanding their native language than Russian speakers do. I don't think that this is the case. 

I learned the IPA entirely online. I don't see why its that much of an issue. I started with learning how sounds are produced. The first things I learned were the concepts of 'place of articulation' and 'manner of articulation'. The first is obviously easier to explain. You can pretty easily teach someone about place of articulation. For example, you can explain that p, b, and m are all bilabial consonants, because they're pronounced by touching the lips together. F and v are labio-dental, because they are pronounced by touching the upper teeth to the lower lip. Etc etc... If you want an example of how it can be done, go look at the Language Construction Kit. Though admittedly, it might be somewhat difficult without being able to show someone a chart, but you can find plenty of charts online that you can point them to. Also, its not that hard to make a consonant chart in a word program. As for learning new consonants? That's harder. I myself had no problem learning the voiceless velar fricative from a book, but that may just be me. Also, being an English-speaker, my native language has both velars and fricatives. Learning a velar fricative wasn't really that much of a leap. Though come to think of it, I was also able to learn the voiceless palatal fricative just as easily. Normally, learning a sound when you can't hear what it sounds like is hard, unless you're already very familiar with how phones/phonemes are produced. Wikipedia has sound files for all the symbols of the IPA (each symbol has its own article), but the sound quality isn't the greatest. Either way, it is something. 

I'm asking this question for a conlang. I know that's normally two subjective for this forum, but honestly, I think this may be an exception. I tend to try to keep things as terse as possible. Often times my case endings are just the 5 or so vowels of the language. Nothing more. But I was wondering, would this be too minimalist for common use? Not that I intend my conlang to actually be used, but it would just seem weird to me for the fictional people who speak my language to use something that would be unusable in the real world. You can't have things be too minimalistic, you need redundancy. Humans don't catch every phoneme pronounced, and this problem is even worse over a phone. So in general its a bad idea to have distinctions that differ only in one phoneme. Not that this doesn't happen (English's plural and possessive endings are an example, also there's only one phoneme of difference between 'can' and 'can't'). But looking at languages that do have case systems, they don't just change the final vowel and leave it at that. They often add consonants, sometimes entire syllables, when declining their nouns. Also, I've noticed that languages seem to dislike having endings that are just a single vowel be anywhere close to eachother. For example, in Latin, there is no declination where two of the cases are marked with -i and -e. And in Finnish the only cases that end in a vowel are -a and -i, all the others are differentiated by consonants too. Russian does allow nouns to take an -i or -e ending for different cases, even in the same declination, though in Russian an -e always palatalizes the previous consonant, creating a redundancy. But looking at Latin and Finnish, I have noticed something. They do allow cases to be differentiated by just a consonant. For example, the Latin first declination singular ending for the nominative is -a, and -am for the accusative. And looking at the second declination again, I see that there is a long -i ending that contrasts with a short -e ending, in the second declination. Still, the different lengths is a redundancy. I find this interesting that I can't seem to find a language with cases differentiated with a single vowel (or close ones at least), but languages seem to have nothing against cases being differentiated by a single consonant. Is this universal? If there was a language where the case endings were just -a, -e, -i, -o, and -u, would speakers find these too similar to each other? Would they require some extra redundancy, like a consonant being added to one of the front vowel cases to differentiate it from the other, lengthening one, or just letting the two cases merge into one? Essentially, this is a question as to how much redundancy is necessary. Obviously, redundancy is necessary, but how little can you get away? What is the minimum redundancy that is necessary? Does anyone even know the answer to this? 

Now what the "philosopher's English" expresses is exactly this: They can imagine a world in which the speaker's hair is green. 

I don't really get your question. "Why are some word classes not immediately dominated by a phrasal category" - any word is dominated by some phrasal category. Your question is probably rather about why some words are dominated by a phrase that doesn't have the same category as this word (e.g. D is not dominated by DP). A node is always immediately dominated by the category that the head of this phrase determines. So the nodes in an NP will be dominated by NP because the head of the NP is an N, the nodes in a VP will be dominated by VP because the head of the VP is a V, ... It seems like in this syntax theory, NPs can also contain (optional) determiners, but whatever else there may be, whether there is also a D, a PP, ..., the head of the phrase is still N, and this is what determines the category of the NP. I haven't read that book myself; either there is also the notion of DPs that is not shown here or (more probably) all DPs are considered NPs - this is an eternal dispute among syntax theories, some argue that it is more reasonable to assume D is the head of a phrase like "the cat" because, amongst others, the choice of the determiner influences the inflection of the N so one can assume that NP is more like a complement to D that gets selected by it and so on, some prefer to go with the more traditional assumption that the head of such a phrase is still an N and that determiners are additional (if you stick to the assumption that all NPs must eventually go into DPs, you must assume an empty determiner head in a phrase like "I like [ø cats]") so the phrasal category is an NP. You say "for example, per (d) ...". What else do you mean? I don't see anything more that looks weird. 

Linguistics isn't a science. We don't rely on day dreams to divine what we can't determine through analysis. As for your question, the origin of language is unknown, and most sensible linguists accept that its something that can simply never be known. The first written records we have show already fully developed languages. How far back they go is impossible to determine. All we know is that human civilization goes back at least 10,000 years or more. We can't even say for certain how long civilization has been around, because buildings don't stay standing forever. We do see art and may be religious figurines going back over 10,000 years. So it can be assumed that people were teaching religion or at least cultural beliefs to each other since the stone age. Buts its impossible to say when language was first used by humans. We have no way of knowing if other hominids had language. We have no way of knowing if Neanderthals had language. And even if we cloned one and it could learn to talk, that doesn't mean that they had developed a language of their own by the time of their extinction. In short, we don't even know if language is truly unique to our species. This is something that can simply never be known, barring the invention of a time machine. 

Languages tend to drop their inflections over time. Eventually, people just get tired of all the irregularities and complex conjugations/inflections and so they gradually drop out of use. Of course, not all languages do this. The Slavic languages for example were just as inflectional as Latin 2,000 years ago. But whereas the romance languages (Latin's descendents) have for the most part become more isolating, the Slavic languages have only become even more inflecting. The number of irregular verbs in those languages is just rediculous. As for why European languages are all so similar? Contact. They're all part of a 'sprachbund' called 'standard average european' (or SAE for short). Well, not all of them. The celtic languages aren't a part of the sprachbund, even though Hungarian is (its not even related to either the Germanic or Romance languages). But the point is in a Sprachbund, languages tend to borrow grammatical features from eachother. Its why they all have undergone similar changes. Its not that languages become simpler over time, its just an illusion caused by the odd history and development of the European languages. Besides, if languages did tend towards a 'simple' configurational grammar like English, then by now all languages on Earth would be like Chinese. Yes, even 'simple' languages like English can develop complexities. If you want to know how case endings develop, it starts with a language that is postpositional (meaning it relies on postpositions far more than prepositions). Over time, the space between the noun and the postposition vanish, turning it into a suffix. And sound change then further distorts the suffix. And because nouns don't all end in the same sound, each suffix will evolve differently depending on which phoneme the noun originally ended in, thus creating multiple declinations. It should be noted that the 'grammatical gender' thing was something the Romans came up with to try and deduce a logical pattern to which declination a noun belonged to, because they had no way of knowing how it came to be in the first place. Though it should be noted that case endings can develop in other ways too. Some languages have just outright borrowed case endings from another language, causing them to develop case endings seemingly out of nowhere. You could say that some languages are simpler than others in some ways (some languages do have more irregularities than others). But overral, the difference isn't that much, and languages don't tend towards becoming 'simpler' perpetually. They can just as easily become even more irregular. 

As already in other questions you had, I would recommend you just having a look at the definition again: X c-commands Y if X's sister either a) is Y or b) contains Y. This means that nodes can only c-command their sisters and "nieces" (i.e. the daughters of their sisters, and daughters af these nieces and so on), NEVER their own daughters or "granddaughters", i.e. never something that they immediately or indirectly dominate. Clearly, in this example, N and B don't satisfy the definition of c-command: B is neither a sister of N nor is it contained in a sister of N, but it is immediately dominated by N. So why do you think N c-commands B? This can NEVER be the case if N is the mother or "grandmother", "great-gramdmother"... of B, so there is no reason why N and B should stand in a c-command relation by this definition. 

In the second reading, the that is existentially quantified over is coreferential between the and the predication, with the two predicates being conjoined by conjunction. So whenever there is such an x which is a unicorn, this must be the same x that John is seeking. If it is true that there is some unicorn (possibly even several ones) but this none of these unicorns is the one that John is seeking, then the sentence becomes false, because what the existential quantifier ranges over is the conjunction of both the extensional unicorn predication and the reference in the intensional seeking construction. To make it less formal, the de dicto reading can be reworded as "John seeks something which is a unicorn", whereas the de re reading can be reworded as "There is a unicorn which John seeks", where it is clear that what John seeks must refer to the same entity that is claimed existence about. Applied to your example, if it is clear that there is some woman, this doesn't entail the de re formalization - because if none of these women is what John is looking for, then the coreference between the (extensional) and the intensional predication is incorrect. So as soon as you choose the second reading, you automatically imply that among the women that exist, one of them is what John is looking for. If you want to exclude that possibility, i.e. leave open the option that there is some woman but not that kind of woman that John seeks, you would have to go with the de dicto reading, since in that case, as soon as one of the conjuncts in the intensional expression becomes false, the existence of something which is both a woman and seeked by John is negated. So my answer is: Whether among the women that definitely do exist there is one which John seeks is the same distinction as between whether any women exist at all, due to the coreference between the variables being predicated over. The the dicto reading is underspecified w.r.t. existence and doesn't exclude the possibility of there always (extensionally) being women, whereas the de re formalization commits you to the women claimed existence over being that woman that John seeks, if the sentence is to become true. If you choose the weaker statement, in which the existence of a woman doesn't entail the existence of the thing John is seeking, then this is only represented by the de dicto reading. I'm not sure whether one could tweak the representations in such a way that one would get a formulation of precisely the case you described, where the existence of unicorns is extensionally true but the coreference with the entity involved in the intensional predication is not. At the moment I can't think of one. 

Chinese lacks gendered pronouns, and always has. The language is as un-sexist as you can get; there aren't even words for man and woman. The only 'gendered' words that exist are literally just the words for 'male' and 'female'. To translate 'man' or 'woman', you would have to say 'male person' and 'female person'. But I believe its common to make that distinction anyway. And besides, ancient China was hardly egalitarian. When it comes to gender equality, surprisingly enough, medieval Europe was one of the better cultures out there. 

I had a thought a few days ago while I was thinking about conlangs. If a language had a strict verb-final order, it could easily get away without using punctuation to show the end of a sentence. German somewhat does this. Its sub-clauses are always SOV (simple sentences are normally V2 order). This means that the end of a sub-clause is marked by the verb, which makes center embedding rather easy. Of course, there are languages that really were written without punctuation in the past. East Asia didn't have punctuation until recently. And Latin, at least early on, didn't even put spaces between words. Of course, the far east has an advantage in that they use logographs heavily (though Korean has largely abandoned their use). Thus they don't need to use spaces to show word boundaries (and yes, I know Japanese has a syllabrary, but word boundaries are still pretty obvious most of the time since logographs have to always appear at the beginning of a word, thus a syllable followed by a logograph always indicates a word boundary). Also, both Japanese and Korean are SOV. Chinese, however, is SVO and configurational. I don't get how they could get away without marking sentence boundaries. And note, this was all in the ancient past. There's probably a good reason why languages today all have punctuation. They at the very least will indicate the boundary between sentences, if nothing else.