However, Ottoman reforms were incomplete. In areas with Christian majorities, authorities often supported abuse as a way to keep Christians in check. This led to a number of crises such as the 1860 Druze-Maronite conflict, & the Cretan Revolt. Geopolitical stresses - the great power element There were geopolitical motivations as well. The Russians and the Ottomans had been in conflict from the 16th right up to the 20th Century. In fact, this rivalry is still evident today, although in past months tensions have cooled. Russia and Turkey shared a long border in the Caucuses and this caused some friction. The Russian-Ottoman conflicts were one of the longest running series of conflicts in Europe. After 300 years of living under threat from Ottoman domination, the Eastern Question was opened after the Treaty of Küçük Kaynarca marked the retreat of the Ottomans, and granting Russia access to the Black Sea. The Eastern question was how would the balance of power established at the Treaty of Vienna in 1815 be maintained. Treaty of Vienna. Russian wanted a free hand to expand into Southern Europe, as well as access to warm water ports in the Black Sea, and ostensibly, access to the Mediterrenean. The British were determined to forestall this, which formed part of the 'drift' to the Crimean War. The Concert of Europe began to completely come apart after the Unified Germany defeated Austria, then France in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870 (an event that would also play no small part in shaping events leading up to the First World War). In order to keep France contained on the continent, Bismarck created the Three Emperor's League. To counter this, France fomented uprisings and supported indepdence movements, including in the Balkans - Russian countered this by using the emerging Pan-Slavic ideal - that all Slavs should be united under Russian leadership. The Stew comes to a boil From 1804 - 1817 Serbia revolted at Ottoman rule for a number of factors: The Serbian Revolution 

Again, it's clear that these early laws were intended to apply in times of peace (truce) rather than, as later became the case, in times of war. The process of granting a letter of marque and reprisal also allowed a period for the offending party to make voluntary recompense before a letter of marque and reprisal would be granted. 

In a letter from Baranov to Shelikhov, written in July 1793, he mentions an English ship named Phoenix. It doesn't explicitly mention when the ship arrived there or if it had wintered there. 

Yes, it is possible for a British peer to have the same surname and title. Although it depends on what period you're considering. In more recent times, not every title is based on giving title to land and, therefore, the title isn't tied to an actual place (and not every title, therefore, has 'of' in it). For example, the first Baron Kenyon was Lloyd Kenyon. One of his contemporaries was John Campbell, 1st Baron Campbell. Another was the naval commander Sir George Brydges Rodney, 1st Baronet who became the 1st Baron Rodney. 

*Some details omitted for clarity (Table I, pg.31) It would therefore appear that the aristocracy and landed gentry were greatly outnumbered by the lower classes in terms of representation as Naval officers at the end of the 18th Century. However, social rank did seem to reflect itself in terms of the final military rank achieved. 

If you were on an 18th Century British warship, the day started at noon rather than midnight (12 hours behind). If you arrived in port in the afternoon and then stayed ashore overnight, your day would have been 12 hours long. Of course, if you're allowed to travel and cross the international date line, then the day can be as long or short as you like. 

I don't have the corresponding figures for range or muzzle velocity for these guns. However, given the intended use for the information, all of these weapons had sufficient range to cover a Napoleonic battle field. 

$URL$ This meant that preventing war with France via diplomatic means was a vital interest to the Germans. It is quite interesting that when Wilhelm II came to power, he let the threads of this tapestry of alliances aimed at containing France unravel, mostly due to pride and incompetence, that ancient enemy of monarchs and autocrats through history. Liddell Hart (despite his other flaws as a historian, military scientist and human being) noted this break down in the diplomatic topography of Europe in his History of the First World War. This is just a quick answer as I didn't get around to writing this earlier and I hopefully haven't missed the boat on this question - I will edit in more details/generally flesh the answer out over the course of the evening. There's some more details here regarding the 'containment of France' - some of it is in French though. $URL$ 

It was less necessary. After all, what pressing reason would the Russians have for adopting trench warfare? They remained on the offensive, strategically speaking, for the duration of their involvement in the war. Simply remaining on the defensive in the East would've suited the Central Powers war aims perfectly - that is to say the Germans were seeking a decision in the West before turning to the East to fight the Russians. The Russians had a strategic imperative to attack in the East in order to prosecute a two-front war (which is ultimately what cost the Central Powers the war). Not attacking would've played into their hands. Their alliance with the French also obligated them to take the offensive. It's also important to note that in the Galician Campaign, the number of trains that were able to available to the Russian to transport materiel to the theatre 

Further to note that the scale of technological and industrial sophistication outpaced the military thinking of the time which exacerbated the conditions on the Western Front. Outdated military thinking was a salient feature of the Great War. Consider that up until the stalemate in 1915, the previous wars (such as the Crimean War, The Franco-Prussian War, the Boer War and the American Civil War) also were wars of maneuver. I would recommend familiarizing yourself with the basic fundamentals of WW1 which are described in some details here: $URL$ EDIT: This fantastic article demonstrates how it is easy to judge military thinkers of the day from hindsight. 

The tradition of having ships inherit names from earlier vessels (which, as noted above, might also donate materials in varying degrees) can make it difficult to establish the true service life of a particular ship. This can be further confused when ships change names and/or owners (captured warships were often repaired and put into service with their new owners and in some cases these were recaptured or captured by a third party). Therefore, we really only have accurate records from the start of the Age of Sail when the European sevices became standing navies and acquired the corresponding bureaucracies. Even with this improved record keeping, it can be difficult to determine exactly which ship is being referred to. Wooden warships were expensive to run. They required much larger crews than merchant ships of the same size and keeping a ship at sea in all weathers generated a lot of on-going maintenance. As a consequence, it was normal practice to mothball the bulk of a navy's warships in times of peace. This meant they were kept in a sheltered anchorage or harbor and typically had the masts & rigging removed (and often the guns as well) to reduce the strain on the ship's hull. This reduced peacetime costs and had the additional effect of increasing the ship's potential service life by reducing wear & tear. Looking at how a famous vessel (mentioned in another answer), HMS Victory, has survived for 250 years, it's mainly because she wasn't at sea for most of her life - along with a spot of good fortune and national sentiment. The Victory was launched in 1765 but remained 'in ordinary' (i.e. mothballed as a reserve) before being fitted out and commissioned for active service in 1778. After 4 years of service in the Channel, she was paid off and had a 'middling repair', which took six months. She then spent 4 years in reserve but still required a 'large repair' before being commissioned again in 1789. She was in Channel service until 1792 when she transferred to the Meditterranean where she remained until 1797 (with the exception of 3 months being repaired at Portsmouth in 1795) including taking part in the Battle of Cape St. Vincent. In October 1797, she returned to Portsmouth where she was surveyed and found defective. She was therefore paid off and refitted as a hospital ship (and the ship's name was struck from the Navy List). That could have been the end of the story for this HMS Victory. However, the loss of a newer First Rate, Queen Charlotte, to a fire meant that the Navy required a replacement. Rather than building a new vessel from scratch, they chose to rebuild the Victory. This was a major reconstruction that took three years (and cost more than her original construction). When the reconstruction was complete, she was recommissioned and served as Nelson's flagship in the Mediterranean from 1803 to 1805. She was heavily damaged at Trafalgar and had temporary repairs at Gibraltar before returning to Chatham to be paid off in 1806. She then remained in ordinary until 1808 when she refitted as a 2nd Rate (which reduced the number and type of guns she carried). She was put back into service in December 1808 before being finally retired from active (sea) service in November 1812 (including a period as a troop ship). She then remained in ordinary until 1823, including another major reconstruction between 1814 and 1816 (this again cost more than her original construction and incorporated the construction of a new round bow). From 1823 until 1922, she had various harbour roles which included being a guard ship, a Port Admiral's flagship and a tender to HMS Duke of Wellington as well as periods in ordinary. In 1922 she was dry-docked where she's remained ever since. However, being in dry dock has not meant an end to the reconstruction and repairs. The desire to re-create the 1805 version of ship meant that the round bow (introduced in 1816) had to be replaced with one in the original beakhead style and many of the later fittings had to be replaced with period replicas. From 1955, when a large scale repair was started, the ship has been in an almost continuous process of repairs. 

They clearly don't correspond to any German ranks, Wermacht or Waffen SS that I can see here. $URL$ $URL$ The biggest giveaway that it's not Wermacht or Waffen SS though - is the colour $URL$ 

Well for starters, the United States has not been the world's "most dominant" power for 75 years. It was in competition with the USSR after the Second World War. There's an argument that the U.S might have been the stronger of the two powers, but it certainly did not "dominate" - which was pretty the basis for Cold War competition between the two powers. What was naively referred to as "the end of history" or a period of global U.S primacy really only stretched from 1991 to 2007. (The dissolution of the Soviet Union to the Lehman's brother collapse). This depends on how far we are willing to stretch the definitions. We could say Rome was the longest surviving "world" power. But in reality the Roman Empire went through a few incarnations, and by today's standards was really only a regional hegemon. It never truly possessed what could be described as a 'world power' status. I mean, the Romans never even kept a foothold above the Rhine. There were other Empires in existence that the Romans didn't really have much awareness of such as China, whom it could never hope to dominate. The only real candidate here is the British Empire during the period mentioned. But then, we run into semantic difficulties with the term "dominate". The British Empire was powerful militarily, but it used its economic power rather than its military to protect its vital interests. The British still had a number of near peer competitors militarily, and it was not able to unilaterally impose its will on other nations through the use of either lever (see the Crimean War). So I would say the British Empire, but it's murky.