[Note: I've re-edited this answer to remove any negative connotations -- I did not intend to suggest that the OP manipulate his/her boss] Whether to tell or not has to be your decision, and we don't know what process your company uses to give promotions, but you do have some strategies for handling the situation. Consider that your boss is holding off telling the company because he wants to preserve his options, or may have other reasons you don't know about. Regarding the extra work that your boss is assigning you -- if it is more than you can handle, then I would attempt to have an honest conversation with him, and try to negotiate a solution where the tasks can get done, but you aren't forced to work overtime for the next 60 days. Even though 60 days seems short, you could very well burn out and eventually feel resentful toward your boss. If you do think you have a chance at the position, then "telling" on your boss would likely undercut your need to remain a calm and professional team player. 

If you don't particularly care about this job or your manager, and don't intend to list it on your resume, you're free to give notice by email and simply walk away (assuming you have no specific additional contractual obligations). If you do want to list this job on your resume, and ask your manager for a reference, the best thing to do would be to resign in person. If the worst thing is you have to wait a few more days to give notice, that doesn't seem to be much of a burden. 

Remember that coding does not exist in a vacuum. Even code that's less than ideal can solve real business or humanitarian problems. Quality is not an all-or-nothing proposition. There are certainly situations where a team is so junior that introducing complexities can kill productivity and morale, and fail to deliver even the basic goals of the entire project. I'm guessing you yourself did not start out your career doing TDD, mocking, programming to interfaces, dependency injection, composition over inheritance, distributed version control, and the like. Try to compromise. Make a plan with the chiefs for introducing modern software development practices over time. Offer to teach the rest of the team in these principles, using one-on-one mentoring, lunch-and-learns, or self-directed training. See if there are nice-to-have features that the team can use to experiment with techniques that are newer to them, where you would oversee code quality, reviews, passing tests, and whatever else you find necessary. It's about finding a balance between immediate productivity and long-term sustainable development practices. That will, of course, take time, and you'll have to determine whether that time is worth your personal investment. If the chiefs are not willing to compromise, then likely that decision will be made for you. 

What your teammate is asking for is not fair -- at all. Learning new skills is part of any job, especially today in the tech industry. Your company is offering to pay for training, so it's not like your teammate is being thrown in the deep end. Most people would appreciate the chance to expand and improve their skills at little or no cost, and be able to essentially learn on the job. Your teammate's response is frankly insubordinate and toxic. You don't need anyone like this on your team. This issue should be escalated to a manager or someone who is responsible for evaluating your teammate's performance. 

Sounds like you've already put him on an informal PIP, and arrived at the conclusion that he's not measuring up. Attempting to institute a formal PIP now seems kind of cruel. Getting fired is not the end of the world -- sometimes it's the wake-up call one needs. What is more detrimental to your subordinate is keeping him in a role where he's not successful. You need to find someone who can truly help you, and he needs to find a position where he can learn, grow, and succeed. It's common practice in the US to give someone as little notice as possible of firing -- usually happens on a Friday afternoon and you're escorted to the door (happened to me twice). If you give a person a termination notice and allow that person to remain physically in the workplace, that is a risk to your business and fellow employees. I'm speaking from a US employment perspective, but I would think the same risk holds true even if immediate removal from the workplace is not a common practice everywhere, and the propensity for workplace violence/sabotage in Europe is considerably less than in the US. The clear additional risk, as you mention, is that giving advance notice puts your project at risk. Again, this may be a US point of view, but if I were told I would not be employed at the end of the project, I would look for a new job immediately to safeguard my future. Perhaps something like this guide might help? 

Stand firm with your request for Y Counter with a request for something less than Y Accept their current offer 

It really depends on what you are trying to achieve. There is no magic, optimal number of years in a job that is ideal for everyone. Reasons one might leave a job early: 

No, I would wait until there's an offer that you both agree upon. Right now you're in the process of negotiation. 

Continuous learning is a requirement in today's workplace. Find something you are interested in that may be related to your job (such as UX, or user experience), or discover new and different ways to do what you already do, but better and more efficiently. Learning more coding can't hurt, but in my experience, people who do graphic design are always in demand because it's something very hard to do well. And front-end developer rarely equals designer. Have a conversation with your boss -- ask what you can do to make this transition successful, and find out where you fit into the overall plan. You may need to start looking around for other opportunities, but this change in company strategy does not necessarily mean the end of your contributions there. 

I would not cease communication simply based on a message or two. If the recruiter otherwise acts and sounds professional and effective, there's nothing wrong with continuing the relationship. Many recruiters are busy in their attempts to find the right person, on the correct schedule, and in their haste can make errors just like anyone else. I would not worry about one or two typos in a particular communication. What's more important is that the message is targeted to you specifically, and your particular interest and skill. That is difficult to fake successfully. Clearly more than a couple of errors can speak to a recruiter's attention to detail and overall competence, as it can for anyone in any position. Consider also that correctness in spelling and grammar does not come as naturally to some as it does to others. What matters also is context -- I would expect a communication through LinkedIn to be less formal, and I would probably be more tolerant of stray typos. Errors in more formal documents, such as job descriptions, would be more worrying to me. 

Speaking as someone who has been fired twice and is still somehow employed, I assure you it's something you can recover from. I would not recommend it as the ideal career path, however. Part of it is simply gaining experience and maturity, and getting your emotions under control, to learn to think before you act. I was also in a similar position where stress caused emotional outbursts. Being fired does not necessarily reflect on your talent or ability, but is more of an indicator that your current role is not a good fit for you. Take this opportunity to find another position, one that you like, and not just the first one to come along. This will allow you to start fresh on equal footing with everyone else. It's hard to come back from the perception a PIP brings, even if your performance improves dramatically. I am also in technology and did not go to school for it -- you are fortunate to have an interest and ability in something that's in demand. The best way to proceed is to work hard, continue to learn, and watch and listen to others. 

There is nothing to gain from unfiltered honesty in an exit interview. If the company could not address your concerns while you were employed with them, chances are slim that they will change anything based on a short talk upon your departure. On the other hand, what you do say in an exit interview can hurt you. People can be offended when a co-worker leaves, and negative comments can come across as sour grapes, even if they are well-intended. Your remarks can work their way across the company like a game of telephone until suddenly you're the one who's throwing everyone under the bus. It can be a small world in one's particular industry. People move around from job to job. No good reason to risk future opportunities to give advise to a company that may or may not really deserve it. 

Prioritize the work you get paid to do. If SE generally (SO, Software Engineering, Code Review) gives you answers that help your coding, then that should be a higher priority than simply contributing at places like TWP. Make optional participation a reward for getting your critical work done. I also spend some time contributing to this site, but when things get busy I might take a multi-week break because it becomes a way to procrastinate. You can also contribute during off-work hours as a way to prevent yourself from taking work home with you, and to be able to participate without taking time away from your work productivity. 

Based on the email you cited in your question, I think you will be fine writing the email yourself. I would keep your reply short. You don't need to say you are turning down the offer -- giving them a new request implies that fact. I would recommend including the following points: 

Since you're working for a large, global company, what we have here is likely a failure to communicate. Or a misunderstanding. Don't escalate to HR right away without a clear understanding of the facts. What you need is an answer and an explanation, and it seems that your manager would be the best person to contact for those. You need to have an honest and open discussion with your manager, if you haven't already. Do not assume that anyone is trying to fool you if you don't have any evidence to that fact. What you should be attempting to do is find out why your current work location is different from what you thought it would be, and determine what steps you'd need to take to get to your desired location. If those next steps involve a discussion with HR, work with your manager if possible to make it happen. Start your employment on a positive note, showing your willingness to work with people to solve problems. If ultimately you're required to work in the location you don't want, and can't turn down the job, I believe you'll find that to accept your situation with grace (even if it's really their fault) works out better for you in the long run.