You should just write "Furloughed". Just be honest, it is what it is. Potential Employers know that things happen throughout a persons career and that during economic uncertainty people who thought they had job security get laid off all the time. Ask your employer if you can get a good reference. The sooner you get another job the less risk they have of having you take unemployment. 

I'm doing very well in my position, The other manager at my pay grade(who was hired around the same time as me) is doing very poorly. He was basically stripped of all of his responsibilities(but not title or pay grade) and put underneath me to learn from me on how to succeed. I'm not sure how to treat him, I know that training him is an objective for my next promotion, but he knows less then most of my employees and is technically at my same management level. I've been directing him as one of my employees but going into the bigger picture on why things are done a certain way. I've been showing him what I do and trying to delegate things as I feel he is figuring them out. There are times when I just have to tell him to do something, but it doesn't feel right and I don't want him to resent me for doing so much better in my position. What advise can you give me on this situation. Should I be hard on him? Should I treat him more as an equal or an employee? I guess I feel a bit guilty because he moved across the country for this promotion and now he's basically at the same place before moving away from his home. 

I needed a reference letter from my former employer for my immigration case. So I asked the person responsible for HR & he told me to fill in the appropriate details in the interest of speeding up the process & send it back to him. Great, so my lawyer & his team drafted one that would conform to specifications that the immigration department needs. I send that to him on Monday & waited for almost a day & when there was no response back from him, I called him & he told me that I would get it by the end of this week. It's Friday now & I haven't heard back from him yet. I emailed him today asking him for an update and copied my lawyer & his team as well. But it has been an hour since that email & I am contemplating writing to the CTO who's the co-owner as well to have that processed as soon as possible. My lawyer has specifically told me that without the reference letter, my case has the higher chances of getting rejected, so naturally this is the most important thing. What should I do here? 

This tells me that you were given the chance to prove yourself and you failed to do so. After giving you several tasks that you proved you couldn't handle, I understand why they are hesitant to give you more. I don't think this post would exist if you exceeded their expectations with the tasks you were given, because they would have given you more tasks and they would increasingly get harder. I think that if you really want to be a programmer, you might want to find a place that will mentor you more. It sounds like to me that you need it and the place that you currently work at isn't set up for that sort of mentoring. Either that or find someone in your current organization that is willing to mentor you, if that's possible. 

If you go through my history, I have been put under a performance improvement plan. Great, a chance to improve on things. But here's the one thing, I don't think my heart is where it should be in this company. If I am going to compare my first couple of months at this company with last few months, I don't feel the same. I feel my work isn't appreciated anymore & even though my team mates appreciate the help I provide them in certain aspects they're not good in but it isn't the same with my manager anymore. May be I am wrong in interpreting things but I think I need an opinion. In the initial meeting for the PIP, he told me if I step up, I will be considered for a raise. But he hasn't defined stepping up that concretely yet. May be I have mentioned it, but his predecessor was at the company for almost ten years & he went through more or less the same phase (anxiety & stress) & eventually ended up resigning. His exact words for the company culture were that they believe in sinking or swimming. I believe I am in between, I am neither sinking or nor swimming. I am trying to fix that but still. So my question is, how can I step up as Software Developer who's still on a junior level? Or should I resign and concentrate my efforts on improving myself & finding another job? Or should I ride it out? 

Unless you think that the new changes to the resume would really improve your chances of landing the job, I would just take the version that you submitted to get the interview. That version was good enough to get you the interview and they've already studied it and may have developed some questions based on it. Throwing a whole new version at them when you sit down for the interview may not make them happy or it could throw them off - or they could just ignore it. Better to not take a chance. That being said, if your new one has some extra stuff on it that you feel could be of use then bring one of those as well as the old one. If it comes down to "hey, we like you but you just don't seem to have enough experience with X", and you have that experience on your new resume then you could bring that out and point out that you do have that experience and you have updated your resume to reflect that. 

If you check my post history, I am in a bit of situation where I am supposed meet my boss next week to discuss the performance improvement plan & give him the signed contract which outlines my problems & basically says that I will get a one strike & after that if any of the things happen or something that's deemed not okay by my boss then I will be terminated. I assessed the situation in all possible ways & only thing I think is I want to resign. It's obvious now that my future with the company is probably finished & there's little to no growth opportunity left now. So how do I go in there and handle everything diplomatically? I don't want to burn any bridges & I just want to leave on a good note. I certainly have my fair share of shortcomings & I will be sure to fix them for my future employer. I am also afraid that my manager will think I am just giving up. I am just worrying too much right? Also, is there anything I need to watch out for when I tender my resignation given my situation? 

I wouldn't ask HR anything, they will tell you if you have passed all the required checks once you have passed them. Background checks in particular can take quite a long time depending on what they're checking into and how thorough they are and how many questions they may have to ask you about things they can't verify. Be patient, they WILL let you know. And I wouldn't think about giving notice until I get the "all clear". 

Be honest on your resume and in your interview. Talk about how you work on teams and how you interact with people. Talk about your experiences and accomplishments rather than programming skills and understanding of algorithms. Smart employers don't hire managers or leaders based on their technical skills, they hire them based on their soft skills and leadership potential. If you're unfamiliar with some of the processes just find out what type of development they do and study the SDLC. Also the PMBOK (Project Management Body of Knowledge) is always useful. When I didn't know something that my direct reports knew very well I wasn't afraid to be humble and just ask them to explain something to me. It made them feel valuable because they knew more than me and respected because I came to them as a source of information. 

This could mean that they think that you are the only one that is qualified enough or that they like enough out of the candidates that they've seen so far, and possibly out of all of the candidates they have left to interview (because they have all the resumes of the people they still have to interview), but they can't extend you a formal offer until the interviews that are already scheduled are over. And this is what I think it is. Three points for celebrating early: 

I won't go into much detail but in short, my PIP was extended by a month because my manager feels I am not there where he expects me to be. And most recently, I have been assigned to work on one of most crucial systems in our infrastructure which would need my expertise because I have been the only one who has worked exclusively on that system in the past since its in the language that I have experience with. Project is basically a rewrite of the system in another language that other team members are comfortable in. I will be working on one of components of the system alone & will be helping a senior developer along the way as well (he's working on different component of the system). As far as I remember, this rewrite was not going to happen for at least few months. One of the main concerns for me has been job hunt side by side. I have had 3 interviews so far and no concrete progress yet, so I don't think I will be able to score a job offer before PIP ends. I have sufficient savings to back myself up so I can resign without any fear of finances. In fact I have a resignation letter signed & ready right now in my bag. So, what would be the downside(s) / repercussion(s) of leaving while I have been assigned to a major rewrite? Moreover, my manager feels that this project will probably be crucial in deciding where I stand. 

A company will most certainly let you go at a moment's notice if they wanted you gone, so you really don't owe an employer anything. That being said, giving two weeks is usually a proper and courteous thing to do. There really is no rule (written or unwritten) that says that you have to tell your current employer that you have another job lined up that you're going to take in x amount of time or even that you're looking for another job. Most of the time when people give their two weeks notice it is understood that they have been looking and have already accepted a job by that point. Employers aren't dumb, they know in order to get to the point of giving two weeks notice that you've had to do a bunch of things over a good amount of time. I don't know what field you're in, but in IT I've seen it go two ways when people give notice: 1. You're really busy for two weeks doing a knowledge transfer and tying up loose ends before you go. 2. You get your escort out of the building right after you give your two weeks notice. It all depends on the company and situation. Be prepared to leave your job when you give notice is all that I'm saying. Consider it a bonus if they actually let you stay for those two weeks. As far as your new employer contacting your old employer - if you ask your new employer not to contact your current employer then they usually will abide by your wishes. Usually they understand that it could cause you issues.