In a criminal court case, there isn't just the question whether a defendant is guilty or not guilty. Depending on the situation, the punishment for guilty people might be quite different. You might be hundred percent guilty of illegally killing a person, yet there is the question (in the USA) of whether this is first degree murder, second degree murder, or manslaughter. In that situation, a lawyer might know with 100% certainty that the defendant is guilty, and everyone else, including judge and jury, might know it, but there is still the need for a proper defence to get the best possible outcome for the defendant. And since this is all a purely legal question, it would be a very bad idea for a lawyer in that situation to take advice from a philosopher, and not from another (more experienced) lawyer. 

There are things within the realm of science which science cannot tell you. For example, in quantum physics there are things which are in principle unpredictable. It is impossible in principle to predict the time when one specific radioactive atom will decay. Slightly weaker are chaotic systems, where things are so hard to predict that science will never be able to predict them. There are unfalsifiable statements. For example, someone claims that an infinitely powerful being created the earth 6,000 years ago and hid dinosaur bones that look to any scientist as if they were 200 million years old. That's a statement that cannot be proven false (except if scientists can prove that these bones are forgeries). So science cannot tell us if that statement is write or wrong. And there are plenty of questions which are just outside the realm of science. For example anything related to ethics, what is right and what is wrong (questions about mental states can in principle be answered by psychology). 

This isn't really a question about philosophy. It is first a question of just very ordinary privacy, and second a question of freedom. For ordinary privacy: If a prospective employer finds out that I'm posting on this site, they might think that I'm highly intelligent and well-educated. Or they might think that I'm just weird posting here. And while both conclusions are probably fallacies, it could hurt me. There is no sensible reason why I should have to carry the risk that someone jumps to incorrect conclusions that hurt me because they find out what I'm doing. Maybe my colleagues would laugh if they found out that I have a huge interest in British soap operas of the 1980's. I have every right to make sure that they don't find out. It's none of their business. For a more serious example, take workplace.stackexchange.com where many people post questions that would cost them their job or would lead to great disadvantages if their identity was found. Would you want to ask for advice how to cope with a bullying boss if your bullying boss would find out that you asked? The biggest problem is that anything you post will be there forever. Would your grandfather want to be held accountable for every single word that he ever uttered in all his life? With everyone being able to quote only those things that make him look stupid, mean, weird or whatever? I think he wouldn't like that at all. As far as freedom is concerned, you can't have freedom if you can't express your opinion about powerful people or organisations without fear of being targetted. 

Let's do this experiment on a large scale. Let's take 200 "sleeping beauties"; 100 are woken up seven times, and 100 are woken up only once. It happens 800 times that a sleeping beauty wakes up. 700 times it is one of the 100 that are woken up 7 times. 100 times it is one of the 100 that are woken up only once. So if you wake up the chance is 7/8th that you are one of the 100 that are woken up 7 times. Well, that's the situation if Sleeping Beauty is given drugs so that she forgets she has woken up before. Without the drugs, 100 times she is one of the 100 woken up only once, 100 times she is woken up for the first time out of seven times, and 600 times she knows that she woke up before. In that case, being woken up for the first time the chance are 50/50. There is a nice strawman argument saying that when she is woken up, the probability is 8/14th that it is the first time, and 1/14th each that it is the second, third, ..., seventh time. Perfectly correct but it isn't the question that was asked. What was asked was what she should believe about the initial dice throw. If she is allowed to make a bet for $1,000 each time she wakes up, what should she bet? Since she doesn't know how often she has been woken up, she should make the same decision each time. If she says heads, then the initial chance that heads was thrown is 50%. However, with tails she gets woken up 7 times. So saying "heads" gives her a 50% chance of winning once, but also a 50% chance of losing seven times. Saying tails gives her a 50% chance of losing once, but also a 50% chance of winning seven times. She is woken up 7 times more often when the result is tails. So when she is woken up, the chance is much higher that the result is tails. PS. If she is woken up the first time, and she is reliably told that she was woken up the first time, then heads and tails have an equal 50% chance. 

There was Alfred Kempe's (in)famous proof of the Four Colour Theorem given in 1879, which was widely accepted and only shown to be incorrect in 1890. (Almost the exact same proof is used to show the weaker result that every planar map can be coloured using only five different colours, and that version is correct). (And importantly for mathematicians but not for this discussion, the flaw in the proof was fatal and couldn't be fixed; later correct proofs were much more difficult and completely different). So taking that proof as an example, for 11 years people "knew" that the proof was correct, but it turned out to be wrong. (Reading the proof, it was a rare situation where the flaw was reasonably obvious for a 21st century software developer who has a different way of looking at problems than a 19th century mathematician). It seems that in practice we cannot know that a mathematical proof is valid. In theory we could - if they had been clever enough, people in 1880 would have looked at Kempe's proof and spotted the flaw. But in practice, they were not. Or look at Wiles' proof of Fermat's "Last Theorem". To me, it's a nice read. The words are put together nicely. It looks like really clever mathematics to me. I don't understand one word of it. (This is different from things written by the many crackpots with similar proofs; there are many where I don't understand one word either but they stink). I'm sure when he published it, he knew the proof couldn't be valid, because it is so complicated, it's impossible to get it right the first time. Mistakes were found, they were fixed, and now if there are any flaws making the proof invalid, there is nobody clever enough to find them. There may be no flaws. There is actually a good chance that there are no flaws. I don't think we can say we know it is valid. We can say that those mathematicians who understand the subject believe that there is a good chance that it is valid, and if not, there is a very good chance of turning it into a valid proof with few changes. 

You can say quite reasonably: 1. If Argument A for God's existence is sound, then God exists. 2. I am utterly convinced that God does not exist. 3. Therefore, I am utterly convinced that Argument A for God's existence is not sound. 4. And here is what this blog is missing: Since I'm utterly convinced that Argument A is not sound, I will look for the actual reasons why it is not sound, and I'm sure that I will succeed and find the fault(s) in the argument. Alternatively: 4: Since I'm utterly convinced that Argument A is not sound, I cannot even be bothered to find out why Argument A is not sound. But what the author wrote is actually just a lengthy way of writing: "God does not exist because God does not exist. " Which is a statement that is quite useless. 

Let's say I read a good translation of Plato and Kant and worked hard to understand it and to appreciate the philosophy in the translated text. Which is very likely not exactly the same as the philosophy in the original text, and quite possibly not exactly as valuable as the philosophy in the original text (with a not very good philosopher and an excellent translator there would be the possibility that the translation is better than the original). I have now the choice of learning classical Greek, and German, in order to read and understand the originals. Or I could start reading a good translation of Descartes. I would say it takes an awful lot of effort to learn these languages well enough that I get more out of the original text than out of a good translation. With the same effort put into reading a good translation of Descartes, I would most likely end up with a better understanding of philosophy. 

The figure on the board is a triangle or square only if it has exactly three sides. The figure on the board is a triangle or square if it has exactly three sides. The figure on the board is a triangle or square if and only if it has exactly three sides.