Roughly translated, the crest can be called the Three Split Sword Flower Diamond, although it certainly doesn't look like a diamond. It is a variation on the more general (i.e., flower diamond) crests, which are essentially diamond shapes composed of stylised flowers. This design originated as a decorative pattern, and has little deeper meaning. This is the first crest above. One relatively common variation is to add highly stylised swords between the flower's petals. Known as 'ken hanabishi, i.e. "sword flower diamond", it is popular among the samurai families as a symbol for battle, martial virtues, and victory. The result looks like the second crest from the left above. Another variation is to use multiple flowers and only show a part of each. This is called a , or "split flower diamond". This can be done in a number of ways, such as the third and fourth crests above, which have two and three splits respectively. The question's crest combines the two designs (swords and three splits). 

In any case, General Tanaka Shizuichi arrived around dawn and persuaded the rebels to stand down. So the emperor never confronted the soldiers face to face. Incidentally, the Emperor continued to live in the bunker until 1961. 

For an idea of where Dobyns lands on the spectrum of North American Indian population estimates, see the following chart: 

Probably Abraham Lincoln. While the specific "quote" is almost certainly manufactured, the core idea could easily have been taken from Lincoln's Lyceum Address. In that speech, Lincoln warned that the mortal danger to the United States was not foreign but domestic: 

Male citizens over the age of 25 were eligible to vote, except for members of the Imperial Army or Navy and the Imperial family. Originally, suffrage was limited to only those who had paid 15 yen in taxes. This initially meant that rural landowners dominated the franchise. However, the tax restriction was reduced to 10 yen and then 3 yen, and eventually abolished altogether by the General Election Law of 1925. For the first six elections, from 1890 to 1898, single member districts were used and candidates were elected by majority vote. Strictly speaking each district actually had two members, but only one faced re-election each time. There were frequent elections for this reason during the 1890s. This setup briefly returned for the 14th and 15th elections, in 1920 and 1924, respectively. From the seventh election in 1902 onward and until the 13th in 1920, large, multi member districts were adopted. Each prefecture constituted one electoral district, but incorporated cities with over 30,000 citizens formed their own districts. Multiple representatives were elected on single non-transferable votes. Secret ballot was also introduced in this election, and the tax requirement was reduced to 10 yen - doubling the suffrage. As mentioned earlier, single member districts made a return for two elections starting in 1920. The tax requirement was slashed to three yen in this year too, which increased the number of eligible voters from three to fourteen million. Starting with the 16th election in 1928, medium sized multi member electoral districts, each returning three to five members, were instituted. The voting system remained single non-transferable vote. This setup essentially remained in effect in Japan until the last decade of the 20th century. Sources: 

For example, in the 5th century Augustine of Hippo wrote of the antipodes in his hugely influential The City of God that: 

Wartime Hysteria The socialists were generally against the war, which they saw as the rich profiting off making the working class kill each other. Although many moderated their stances once the United States declared war in 1917, the Socialist Party held on to its principles and maintained an official opposition to the war. Thus socialists and labour groups became a target for patriotic vitriol, as wartime fervour and nativist prejudice formed a volatile mix that seized the nation. 

Given above, therefore, most of Europe were already governed by monarchies even before Rome fell. In fact, the establishment of the Roman Empire converted large swathes of Southern and Western Europe into monarchical rule. Note that while much Italy and Greece had previously been oligarchies or democracies, most if not all originally had kings, such as the Roman Kingdom or Athenian Kingdom. Some even retained their monarchies until the Roman conquest, for instance Macedonia or Syracuse. 

The association with saints is probably correct. Red and blue were indeed respectively the colours of Saint Denis and Saint Martin. 

The basis for the 5,000 years figure comes from tracing Chinese "history" to the Three Sovereigns and Five Emperors. This figure includes over 1,000 years of legends. The next 1000 years are semi-legendary, being only somewhat corroborated by historical evidence. We start to have fragmentary historical records for a few centuries after that, but true recorded history is generally held to have begun in the 8th century B.C., less than 2800 years ago. Therefore, whether Chinese history is really 5,000 years is quite dependent on how broadly you want to define "history". I'll list a few of the major points here: 

You can see that India actually neighbours Tibet and, further north, Xinjiang. Although both regions are now under the ultimate control of Beijing, that is not the case for most of recorded history. Xinjiang Literally "New Territories", Xinjiang was home to a series of different peoples and polities until 1759. This regions were at times under a strong China's influence, notably during the Tang Empire, but invariably Chinese power would wane amid civil war and internal unrest. None of China's previous "conquests" here, which were often achieved via diplomatic means (notably by wedding princesses to local rulers), lasted long. That changed only in the mid-18th century, when the Qing Empire launched a series of brutal wars that forcibly put the region into the Qing Empire in a process so bloody it has been termed a genocide. 

Finally, could the Japanese have solved the problem? Certainly - and they did. The existence of the much larger, ocean-going red seal ships proves they could overcome the issue with the sengokubune had they wanted to. It comes down to the fact that as a minor coastal cargo ship, it was not necessary for the sengokubune to be capable crossing the ocean, nor would it have been economical. In fact, as late as Meiji 10, the sengokubune remained very competitive against western style sailing ships because of its extreme low cost. According to this link: 

Officially this expedition also failed. However, given the cargo of salt, it has been theorised that that their goal was in fact fishing[4]. Some historians have posited that the expeditions were in fact successful in finding Newfoundland, but kept the discovery secret in order to monopolise the new fishing grounds. Alternatively, Alwyn Ruddock (famous for a book she never published) suggested that Bristol's mariners had accidentally reached Newfoundland in the past. Her theory is that these two voyages were unsuccessful attempts to rediscover those fisheries. More instances of failed expeditions can be inferred from the letters of Pedro de Ayala, the Spanish envoy to England. He reported in 1498 that Bristol had sent several caravels into the Atlantic before discovering land "last year": 

The Aztec Empire was large by the standards of their time in their part of the world. It dominated the Valley of Mexico and was a major power in Mesoamerica generally. Land size is not really a indicator of imperial status per se, but in context, the Aztecs was the largest player around. Also, I think you've severely overestimated how big European duchies were. See for instance: Salzburg, Limburg, Silesia, Bukovina, Bar, Bremen, Holstein or Guelders. 

It didn't mean anything. The reality in 1944 is that they were dividing Southeastern Europe into British and Soviet spheres of influence. A country, if it was not neutral or jointly occupied (i.e., 50-50), could only be part of one sphere or the other, not both. At least, not in any tenable way for any length of time. In practical terms, therefore, each Balkan country was effectively allocated to whichever side had a bigger "percentage" in the agreement. This is apparent from the fact that neither one attempted to discuss how this percentage could be measured or the allocation implemented: 

Any Greek delegation would presumably have known this well. The fact is that the Palaiologi were very extensive, being numerous within Greece herself even after the fall of Byzantium. Although the legitimate Imperial line died out by the early 16th century, this did not deter many of them from conveniently "discovering" a connection. 

In practice, the peasantry were heavily exploited by an utterly corrupted bureaucratic machinery and social inequality. At every stage of governance, bureaucrats lined their own pockets with "tax" money. Every tael of tax from the provinces entailed several times more money extracted from the peasants to enrich the middlemen. More seriously, the wealthy in late Ming society could bribe and cajole tax collectors into passing their share of the tax burden onto less influential peasants. 

Up until the late Meiji and sporadically into the early Taishō period, there existed in Japanese politics a concept that the government should be "above" party politics. This doctrine, known as , facilitated the appointment of bureaucrats or nobles to the premiership by the elders, without due regard to the balance of power within the Diet. An example is the genrō Yamagata Aritomo, the 3rd and 9th Prime Minister of Japan. 

How do the Cold War directly or indirectly influence in the development of the internet? While Cold War concerns were not a direct factor, it did have an indirect influence. As was touched upon earlier, the Cold War sparked a technology race. The American response to perceived Soviet technological superiority was the Advanced Research Projects Agency. ARPA went on to become the funding backbone of computer research within the United States. Several universities received its funding for a computer department, which laid the groundwork for ARPANET's arrival. All of this contributed significantly towards establishing a fertile environment for the Internet to develop in. 

The East India Company Before 1858 I hope the previous paragraphs adequately explains why the East India Company had no choice when Parliament nationalised it in 1858. But I suspect the real question now is why the Company allowed the British government to impose this string of escalating control in the first place. The answer is again that the East India Company had little choice. Despite misconceptions, the East India Company was not rich. In fact, it found itself close to bankruptcy after 1760. It spent the last decades of its life in dire financial straits, the wealth it exploited from India pocketed by the English Nabobs. It was against this backdrop, that Parliament began reasserting its authority over the East India Company. Essentially, the East India Company was imploding after its acquisition of quasi-sovereignty over Indian lands. It found itself liable for large expenses while warfare derailed its trade relations. This decline in Company fortunes was then exacerbated by rampant corruption - officials came home with splendid fortunes while poor dividends were paid to shareholders. By 1773, the heavily indebted East India Company was close to bankruptcy. It had failed to pay its license fees for five years running. Tea was some 60% of the Company's trade by the late 18th Century, and yet close to 20 million pounds of it lay unsold in warehouses. Thus the directors of the Company petitioned the government, begging for relief in the form of a £1,500,000 loan. This petition, introduced into Parliament, became the East India Company Act 1773. The Company was forced to accept government authority over its previous quasi-sovereignty in India. But by 1783 the directors were back in Parliament, once again grovelling for relief. And once again the British Government inserted itself deeper into the management of British India, in the form of William Pitt's 1784 Act. Pitt's India Act really marked the decisive moment when the East India Company began to be absorbed into the British Government apparatus. With the removal of the East India Company's monopolies, the company was largely doomed. Its tendency to end up in wars did not help one bit. By 1833, the East India Company was once again near bankruptcy. This time, it was stripped of its commercial character altogether. It had lost its Indian monopolies in 1813, and now the Chinese monopolies were gone. 

Most likely because there isn't any. Apparently, Hatutu was never settled in the first place. As @Fred pointed out, there appears to be no good reason to evacuate Hatutu, and my google search attempts failed to turn up any reference to any population at Hatutu except this exact thread. 

Ultimately, the question's assumption that "government bodies were elected ... during the 500s and 600s" in Sakai is totally specious. Rather than the 6th century, it seems the question really intended to ask about Sakai in the 16th century, circa the Azuchi-Momoyama period. 

I'm not sure if this is what you are looking for, but the A-3 Scrambler system was developed in 1939 by Bell Labs. It allowed supposedly secure communications between Roosevelt and Churchill as the Second World War broke out. In reality the scrambler was very insecure and rather easily broken by the Germans. So between 1942-3 Bell Labs developed as a replacement the SIGSALY, which was much more technically sophisticated. Terminals of the SIGSALY system was installed around the world in Allied countries and was never broken. 

Example: Sicilia, wearing triskelis, standing left, holding crown and poppies In general, the name of the figure depicted is inscribed on the left edge. The apparent lack of letters around the possible P for instance may suggest this might be Pax, though that doesn't explain the possible T character to its lower right. Note that distance between letters does not prove they're from different words. It is quite common for letters to spaced far apart or unevenly, especially for shorter words.