The above figure from 2007 is close to what Bill Maher claims, but a quick google search yielded no results for more recent figures. This made me wonder where he got his info from. My question: Are there now more guns (civilian firearms) in America than people? 

Estimates of the Unauthorized Immigrant Population Residing in the United States: January 2011 Department of Homeland Security: 

From The Telegraph - Use seawater or vinegar to treat jellyfish stings, not urine: ." “Urine just doesn’t have the right chemical make-up to solve the problem.... slowly pouring seawater over the sting will help ease the pain. Doing the same thing with vinegar can be even more effective as the acid helps neutralise the jellyfish sting.” 

My question: Can alcohol influence your brain in such a way that ugly ducklings transform into beauties? 

The Mythbusters tested this in a Season 6 episode and deemed it "Plausible". Researchers from the Universities of St Andrews and Glasgow seem to concur: 

Note: A "by product" isn't automatically a "bad" thing. It just means it's not the primary product. More Sources: 

(with "200 million sperm per ejaculation" one would actually get 7150 TB; but I'm more interested in where the 37.5 MB number comes from) My Question: 

This seems to be more about caffeine than coffee. In 2008, due to this study that suggested that caffeine intake during pregnancy could increase the risk of fetal growth restriction, the "UK Government's Food Standards Agency" issued new advice to pregnant women on daily caffeine consumption: 

For more statistics click the link above. (I don't know if farm animals are included in these numbers) 

I also browsed through several airline's webpages and while they all do mention special rules for pregnant women, neither says anything about a "bonus" when you deliver in-flight. On the contrary some airlines even refuse to carry "highly" pregnant women (see above). 

My question: Are there statistics on how many hotels omit the 13th floor? Is it just a minority or actually a widespread phenomenon? On a side note: Apparently there are airlines (e.g. Air France, Lufthansa, Continental) that don't have a 13th row. (Image Source) 

The Tax Payer Treasure Hunt agrees that the official "£40 million" figure does not include all costs: 

is this just pure coincidence? The more similarities you find, the more likely it would seem that these two languages have a common ancestry. "Universality of DNA" means that the blueprints of all life forms on earth is written in the same language. An example is Synthetic Insulin for diabetics: basically, the specific gene for human insulin is embedded into a bacteria's genome, and because the code is written in the same language, the bacteria 'builds' human insulin, which we can later harvest. Another simple example is the common cold: the virus infects our cells, injects its DNA (or RNA), and our own cells end up replicating the virus because it's blueprint is written in the same language. Like with English and German one might wonder "Is it just pure coincidence that humans, animals and plants have developed the same language?" Or does this hint, that all life on this earth is somehow connected? Maybe through common ancestry? EDIT: just saw that 'shellholic' posted a similar answer. 

So, in theory two (or more) snowflakes can look alike, but the probability is incredibly small. (This is similar to humans and their fingerprints) 

(Image source) Triskaidekaphobia is the fear of the number 13. But do (western) hotels cater to this phobia by skipping/omitting the 13th floor? This USA Today article (2007) quotes J.W. Marriott Jr., chairman of Marriott International: . " 

My question: Have there been tests (aside from Phil Bradley's) which confirm that unsubscribing from spam will result in even more spam? Do spammers actually compile lists of "known deliverable email addresses"? 

From David S. Touretzky, Computer Science Department & Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, Carnegie Mellon University (he is a known critic of Scientology): 

Here is a study about "The Effects of Animal-Assisted Therapy on Anxiety Ratings of Hospitalized Psychiatric Patients" 

The Face on Mars and Pareidolia We have a habit of finding patterns were there are none (Pareidolia): 

The reasons behind the power law are not yet fully understood, although there are of course theories. But since the OP's question doesn't actually ask for an explanation I feel it's okay to leave it to the interested reader to click through the links above and below to learn more about the proposed theories (plus, I believe it would make my answer just unbearably long if I include them in my post). More: 

From the book Understanding the E-Meter, by L. Ron Hubbard: This test has actually been made and an increase of as much as thirty pounds, actually measured on scales, has been added to, and subtracted from, a body by creating ‘mental energy.’ Energy is energy, matter is condensed energy. [Source] [Source] 

I'll try to answer this by using an analogy: English and German seem like two very different languages. Yet if you look a little closer you'll find similarities: 

Source I was listening to the 2008 Christmas Special of the BBC radio programme The Unbelievable Truth, where the following was said to be true: 

The paper cites a lot of studies. They are referenced on the last six pages. Way too many to include them here. 

So basically the claim is: mental images increase the mass of the body. This increase can't just be measured with a scale, but also with an E-Meter (electrical current). 

But of course an adrenaline rush can't boost your strength to infinity. Every body has physical (muscles, tendons, bones) limitations that can't be exceeded. More Sources: 

YES, it is possible to project images onto clouds, and it has been for quite some time. A Sky Projector from 1931: 

It seems that the origin of "Sagging " is not known for sure, but the prevailing opinion seems to be that it began in prison, due to inmates not being allowed to wear belts. 

The Wikipedia page for Circadian Rythm gives you a quick overview about this subject, with lots of links for further reading. 

Note: Since the link in the question actually gives a good answer I'll use it. From Seth Shostak (SETI Institute), via Space.com: 

YES, there is some truth behind the "1 billion heartbeats " claim. And when I say "some" I mean the creator of the comic didn't just make it up out of thin air. While it's not literally true that all animals get 1 billion heartbeats before they die, a relation between metabolic rate (which is related to heart rate) and life span has been observed. San José State University - Animal Longevity and Scale: 

Source If you live in the USA, the CDC lists fluoridation levels by state. Safety of Water Fluoridation: 

EDIT: According to this study the exposure limits for the relevant moblie phone frequencies of the ARPANSA standard (current standard in Australia) are 

Gail Berman, who served as the Fox Entertainment president at the time, was the one who pulled the plug. She served as executive producer on "Buffy" and "Angel". In her own words: 

ICNIRP is the International Commission on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection. Image Source In 1998 the 

Dr. Catriona Morrison and a team of researchers from the University of Leeds in the United Kingdom came to a similar conclusion: 

According to NASA the Space Shuttle can reach a speed of 27,875 kph. I defy Earth's gravity daily, by walking up three flights of stairs to my apartment. As someone else has already pointed out, you don't necessarily need escape velocity to leave this planet, just "continuous thrust". If there were a pole reaching into orbit, even a snail could eventually escape from earth. 

I couldn't find a list that confirms/debunks this (too much "noise"), but I did stumble upon a number for letters to Santa Claus: 

Brian Hayes (writer for American Scientist) has done some research into this and collected 109 versions, in eight languages, of this story: 

Image Source So like zombies or Agent Smith in The Matrix, Image Source PrPSc / PrPCJD multiplies by "touch". 

As stated above, caffeine isn't just in coffee, it can also be found in (ice-)tea, soft and energy drinks, cocoa and chocolate. I'd guess these sources for caffeine are more common for children than coffee. Here is a list of caffeinated beverages (including the amount of caffeine in it). 

Survivalists? Cockroaches have been around for at least 300 million years, and there are 5000 species worldwide. 

And this article suggest omega-3 "might offer a new way of protecting against traumatic brain injury (TBI)" 

The reason may not lie directly in the increased time spent in front of a computer screen or TV, but the decreased time spent outdoors. Sunlight could stop short-sightedness 

Simply put: Satellites measuring infrared (heat) radiation coming from our Earth found that CO2 (and other greenhouse gases) won't let it escape into space. Source 

These statistics are based on a survey done in the United States, with a sample of 10,000 respondents. There have been similar surveys done worldwide under the auspices of the World Health Organization, but I don't have that data. 

(e.g. 2009 Statement on EMF Guidlines) You can look up the standards in your country using the EMF World Wide Standards Database 

Image Source From May Berenbaum, entomologist at the University of Illinois (a character in The X-Files was named after her): 

Richard A. Muller is a Professor in the Department of Physics at the University of California at Berkeley, and Faculty Senior Scientist at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory. His course "Physics for Future Presidents" (at UC Berkley) has been released online. In the lecture about Radioactivity he says: 

which some proponents of Radiation Hormesis view as a "first step" toward acceptance of this hypothesis. 

At the 2009 Berlin World Championships, where Usain Bolt set his current world records for the 100m and 200m races, following data was recorded: 100m 

It's a common trope that Germans love David Hasselhof , e.g. in the movie Dodgeball he plays the coach of the German Dodgeball team. But is this trope based on truth or was it born out of Norm MacDonald's running gag 

[Source] In an episode of the BBC show QI - Quite Interesting (Series J, Episode 1) Stephen Fry said: 

Ann Coulter's piece does cites sources and she has some valid points, but she also clearly has a bias. She even downplays Chernobyl, making it sound like there were no deaths due to radiation (she acknowledges 30 deaths, but blames it on the explosion). What is Radiation Hormesis? (Source) 

A sighting by Duncan Campbell in 1527 is also mentioned in the book, but the source for that one is "one of several legendary excerpts and stories recorded by Mrs. [Constance] Whyte, who has done much useful research on the subject." 

And according to the Federal Trade Commission and the Department of Agriculture the standard method for measuring biobased content is ASTM D6866: 

Note: Usain Bolt ran the second leg (100m - 200m) in just 9.27s, which is considerably faster than his 100m world record of 9.58s. But that's not unusual, because for the second leg the athletes have a running start. (100m in 9.27s means an average speed of 10.79 m/s) 

I remember seing a documentary where people with extraordinary memories were featured. Amongst them was the autistic Stephen Wiltshire who, after a helicopter flight along the Thames, drew a large panorama of London's skyline with amazing detail. (Image Source) 

were published (they include radiation from mobile phones). They form the basis of WHO and ITU recommendations to governments all around the world. 

Yes, we are taller in the morning. From The transformation of spinal curvature into spinal deformity (2005): 

The research was funded by the US Department of Agriculture and Kellogg's Corporate Citizenship Fund. 

I'm guessing it's based on the paper From the mass of the neutrino to the dating of wine from scientists at the Centre Etudes Nucléaires de Bordeaux Gradignan: 

Muller reiterates this in his books Physics and Technology for Future Presidents and The Instant Physicist: 

From Mark Anthony Neal, professor of African and African-American Studies at Duke University (2007): 

I've heard it so many times that I considered it a fact. (Image Source) In 1938 Orson Welles' radio adaption of H.G.Wells' The War of the World incited a nationwide panic: 

Note: I'm not asking about her following conclusion (which I purposely haven't quoted here). I am merely interested in knowing whether that particular statistic is correct, made up or cited wrongly. 

Just to clarify, I'm not asking about Hypnopaedia, but about using a lucid dream as a training/rehearsal stage. The Lucidity Institue claims: 

The "hosting rule" was established in 1958: ) [Source: Official Eurovision Song Contest website from 2006 (via the Wayback Machine)] 

with a total sales volume of 3.7 billion Euros for 2010 (at the current exchange rate that would be $4.95 billion). 

Daisy Rifles Ad from 40 years ago On Real Time with Bill Maher (aired March 30, 2012), host Bill Maher said: