Judging from the number of web-sites that cover this topic, a large number of people have looked for this. None of them seem to have found anything commercially exploitable so far. Colorado Springs. 1899-1900. Tesla had a lab in Colorado at which he is said to have demonstrated illuminating light bulbs at a distance. 

There was a second report in Jutarrnji List a few days later on 15th May 2008. The author of the article appears to be Velibor Panić. A man by that name has a facebook profile saying that he was a reporter in 2008. Other names in the report show up in web-searches with consistent locations and professions. These reports seem to have been picked up by Associated Press at the time and a version of the story has subsequently appeared in some English language news media at around that time. Dates of last sighting and of death The date of the last known sighting of the deceased woman depends on the memory of an 85 year old in a nursing home and of other people of similar age. The two original reports give the time she lay undiscovered as 35 years and as more than 40 years - it seems to depend on which resident or other person the reporter spoke to on each occasion. I don't read Croatian and Google's translation isn't clear enough to be sure but it may be that the last known sighting was in 1963 (45 years before 2008 reports) but there was other subsequent contact suggesting the reclusive woman didn't die at that time - it may be she communicated for a while by lowering messages in a basket from her apartment window. It may not have been possible to identify the exact date (or year) of death. Reasons for non-discovery At the alleged time of death, the apartment was in communist Yugoslavia. At that time, property was state-owned. I don't know if gas and electricity to a building like this would have been metered individually per apartment in communist times - it may be plausible that it was not and that in the transition from communism this small (18 m²) apartment did not acquire a separate account with utility companies. Essentially, the story is that the apartment in which she was found is very small and was the subject of a longstanding ownership dispute among the residents of the building. It seems that until this dispute was resolved, no-one had authority to enter the apartment. 

Please note that this answer does not constitute medical advice. It is only meant to summarize published research related to the original claim and limited to the cited sources. Consult your physician about what these results may mean for your health. 

For more reasonable examples see: J Occup Health. 2012;54(6):416-26. Epub 2012 Sep 1. "Cupping for treating neck pain in video display terminal (VDT) users: a randomized controlled pilot trial." Kim TH, Kang JW, et.al. 

The search query "breast & fenugreek" return a single paper on PubMed. It is published in Obstetrics & Gynecology and produced by the Department of Health Care Sciences, George Washington University School of Medicine. Its conclusions are as follows: 

One of the latest (Jan 2013) studies on this topic" published by the Journal of Separation Science begins by writing that "smoke is an extremely complex and dynamic aerosol" which forms from "a series of complex processes including combustion, pyrolysis, pyrosynthesis, distillation, sublimation, condensation, filtration, and elution." The same study isolates "almost 2,500 individual compounds" from cigarette smoke (by using comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography time-of-flight mass spectrometry). An earlier and widely-cited study by Green and Rodgman puts that number at 4,800, using a different method. Other studies (which I saw cited, but have not reviewed myself) range from 900 to 10,000 compounds. The important thing to note here is that "cigarette smoke composition is known to be sensitive to cigarette construction and the way the cigarette is smoked" and that the results of divergent findings "cannot be compared with other studies" directly when the methodologies differ. A 2007 study by a group of Chinese scientists isolates 141 compounds in burning straw, but they again use a different methodology from the studies cited above. "The carcinogenic compounds in oil smoke particulates from Chinese cooking practice have not yet been characterized," concludes another research paper in the Chemical Research in Toxicology, circa 2000. Some tentative conclusions after reviewing the literature: 

I've heard the claim often myself, but it is not easy to find any backing research or statistics and I would assume that there will be great variations in the answers, depending on which country or geographic region you look at. I managed to find statistics from the last parliament election in Norway (2009), where voter's education and political preference is examined closer. The relevant data is found in the second block of table A.1, page 28 (Utdanning). The level of education has been split into three groups: 

Among the Trump supporters, 41% answered 'support bombing Agrabah', 9% answered 'oppose bombing Agrabah' and 51% answered 'not sure'. So, at least at a first glance, it may seem as if 41% of Trump's supporters want to bomb Agrabah. There are of course several issues with this poll. As already pointed out, none of the options really reflect the fact that Agrabah is a fictional country. There has been a lot of speculation in the comments, e.g. Ryan writes: 'I think it's worth noting that there's probably a significant number of people "In support of" bombing Agrabah because they realize it's a BS question.'. I am honestly trying to avoid speculations or subjective interpretations when answering questions here, but since Sklivvz asks for more elaboration in his comments and the only possible option to get a definitive answer to 'why did you answer X, Y or Z' would be the unfeasible contact with the respondents, here we go: If I as a respondent had known that Agrabah is a fictional country, the only reasonable answer would IMHO be to oppose bombing. Supporting the bombing is fruitless, since the bombing cannot be conducted and answering 'not sure' does also not really fit my intentions. If I had not known Agrabah, one could of course imagine reasonable opinions fitting the different options: 

From Okinawa: The Last Battle, Appleman, Burns, Gugeler and Stevens It is unclear whether the chemical mortar rounds were designed merely to produce smoke to hide troop advances or were intended to harm enemy troops. From the text it seems they were probably intended to produce smoke through which US troops could move without being seen. 

That does not seem to be a generally accepted view. There is evidence that crop-farming was carried out in the Bronze Age in Britain. 

Yes he did (if we believe the BBC, CNN, Xinhua and several newspapers). He later retracted his comments. 

Conclusion No, there is no need to run a turbocharged engine after stopping the vehicle - unless you have an older vehicle with an early type of turbocharger and have been pushing the engine to it's limits for an extended time. Check the owner-manual for your car to see if the manufacturer recommends any special procedure, if it doesn't you can assume none is needed. 

According to the paper cited, "High-power ELF radiation generated by modulated HF heating of the ionosphere can cause Earthquakes, Cyclones and localized heating", HAARP's power is 3.6 x 10^9 W According to HAARP the actual power is 1000 times smaller than this - 3.6 x 10^6 W. The Sun radiates 174 x 10^15 W onto the planet. Of this 35 x 10^15 W is absorbed by the atmosphere. Ref So the Sun's radiation absorbed in the atmosphere is 10^9 times larger than HAARP, of course it is also over a much larger volume, so this needs to be taken into account ... According to HAARP 

Even more seriously, a study in the 1992 issue of Psychological Medicine concludes that "Later-onset AD [Alzheimers Disease] was found to be positively associated with starvation/malnutrition and with nose-picking." In short, Dr. Bischinger (mentioned in the linked article) has provided us with zero evidence for his assertions. He has not published his findings in a peer review journal, nor do other studies support his conclusions. The eating part is therefore dubious. By contrast the dangers of nose-picking are well-documented, and must outweigh any supposed gastrointestinal benefits of ingesting mucus.† †Please note that this answer does not constitute medical advice. It is only meant to summarize published research related to the topic and limited the cited sources. Consult your physician about what these results may mean for your health. 

Based on this literature review, I would conclude that cupping research is dangerously close to being a pseudo-science. I was not able to find any studies in mainstream journals like the New England Journal of Medicine or the British Medical Journal. †Please note that this answer does not constitute medical advice. It is only meant to summarize published research related to the original claim and limited to the cited sources. Consult your physician about what these results may mean for your health. 

I can't find any reference that IR light causes cancer. As explained above, this seems very unlikely. Saudi Gazette wrong about device The article mentioned shows a picture, not of a fingerprint scanner but of a different device - a hand geometry scanner. I believe these scanners typically use visible light and cameras not Infra-Red. The text of the article talks only about "fingerprint devices" wrong about "exposure to infrared rays might cause cancer" This seems to be an error - no references in the article. other issues may be legitimate but grossly overstated The anonymous dermatologist warns about transmission of "skin diseases" - this may be a legitimate concern (though the same concerns would presumably apply to doorknobs and banknotes, etc). Some respondents suggested the device is treated to reduce the chance of this. irrelevant content The article reports 

A study that might be slightly less relevant but whose conclusions seem at least consistent with the notion that lower temperatures preserve flavor. EFFECT OF STORAGE CONDITIONS ON THE SENSORY QUALITY OF GROUND ARABICA COFFEE 

First Image: Rumsfeld and Hussein Donald Rumsfeld's visit to Baghdad in 1983 is described in Wikipedia. 

But if we stay with the energy density of 9 kcal/g and assume adipose tissue to contain 87% fat, one pound (454 g) of adipose tissue would contain 395 g of fat, which again contains 3555 kcal of energy (quite close to the claim). It is also often assumed that 1g of fat contains 37 kJ of energy (another estimate, not quite equivalent to 9 kcal). Using that estimate, 395 g of fat would contain 14615 kJ of enery, which converted to calories is 3491 kcal and even closer to the claim. I also found this publication: ‘Kevin D. Hall: What is the Required Energy Deficit per unit Weight Loss?’, in which the exact claim (‘an ... energy deficit of 3500 kcal is required per pound of body weight loss’) is compared to a more exact estimation and real world data. At least for the test subjects used in this article, the actual energy deficiency required for one pound of body weight loss varies between 1300 kcal and 4000 kcal. 

First, it is important to remember that food labeling is not a particularly exact science. Unless completely artificially manufactured, most food is anyway subject to regional or seasonal variations in energy content. Food labeling regulations usually define carbohydrates and protein to have an energy density of 4 kcal/g and fat to have 9 kcal/g. The US regulations can be found here, the EU regulations is here and other countries are likely to operate with the same numbers. Assuming that "storage fat" in your quote is a colloquial expression for adipose tissue, the next important question is the fat content of adipose tissue. The exact composition of adipose tissue varies significantly between persons, but I've often seen the number 87% be used for the average lipid (fat) content. This number is e.g. used in Wikipedia's article on adipose tissue, it's also used in this book and this article, but without any reference to a source for this number. When examining scientific research, most publications quote much lower numbers, e.g. George L. Baker: Human Adipose Tissue Composition and Age, finding the lipid content to be between 40% and 75%: 

Allegations in English language Media There are reports in English language news media of an allegation that a Chinese woman was electrocuted whilst using an iPhone connected to a charger. The allegations were made by the woman's sister using social media website Sina Weibo 

(question heavily paraphrased) Yes (probably). Their alert was probably issued on the basis that one or more healthcare workers had blogged about their concerns that the illness they were confronting might be Ebola. It seems the WHO wait for reports and confirmation before issuing announcements of an outbreak. (reference - see text of article linked in question) 

National Paint ... Association The "National Clean Up-Paint Up-Fix Up Bureau" were an arm of the "National Paint, Varnish, and Lacquer Association". They used information from the nuclear tests to promote their products. It is notable that they avoided any analysis of how narrow the range of distances from epicentre might be where such differences in household tidiness would affect the outcome. Any closer, and the houses would be knocked over by blast. Much further and the dried grass around the untidy houses might fail to ignite. 

There are several studies examining the intake of glyphosate, in many cases even deliberate intakes as a method of suicide. Most of these studies are not freely accessible (behind pay-walls), but in the abstract of the following study, you can find some numbers: Acute poisoning with a glyphosate-surfactant herbicide ('Roundup'): a review of 93 cases. 

Against the authors' expectations, these corrections emphasized the difference in breakup risk and did not provide any explanation. After corrections, the breakup risk in group B was 50% higher than in group A and 78% higher in group C than in group A. The report does not find any definitive explanation for these figures. It assumes that the differences in breakup rates can be explained with the respondents' traditional values and attitudes towards work sharing and divorce/breakups. Couples abiding conservative, traditional values are both more likely to let the woman do most of the housework and less likely to breakup or divorce. Couples living a more alternative life style are probably more likely to have untraditional sharing of housework duties and less likely to eager for a stable relationship. 

Another paper, in the Journal of Instrumental Analysis proposes to use gas chromatography-mass spectrometry to distinguish gutter from edible oils.3 Finally, there is a the wikipedia page on gutter oil, with even more sources. References 

Allen, Michael Thad. “The Devil in the Details: The Gas Chambers of Birkenau, October 1941.” Holocaust and Genocide Studies 16, no. 2 (January 1, 2002): 189–216. United Nations War Crimes Commission. Law Reports of Trials of War Criminals. Vol I. London: His Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1947. United Nations War Crimes Commission. Law Reports of Trials of War Criminals. Vol II. London: His Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1947. United Nations War Crimes Commission. Law Reports of Trials of War Criminals. Vol VI. London: His Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1948. United Nations War Crimes Commission. Law Reports of Trials of War Criminals. Vol VII. London: His Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1948. The French historian Georges Didi-Huberman takes up the subject of photographic evidence in his book-length monograph Images in Spite of All, published by the University of Chicago Press in 2008. Didi-Huberman, Georges. Images in spite of all: four photographs from Auschwitz. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2008. United Nations War Crimes Commission. Law Reports of Trials of War Criminals. Vol X. London: His Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1949. United Nations War Crimes Commission. Law Reports of Trials of War Criminals. Vol XIII. London: His Majesty’s Stationary Office, 1949. Wittmann, Rebecca. Beyond Justice the Auschwitz Trial. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 2005. "Beihilfe zum Mord durch eine Tätigkeit im Konzentrationslager Auschwitz." Rechtsprechung der niedersächsischen Justiz. 15.07.2015. 

It is however perhaps worth noticing that the question is slightly misleading. The encryption used elsewhere in GSM and other mobile networks only applies to the radio interface between the mobile phone and the cell tower. Within the network, phone calls are generally not encrypted anywhere and in most countries, phone network operators are obligated to provide law agencies interfaces to intercept phone calls. 

The event took place in a housing complex for refugees on March 20th in Fagersjö, a suburb just outside Stockholm and received attention in main-stream media as well, e.g. in Dagens Nyheter, Aftonbladet, Expressen and SVT. The press release from the Stockholm Police is not published anymore, but can be found in Google's web cache. The perpetrator was a resident of the housing complex (so, most likely a refugee) and was arrested and accused of arson, damage to property, violence against enforcement officer, attempted violence against enforcement officer and disturbance. 

First of all, Google can find quite a lot of background on the dispute between Steve Lipsky and Range Resources Corp. This article is a summary of the situation, where Range Resources Corp. has been drilling for gas close to Lipsky's estate, after which Lipsky is blaming the company for ruining a well, from which he used to get his fresh water supply. It is perhaps also worth to note that Lipsky has been convicted for being 'part of a "conspiracy to defame" the company because he'd circulated a video "calculated to alarm the public into believing the water was burning."'. Assuming that the verdict was correct, Lipsky has previously distributed videos with fraudulent claims about the water from his well burning. The news article I linked to, mentions methane contamination as the reason for the burning water, which is consistent with the fact that Range has been drilling for natural gas nearby. Methane is indeed a highly inflammable gas (mixed with air, the methane content must exceed appr 5% for the mix to be inflammable) and it seriously contributes to the greenhouse effect, but except for that, it is pretty harmless with no known toxic effects (material data safety sheet). There are even relatively high levels of methane in the humane digestion tract. According to this study, the average flatus (fart) has a methane content of about 7%. Now, methane is barely soluble in water, according to Wikipedia, only 22.7mg/l. If you look closely at the video from 0:20 to 0:30, there is also no obvious proof that the water is actually burning. To me, it looks as if a gas escaping the water pipe is burning at the opening. If the water had actually been burning, why wouldn't the water jet burn further away from the pipe opening as well? So to answer your questions: Is it safe to drink water, which can be set on fire? In this case, there is no sign that the water is actually burning. If whatever burns at the pipe opening is methane gas, it is in no way harmful to drink water having been in contact with methane gas or with small amounts of methane disolved. Is it for ordinary home purposes safe to use water, which can be set on fire? Still doubting that the water is actually burning, what may be a problem is that methane is released in closed rooms through a water pipe network. Even here, small levels are uncritical, but depending on how fast methane is released and how fast the air in the room is replaced, there may of course be a risk, that explosive levels of methane are reached.