If all you said is true and you just have a wide pelvis, and it's definitely not fat, I'd say there's not much you can do about that. Like you said, you cant alter bone structure with exercise. I would say, however, given your height, you could probably pack on some more muscle so you fill out more evenly. You can probably gain like 5-10 kgs of muscle and still be within a normal weight range for your height so your body looks more balanced. I think this may be the only way to alter how your waist and body "looks" with exercise. 

I have a chronic neck pain that is always in my left lower neck/shoulder area (left trap). Doing standard core workouts (i.e. situps, crunches, oblique crunches) intensify that pain to the point I lose full range of motion in my neck for a couple days. This is a chronic pain that I'm fully aware of and not asking for medical help. So my question is, given the chronic pain in my left trap, what are some core workouts that you can suggest I do, that won't strain my neck. I know most lower ab exercises like leg raises, scissor kicks, etc and planks wont strain my neck, but particularly what other upper ab and oblique workouts can I do? 

I have been using the Hoist "Rock-It" weight machine circuit at my gym for almost three months now, every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. I have been making steady progress on most of the machines, in terms of progressing to heavier settings, but there are a few machines where I'm making little to no progress. In particular, the arm, shoulder and chest exercises where I push rather than pull. I appear to be stuck at a beginner setting, where on some of the leg and back exercises, I've already maxed out the machine! I find I can do 3-4 reps at very heavy settings on the machines where I'm not progressing, but I need very light settings to do a full set. Settings are not correlated with any specific weight on this equipment... on one machine, setting 1 is 10 pounds, on another, 25 pounds, but they all go from 1 to 18, with "beginner" from 1-6, "intermediate" from 6-12, and "advanced" from 12-18 - the machines also move you as you do the exercises, so bodyweight is a factor as well. I aim to complete a minimum of 10 reps, and step up to the next weight setting when I can complete 12 reps with good form. I only do one set, except for the machines that I've progressed to the "advanced" settings, where I do two sets of 12 before progressing to the next setting. For the machines I'm not progressing on, should I do heavier settings and fewer reps, or more reps/sets and less weight, or soldier on as I am, and hope for an eventual breakthrough? 

So you always hear about famous actors who work out for a specific role. The one that came to mind for me, as I was writing this question, was Hugh Jackman who said many times in interviews that he worked out 3 hours per day, 6 days a week for his role as Wolverine. Obviously, I get why famous rich people have it easier to get ripped. Personal chefs, personal trainers, this is their job, etc. But one thing I never understood is, why are these people able to workout like this without over training? No matter who they are, they are only human, in human bodies. There always comes a point where someone over trains, and it is detrimental to fitness, or so I've been told. So what is it that makes these famous peoples' workout regimens seem immune to this? I feel like, if I asked any personal trainer or healthcare professional: "Hey, can I workout 3 hours per day for 6 days a week?" They would absolutely say no, don't do that. Assuming I kept my nutrition in check, COULD I do this? 

Any exercise you do will help you with your goals. My suggestion is to try and swim more frequently than once per week. Especially because when you first start you will not have the endurance to swim for more than a fairly short period of time, so doing it, say, three times per week will help you a lot. 

You already have an excellent answer. I just want to suggest that you consider that body weight can be bone, muscle, fat, water, etc., and that focusing on weight alone is overly simplistic. If you don't exercise and eat potato chips, you will gain likely weight in the form of fat. If you exercise you can gain weight in the form of muscle. You'll obviously be healthier from more muscle and less fat. So, swim away, and eat a healthy diet to support good nutrition and muscle development. 

First things first, you cant "do some workouts for targeted areas" to lose weight in those areas. That is not a thing. Your body will burn fat from wherever the hell it wants to. The only way to lose fat in a specific part of your body is to lose fat in general, everywhere. If you just want to lose weight, you don't NEED to exercise. You just need to eat less calories than your body expends. If you're eating less calories than your body uses, your body will metabolize its fat stores, and likely also some muscle, to fuel your body. Since you said you don't want muscles, this is a viable option. Just figure out your TDEE and eat less than that to lose weight. If you want to lose FAT, and want to maintain or even build muscle, than that's an entirely different question, and would require a much more in depth answer that I won't go into here. As for your question: 

Some supplement manufacturers make a chewable creatine product - I purchased GNC's Creatine Complex Chew. It is pretty high in calories and carbs for a supplement (mostly starches), but it's low in sugar and almost fat-free. Each chew has 1000mg creatine, and they recommend three chews per serving. It tastes like a grainy and bitter lemon-flavored tootsie roll, and is small enough and digestible enough where it's easy for anyone with WLS to take over the course of the day. 

I have had gastric bypass WLS earlier in the year, and now with the surgeon's encouragement, I have started weight training to preserve lean body mass. It's going well so far, and after two months, I'm about to move away from the weight machine circuit to the free-weight room. I've been reading about HMB and Creatine, and believe they can help me in my goal to preserve (or even gain!) lean mass in the form of muscle. What is the best way to take creatine for someone without a full-size stomach? I can't gulp down a lot of fluid all at once, so the powder is tricky, and I'm concerned the capsules won't digest properly. This is also my concern with HMB - can someone with WLS digest the capsules properly? Also, I can't handle a lot of sugar - fruit juice and other sweets causes temporary but severe side effects (dizziness, nausea, intestinal distress, elevated BP, etc) plus it undermines my weight loss and needed lifestyle change to keep it off. I can and do eat fresh fruit and unsweetened applesauce daily. Is that enough take creatine effectively?