Immunity (Impunity?) paragraphs are themselves law. Therefore, when they apply to somebody, that doesn't constitute "being above the law" for that person. Immunity paragraphs are the logical byproduct of the idea itself, the idea that we must govern our lives by a system of laws. The laws in the "modern world" stem from the social contract, the idea that individuals give up the right for personal violence to a state which in turn pledges to treat them fairly, so that they actually don't need personal violence because they should, in fact, have a fair life. Since there is no such thing as "state" with any material power and thus capability to do what it's supposed to according to the contract, it has to subcontract that part to actual people (government, judges, police, civil servants etc.). The problem starts when you have an actual person acting in some way. If it's a "normal" person, not holding some official position, then it's clear, the person acted themselves, for and by themselves. If it's a person with an office, then the question arises whether the person acted as an official or as the normal person he/she also still is. For the "official" role, different laws apply than for the "private person" role. Examples are many - soldiers that may/should/must kill, police taking somebody in custody or even shooting etc. . Did the soldier kill as a soldier and earn the proverbial medal or as a private person and earn a jail sentence? This is where Immunity sets in - since officials are likely to be watched more closely than random individuals and potentially met with envy, the immunity seems like a logical way to protect the system from a flood of suits/allegations and make it even possible for a person to step up to an official job. If a soldier had an investigation and lawsuit coming for every single killed enemy, war wouldn't make any sense. (Wait a minute...) Holding officials to even higher standards (implied by call for harsher punishment in your question) would either require specific laws to be lawful or would itself be outside/above the law. The question arises why an individual should be held to higher standards because he/she held an office in the first place. To serve as idol or "good example"? So they can't be blackmailed? Because that's the only way we can "trust them"? As official, specific laws apply anyway - no point in comparing higher standards to "normal people" therefore. As private person happening to hold an office, the standards are the same than for normal people, because there are no other. Like not stealing. What could meaningful "higher standards" be? Not to cheat, for example. As an official, it seems counter-intuitive that cheating is even possible. An official position is more like an automatism, cheating is not really an option. So, a person with an official position can only cheat as a person. Now - is cheating illegal for people? Not according to "modern society". Only specific "immoral" acts are outlawed and even there prosecution is very difficult. Due to the apparent paradox of this dichotomy (authorities to be above the law via impunity or not above the law as normal citizens) causing unresolvable problems thus rendering the social contract impossible, Hobbes chose the Leviathan - an absolute sovereign to cut through the chase. Leviathan was of course above the law. 

According to this (at least when it comes to citations and ratings), the most influential philosophers are continental/analytical and are active in either US or Britain. Are there any important Eastern and Central European philosophers working, teaching and writing today (except Zizek, of course)? Are there any openly available and updated resources on this issue? 

Couple that with Baudrillard saying that today there is no such thing as reality! That the world we live in is only a Simulacrum! That we live from images and only images! Images, surfaces, appearances. 

I find the question interesting but also slightly misleading. Tolerance is, by definition, something that reflects a willingness to accept behaviors or opinions one dislikes. I wouldn’t call it hypocrisy even though it might point into that direction. Saul Bellow once said that “if the Zulu will produce a Dostoevsky, we’ll read him.” An affirmation which, unfortunately, does not need much explanation. This is, then, how tolerance really looks like: expecting the other’s behavior or opinions to change in order to match my own. Kwame A. Appiah suggested we should agree on a set of basic human rights on which we should make no compromises. Beyond that, “there’s a wide range of things where it’s up to each human being and each community of human beings to make up their own minds about how they are going to do it.” Ideally, we should thus be tolerant of difference and not of dislike and, since intolerance should not be part of the basic human rights we shouldn’t worry too much about not being tolerant of intolerance. 

'Do limits of human nature suggest that it could be principally understood?' I think so, if you're talking about a "general understanding". Like Laozi answer when asked how did he knew it was so? "Intuitively." Of course studying the best findings in ethology, linguistics and the like we have today the chance of a better understanding, if our corrupt society hasn't yet blinded our views of human nature. 'we could make "a human computer" sometime?' I think so, but I would make a list of reasons not to do that. 

Sorry for my ignorance, but is Bhagavad Gita in your list? (I have read a probably-not-so-good, truncated translation only.) Let me first define the word "religion". I use it only for monotheisms, since they are so different from other mythologies. Only monotheisms are in a desperate urge to define themselves as NOT mythologies. In the polytheistic Amazon I saw people describing their way of thinking as mythologic, in the sense of gathering information and analyzing it at each generation. (If the lack of writing made them better at this, I don't know, but it's a question adressed by John Gray in Straw Dogs.) So, do you think the Bhagavad Gita qualifies more as philosophy/mythology or more as religion, in a western, dogmatic style? How it is seen today, after a long english colonization, and how it was seen before? And may I ask what have you read from chinese ancient philosophy too? 

upon seeing the much discussed movie - arrival: how far can one stretch the sapir-whorf hypothesis? could it transcend space and take over time? could a language, however complicated, once learned allow those who speak it to see events that are about to happen (let alone things that'll happen in 3000 years)? if that should work (?) why would the UG not be able to do the same (sometime in the future, following evolution's path)? 

you can look at this the other way around as well, and you don't need to take into account the sapir-whorf hypothesis. words, as well as languages, change over time also because they adapt to the way the world changes. i don't know if any teenager from last century would be able to begin anything with a millennial's vocabulary. it's not like we have a fixed set of words which we use over and over again to make sense of the same reality. our daily lives change, so does the way we grasp it with our words. that's why we make up new words, we use metaphors (new ones, though not always fortunate), we import words, etc. so, i would say it's a two-way street, it's a continuous exchange between the way the world is and the way we represent it in language. 

Sounds like a "non-phrase" typical of "postmoderns". Of course meaning exists as a natural part of language. Does one need to be "deaf, dumb and blind" to ask the purpose of language? 

The existence of many different mythologies - with no god, one god and many gods - makes it clear that diversity is the rule, and also the richness of human experiences on Earth. So, no argument could ever be decisive about any of them, unless probably, the view that in diversity resides the real value. 

In the Zhuangzi, how can we interpret the end of 4.7 part? ...夫支離其形者，猶足以養其身，終其天年，又況支離其德者乎！ "With a crippled body, he's still able to look after himself and finish out the years Heaven gave him. How much better, then, if he had crippled virtue!" (Burton Watson's translation) "And if physical deformity was thus enough to preserve his body until the end of his days, how much more should moral and mental deformity avail!" (Lin Yutang's translation) I can understand that deformity of body still may make one live together with Dao, but deformity of De? Looks like a paradox to me! And not one of those intended paradoxes we see many times in the second part. 

In productive imagination, spatial-temporal determinations do not merely follow conceptual determinations. There is a “production of space and time” that goes beyond the space and time of any given phenomena and that is how imagination is productive. Paul Ricoeur also distinguishes between image as replica and image as fiction, a distinction that corresponds to Kant’s reproductive imagination and productive imagination. The image as replica, as portrait, is the image that we get through perception. It refers to a specific something that exists in the realm of reality (your neighbor’s dog, for example). The image as fiction does not refer to anything that has a reference (a centaur, for example). There is a play here between nothingness in its form as absence and in its form as unreality (as Ricoeur calls it). There is a rather great difference between imagining your neighbor’s dog and imagining an unreal object, or writing a story or breaking down the universe into elementary particles. 

you could try something from danto: an essay like the art world, or a book like after the end of art. you would get quite a lot out of them. or something by richard wollheim - art and its objects. these are quite highly regarded art critics who also had a rigorous philosophical training. 

That's before the "magical taoism", so it may be interpreted in materialistic (scientific) terms. Biology shows that most social species have come to ritualize violence inside the group, reducing its destructive power. We, as social animals, also have the instinct for peace naturally stronger then our instinct for war. But most of the Western philosophy is rooted in monotheistic religion, where human beings are "evil" since Eve, and thus in need of "correction". This chapter of the Dao De Jing shows the opposite, the farther we go away from our true Nature, the poorer we become. That's why laws in excess ruin a country, and too much "wisdom" and technology usually end up having deleterious consequences. But massive propaganda is there to show us that the industrial world have "improved" us. One needs to get out of the comfort of his home to see some of the last primitive people who still show our natural wisdom, health and beauty. But one needs to do this fast, because these people and their way of life are being destroyed day by day. So, to put it shortly: Technology used to alter Nature may easily develop against ourselves (or at least against the poor, who make up the majority). Chapter 29 of the Dao De Jing (Giafu Feng and Jane English translation) pretty well sums it up: 

As we know (following Kant) spatial-temporal determinations are blind on their own. Conceptual determination is empty when taken by itself. Through imagination we fuse the two together and we manage to grasp phenomena. But Kant considers that imagination has another function as well. It is also productive, working as a kind of synthesis. Deleuze, explains Kant’s concept of productive imagination as: 

history is there to analyse records of the past: what happened, when, where and (perhaps) why. it asks questions that can be answered by researching documents and other traces of the past. philosophy asks different questions - about being, values, consciousness, etc. it goes back to its own history of asking this kind of questions in order to build on the answers it accumulated so far, trying to avoid those answers that proved to be wrong or lead nowhere. you can memorize who said what but that does not give you answers to these questions, at least not in a helpful/meaningful/concrete way. 

A couple of years ago, Vyvyan Evans published a book (The Language Myth), in which he tries to dismantle the foundations of the decades long research done under the umbrella of Generative Grammar. Evans' work has been however torn apart by the proponents of Generative Grammar (see Hornstein's blog) for reasons I will not delve into here. What I do want to point out however is another suggestion Evans makes, namely, that we are on the cusp of a paradigm shift in the philosophy of language/linguistics. Evans seems to be willing to suggest that the neo-Whorfian school will become the mainstream. The thing is, Khunian changes are announced every so often. Five years ago, for example, the French linguist Gilbert Lazard underlined his idea that a Pure Linguistics is the only possible theory which could bring linguistics closer to the status of a real science, dismissing the universalist approach and embracing the Saussurian distinction between language and speech and analysing language in consequence, namely, as a system of signs (la langue) and the conditions of its use in discourse (la parole). I guess, a better picture of the current status in the philosophy of language should include, beside Chomsky's Generative Grammar, the neo-Whorfian effort as well as the Pure Linguistics. If GG will remain mainstream or if any of the other two will gain some momentous remains to be seen. 

I used to divide philosophy into Epistemology, Ontology and Metaphysics. Epistemology is the study of knowledge, how our brain understands the world, how much of our understanding is credible, etc. Ontology is a description of the world outside (and inside) us, with its objects, particles, waves, living organisms and many other phenomena. Metaphysics is the branch of thinking about what may exist, but we're not sure. Many phenomena had first an explanation on the metaphysics realm (also called mythology by some, though mythology is more about the three realms at the same time); only later science described those phenomena in terms of known causes and quantities. Then we say science brought the subject from the realm of Metaphysics (what is beyond the physical) to the realm of Ontology (the physical, palpable or sensible in some other way, though Epistemology is always here to remind us that many of our divisions and concepts may be only apparent). 

So, you could give it to charity (to unknown people) if you don't need it, and if your family don't need it, and if your town don't need it, etc. But if you give everything to unknown people to the point where you have no happiness of your own, then your family will be the first to notice (and miss it). So to reach an equilibrium one must first have it in itself. Sometimes it needs a beer or something, but probably never need expensive clothes, cars and so on (DDJ 53). Yet, you may want to read Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil, which will show you there's more than one way of measuring "good" and "bad" I hope I've been of any help.