Note that this code is not particularly flexible. You can't swap breeding strategies in and out. That's hard coded. Changing the first generation involves modifying code. This is mainly designed to test my initial hypothesis that hermaphrodites would make up 50% of the population. That does not seem to be true. The hermaphrodite population stabilizes around 56-57% when everything is random. The other genders are less stable, fluctuating in a much wider band. I used interior classes because it was easier for me to do this in just one file. I used because I didn't seem to need more efficiency, and I wanted to be sure that my results weren't being tainted by too much pseudo in my random. I didn't notice any difference between the two, so you could switch back if you wanted. 

Bye, bye Moon Each time this happens, everything in orbit moves farther away than its immediate previous orbit. The orbits probably won't be circular, but both the highest point and the average distance would tend to increase. So either the Moon would fall out of orbit (because the lowest point dipped into the atmosphere) or it would eventually fly off. The nature of orbits is that they happen when gravity and velocity are balanced. Take away the gravity, and the object will move to a place where that velocity won't be balanced by the restored gravity. Same thing with satellites. In particular, geosynchronous satellites will no longer be geosynchronous. Over time, that will kill GPS, Google Maps, cable television, and other things that use satellites. Bye, bye atmosphere Each time this happens, some of the atmosphere will escape. That actually happens now, but slowly. This will make it happen faster during and just after the event. Lower atmospheric pressure will lead to more water evaporation. So the oceans are also in trouble. Some of that water vapor will migrate higher in the atmosphere over time and escape. This could still take a long time to have an impact. It makes this happen faster, not instantaneously. Bye, bye crops Currently waves stop at the ocean's edge. In this situation, instead of following the Earth's curvature, they'd travel in a straight line above "sea level". So a great deal of water would end up inland and some would flow further inland after it came down. But this isn't fresh rain water. This is salt water (and fish and stuff). So it would tend to kill off the plants on which it landed. And cause weird flooding. Iowa corn would be fine, but Florida oranges would be in trouble. A lot of people live in coastal areas, so the population impact would be larger than the geographic impact. Rivers would also flow out of their channels. Some of the water would eventually make its way back. But some would end up soaking into the ground or evaporating. This could cause trouble in areas that rely on rivers for their water supply. Less drinking water and irrigation water. And of course the rivers might stop being navigable. New channels might get cut to support the new flow patterns. Lakes would also be affected but probably less so that oceans and rivers. Less motion means that they won't move as far. They'll probably expand and crash a bit larger than the lake. More of the water will flow back. Bye, bye zebras Livestock will be problematic. How do you tell them to move inside where they can be strapped down? How many will break legs anyway when the gravity returns? Wild animals are even worse. Most animals that don't climb, burrow, fly, or perhaps swim will be extinct outside zoos rather quickly. Hello heat When things crash back to ground, they will turn the potential energy they gained into heat. That will reinforce the atmospheric losses, the loss of water in the oceans and rivers, and plant deaths. Hello volcanoes During the event, this will relieve pressure on the continental plates. They'll drift up. When gravity returns, they will fall down again. Just not quite in the same places. Volcanic activity, earthquakes, etc. On the bright side, volcanic activity has a cooling effect as less light reaches the surface. Hello shortages If things can't be transported (because they may fly off into space), then there will a lot of shortages. Sure, we could change trains to grip the rails (particularly a monorail), but how long will that take? Most freight transport is by a combination of ships, trains, and trucks. None of that works well. Period matters If this happens regularly, say three minutes every third day, then it will affect things differently than if it happens randomly. Random action can accentuate other effects. For example, three minutes off followed by three minutes of gravity followed by three minutes off. Or if it's usually from zero to five minutes but one day is a whole hour. 

I don't believe that they would have cities. Cities require agriculture and trade to produce the food surplus that the urban population eats. I doubt these people would group much larger than villages. Perhaps a hundred, if that. I would think something more like ten or twenty adults. You don't mention how many offspring in a nest. If the number is relatively small, they might share nests. Consider who is larger, the males or the females. An argument in favor of large females is that they might more easily pass larger eggs. The smaller, quicker males might fly into the world to fetch food, etc. Most male birds have some kind of way of making a colorful display that they can use to attract the attention of predators away from their mates and children. They can often hide this display when they don't want to distract predators. Such a display often features in mating rituals. Look at me; I'm healthy and well fed. I can provide for many strong children. Think of a turkey or peacock spreading its tail. They might engage in small scale agriculture in the home. Perhaps they might keep rabbits or similar that they can cage (or maybe a pit?) and eat when needed. A long-haired rabbit might provide something like wool. I was thinking about households that kept chickens in the house, killing them as needed. Perhaps a pig, goat, or raccoon (or something new for your world) to eat scraps, like bones. When it's fat enough, they toss it in the stewpot and get a new one. Perhaps they bring back fruits or plant fruit trees to attract small animals. This should be safe from others, as they don't care about the fruit. It's the animals that they want. Of course, if they're fruit eaters, that won't work. If they eat insects, perhaps an ant farm. Do they like sweets? Perhaps a beehive. Homes could be built in locations that are only accessible from the air. E.g. on the sides of mountains. They might look for places close to a stream or even a waterfall. Perhaps they encourage streams to follow a helpful path by digging trenches. Their doors are likely to be above ground level. Some may roost on perches off the ground, but the children are likely to be at ground level. If there is a pit, it is probably surrounded by walls (like wells are). Their ceilings are likely to be quite strong. They may even cover them with dirt. This is because an attack from above is quite conceivable to them. It will be the kind of attack they expect. They may have a fireplace, surrounded by walls. They could then build nests around the fireplace so that the eggs stay warm without nesting adults. So all the adults can leave at once if necessary. They might have small but multifamily households. The males and some of the females go out for food while some of the other females stay home and guard the nesting place. This might also allow more agriculture. Perhaps all the females stay home and all the males go out. They would tend to think in terms of verticals. The land above them on the mountain is risky (people could attack from there). The land below them is vulnerable; they may attack people or creatures there. That's what they consider to be their hunting ground. A mountain pass might be "owned" by some cooperating groups. If they see humans entering, they'll fly down and insist on their toll. Perhaps only a small group lands for negotiations while more watch from above. If the toll is often paid in food, they might group more thickly there than elsewhere. Similar behavior for a convenient stream. Want to drink the water? Pay the toll. 

If we were actually building enough satellites to consume a significant portion of our iron reserves, the greater problem would be launching them. It is expensive to launch things into orbit. On the Earth, we can't use a space catapult, because there's that atmosphere in the way. So we'd either invent a material cable of forming a space elevator tether or we'd have to use rockets. Chances are that we'd run out of rocket fuel before we ran out of iron. Another problem is that rockets waste a tremendous amount of energy. Atmospheric friction, burning rocket fuel, those things create a great deal of heat. You think global warming is bad now, wait until you try launching 5% of the Earth's crust into space. And that's without counting the carbon dioxide left in the atmosphere by the rocket fuel after it burns. The only reason it's not a problem now is that our space operations are on such a tiny scale. It would actually be cheaper, at that level of scale, to mine minerals in the asteroid belt and shoot the satellites into orbit. Then we could use solar panels to power a space catapult. The mining ships could use solar sails to get to the catapult. If we ran out of asteroids, we could get iron from Mars. Smaller planet means less of a gravity well. And the sparse atmosphere makes friction less of an issue. A space catapult would be practical there, or on the Earth's Moon. 

Why is the human brain located in the head only covered by a thin layer of bone. The spine is critical but not even fully covered. No redundancy either. One answer is that the brain is in the head because it is closest to four out of five sensory loci there. Sight, hearing, smell, and taste are all located in the head, so there is as little delay from traveling along the nervous system as possible. Another answer is that it doesn't matter as much as you might think. Let's say that we move the brain from the head to the abdomen. We'd have more surrounding tissue there. But assuming that the senses stay in a smaller head, damage to the head can still leave the person blind, deaf, or without the ability to feed. Obviously inability to feed is fatal, but even loss of sight or hearing was probably often fatal until relatively recently. Someone who can't see to hunt or who can't hear approaching predators is likely to die unless someone else obtains food. Now ships aren't human, command centers aren't brains, and the exterior is not the head. But many of the same issues arise. Which is more likely for most ships: a focused attack from someone else? Or a sensory failure where the ship's sensors are no longer transmitting data? Note that an external window compensates for the latter. Which is probably why most planes and spaceships that we have now have an external window in the cockpit. If there is a sensory failure during battle in a ship with the command center buried in the middle of the ship while, then the ship is likely lost. Its enemies can aim at it and move around to the weak spots, but it can't see where its enemies are and fire back. Even outside of battle, this can still matter. Consider a ship traversing an asteroid field. Sensors fail. It can't steer and so ends up hitting an asteroid. If it survives that, it hits another. Once the people get better at building redundant sensors and start fighting in more battles, that calculation can change. Perhaps they develop ships that can still fight after significant damage. 

The corporate Senate would be the legislative branch and would likely be lead by a Chairman (or Chairwoman). Perhaps the judicial branch would be the extra-equal members of the Corporate Senate. That might be the mechanism by which they exercise their veto power--by having representatives on the top court. I would expect the executive to look similar to what most countries have now but with some different terms. For example, the cabinet secretaries or ministers might be called Vice-Presidents instead (more in line with corporate structure). The Treasury Secretary might be called the CFO and the Director of Management and the Budget might be called the COO. CEO is just another name for the President. Since the President is selected by the Corporate Senate, it's unnecessary to define an automatic successor. They'd just appoint a new one (we don't do that because it requires holding a new year-long election; they'd just have a regular vote). The constitution would be called the bylaws. 

Smart people who have money would turn it into goods that will hold value before the giveaway occurred. Gold is the classic. In this scenario, basic provisions would be important. They will also concentrate on certain investments. This hoarding would get the inflation started. Some number of people would quit their jobs. After all, they're millionaires now. Besides, why bother working if you're only getting paid, \$400 a week but have \$4 million? So even if stores are still only charging the lower prices, you won't be able to buy. No employees. Owner-operated stores will adjust their prices to make it worth opening. Prices will skyrocket initially, but after a few weeks, I suspect that it will settle down. Some people will have blown their entire windfall and have to go back to work. Wages will have to adjust to fit the new prices. Note that the total M4 money supply at the moment is roughly \$30 trillion. This would add roughly \$1.3 quadrillion to that. So a 4300% increase. Once prices settle, expect everything to cost forty times as much. In the near term, this will likely spike higher due to the labor shortage. After a few months, everything would continue with new prices forty or more times as high as the old. Most people who were poor before this will be poor afterwards. Some rich people will be a lot richer. Others will be impoverished. Some middle class people may do exceptionally well. For example, owner-operated farms will be in good shape. Well, at least as long as they don't get destroyed in the food riots. Realize that in the short term, with no employees, grocery supply chains won't be able to deliver food. Some people will offer to deliver food at gouging prices. They may well find themselves in danger from the starving. Particularly since the starving may find paying the 4300% premium to be gouging, even though it isn't. \$200 for a bottle of milk may be expensive, but how else do you pay a minimum wage of $400 an hour? Food will rot in fields unless foreigners provide labor to pick it and process it. What about the government? Realize that they also are now underpaying their workers. Aid agencies may be begging people to come back. Perhaps the National Guard and military will be more responsive. There will be a wave of corporate bankruptcies as companies can't fulfill their contracts (no employees). Pensions will be permanently impacted. Our currency would become more like the Japanese Yen. No cents, just dollars. The top bill would increase in size. Perhaps a thousand dollar bill. Smaller denominations would become coins. I'd put the switch at everything \$20 and smaller would be a coin. A can of soda pop from a vending machine might take a $50 bill to purchase. Or more.