Ozone protects us by absorbing ultraviolet radiation As shown in this Chemistry.SE answer, ozone breaks upon incidence of various energies of UV radiation to form oxygen, which itself is somewhat effective at blocking UV radiation at other energies. THe key is that the incident UV radiation transfers its energy to the reaction products in order to break the bonds holding ozone (or oxygen) together. As opposed to protecting us from UV, the only way for ozone to protect us from global warming is for it to reflect the incident UV radiation back into space. That is not what it does. UV that enters the Earth's atmosphere and interacts with the ozone stays in the Earth's atmosphere. Therefore, your question premise is flawed when you say "if ozone layers gets smaller, more UV radiation enters on Earth." That is not true, because UV radiation that that enters the Earth will be absorbed by something, whether it is ozone or the rest of the atmosphere or the ground. Global warming deals with infrared radiation Furthermore, 'global warming' is primarily concerned with radiation heading outwards in the infrared band. IR radiation emitted from the ground is blocked by CO$_2$ in the atmosphere and prevented from escaping into space. So the effect of ozone on UV radiation will have little to no effect on 'global warming'. 

GISP2 data is inferred from ice cores in Greenland, Cariaco is shallow sea temperature inferred from sea-shell deposits in Venezuela. The indication is an abrupt 10 C drop in temperatures in Greenland, and about 3 C in Venezuala. Note that these are two different sources (accumulation rates and Mg/Ca ratio in shells) of information, in two different places. Corroborating evidence can be found with a 4 C drop in the British Isles from beetle species data in Isarin and Bohnecke, 1998 (Fig. 1); a 6.5-7.5 C drop in Switzerland from pollen analysis in Lotter, et al., 2000; a 3-4 C drop is sea surface temperature in the Shetlands-Faroe passage from marine sediment cores in Bakke, et al., 2009 (Fig 1, also not the big temp oscillations); again all different analysis methods and locations. All in all, there is ample evidence that there were significant temperature drops in the Younger Dryas, and spiky ones at that, given the above graph. The xkcd graph, on the other hand, shows a slow drop in temperature of about a half a degree Celcius between ~11500 and ~10500 BC. Where did xkcd get this data? I can't read the source for the references, Shakun, Marcott, or Annan, so I can't really say what the author was looking at (the HadCRUT4 data from IPCC, the last source, only goes back to 1850). As a final commentary, I find this to be particularly frustrating. Normally xkcd should be considered a paragon of advancing science first thinking. Did xkcd cherry-pick the smoothest graph around to minimize the impact of 'natural' climate change and emphasize the anthropogenic? I don't know. But anthropogenic climate change is real and demonstrable, and doesn't need cartoonists to make pretty graphics that get shared all over the internet to encourage belief in it. Infact, a wise man once said that the universe doesn't care what you believe; science doesn't ask for your faith, it just asks for your eyes. 

As a non-climate specialist, this topic is on the edge of my understanding of meteorology, but here are some papers that I found potentially relevant to your topic. Here is a quote from the summary of Limpasuvan and Hartmann, 1999: 

So my conclusion from these two papers (there is obviously a lot more detail in the full text) is that polar vortex will weaken, subtropical jets and Brewer-Dobson circulation will strengthen, and Rossby waves will penetrate farther south. Of note, neither paper seemed (to me) to indicate that a cooler stratosphere was predicted. 

So those two factors are easy enough. Where this gets complicated is from all the second order effects between those two factors. These are called feedback loops, and all the feedback loops feed back into each other. Examples: 

Let me propose that if an anoxia event were a cause of the P-T marine extinction; then it wouldn't be Pangaea that would slow recovery, but Panthalassa; the global ocean counterpart to Pangaea. Here is a map of the oceanic conveyor: 

That is great, but we have already gone over how these authors are attempting to oversimplify a bare planet approach for predicting expected temperatures. The predictor variables they are using are stellar irradiance, blackbody reference temperature, greenhouse gas partial pressure and density, atmospheric pressure and density, and reference pressure for greenhouse fluids. We can see the authors are once again ignoring the effects of cloud formation and the way the biosphere affects albedo, amongst other things. On a methodology note, the authors use a regression model to try to get some useful results. As a statistician (not a planetary scientist), this strikes me as a poor choice. Regression analysis of complex systems is a good way to get insight into what factors are important in affecting this system. I think they can be very useful for predicting trends, but I do not believe they are good for providing predictions that are accurate by physical science standards. For example, I'm writing a paper right now that uses regression analysis to predict subway ridership at each station on a subway network. This is a very complex system (like planetary atmospheres), and our goal is to get error scores of 0.2 or so. That is great for predicting subway ridership, not so much for planetary temperatures. An error score of 0.2 is like predicting a temperature to be 300 K but it is actually 360 K. That's not good enough. So I just don't know what the authors are really trying to accomplish using a regression approach, especially with so few predictor variables. The physics behind the interaction of the predictor variables is pretty well known, so there isn't a lot of value if determining the correlations of the predictor values to the planet surface temperature; it is as if they are using the regression to test if the physics is correct. Finally, the data set is way too small to be using a regression analysis. Their only available data points are the planets and moons in our own solar system. Conclusion Well I wrote a lot there, and hopefully it is all comprehensible. All in all, there are some interesting bits to Nikolov and Zeller's approach, but I think they are over simplifying some things and are using a non-physical science applicable methodology to obtain questionable conclusions. Honestly, I don't think that anyone should be treating their research pejoratively (I'm looking at you Andrew Jon Dodds in the comments). It is interesting, and it is certainly novel (from everything I've read). It just doesn't have great conclusions. And that's fine! Most research probably doesn't lead anywhere useful. At least they tried something. People seem to be mad at them just because the results are contrary to the general climate change consensus. Research should be appraised on its merits (or lack thereof) and not on whether its conclusions match preconceptions. 

It was not discontinued Using the Climate Data Online tool from NOAA's website, I was able to get sunshine data through March 1st of this year for both major airports in my metropolitan area. Sunshine data is relatively restricted geographically compared to other datasets like temperature and precipitation (for those I counted 7 stations in my metro area), but you should be able to retrieve data from any major airport. 

I went to do a bit of research on this, and think that you can get a satisfactory answer just from the relevant wikipedia articles. Here are some select quotes: 

No Great Britain doesn't necessarily have a unitary geological origin, but the mountains on it (such as there are mountains) are well worn left-overs from the Caledonian orogeny of 400 million+ years ago. These were thrust up before the tetrapods even took to land as part of the plate collision that formed the northern half of Pangaea. This is the same orogeny that made the Appalachians in the US and contributed to the mountains of Scandanavia, as well. The Appenines are a result of the much more recent Alpine orogeny. Caused by the collision of Africa into Eurasia over the last 60 million years or so, this orogeny built mountains from Spain and Morocco to the Zagros and Alborz in Iran. 

Here is a list of the casualties of the battle. Of particular note, look at the ships that went down without being evacuated. Of the 5069 British sailors about the five capital ships sunk in the battle, there were 17 survivors. The water temperatures (in May) were so low, that even though destroyers started picking up survivors immediately, almost no one survived. So the answer to your question could be: the survivors won't end up anywhere, since they will likely be dead. 

There are three distinct data sets: the solid black is the same on both a. and b. and is the measurements in 2006-2007 of lapse rate by month. The grey with circles data set from a. and grey with triangles from b. are two historical data sets from different sources. The dashed lines in each data set are on the leeward (dry) side of the mountain, the solid lies on the windward (wet). As you can see, the seasonal variance is present in all three datasets; as the sun comes more nearly overhead in the summer lapse rate goes up. Also notice that for the leeward data, the lapse rate peaks in Jun, when the sun is highest in the sky, as opposed to July and August, when temperatures are high. That reinforces the thesis that sun angle is dominant over temperature. However, the other bit of relevant data is that the wet side of the mountains has significantly less annual variability in lapse rate than the dry side. This implies that humidity changes due to global warming will indeed cause changes in lapse rate. In conclusion, I believe that temperature changes due to climate change will not significantly alter lapse rate; but humidity changes will. However, since humidity changes due to climate change are likely to be much more local and variable than the more globally even increases in temperature, lapse rate changes should be local and variable as well. So to answer the question directly, the '3D' changes in lapse rate will probably not be significant, in that there will not be a clear global trend across all latitudes, longitudes, and altitudes. However, local changes may be significant depending on local humidity changes.