Why would both educated and uneducated people believe that earthquakes are the wrath of God? There is a negative correlation between intelligence/education and religious belief which suggests that educated people are less likely to believe Earthquakes are the wrath of God. In this particular example, education would likely result in a better understanding of what causes Earthquakes, which removes the subconscious motivation to rely upon supernatural explanations to fill in for our own ignorance. 

As mentioned elsewhere, this is a pretty broad (set) of questions so I'll give a pretty broad answer. From a certain perspective, there are mitigating circumstances for any immoral action someone takes. We are all products of our upbringing, circumstances, and genetics to at least some degree. It may be true that a change in these factors can be the difference between a psychiatrist and a serial killer, but we (as a society) have a history of holding people accountable for their actions with very little attention paid to these factors. In short: “We are products of our past, but we don't have to be prisoners of it.” ― Rick Warren 

The first definition is specifically a measurement of natural, inborn ability. Education and effort may reveal a previously unrealized natural talent, you cannot create inborn talent where it does not exist. However, the second definition is dependent on results, and results are certainly impacted by hard work and motivation. As the saying goes, "Hard work beats talent when talent doesn’t work hard." 

However, I do not have absolute certainty that I am actually typing this post in reality (this could be an elaborate simulation, I could be hallucinating while in a coma, etc). I also do not have absolute certainty that I was not omniscient 5 minutes ago, despite my memories telling me otherwise. But if you are willing to move the line of certainty back from "absolute," the world becomes a lot more reasonable. Reasonable certainty is a lot easier to attain ;) 

(It is difficult to discuss the ideas of wisdom and cleverness without also including intelligence, so lets add that in.) Cleverness is the ability to think on your feet and overcome obstacles in non-intuitive ways. Bypassing a locked door by picking the lock or finding an unlocked window would fall into this category. Intelligence is a general ability to take in, process, filter, and recall useful information. Deciding to wait to break into this room until evening, when most employees have gone home and the security guard is on dinner break would fall into this category. Wisdom is the ability to predict the general outcome of a particular action (or series of actions), especially when it comes to avoiding negative results and unintended consequences. Deciding to not break into that room, because nothing within is worth getting arrested would fall into this category. In other words, they each represent the ability to determine the "best" course of action, within certain timeframes. Within a very short timeframe, repercussions are largely meaningless, so the "best" answer is whatever will get you into the room quickly and efficiently without alerting anyone (clever). Within a medium timeframe, the "best" answer is to take precautions to reduce the chances of being detected (intelligence). In the long term, the "best" answer is to not do things which will eventually get you put in prison (wisdom). They're all related, and there is certainly some overlap. However, often those great at short timeframe problem-solving fail at anticipating negative outcomes of their actions. 

You don't even need to go so far as a futuristic supercomputer-powered universe simulation to get the idea that maybe we're all just bits of code living in an artificial realm. Video games today include NPCs that interact with players (and eachother) based only on what that object can "sense", and interact with their virtual environment in novel ways to satisfy programmed "needs" (think SIMs going to the bathroom, or FPS NPCs running for health power ups when at low HP). Now advance those kinds of behaviors a couple of generations. You could have NPCs with no direct access to information beyond that which their "senses" bring in, and not necessarily aware of their artificial status. 

There are some assumptions in this question that I do not necessarily agree with (e.g. perfect insight into Johnny's feelings/motivations, what defines a good friend, etc), so I'll assume the following: You are perfectly knowledgeable and correct in your interpretation of Johnny's reaction, and the conscious/subconscious motivations behind it. A "good" friend is one who values your well-being, and will take reasonable actions to promote it. You wish to also be a "good" friend to Johnny. Assuming these things, your best action would be to constructively engage Johnny to both minimize his discomfort with the situation ("I'm sorry I cannot provide the information you want..."), and set reasonable expectations regarding future interactions of this nature ("...but I don't memorize these things."). Then, as a good friend yourself, you would provide support you feel comfortable with, and set clear boundaries for things where you and Johnny's expectations diverge. If Johnny makes a good faith effort to respect these boundaries, then he is both being a "good" friend and demonstrating that he values his relationship with you. As long as you do the same, things will work out. Note: I take issue with one thing you said, "a good friend is not someone who values you based on your ability to augment his daily life." I would say that is actually the basis of any relationship. One's relationships are often measured in how much of an effect they have on daily life, whether emotionally or physically. Listening to a friend complain about their boyfriend, helping a sibling with their homework, reminding a co-worker to prepare for his meeting later that day... these are all actions upon which any relationship is built. 

The burden of proof never shifts. By it's definition, the burden of proof lies with the person making a claim. That being said, Person 1 has presented some (admittedly poor) evidence to support their claim (i.e. that "Valid Authority" (VA) agrees with them). As such, it is up to the opposing viewpoints to accept/counter that evidence. On it's own merits, such evidence is anecdotal and not worth much. Just because someone smart/knowledgeable has an opinion, does not make it true. Just because Person 1 says VA supports him, does not mean VA actually does. That being said, an argument made poorly is not necessarily incorrect. If VA's own testimony/evidence is available for review, it should be taken into consideration to stand on it's own merits. If you are not in a position to review VA's evidence, then Person 1's argument is worth about as much as "I read it in a book somewhere."