Given the age of the frame, it's limitations in terms of component choice, and the size of the frame compared to what I would expect a rider of the height described by the OP to ride, I would say building this frame is a waste of money and time. For a rider who is 5'6" tall, a typical frame size is 52cm. This frame is a 58 cm, 3 sizes large. Even if you have an unusual body type which pushes you to a larger than average frame, unless you are wildly out of proportion, you will not move up by 3 frame sizes. In addition, since the frame is alloy, and 15 years old, at least, there is the issue of metal fatigue to consider. While many people ride alloy bikes which are 10 or more years old, the useful, efficient life of an alloy frame is typically 5 years. Had you owned and ridden this bike for 10 years, so that you were familiar with its limitations, handling, and perhaps attached to the frame sentimentally, I might consider rebuilding it. Since that is not the case, I would not spend the money to build a frame with no useful life left. And last, if you build this frame, it is likely that you will have difficulty sourcing properly sized parts, or will have to compromise with shims and adaptors to make the build work. I know that 1" stems are getting rare, and it's possible that the axle width on this frame is narrower than a typical modern road bike, although that is only guesswork. All in all, I see many reasons not to build it, and none to go ahead. But at the end of the day, it's your bike, and your body. You will need to decide for yourself. 

I am replacing the chain on my road bike soon. How do I know how many links to get? Does it have to exactly 114 or 116. Or is it not a big deal? I ordered a 116 link chain. Will I need to shorten it? Thank you. 

I first remember hearing hate for presta valve caps in the video where Lance Armstrong changes a bike tire. He says: 

In September I got a Scott CR1 (2007 model) for my 17th birthday. It's my first road bike and I love commuting on it. Up until I got my Scott I was a strict mountain biker. So when I got my road bike I got a pair of mountain bike pedals for it since I already had the shoes. Now, after 3k miles or so, my pedals are really wearing themselves out. I want to get a pair of road bike cleats. But which ones should I start with? I don't want the "entry line" cleats but I also don't want to spend more than $150 MAX. This is what I was thinking about for the pedals and cleats. This is what I had in mind for shoes. 

I actually always wear a backpack. I would like to get packs to put on the back of my bike. But I only have one bike and it's carbon so I will not add any pack frame to it. I did, however try my friend's messenger bag one time and it left a bruise the size of a softball on my back. I think messenger bags could be good if you have only a lunch a jacket and a notebook. But I have to carry a laptop and textbooks to school so my pack usually weighs about 25-30lbf, and I commute 25 miles a day. When I put all of my gear into the messenger bag the bag kept on slipping off my back the whole time. And, like I said, it left a nasty bruise. My back does get sweaty from backpacks, but I like them because you can secure them to you with the chest strap, and hip strap. (Sometimes when crouching over the hip strap doesn't do anything, but the chest strap is always nice to keep the pack stable.) So, bottom line, I prefer backpacks. But I can see, if you aren't carrying heavy items that a messenger bag may be preferable. 

If you have a 32mm approximate head tube inside diameter, this is an 1 1/8" frame, assuming it is a standard headset design. An 1 1/4" head tube would have approximately a 35mm inside diameter. 

In the case of a one way street, the implication is that you "may" ride (not must ride) close to the left hand curb. If you are traveling in the direction of traffic, this allows you to complete a left hand turn in a safe and sane manner. The provision in California Vehicle Code Section 21200(a), listed below, makes clear that a bicycle on the street is subject to all the same laws as a motor vehicle, the only exception being where those laws can't be applied due to the nature of a bicycle. (For example, emissions standards). That would indicate to me that the expectation is that a bicycle ride in the direction of permitted traffic, when on a one way street. 

You are correct. You have answered your own question. A 30t cog is maximum for the Tiagra derailleur. Using anything larger risks damage to derailleur, derailleur hanger, rear wheel and your frame, since shifting into a cross chain position can tear your derailleur off the bike. At that point it usually ends up in your wheel, and jammed against the chain stays on your frame. 

I am a college student, in Air Force ROTC, and I bike for 1.5-3.5 hours a day. My cardio and core strength are great, but I haven't found the motivation to build my upper body. I'm a skinny build, so it will take some work. My question is: how will increased upper-body strength affect cycling, primarily all mountain and freeride type riding? On top of HOW more upper body strength affects riding, which upper-body muscles will make the biggest difference? 

Can someone please describe to me why there is so much hatred for these little things? I get that they kind of resemble a guy's genitalia, but I feel like it's not really that big of a deal. 

I have an Ellsworth AM bike that's running a 26" rear wheel. I just scored a great deal on an x-fusion sweep fork that's 160mm travel (same as the frame) but for a 27.5 wheel. I am in search of a new wheel for it, and I wasn't sure if I would be better off running 26" wheels all around, or if I would be better off running a 27.5" wheel up front with a 26" wheel in the back. Just looking for some advice before I bite the bullet on a new wheel. Thanks! 

A v-brake has too much stopping power for a road bike, and too little modulation. It requires significantly more contact patch, the rubber area of the tire which is in contact with the road at any given time, to maintain traction in a braking operation. A v-brake has too much power, and too little control of its power because of the linear design of the compression mechanism of the brake. If you managed to get the brake adjusted to work at all, it would cause the bike to skid immediately when the brakes were applied. In addition the traditional lever pull on a road brake lever uses a different ratio of lever throw to cable pull (1:1). A V-brake (or cable disc or cantilever) uses a 2:1 ratio, which means the lever would have to travel twice as far for the brake to touch the rim. The road brake lever would have to be redesigned. 

First, there is translated suspension activation from pedaling. This design does not isolate pedaling or other rider generated forces from ground generated forces. Because of that, there is a loss of efficiency which makes it a poor choice for a bicycle suspension design. Second, the travel path of a single pivot swing arm carries the wheel forward as it moves through its travel path, because of the arc described by the wheel. If your rear brake is in use, the wheel is prevented from following that arc, and some or all of your suspension travel is lost until the brake is released. In a 4 bar linkage design, or similar vertical travel design, brake activation does not prevent suspension activation. Thus it has become the default design for high quality dual suspension bikes. 

I thought it was just a joke, until someone commented on a thread of mine (on a bike forum) and said that the valve caps are super lame. Personally, I always leave my valve caps on because it keeps dirt off of the valve, and in turn out of my pumps. Now, when I made that argument on the forum the other member commented saying 

Personally, I use the largest tube that will fit my bike. That makes me feel better because the rubber of the tube is not stretching out as much as it might be for a smaller tube. I honestly don't have any "prof" but I feel like it helps prevent flats. I've gone 1000 miles since my last flat. Mostly because of the tires I have, but I think that using the largest working tubes does help prevent things like pinch flats. 

I am a college students, and I live right next to an amazing rocky area (picture below), I bike every day, and while I am getting much better and more confident I still take a pretty hard fall every so often. My derailleur has been crushed so many times, and I have been forced to literally pull on it to bend it back into shape on more than one occasion. I am hoping to replace the derailleur soon, but I would like to know if there is a good way to protect the derailleur during a fall - this will decide how much I spend on a new one! This is the stuff that is crushing my derailleur every time I fall.