Neutron stars should be stable -- there's nothing else that they can turn into unless and until they add enough extra mass to become black holes. Their rotation dissipates energy, and so it will slow down, but they will remain neutron stars. In the very long-term, if the universe itself lasts long enough, it can be expected that all neutron stars will collide with each other or with black holes and end up as black holes. 

The main drawback if we have wings is that we have to trail around everywhere with useless appendages. There’s no kind of wings that can let humans actually fly — we’re much too heavy. 

If you want some reasonably plausible handwaving to prevent the possibility of causality violation from an ftl drive that is in principle capable of it, just say that if your drive is actually used to create a closed timelike curve then that will create a feedback loop as more and more virtual particles traverse the loop until the ship (and any information contained within it) is destroyed. 

More viscous: silica, aluminum, potassium, sodium, and calcium (think quartz, with its highly structured molecular form) Less viscous: iron, magnesium, magnesium oxide 

Magic users still need a very high level of education (otherwise Hogwarts wouldn't be necessary, or all D&D characters of all classes would know spells & be able to cast them at any time) Advances in magic only come from hermit-like mages who devote their entire lives to the study of magic (sounds like research to me!) 

One scientist referred to lobotomies as "surgically induced childhood," which would certainly be a solution to a criminal having too much intellect for their own good. 2. Brain-eating creatures In some universes there are creatures that feed upon the brains of humans, while leaving the rest of their bodies intact. For example, Mind Flayers in D&D or Ceti Eels in Star Trek both affect the brains of sentient beings in a very damaging way. However, this method has the greatest potential for getting out of hand and reducing the victim to a vegetative state, or killing them completely -- therefore, those inflicting the punishment would need to exert strict control over the creature that was unleashed on the victim's brain, stopping them as soon as their brain has been damaged enough. 3. Intellect-affecting spells If magic is a part of your world, a permanent variation of a Confusion or Curse spell could very effectively prevent their scheming. Another option is a spell of Bad Luck, which if powerful enough (and again, permanent) could effectively prevent them from making any significant intellectual breakthrough, thus foiling all their plans before they even happen. 

The best bet is to spend the century working on a really good way to falsify the records of everyone's date of birth, so that it turns out only our ten top athletes are aged between 15 and 65, and they are picked by default. We know the aliens come back in 2120, so starting in 2055 we just keep recording all new births as taking place in 2054. In 2119 we pick the best athletes (better make it 20 in case of accidents), and update their records to have their real date of birth. 

Perhaps the solar cylinder has variable brightness, with hot and cold areas evenly separated and moving along its length at a constant speed. Parts of the planetary cylinder that are currently near a hot patch will experience summer, while other parts near a cold patch will experience winter. 

But of course, ours would be a lot larger and flatter. Your dome could deploy from the perimeter of the city and once in place, extend titanium panels to fill the gaps. Obviously, it would need some other form of exotic technology to expand so much - perhaps the city has huge stores of molten titanium under it and using some shaping trick it alloys the titanium with tungsten (to give it a higher melting point than plain titanium) and then funnels more titanium through the bars, suspending it through magnetism or something, until it cools into titanium plates. 

updated tl;dr: fuel is a problem, so is wear - alternative fuel sources will be required, as will some serious mechanical skills to patch the cars - for a 1st world country that has mostly newer cars, expect most to break down within 2 years, with very few left after 4-6. Calculations below. Some variables I dug up to help calculations: all numbers are approximate and correspond to values taken for years 2009-2013 as far as I know. Also, using scientific notation to prevent zero overload. Rounding is performed on an arbitrary basis. also fuel units are in gallons and barrels because that's the units they're reported in online - I would much prefer metric since I don't live in a country that uses imperial units, but gotta bite the bullet this time. Worldwide numbers usage and production: 

Depending on the tech level of your world, I see a few different solutions being plausible. 1. A lobotomy (as mentioned by A.C.A.C. in the comments) reduces the amount of complexity a person's brain can handle, by simply cutting out a portion of the physical brain. Lobotomies were widely used as a treatment for mental disorders in the 1940s and 50s: 

Water is not necessary for a planet to have an atmosphere. Planets like Mars have atmospheres without there being water on the planet. (It is worth noting that Mars' atmosphere is about 100x thinner than Earth's, but that is due to its lack of magnetic field rather than any lack of water. In fact, the article just linked states that its thin atmosphere is the reason all the surface water on Mars dried up.) Even if you need a human-breathable atmosphere, there is no need for water vapor. As explained in this answer, the atmospheric pressure and relative amounts of different gasses in the atmosphere will have a much greater effect on an atmosphere's breathability than the presence or absence of water will. As for humans needing drinking water to survive on the planet in the first place, you could have it shipped in from other planets if space travel is available, or have moisture farmers (sort of Luke's aunt and uncle on Tatooine) that mine or gather water from the sparse underground sources you mentioned. 

Celestial objects are too far from each other to interact electrically this way, although they do interact through the interplanetary medium, albeit at a much smaller degree Electricity and gravity don't interact the same way with matter. If a planet had a net charge, everything on it would share that net charge. Unless we're talking about a huge volcano (where events are violent enough to cause lightning), a thunderstorm, a tornado or an earthquake (where separations are again violent and there's a lot of friction involved), you wouldn't see much of a difference. Also magnetism is not electricity - they're related but not the same effect - unless the magnetic poles shifted dramatically (which does happen but never abruptly), you wouldn't notice much changing. It would have as much an effect as it has now, on other bodies - the Sun controls most of what happens with charge within the solar system as it has the most powerful charge flows and emissions. It's hard to imagine a planet having a stronger effect on the charge of its surroundings than the star they orbit. Even if it were to happen, only the planet would face the consequences, not even moons. Life would be no different - in fact, lightning is considered to be part of the necessary ingredients to get life and in the primordial Earth, we probably got tons of it all the time. With time, life adapts, the atmosphere stabilizes and things work out fine. The elements would also be the same, chemistry would be the same. If the spacecraft entered the planet's environment too fast, it could get struck by lightning when it enters the higher (near space) layers of the atmosphere. But that would be easy to mitigate by just slowly adjusting its orbit until the potential is equalized, provided the pilot was prepared for this case. 

Your country can import food and manufactured goods, but who will cut the artists' hair? Who will teach their children? Who will mend their clothes? Who will clean their houses? Who will give them medical attention and nursing care? Who will tend to their spiritual welfare? There are many, many services that can't be imported and have to be delivered on the spot, and so no country can be mono-industrial. 

First, your maths is wrong. A planet with half the volume of Earth and double the mass would be four times as dense, and would have a much stronger surface gravity. Second, you need to think about geochemistry. What is your dense planet made of? There are few plausible substances that will give you a noticeably higher density than the Earth -- we know of a bunch of planets (the gas giants) that are much less dense, but none that are denser. 

"Any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic." -Arthur C. Clarke (more info) In other words, you should treat magic like another form of technology. Other answers have tried to argue that using magic over technology precludes the need for both education and research, but in all magic systems I can think of: 

To an ancient Roman, a car is magic. We know how it works, which makes it technology. Any magic, as soon as you know how it works and how to use it, becomes technology rather than magic. If you want to have a people who have rejected one type of technology for "magic" (which is just another technology), there are many reasons to do so: 

tend to have a harder time flowing past each other, and thus are more viscous. Some examples of real-life lava materials, in order of decreasing viscosity (again from this wikipedia page): 

The world is a sphere of rock and metal, and nothing that humanity can do or is ever likely to be able to do will have any significant effect on its continued existence. There's a thin film of volatiles on the surface, and some interesting emergent systems of complex chemicals mixed in with those volatiles, and we could probably have a significant effect on those, but it's only a tiny tiny part of the world. Adding to this answer to cover the edited question, the answer is still no. Bacteria are incredibly tough, diverse and versatile, and it's not within our capacity to kill them all. Even if we did, sub-surface bacteria would very quickly recolonise the surface. 

The problem with aquatic birds is the eggs. Either they come to land to lay and incubate their eggs, in which case they're basically penguins, or they give birth to live young, in which case they're somewhat unavian. 

So what we're looking at is an economy where we have super-cheap robots that aren't autonomous and always require an operator but can perform any human task. I don't really think that would make as much of a difference as might be expected. Did automated machinery have us work less? A bit maybe, but as menial tasks become easier, new jobs emerge. I'd expect however that upon standardization of this form of labor, a short economic boom of a decade (or two, at most) would be observed barring other advances due to said boom. The real question is, how quick do zombies degrade and how often do you need to replenish them? Also, what is the economic effect of the demand on bodies? I can think of a few of these: 

I know this is a late answer but I think this needs to be added and I haven't really seen the other answer emphasize it (besides Envite's, indirectly). Recycling In Dune, there's little water so they make suits that recycle bodily fluids (sweat, urine) into drinkable water - they also have moisture farms (Luke Skywalker used to work in one on Tatooine, another desert planet). That's just one example. In real life we do this all the time - old metalworks get gathered and turned in for pennies and this contributes a lot to the availability of metals for industry. While recycling may not be a great way to save energy, it is a great way to make the most out of existing materials. At any point, you're going to have old technology around and old constructs, that can be refined into newer ones. The limiting factor is energy. Unless we're talking about a world without any energy (it can lack conventional fuel but it can't lack energy sources entirely), they can go through a time period of scarcity, as they adjust to different energy sources and recycle their old stuff into new stuff. This would of course raise the value of materials a great deal, but it can also depend on how efficient recycling is - if the techniques are developed adequately, it would be much like an unchanging supply of coinage, since the supply wouldn't grow or fade - the value of materials would be closer to the difficulty of recycling them versus their technological usefulness. Another effect would be a shift of research into transforming materials into one another. If you need an element and don't have it, you can work on forming it from others, shifting from scarcity of each material separately, to scarcity of material overall. You could have technology that creates rocks out of dirt or get sand out of stones to make glass. You could also find ways to use some of these materials as fuels - if you find some process that can turn uranium into plutonium efficiently (very implausible but it's just an example), you could then use it as fuel until it degrades and you can use it for something else. I know we're talking about all resources being gone, but you might still have waste from old reactors and you can still transmute other metals to uranium or whatever. 

... and many more. Basically whatever you can think of. But however magic works in your universe, it should be treated as an alternative technology, rather than an alternative to technology. 

If the people in the alternate reality in question have a basic knowledge of genetics: Females have only X sex chromosomes while males have both an X and a Y. The Y chromosome is inseparably connected to their spirit in a way that X chromosomes never are. Since these are the chromosomes responsible for developing a person's reproductive system, the reproductive contribution of a male is the spirit, where the female's is everything else. If they don't: To be honest, you probably don't even have to explain anything. Just state what happens as you did in the question and that'll be enough of an explanation on its own.