There are many cases where human beings find it meaningful to count something as TRUE without a logical support. Terms like "gut instinct" and "flash of inspiration" appear all over our societal structures. One of the paradoxical loops that arises with the term "empirically verifiable" is that one has to define that criterion. How does one determine that that is the true criterion? Empirical verification of course -- and the cycle continues. Either: 

I think there is an assumption here that any socialist aspects in society will automatically lead to a reach for socialist aspects everywhere in society. That assumption is an interesting point to argue, but I'm not confident it's self-evident enough to make it an assumption. It is possible to have a socialist government that identifies that the "best" way to continue furthering its socialist objectives is to expand outward to take the "vote." It is also possible to have a democratic government that communally decides the best way to handle a small portion of society is through application of socialist methodologies, and then uses the energy gained by using this "best" approach to further protect the right to vote. Of course, in all systems, there's a little bit of both extremes. The debate as to how to manage public resources is a continuing challenge that is not well captured as purely democratic or purely socialist. Also note that the arguments you put forth could also be applied to the electoral college in the US. The logistics of the use of any one extreme archetype of government is tricky enough that you'll see mixed solutions everywhere. 

From experience, I have found that our worldviews truly affect our perception of reality. If we consider the world to be absurd, we will see more absurdity than is really there. If we consider the world to be hopeful, we will see more hope than is really there. It's simply how the human mind works. For the most part, this is to our benefit. However, if we find ourselves trapped by a powerful philosophy, such as absurdism, we should take action. We cannot bend the spoon, but we can bend our mind. We can choose to create a different worldview which is capable of seeing things which our current one cannot see. So how can people, religious or not, hold to hope or optimism? Simply put, they choose to do so. They choose to view the world through a worldview which sees more hope and more to be optimistic about. It doesn't have to actually change what the world truly is, just how we interact with it. Can you acknowledge the absurd and remain hopeful? I mentioned that I identify as a radical skeptic. I have, for fun, made statements like "I know that I cannot truly know anything." If I can make such statements, grin, and have fun with them, can an absurdist not remain hopeful? 

So right away we can see why this question is so difficult to answer. Ethics is concerned with the concepts of right and wrong, two cultural universals. Anyone who has stepped outside their own philosophical comfort zone is aware that there is great disagreement about right and wrong. There's so much disagreement that we will often go to war and kill each other over such disagreements, despite the fact that many of these peoples going to war have a moral code against killing one another! Now consider the concept of value. By your phrasing which uses the term "a person" and the sentence "I mean something like their human worth." you are clearly talking about someone else, so this is not a question of self-value (which is good, because that is a far far harder concept). A value of another being would certainly be used to make decisions whether one should act or not. This leaves the question of whether the value of a human being is above that of all else, making human life sacrosanct, or whether it is something on the level of other things which can be traded. The former opinion is popular, but famous thought experiments such as the Trolley Problem or any of its many variants make those positions very difficult. In these experiments, we see just how much trouble we get in if we cannot include life in a series of balances. The next question is whether this value is a one dimensional thing. Are we assigning a dollar value, or is this more like sports stats, showing varying facets of the individual? The latter often makes more sense, but makes for hard decisions if it comes down to trading that individual for someone else. Finally, we can come down to what we want to go into that value in the first place. In the comments, Jobermark recommended exploring value according to the Greek tenses: 'doing' 'being' and 'being done to.' We can do this, but such an approach is not very universal. Many Asian martial arts seek a balance between 'doing' and 'being' which is ill captured by either word. There's also a strange region between 'being' and 'being done to.' Jobermark points out that there are few who value 'being done to,' but consider the value we put on the strong individual who chooses to just sit there and let someone beat on them until that person calms down rather than responding with actions. What about the man or woman with demons they hold back day by day, is there no value in that? In the end, the only reason this question is answerable is because of the section of the first sentence which I omitted when I quoted it the first time. Here it is again, with my own emphasis on the removed part and its surroundings: 

If you combine First Order Logic and a set of axioms, you get a Formal System. If you want, you may define your own logic, instead of using FOL. However, declaring something powerful like "there is only one truth" is going to require more than a paragraph, for you will have to define the Formal System you are using. If we can limit ourselves to FOL, all we need is a set of axioms to create a formal system. This means the search is for "The One True Set of Axioms," which is starting to sound a whole lot like your original search for one truth. This search just needs a little linguistic nudge to make it mathematical. It is easy to show that if you take a set of axioms, and add a derived truth from them as an axiom, you get a consistent Formal System. You may be looking for a "minimal set of axioms to admit all truths in the universe under First Order Logic." And with that in mind, I'd like to give Gödel some attention. Gödel devised a few theorems known as his Incompleteness Theorems. These are proven using the rules of first order logic as part of his approach to your paradox. "There is 'no truth'" is a Liar Paradox: "This sentence is false." Gödel sought to resolve some of these issues. The standard resolution of this paradox is simple: "This sentence" is not a valid symbol in FOL. It simply isn't. One of the rules of FOL is that you must define the symbols you use up front, and there is simply no valid FOL formula of that sorts. Russel was approaching one such solution, which involves carefully crafting the set of symbols in a way which permits "This sentence" to be a valid predicate. In doing so, he identified the "Russel Paradox" which dealt with sets that contain themselves (tail chasing sets), vs. sets that do not contain themselves(normal sets). While Russel was trying to do what you have been doing, finding a way to make this valid, Gödel came in and showed it impossible. Not just Russel's paradox... Gödel proved that an entire swath of potential systems had a fundamental flaw, including the system I believe you are working towards. Gödel concerned himself with systems which could "admit arithmetic." Of course arithmetic is such a system, but any super-system which can define arithmetic and its trules (such as our universe) is bound by the law he found. He showed that any system which could admit arithmetic must have at least one of the following characteristics: