I would like to focus my answer on one of the problems mentioned by others: namely that Bob has an overwhelmingly high probability of being born poor. The answer to this is simple. By being born with all the knowledge of all his previous incarnations, all that is necessary to bypass this problem is to have one lifetime in which he amasses enough wealth to control an organization of people, such as a corporation, which he founds. And with multiple lives of experience this ability to amass wealth should increase, as all the trial and error in previous lives is carried forward each time. The organization will be laid out with stipulations of how his succession works. Nobody need know anything of Bob's secret, and nobody need know all the pieces of the puzzle, ensuring that only his reincarnated self can claim the lead next. Furthermore, Bob can have "decoy" successors whose appearances are not well known, to give the appearance that he is grooming his replacement among a list of potential candidates, to eliminate any suspicion of some unknown suddenly showing up. And furthermore, precautions can be take to deal with the fact that after Bob's death there may be a delay of 18 years or more before his next self takes over. There may in fact be layers of protocols involved by which other people act as trustees or temporary stewards of various aspects of the organization until all the pieces for the next true successor fall into place. Now when Bob is reborn, there is naturally the annoyance of having to wait 18 years to reclaim his organization. But no matter where Bob is born, in what conditions, if Bob has any kind of cleverness he will realize that he can just play dumb, not letting on to his real nature, and wait for the opportunity to make his way across the world to wherever his base is. I would argue this is totally doable for any person in the world - given the clear goal and payoff in sight - no matter what their situation and upbringing - one can play along with their environment for the first 15-16 years, there are many ways they can find to make a one-time relocation to another place in the world, whether it is joining a merchant marine, or stowing away, or even just hiking if on the same continent. Once Bob is able to grow his organization enough, then it is a simple matter of building more bases, one on each continent at least, so that he can eliminate the need to cross an ocean at the start of every life time. To summarize, the key pieces are: 

For a rather hard-science based sci-fi setting, I am checking for faster-than-light (FTL) possibilities. One option that I consider is the following: Interstellar travel is achieved through portals. They can be imagined during their construction as two giant rings initially superposed. Once finished, they are separated but have a remarkable property : they behave as a "tunnel" in space. Something watching or entering in the space circled by Ring A will see or exit through Ring B. No special effects or anything fancy : both parts of spaces are "simply" connected and behave accordingly. After that, you can move Ring B to anywhere in space, at slower-than light speed. Even if takes a few hundred years to achieve, you can end-up connecting stars or regions of space, building a web of connected portals. This system makes the portals key elements in my setting (for obvious strategy, communication, and trade/economic advantages) and avoid some FTL. I'd like to have Worldbuilding reader's feedback on this : 

As stated, your target is to organize information. And that is usually not a trivial task : information elements are linked to others, may be linked to space and/or time. So you can have different axis : you can for example use a geographical map to locate things in space, a timeline to organize them in time, some family tree coupling time and relationships between siblings, etc. Depending of the level you want to achieve, it can be quite a lot of information to keep in your head. You may want to use some tools to organize this. It can be simple notebooks and papers, or some software (I can think of the great Tiddlywiki here ; feel free to add suggestion in comments). If you are building this for a world or game, do not push it too much, as the world is mostly a recipient for your story, and not an end by itself. Structure your information around the hero or center of the story. As a side note, you can maybe find inspiration for both content and organization in some gaming systems like Microscope. 

A power source Computing power (a processor, RAM, etc...) that's durable An MDISC reader/writer Human interface device(s) 

MDISC I would like to offer a digital solution. There is a DVD-like format called MDISC which has a theoretical lifetime of 1000+ years. The rest of my answer will be in support of this format. The problem then comes to the reading/writing of the media. Here's where I haven't done enough research, but I know what the requirements would be, and I think it would be possible to construct a device that can reliably operate over millennia. 

In your world described above, there can be forms of renewable energy, and I would imagine one computer could run on such a power source, so #1 is covered. This could be implemented with Solar, Wind, even a Water wheel. A water tower can be an energy storage solution as well (instead of deteriorating batteries). Numbers 2-4 are where I'm not sure as much. Here's what I do know: Military computers are designed to last. They take into account impacts, water damage, rust, particulates, and even radiation. Satellite computers use radiation hardened circuitry that resists radiation interference. They are also designed to tolerate extreme temperature environments. Hence I believe #2 can be overcome with some design work. This of course assumes it's not too late to acquire such technology. Numbers 3 and 4 are more difficult: Current MDISC technology seems to be used with our modern DVD/CD reader/writers. I haven't looked very hard, but it doesn't seem like a durable (withstanding hundreds of years) reader/writer currently exists. I suppose the assumption of MDISC is that we'll still have those around in the millennia. That's the problem of #3. I would guess that similar Military designs could be applied to a keyboard and a screen that would make them durable enough for a long amount of time. Ditch the mouse idea altogether. Perhaps create a custom OS that's optimized for keyboard-only use. This would help the case for #4. Of course then this durable computing machine would have to be replicated, along with the ~700 MDISCs (15,000GB / 23GB = ~653 discs and let's be sure to have some replacements) and then distributed to the several "knowledge safe-houses" that would be set up. This again assumes it's not too late to acquire the necessary components. Pros: 

I'm going to say Yes. The joke will be deadly to anybody who reads it, whether silently or aloud. It will even work whether or not they understand the langauge it is written in. They will find the joke hilariously funny no matter their sense of humor, and they will laugh themselves to death. How? A couple of closely related possibilities. One is that the joke is written in a primitive language intuitively understood by all humans. Like the virus in Snow Crash it will infect any mind that is exposed to it with a powerful neural meme which will trigger a reaction in the brain to try to rid itself of it, with the side effect being a powerful giddy sensation, feelings of mirth, and uncontrolable laughter. Once infected, the person will perish in short order as the virus takes over the mind, driving the person insane with laughter until they die from asphyxiation or apparent suicidal behavior. A similar possibility is that the words themselves are a kind of back door in the universe, a kind of hack which triggers a garbage collection algorithm on the reader's brain, causing the person to die in a fit of laughter. Whether this hack is due to reality being a simulation like the Matrix ("sudo gc self") or because of the existence of magic where spoken words invoke power (making this joke basically a spell that the reader unwittingly casts upon themselves) is up to you. 

Dragons haven't always been dragons. Think about it, when in a movie have you seen an actual dragon take loot? They pillage and breathe fire and burn stuff. But where did the dragon come from? You never see two of them in one area, so there can't be a mommy dragon and a daddy dragon making a family of new dragons. No, dragons were originally another kind of creature, one that walked on legs and had arms and hands that could carry stuff. That creature acquired lots of treasure, and as it did so its greed grew as did its fear of losing its treasure. So it hoarded it all away somewhere safe and over time the magical transformation began as it guarded its treasure in the dark, it morphed into a fearsome creature whose sole purpose was to keep its precious hoard from other, coming out only when provoked, or occasionally to seek sustenance. 

Your strategy will heavily depend of the precogs exact capacity, I propose some tactics here that can be also combined Information saturation You render the precogs useless by saturating them with information and hope some of you attempts will succeed. This means preparing dozens of assassination attempts on the target but also on precogs themselves, their family, their dog, their relationships, so that they are overwhelmed by strong precognitions and will not be able to analyse all of them. Non-targeted operations like bombing may also overload the precogs (depending how they see/react to the future); Information hidden over time In short : delay death. Some diseases can be inoculated but cause death only after some time. Some poisons have a cumulative effect. Some substances can also make you react to other that are innocuous usually (like alcohol). I suppose precogs will be attracted by "strong" physical or emotional events, so this seems an efficient option. More simply, you can also trap the target in a limited geographical space (a building) that is doomed to destruction in a few days, without any possible escape. Information hidden Basically : assassinate in the dark. This depend "how" precogs see the future, but they probably receive a projection based on their usual senses. If the killing occurs in the dark and in silence, they may be impaired to detect it. It they sense emotions, assassinate without pain, with a sleeping target, etc. Manipulation : reaction makes the kill Use the precogs to trigger a reaction that will lead to the killing. This is great manipulation (and can make a good plot) and a need to plan everything ahead. The precogs will see the death coming, but without any way to escape it. 

Adding personnality and emotions to a powerful weapon seems a very risky thing to do. You make it unreliable and less efficient. The only (vague) advantage would be some unpredictability that would create some surprize effects, but I strongly doubt this would be efficient. Emotions are not an advantage for beating us at chess or poker, while would it be in a war context ? Even if the reality of war has magnitude more complexity that such games, I cannot imagine any emerging property of such environments where non-rationale behaviour would be helpful.