The question "why did this feature of this organism evolve?" comes up again and again in biology. Besides simple curiosity, it also has practical implications, such as "what if this feature stops working?" or "what features would, if they stopped working, produce this effect?" (for causes of disease). When you are trying to to figure out the function of something by asking why that something is there (to clear away some of the philosophical issues, by function I mean how it helps and how its absence hurts), if your explanation starts with "it came to be so that it could..." then you know you are wrong, because nature cannot anticipate what will provide which benefit. It simply tries everything, and keeps the ones that work. Therefore, to explain why something in biology exists and is the way it is, you have two options: 

Altruism and pity can be used synonymously in the context of utilitarianism. Non-profit organisations, being vehicles of pity and altruism are the results of utilitarian maximum profit. It is thus part of the same system, which should change in total. Nietzsche described the problem as follows: "The hour when we say: 'What good is my pity! Is not pity the cross on which he is nailed who loveth man? But my pity is not a crucifixion.'" (Nietzsche 1997: 7) Rousseau promoted pity as follows: "It is therefore certain that pity is a natural sentiment, which, by moderating in every individual the activity of self-love, contributes to the mutual preservation of the whole species. It is this pity which hurries us without reflection to the assistance of those we see in distress; it is this pity which, in a state of nature, stands for laws, for manners, for virtue, with this advantage, that no one is tempted to disobey her sweet and gentle voice: it is this pity which will always hinder a robust savage from plundering a feeble child, or infirm old man, of the subsistence they have acquired with pain and difficulty, if he has but the least prospect of providing for himself by any other means: it is this pity which, instead of that sublime maxim of argumentative justice, Do to others as you would have others do to you, inspires all men with that other maxim of natural goodness a great deal less perfect, but perhaps more useful, Consult your own happiness with as little prejudice as you can to that of others. It is in a word, in this natural sentiment, rather than in fine-spun arguments, that we must look for the cause of that reluctance which every man would experience to do evil, even independently of the maxims of education." (Rousseau 2004:21) References NIETZSCHE; F. 1997. Thus Spake Zarathustra. Hertfordshire: Wordsworth Editions Limited. ROUSSEAU; J. 2004. Discourse on the Origin of Inequality. Mineola: Dover. 

In modern evolutionary biology, teleology is considered to be an irrelevant explanation for what caused things to be. Nevertheless, you may find many biologists speaking in teleological terms - "The animal evolved wings so it could fly away from predators." or "Our brains became bigger to allow us to function better socially." This is a trick that evolutionary biologists use: It turns out that most language is clumsy and inconvenient for talking about the dynamics of evolution by selection, and evolution really looks almost as if there was teleology. The key word is "almost". There are subtle differences between how an evolution with teleology and without teleology would look like. Biologists use the "trick" because they don't like being wordy and think that they are smart enough to never overlook the teleological fallacy. Teleology is regarded as irrelevant because nature has no mechanism for deciding to obtain certain outcomes beforehand. Evolution is not a means to an end, it is a consequence of some individuals making imperfect copies of themselves more often than other individuals. Whenever one has a population of things, and the following claims hold for this population: 

It seems Socrates was a real person and was hermeneutically followed and quoted by Plato. That means two distinct persons with different views existed. It was opined that, in The Laws, the Athenian gives Plato's views. 

Your question basically: "If something cannot be defined using outside references, does that mean that such a thing does not exist? For example, Totality (supposed to mean absolutely everything including this statement)" Thinking about your question and Totality: A good definition for Totality is "everything". "Thing" is an accepted outside reference and "every" is an accepted concept, therefore Totality is acceptably defined. Thinking about the first part of your question with regard to existence and definitions using outside references. The question was: "If something cannot be defined using outside references, does that mean that such a thing does not exist? The answer is no, because "If something cannot be defined" means something exists. The answer relates to materialism and idealism. Where do things originate from? Do material things originate from ideas or do ideas originate from matter? I do not really know whether ideas or matter existed first. Did ideas exist before humans or did humans exist before ideas? It is not advisable to prioritize idealism or materialism, because the two philosophies are interrelated. Matter influence ideas and ideas influence matter, without a doubt. Let's say ideas and matter have always existed and they are both "outside references". I could, i.e. say intequities, the new idea exist. Another person could ask, what intequity is. If no defining follows, it will affect the existence of the new idea intequity. The word intequity (capital of ideas) was first used for research about Accounting of ideas, by combining the words 'integrity' and 'equity'. After that, "intequity" was used in business names. Using the word as names, did not define the idea, but without a doubt the businesses exist. Using references to matter and ideas thus seems to ease the defining of something new. 

That's not to say you don't have to look hard to find pitfalls of teleological thinking (although it's clearly illogical after considering the nature of evolution). That's why the "trick" exists - most of the time, you can carry on happily thinking teleological thoughts and never see any ill-consequences. But that one time when it causes you to be wrong is a possibility scientists do not like to accept. Being a heuristic, the pseudo-teleology trick is not very persuasive when you are trying to settle one argument and move on to the next gene already. 

One will observe, after following this population, that the nature of the things making up the population changes over time. This is a bit of "duh" conclusion because, well, of course you will end up with a lot of the fast-reproducing ones and few of the slow-reproducing ones, and of course you may get a lot of much faster reproducing things than any in the initial population, because the fast-reproducing ones make more copies of themselves (even if some are a bit mutated). This also applies to theoretical constructs such as numbers as well as actual biological organisms, and everything in between (and is supported by ample empirical evidence at different levels). Copious repeated applications of this theme, adapted to individual cases, are pretty much the business of evolutionary biology, and these days, it's rare to find a biology that isn't even a little bit evolutionary biology as well. It isn't hard to see that in the above example, nobody tried to make the fast-reproducing things dominate, and nobody wanted this outcome. It's just what happened, because of different rates of reproduction they have. If you get down to the differential systems describing the system, you will see that setting it up in this way literally implies that the number of fast-reproducers will increase over time (and this is really what it means "to reproduce rapidly"). Moreover, the outcome of an event cannot also be its cause, because the cause is often understood to precede the outcome in time. My investment of money in stocks last month cannot have been caused by the profit I made today, because last month, I hadn't yet made the profit. The cause can be my anticipation that I will profit, but again, evolution does not require nor seems to exhibit evidence of any "anticipation" - it will continue to repeatedly generate mutants that are unfit even though they are "clearly" not going to work out well, and evolution still works in spite of this. Teleological arguments may explain the actions of rational actors, but who wants to prove that nature is rational and/or that God exists without making circular references to evolution? 

Honesty in religion and philosophy relates to "gods" and "goddesses", which is a sensitive issue many do not like to discuss. 

The question: "Is it proper to speak of non-existent objects? ... Anyway, what I am really asking is, are there any philosophers who think that talk of non-existent objects is merely a language game?" Talk of non-existent objects is much more than merely a language game. Please refer to the following where I motivate my answer. It seems the metaphysics of mathematics with regard to the question, relate to cosmology, The "set of all sets" and Parmenides's "One" as opposed to Descartes's ontological view below. 

"Heraclitus of Ephesus on the western coast of Anatolia in modern Turkey (535-475 BCE) posited that all things in nature are in a state of perpetual flux, connected by logical structure or pattern, which he termed Logos. ... The Eleatic School, called after the town of Elea (modern name Velia in southern Italy), emphasized the doctrine of the One. Xenophanes of Colophon (570-470 BCE) declared God to be the eternal unity, permeating the universe, and governing it by his thought.[7] Parmenides of Elea (510-440 BCE) affirmed the one unchanging existence to be alone true and capable of being conceived, and multitude and change to be an appearance without reality." (From: $URL$ on 12 Sep 2017) It could be argued the most ancient view in history is related to the Eleatic view about the One unchanging cosmos because change was frowned upon by despotic leaders. Aristotle regarded the First Mover, his Absolute. The First Mover moved. Socrates regarded "hesis" ("kinesis"/movement) supreme and stated God revile(s) "stasis" (constance). Jesus died, partly because of his kenotic rejection of the life giving force of movement. He did not leave Jerusalem, but could. Socrates, as well, died, partly because he did not decide to move to Crete. Plato, according to Popper, wanted to "arrest all change". Marx opposed new ideas and called labor "the creator". Marx, according to Adorno's summary, could have been more in line with Plato than Socrates. The Socratic book, The Republic, however has been presented as a communist text, partly because of communal property, promoted in it. It's complicated and I do not claim answering the question, but knowing of the two ancient views ("hesis" and "stasis") of divinity, resolves some thoughts, regarding the question. "Hesis" meant "a going forth" or leaving a place. "Stasis literally means “standing” or “taking a stand.” In Classical Greek the word denotes disagreement, dispute, internal conflict, civil strife, and even civil war. References to stasis abound in Greek literature, from the Homeric epics through to Hellenistic times." (The Encyclopedia of Ancient History, $URL$ on 12 Sep 2017) Most people prefer constant circumstances when financially secure, whilst others who are not financially secure, prefer change. Marx regarded technological change negatively because new technology, caused by new ideas, replaced labor. 

Assert that it arose by random chance. (this is actually the case in reality often enough, it is known as genetic drift) The challenge with this option is explaining how it arose by chance despite being unlikely. If you succeed, then you can expect that removing the feature, or at least replacing it with an alternate version will have no effect (for example, it doesn't really affect your life if you are capable of rolling your tongue or not). Assert that it evolved. There are two challenges. The first is to explain how individuals which possessed the feature reproduced more rapidly than those who did not. The second is to explain the same for every intermediate form, because evolution happens in small steps - it is not enough to show that having wings is better than not having wings, you must also show that having wing stumps is better than not having them, because the wing had to have come from "somewhere". If you succeed, you can predict what problems having a defect in that feature will create, and after building a large enough database of such defects, you can then take any defect and immediately narrow down its cause to a handful of features known to lead to it. You can also suggest how to improve the feature further. 

Thomas Hobbes in his book Leviathan promoted violence by the sovereign, for order. Machiavelli who advised princes in his book The Prince, probably did the same as Thomas Hobbes. 

Cosmological arguments, for the existence of "God", like those of Aquinas, are functionalism and materialism. They are functionalist, i.e. because they usually focus on the singularity of "God", which is false, due to the weakness of singularity. They are materialist, i.e. because materialist empiricists, usually appreciate Aquinas's 'proofs'. Ontological arguments on the other hand use definitions and are more objective. Here's another ontological argument for the existence of God: God are "the Creator", therefore God exist because creativity exists. 

I think the origin of the 'suspicion' for some philosophers relates to the origin of the word "nature", which originally meant "God", in Egyptian, according to Budge (1895). Nature can especially be viewed in the context of Hegel's philosophy, which explains, Spirit becomes nature and nature becomes Spirit. 

Without knowing, you may come to believe that a feature came to be to achieve a goal, when in reality it has no function ("why do men have nipples?"). You will then end up chasing after "red herrings" when looking for causes of effects. You will be puzzled why seemingly desirable features do not exist ("why don't animals have wheels?"). You will assume that every feature is "as good as it gets", and then you will be surprised when some of them later manage to get better. You will accept as true some fantastical explanations which are impossible because the intermediate forms are too unfit, since you will assume that nature will "grin and bear it" through those "tough times" of very low fitness "for the sake of" the final outcome with very high fitness. (more broadly, this problem is known as "climbing a hill" in optimization)