Yes, give feedback. It's perfectly possible to be positive in your feedback without looking like you're sucking up to your boss/manager. A good way to do this is to mention specifics and report on: 

If they’re trying to get rid of you, there’s nothing lost doing this. There’s also a possibility that there’s genuine misunderstanding, so this is a way of getting that cleared up. In the meantime, document any requests you get so you can refer back to what you’ve been told. Documentation of inconsistencies can be used as defence if you’re subject to unfair dismissal. 

Simply reschedule the video interview for a date that is more convenient for you. Now that you have a job (as low paid as it is), you need to work your job hunting around that. Employers/agencies are usually understanding that people have jobs and can't really drop everything and take an interview on a whim. 

Create an overall plan in excel, grouped my team and detailing each high level task that each team is responsible for. Also include a column for progress and status. This gives everyone a view of what tasks are outstanding and an overall project status. On a regular basis, assess the progress and post an update to Slack, detailing what is being held up by whom. This will passively encourage people to stay off that list... Don’t forget to praise success! 

It really depends how much space there is to move around. You may need to suck up the situation and move to another space away from the window. You could also ask the PM whether this three-in-the-space-of-two situation is a temporary thing or not. It's natural to get into the mind-set of "this is my desk", but sometimes the needs of the team/project can override this and you need to adjust to the idea of adjusting your workspace. 

If they press, then you can reveal your current salary, but you've already told them that it's low. Since you already lost opportunities from not answering this, you won't lose out by answering when pressed. You still have the option of refusing low-ball offers and should chase for something realistic. The key word here is "realistic" - you won't get anywhere if you price yourself out of the ball-park. Similarly, overselling your skills to get a higher paid role will fail when you can't meet your objectives. 

Keep on turning the unit whenever needed. Also get yourself a desk fan for your own comfort. It might be worth asking your co-workers why they keep turning off the A/C and seeing whether there's an alternative solution to their problem. 

Ask them about previous projects and how well they fit the budget/resources. Ask them how they go about budgeting/resourcing projects. Ask them whether they have problems with projects going off-track or under-delivering. Obviously, the context is pretty key here. If you're being employed as a Project Manager, these questions are pretty appropriate. If you're being employed as a lower level worker (i.e. you're the one being managed), then these questions will most probably be taken as inappropriate. Either way, asking for the spreadsheets and expecting your interviewers to go through the figures with you won't be seen well. 

There's not much you can do except for continue doing your own job as effectively as you can do. This woman obviously knows that she's safe in her job because replacing her is difficult. It might be worth exploring whether her key tasks can be performed in some other way (out-sourcing, for example) thereby making her redundant. You can then allow the performance reviews to outline an outcome. Unfortunately, your company has allowed this behaviour to continue for some time, so suddenly letting her go for things she's been allowed to do for some time might be difficult to defend. In short, out-source the specific work that she does, and allow the performance/disciplinary process to do it's work. It's possible that side-lining her work might cause her to leave anyway. 

You have over a week to go yet, so you're probably panicking over nothing. You'll likely hear from the HR department next week regarding final completion of your checks, and then where to go and what to expect. If you don't hear by Thursday of next week, call again. 

Enforce a production cost analysis on the design so far. Work out how much it's going to cost to tool the factory and to manufacture the product and how much the materials are going to cost. How much it's going to cost to package, transport, each of assembly, repairs, disposal, etc. When you've broken down the total cost of the product lifecycle, you'll have a good idea of what's costing the most and can seek to cut back on the expensive aspects that aren't likely to reap profits. 

Just do it. There's no need to make any kind of artificial looking compromises here. People often share the same name as celebrities (I myself have the exact same name as someone I'd rather not be confused by). It's all in the context. And your friend won't be adding a stint of political office in his CV, will he? 

This asks the interviewers if they have any concerns about your interview answers or your CV/resume, and allows you to proactively address those concerns during the interview rather than the company using those concerns as a reason not to hire you. This also tells the interviewers that you have the confidence to discuss and defend your resume/CV, meet those challenges head-on and allay any reservations they might have about you. It's a pretty strong question to ask. 

Yes, it's appropriate (and necessary) to ask this and also ask what level of English language is required. Asking this up front will save time and prevent you from applying for a job for which you might not be suited. Your written English (here) is excellent, in my opinion. 

Brexit hasn't killed your company. Your boss has killed the company by assuming that Brexit will kill your company. Working and living in the UK for a large technology firm, Brexit hasn't changed anything about how we work. The fact that your boss thinks it's a guillotine pedestal is simply a sign of his bad financial planning. Obviously, you don't have to conduct his witch-hunt for him. His paranoia is your cue to start looking for another job - there's plenty of companies in the UK who have planned effectively and will flourish in the post Brexit era. This isn't a police matter. Anyone sacked as part of this culling can seek advice from CAB/employment lawyer and proceed from there. Retain that email asking for people to vote in the election. You might well need that, because it's evidence. 

Put the plug in the sink while you brush your hair. Removing said hair would then be a lot easier and less messy Stand further away from the sink while brushing your hair 

Just deflect this and simply say that you prefer to use your email address instead for work related networking and that you only have your mobile for personal use. This might not be strictly true, but it's difficult to argue with. He might email you in the future, but it's easier to sugar-coat an email answer than be caught unprepared on the phone. 

In my experience, interviews aren't really on a first come, first served basis. In your case, it seems that the company has a role to fill starting at a particular date (financial quarter start, maybe) and is interviewing people up to a certain date. At the end, all the candidates are discussed and assessed before a decision is made. Sometimes, budget/planning reasons mean that none of the candidates are taken on (or none really meet the mark). I've seen this happen a few times. Basically, in your case, you're not at a disadvantage. If anything, being toward the back of the interview period leaves you fresher in their mind and they'll likely ask more appropriate questions (because they've already asked x amount of people before for the same role). Having said that, if they see someone who's an exact fit early on in the process, they might well jump early and close down subsequent interviews. So, if you still have the interview, you're in with a shout. 

Making an issue of it will most probably cause a larger, interpersonal, issue. It's normal office noise, just get used to it and move on with your life. Apologies for the short answer, I didn't want to annoy you with my typing/clicking.