So while both styles of meditation focus on the abdomen, the reason is a quite different. In one, the rise and fall of the abdomen is considered somewhat unstable as we notice slight irregularities in breathing. In the other, the abdomen is considered the stable part of the body as a tree trunk is to a tree. Due to the many differences in interpretation, best to ask your own teacher if possible. But something to think about until you get the chance. Welcome to Buddhism.SE and glad to hear of the benefits meditation is bringing to you. :) 

However there is also a factor of the end result. Some actions taken with good intentions can lead to suffering while some actions taken with bad intentions can turn out actually well for someone. So in another sense, actions which lead to suffering are bad actions and actions which lead to freedom from suffering are good actions. 

I think it's clear that the acceptance of things "as they are" is very important in Jodo Shinshu. You are not trying to pray for things to be other than what they are. This sense of acceptance is a concept which is understood in other Buddhist traditions as well. But it is beautifully expressed in this poem, I think. :) 

Yes. Emptiness characterizes everything, including Nirvana and even emptiness itself. Have you read the Heart Sutra? I highly recommend that for an example of the all-permeating nature of emptiness. 

Tranquility meditation is a method, and it has nothing to do with an object. Tranquility meditation can easily use the rising and falling of the abdomen as an object, just like insight meditation can easily use a concept as its object. Now I can see conceptualization itself being an issue, but again, that's nothing to do with tranquility or insight. 

Do you believe that your personal development is driven by intention? Do you subscribe to a modern, scientific worldview? 

I have. The hypnagogic/hypnaponic state is known for the interesting and even intense phenomena that can arise. Here's my most vivid experience: 

The above was very vivid, more vivid than my waking experiences. I chalk it up to the hallucinations (or lucid dreams) possible from this state. 

This is a tough question and just about any attempt to define Buddhism can run into problems. On the most general level, Buddhism is any religion/philosophy that traces its lineage back to Gotama Siddartha (known as the Buddha after his enlightenment). Now this definition -- while being general -- may also be too general. A more specific definition is that Buddhism is a belief system and way of life rooted in The 4 Noble Truths. 

The Buddha gives a simile of dropping a salt crystal into a cup and asking if the water was fit to drink and, of course, the answer is no. It would be too salty due to the small amount of water in the cup. The Buddha then asks if a salt crystal were to be dropped into the Ganges River if it would be fit to drink and, or course, the answer is yes because of the large amount of water in the river. So the same action does not necessarily lead to the same effect nor to the same length of time for the ripening of the effect. The Buddha then gave some very helpful details of what type of people may experience lessor effects of their bad karma. 

I think you will end up getting better answers to your question. But I'll answer what I can. :) It truly is exhausting to be in a mind state of continually judging every experience and every facet of life as positive or negative and trying to continually change things to be as you would have them. One of the reasons people come to mediation is because they realize they can't change the world and they want to learn to live in the world in a way that causes less suffering for themselves and others. Meditation is something an individual does but because of the way it changes the individual; it also changes things in the individual's world. Spending time in meditation can help a meditator to become very aware of things they are doing which are causing suffering for themselves and others. It can help one to realize that suffering comes internally by identifying things as me and mine and trying desperately to prop up that fragile ego of me and mine. The relief of learning to loosen the grip of needing to have everything under your control and everything to your liking is tremendous. I don't think it can be properly explained; it's something that needs to be experienced. If you are concerned that meditating will make you indifferent to the needs of others, I can only say that because you are, examining your own mind when you meditate, you really can't hide anything from yourself. So if you are doing something that causes suffering to others, it'll be clear and you won't want to continue. 

Any meditation can do this, since meditation develops non-attachment and concentration on non-self centered objects, and it's attachment and self-centered thoughts that give rise to and perpetuate the sense of self. Therefore what you do depends on your disposition, challenges, pre-existing beliefs, etc... However, if you need some pointers, here are some meditations that may be particularly well suited to this... 

Again, to the extent that you recognize these as simply thoughts arising, you are ok. But when you cling to them, you are under the spell of illusion and you suffer. Even an apparently positive thought can be a problem. For instance, when you help someone, you might experience this thought arising... 

It depends on why you are meditating. However, since you are posting to a Buddhist group, look at it from the Buddhist perspective. Meditation supports the Buddhist way of viewing the world, with non-attachment, that sees the impermanence and lack of essence of all things, especially one's "self". As such, "Creative Attacks" are not relevant to this practice. Further, if you are going through rough patches (or creative attacks), then the application of meditation is to look into this rough patch (or creative attacks), to see the characteristics mentioned above, but especially the illusory nature of the "you" who is suffering these rough patches (or creative attacks). That is, instead of trying to combat feeling with feeling, work on seeing the illusory nature of the source. When confronted with suffering, look for the one who suffers, and when that is seen to be an illusion, the suffering becomes a non-issue. Having said that, the posture to adopt to meditation should be one in which you can be alert (nothing that will lull you to sleep) while minimizing your discomfort. Certain postures may make some bodily sensations more noticeable than others, so I'd recommend the one that reduces those. Beyond that, you're free to pick a posture. 

So the second tetrad in your example is mindfulness of feelings (vedanā) and the third is mindfulness of mind (citta). A basic distinction of these is here: 

Mr. Goenka's meditation centers around the world teach insight meditation in a completely non religious setting. Rules include not being able to bring religious items or continue with spiritual practices while you are there. 

Many times I've heard of Budai (pictured below) being associated with Maitreya, the future Buddha. Why is this so and how widespread is this belief? Wikipedia lists a short verse uttered before Budai's death: 

An interesting twist is that at least one school of Buddhism does not have monastics but does give Dharma names to lay followers at a ceremony called Affirmation. For example, from: $URL$ 

In DN2, the Samaññaphala Sutta: The Fruits of the Contemplative Life, the Buddha speaks of virtues in three sections of his discourse; The Lesser Section on Virtue, the Intermediate Section on Virtue, and The Great Section on Virtue. Part of the Intermediate Section on Virtue reads: 

The book notes across Asia, the stupa assumed a variety of regional forms. Thai and Burmese stupas were tall and graceful. In Vietnam and Cambodia, separate stupas rarely appeared as temples were built into mountainsides; but sometimes small "votive" style stupas were build inside those temples. In Java, small stupas decorated the terraces of the temples. The book does go on in quite a bit more detail regarding changes in the look of stupas including the change to open, wooden stupas in the Far East, where they were called pagodas. It was also noted that later styles of stupas typically did not contain sacred relics and were not always built inside walled enclosures. They became more decorative and less sacred. Hope this sheds some insight. :) 

Identity views cause pain since this self is something that can come under attack and hence becomes a source of worry and regret (see #3) and conflict (see #2). Further, suffering continues because experience becomes filtered and emotionally laden because of how it's seen to relate to this "self" (see #3). Then there's the fact that desires are in reference to a "self" -- when you seek desires, you seek to feed this "self". So the goal is to suspend belief in a self. This doesn't mean claiming it doesn't exist -- but rather, letting all beliefs about it go. That's the only way the apparently contradictory claims of the Sutras (and the various view fetters) make sense to me. You suspend these beliefs by inquiring into the nature of this self. Be mindful and present to your experience, especially when confronted with 1-4, and inquire deeply into this "self" that seems to present itself. During meditation (or in quieter times) try to focus on this sense of "I" and go through the Skhandas to see if you can find any self there. You can even look at it logically; if the self is "you", the thing behind your consciousness (not that I'm claiming it is), then how can you be aware of it, as to be aware of anything means its an object of consciousness and not the subject? As for Western approaches to the self, I think the most systematic treatment is Derek Parfitt. After that, there's David Hume. Here's a PDF outlining his identity views. And here's a passage from Hume (from here) about his views on a self. This may make a good object for meditation, and the relationship to Skhandas is clear: 

Generally, we try to submit each question individually, but I'll do my best to answer these briefly from the Theravada tradition and give links for further information. 

There are many adaptations of a story about a brave little parrot (or other type of bird) who tries to put out a forest fire by dipping her feathers in a lake and shaking the drops over a raging forest fire. Does anyone know which number Jataka tale this originates from? Here is an example of the adapted tale. $URL$ Thank you. 

The answer to this question may also depend on the individual and how advanced they are in Buddhist practice. If a person is solid in faith and regular in practice and can truly be that good example for friends that may help lead those friends to the Dhamma that is one thing. If the individual is newer to Buddhism and the keeping of precepts and right speech and needs lots of time to themselves to establish a regular meditation practice and learn about their new path then friends and social activities can be a distraction. In fairness, a person in the second scenario should explain to their friends why they can't be as available as they've been in the past, or why they are no longer willing to participate in certain activities. Good friends will understand and give you that time you need. Bad friends may not respect your commitment and may continually try to persuade you back to your old ways. It's not compassionate to yourself or even the bad friend to accommodate that. Leaving a bad friend with more time on their hands (because you are not around) may give them more time to think and may be the wake up call they need. As far as socializing in real life and online, you have to set limits and priorities or the days and weeks and months will simply fly by aimlessly. As a practical suggestion, I find Airplane mode on the my phone very handy when I want to use my phone based meditation timer but not be distracted by texts and notifications. :) 

Incorporate some meditative movement (walking meditation, Yoga, Tai Chi) as a "bridge" between your meditative practice and "active" life. Prior to engaging in your affairs, take a moment to remind yourself that your "goal" is to be mindful. When being mindful, simple may be best. Perhaps restrict your practice to bare, non-judgmental awareness to anything that arises in your experience. Try a timer or mindfulness reminder app that will chime at regular intervals to "bring you back" and remind you of your mindfulness goals. 

That's the answer to whether this is misconduct or not. Although some interpret this injunctions legalistically/moralistically, I think that misses the point. In fact, I think this site has the right idea. It states the abstention is from SENSUAL misconduct, including overindulgence in (say) chocolate. 

Get people to abandon materialism. For many, this is the same as asking them to abandon science. Explain rebirth in a materialistic framework. If consciousness is a property of structure, rather than organism then a rebirth mechanism exists by simply having the same structure arise in the future. Karmic imprints could be explained by neuro-plasticity (which is said to be affected by meditation). Still, they may ask what happens if this structure is replicated now (and why wouldn't it be, given how much life we have?).