The term is often used with negative connotations eg. When a friend has a better car, house, wife, etc it is common that they will be riled because of the item that distinguishes them from their peers. Tall poppy syndrome has a positive side with Australia's "underdog" culture. 

According to the 2016 GDP by country, if Star Wars was a country, it would be ranked 44th (or 43rd or 42nd depending on the source) by income - that doesn't seem right. Was $262.9B worth of Star Wars merchandise sold in 2016? 

Native Animals Snakes: With 41 recorded deaths between 1980 and 2009 (source 1) (or 53 from 1979-1998(source 2)), snake deaths in Australia average out at less than two per year. Spiders: Nobody in Australia has died from a spider bite since 1981 after the successful introduction of antivenom for all native species. (source 4) Sharks: Accounted for 25 deaths between 2000 and (March) 2012 in Australia, about 2 a year. (source 1) Or 216 in 227 years (source 6). Crocodiles: Historically, crocodiles account for less than one death per year here in Australia, although that is increasing slightly as the crocodile population rises following the ban on crocodile hunting in 1971. Blue Ringed Octopus: Just 3 recorded deaths in the last century (source 1). Or 2 (source 7). Stonefish: One unconfirmed death by stonefish in 1915. (source 5) Cone Snails: 0 deaths - ever (source 1). Killer Jellyfish: Jellyfish account for (at time of writing) 66 deaths since records began in 1883. The box jellyfish was responsible for 64 deaths, and the Irukandji the other two. It sounds a lot, but still less than one death per year, more like just half a death per year. (source 1) Dingo: 3 deaths between 1980 and 2012. All children. (source 9) 

I just watched The illuminati Exposed By Muammar Gaddafi on YouTube. It was very interesting, but at one point they said that there was a pro-Gaddafi rally in the Tripoli with 1.7 million people or 95% of Tripoli. This rally occured during the civil war. Did this rally really happen? Was there a large percent support for Gaddafi during the civil war? 

I saw an excellent example of this in the news recently. A woman experienced some negative situation and the community gathered around her family and built her a new home. 

My question is "how low"? They couldn't answer, except to say it's low. After a quick google search I found this link that says the number is 15. FIFTEEN!!! I've had about that many almonds today... so that can't be right. And that link is from a questionable source (google+) but I've heard this urban legend before. How many almonds will it take to kill a human? I'm looking for LD50 of a 70kg person. 

As a regular skeptic, I often get involved in arguments about vaccines. In a recent discussion this came up: 

But then I came across this science program from Australia. A transcript is available for those unable to view it. The interesting part is here: 

Also the conditions for holding slaves was very different, Biblically, it was not unheard of for a slave to voluntarily stay a slave after being freed. 

Whenever I'm sick I hear people say "Don't eat sugar. Sugar feeds infection". It seems like a well-known concepts: "Sugar feeds infection", "feeds infection and causes inflammation" and "contributes to a weakened defense against bacterial infection" Recently, I had a throat infection, it seemed to be going away and I had a piece of (sugary, delicious) cake and got much, much worse. But when I asked my doctor about it he said, "sugar doesn't feed infection and it was probably circumstancial". Does sugar feed infection? For specificity, lets say refined cane sugar. 

The next day the Australian Statistician, David Kalisch called the DDOS an "attack", "from overseas". Which was quickly rebutted by Michael McCormack, Minister for Small Business. It is clearly an example of DDoS. But was it a deliberate DDoS attack? Or an accidental DDoS due to unpreparedness and 16 million people all trying to access a service at once? 

This answer is most applicable to murder, which was mentioned by the OP. Investigations are most effective early on According to Regis University' criminology department: 

There is legislation (in many countries and jurisdictions) regarding the dangers of azo dyes. Chromium (VI) A preservative and dye, Chromium (VI) has been banned within the EU. It's wikipedia page says this: 

In this video (Donald Trump in St. Charles, MO - Youtube), Donald Trump says the Republican tax plan is going to "cost him a fortune, believe me" (1:30). 

TLDR: Australia has a strong adherence to egalitarianism within social circles which isn't necessarily reflected in income. Economically Diverse Australia has a wide variety of socioeconomic "classes" like most societies. Although not clearly divided into classes (like the Indian Caste System) there is a distinct income scale. For example, the 6th wealthiest female (the beautiful Gina Rinehart - $17B) is Australian and yet poverty is not uncommon with some estimating 13% below the poverty line. Socially Uniform However, (and I feel like this is where the quoted articles are coming from) within social groups there is a strong urge to "be the same", to not stand out. In Australia (and other Anglo-based nations), this is known as "Tall Poppy Syndrome". Tall poppy syndrome is the term used to... 

This is not the same as this question about your average bystander, but about qualified, trained guards or police. 

Does washing work? Washing is one of the ways to minimise the risk of chemical contamination. But also, it's icky to wear clothes others may have worn. 

A quick google search showed many results affirming this statement, but none from the CDC. Does the CDC own vaccine patents? If yes, does it make "billions" of dollars from them? 

TLDR: Yes, Lyme disease exists in and can be contracted in Australia. The Lyme Disease Association of Australia (LDAA) performed a study of 224 cases of Lyme disease in Austalia. Many of those are suspected to have contracted the disease overseas, but 25% had never left Australia prior to contracting the disease(1). This is from their Lyme Disease Myths web page: 

Biblical slavery, at least for Hebrew males, is much closer to what we would call employment. It's voluntary, temporary, you have certain protections, you get treated like an employee, you can be paid or make money and you get some sort of payment usually of debts. 

But this video and article(CNBC) seem to point to Trump, and property developers in general, being one of a handful of major beneficiaries of the new tax code. Is this new tax code going to cost Donald Trump (and his family) more or less in taxes? 

I just watched The illuminati Exposed By Muammar Gaddafi. It's a really good watch (especially for us skeptics), but at one point they said that the reason Muammar al-Gaddafi was overthrown was, not because he was a bad, unpopular or corrupt leader but because he lead Libya to a "golden age" where the Libyan Central Bank offered loans at 0% interest. Apparently, the Illuminati, lead by the Rothschild banking empire, couldn't allow 0% interest loans because that would undermine their primary income (after world domination). Obviously, we can't prove or disprove the illuminati here, but did the Libyan Central Bank offer loans at 0% interest? 

TLDR: No. Australia's most deadly animals are in fact foreign. Below is a break down of animal deaths in Australia. First native animals and then non-native animals. Where discrepancies exist in the data, both values are stated. 

If a criminal can make it through the first couple of days, they are more likely to escape and the case may become "cold". A cold case is a crime that has not yet been fully solved and is not the subject of a recent criminal investigation and if it's not being actively investigated it is less likely to be solved. Unless... Again Regis University's Criminology department says that in a 67% of homicides the killer leaves physical evidence at the scene. Which means the police may know who to look for even if you're "laying low". Statute of Limitations If a criminal can avoid arrest long enough they could avoid arrest altogether because of a statute of limitations.