So I'm only 17, but I do a lot where I work. The hotel I'm at originally hired me to do bussing/hosting in the on-property restaurant. Well, about 2 months in, while I'm still 16, the Front Office Manager, who handles all of the check-in, rooms, and sales, took a liking to me, and started cross-training me at the front desk. The previous General Manager who was promoted to Vice-President of the parent company also made it very clear that he liked me, my personality, and especially my work ethic. So, I start working the front desk, and pretty soon the Front Office Manager would rather have me, a 16 year old, on the front desk than the people actually hired for it, and the VP wholeheartedly agrees. Pretty soon I'm not really working in the restaurant anymore, but now I'm basically a special activities employee; anytime somebody has a "project" they pass it on to me. Well, the Front Office Manager was promoted to General Manager. Along with that, now I'm her de facto assistant. Now, this whole time I have 2 different salaries; in the restaurant I'm making 8.25, but when I do anything else it's 10. At first, I was more than happy to work for that rate; it's my first job. However, I feel like they've been taking advantage of me, especially since the new GM was promoted. Now, the VP has me running through the finance data for the hotel and wants me to work with the Director of Sales to optimize and modernize the new year marketing plan to present to upper-management and ownership. After that, he wants me to go through the balance sheets for the hotel itself and all the departments to analyze it and create visualizations using software like Tableau to find out why the hotel isn't operating on a relatively good profit margin. If the ownership likes it, he wants me to do the other 13 hotels in the parent companies portfolio (including teaching the GMs). I'm perfectly fine doing that, but I don't feel like it's fair that they would realistically hire somebody for 25-30$/hr to do that at minimum. So, I was upfront with the general manager and basically said, "I think that I should see an increased compensation because my entire set of responsibilities has changed." Her response was neither up nor down. She seemed open to the idea but I guess I was wrong. When asked what I thought was fair, I lowballed at 20%, which would only be 12/hr. She said, "There's grown adults here making less than that." So I simply inquired, "So is it solely because of my age?" She was frank and said, "It's not not because of your age." I understand that the hotel isn't operating on the best profit margin, but I don't think that it's fair to expect me to work a job that somebody would get paid almost 3x to do simply because I'm only 17. What would you suggest I do? What's the next move? Edit: I'm actually planning on attending University of Chicago, and not for hospitality or finance, so I don't plan on being around the location (York,PA) or industry for more than a year. This is honestly just a job I never foresaw, and I do have a number of other academic and volunteer engagements, so I want to make sure that my work is actually worth my time. 

Compensation should be a reflection of the value you bring to your firm. So it boils down to this: is there a difference in the value you bring your firm when compared with your co-worker? If so that would explain the difference in compensation. However, you must also remember that labor is a market. Thus, if you cannot translate the value you create for your firm easily to another firm, then that will negatively impact your value because it decreases competition for your services. So my recommendation is that you start by really understanding your compensation situation and the market for your talents. Once you have that understanding, then I would immediately seek to negotiate compensation to a fair market rate. If that compensation is not forthcoming then I would seek fair market compensation in the open market. My recommendation on the immediate re-negotiation is based on the fact that it shows urgency and forces your boss to assess your value seriously. Waiting until the next review is a weak negotiating position. 

My personal opinion is that a business plan would likely be overkill. Unless, the senior manager you're going to speak with has a track record of desiring and valuing business plans then I wouldn't go through that much work. Instead, I would think there are better uses of your time and effort to get the role. Before that allow to address some potential risks associated with the plan of a written business plan. I see two risks with a formal written business plan as well: (1) a plan usually promises goals; and (2) a written plan can be distributed. The risk in promising the achievement of goals is that you may not be able to achieve them. This may sound like I am advising that you avoid committing to a goal, but I would say that you avoid committing to a goal until you clearly understand the situation and the team. Once you have a more complete understanding of that situation and the unique challenges it presents you can then produce a set of goals with a better understanding of whether those are realistic goals. The risk in producing a written plan that can be distributed is that it could be handed to your immediate supervisor and then they will be free to react as they see fit. You seem to be fearful of this manager thus I would suggest if you're going to be cautious with her then exercise full caution. Instead, I would recommend a networking-style strategy or an indirect strategy. With the networking strategy I would communicate to as many people who influence the senior manager that you believe you would do well as the acting manager if given the chance. Then ask them for any information they have regarding the concerns or desires of the that senior manager when selecting the acting supervisor. Eventually, that networking would culminate in a conversation with the senior manager where you express your interest in the position and suggest the most supportive of your networking nodes as recommendations. In the indirect strategy, I would just start supervising the group without a supervisor in an ad-hoc fashion is whatever way you can. If it's scheduling, offer to help with the schedule. If it's approvals/overrides, offer to pick up some of the slack. Slowly, start collecting pieces of the acting supervisor role and then approach the senior manager about taking on the whole role. In this pursuit be wary of sacrificing performance in your current role. If the senior manager seriously considers you but sees a recent trend of poor performance then you shouldn't be surprised if you're not given the opportunity. That's what I would recommend based on the information provided. Feel free to comment with more info and I can tweak my responses. 

Social Networking sites are blocked in our office. So whenever i am free at work, i usually spend much of my time studying my previous assignments, researching about enhancements in the technology on which i am working upon and most of the time in Stack overflow solving others problem. I think its among the best ways to learn about things. But also, you need to find out the reason, why you are not being assigned work, sometimes these reasons could be severe. 

I am quite new to Office environment, so I am not not much familiar with Workplace etiquettes. Our Lunch timings is from 2 pm to 3 pm. But our seniors are mostly busy doing their project stuff at that time and they mostly leave their seats at about 2:30 for Lunch. But I most of the time leave my seat for lunch at exact 2 pm. 

Thanx to all users, who had given their valuable suggestions. what i had concluded that to boost up my enthusiasm during work, as suggested by @karl beilefeldt 

This is a usual scenario in our office. We are a group of 4 trainees seated alongside 3 seniors. we 4 trainees are really good friends . It is usual among us that 2 or 3 of us are involved in conflicting dicsussion. Its been 5 months for us and each time any of us had discussion and if the person sitting quite knows the answer doesnt hesitate much to interrupt the discussion to give their suggestion. But on the other side, if any of our seniors have conversation, even if we know the answer we didn't interrupt them, as long as we are asked to. So i would suggest you to interrupt the X and Y only if you have sound relations with them, otherwise you should wait for them to ask you to answer the topic. Else it will reflects your lack of focus on own work and eye on other's work.