A "normal" pair of tights cannot be injurious; no way. Right now the only differentiating factor is the weather: cold. Under 2mi/day is nothing. Since you mention ITB issues, I'm far more likely to attribute the issues to cold/lack of warmup/inherent tension. Your specialist should have given you a number of stretches; I suffer (still) from ITB issues and if I don't do a few stretches I notice it within days. 

IMO you should always eat after exercise to replenish glycogen and protein. Waiting (or not) will not be the gating factor in determining if you lose belly fat. Losing fat is (largely) a matter of math: expend more calories than you consume. Differences caused by specific post-working meal timing will be trivial compared to overall, long-term habits. 

I use a VitaMix, so stuff is more than fine enough to allow nutrient absorption. Easy to see if they're being broken down--same way you can tell if you've been chewing your corn. Cooked oats are more likely to be absorbed because they don't require as much processing (chewing, digestion) as raw oats. The size of the pieces also matters; more surface area equals easier digestion--one reason we have molars. I don't use a "huge" amount (I think I was using about 1/2c uncooked?) and I noticed it added a slight "dusty" flavor, but it was not particularly unpleasant; I actually kind of liked it but when I use it as part of a drink now I use about 1/4c, just for a boost of some middle-of-the-road carbs and fiber. 

Your doctor is closer to being right (but probably not 100%). The body starts eating muscle when you're out of glycogen. If you're drinking sugary beverages (i.e., not diet) that will delay the onset of chowing down on muscles, at least to some extent. You'll become marginally de-conditioned after five days, but not radically; most of the issues will be related to not having sufficient fuel stores to bust out a pre-weakness workout. 

etc. If it's not exercise-induced, you might want to have it looked at. Sometimes they'll go away essentially instantly if you inhale fully, bend over, stick your finger in the area of pain (not so good for butt stitches), and exhale completely. A few reps might be necessary. If it goes away after that it's likely due to one of the reasons above, or it might just have happened for no particular reason at all. If it doesn't go away after that then take a break. 

Twisting exercises (like Russian twists) can aggravate lower back conditions. You don't say what order you're doing things in, so it's hard to tell if a previous exercise is involved. I'm not sure how taking a shower would cause the issue since you say the pain starts after doing the squats. You also don't say if you're doing the same routine twice a day, or if they're bodyweight squats. Impossible to say much more, but I'd suspect form first, followed by a PEC, then fatigue, then weakness. There are likely other possible reasons, or other "priorities" of these and other factors. 

I'd really recommend getting a coach/trainer, even if only temporarily. It's very difficult to diagnose your own mechanics, even with video, without the experience. Even a few sessions could do wonders and help you decide what area(s) to focus on. 

If you've just started, it doesn't make a significant difference. The caveat I'd mention is that pushups engage the triceps, so a completely random order might put them next to each other, which could have some impact. The pushup hand location modulates tricep engagement. I wouldn't call this a mass-building routine, either, although again–if you're just starting, it's fine. 

Wear a wrap to the shower and back, wear sandals, that's about it. If it's too much, don't bother. Keep your clothes/etc. in your locker, use either your own towel (my preference) or the gym's for a towel, if the towel is big enough you can wrap with it, otherwise bring something meant specifically to wrap. Don't make a mountain out of a molehill. 

Resting a week won't cause any significant losses in fitness gains, and it's critical to let the body recharge. The nature of those 5x/week sessions determines what kind of rest/recovery would be needed. If you can't bear to be inactive for a week (I can't), do really low-intensity trots, or just walk briskly--your body will thank you, and you might be surprised at how you feel when you start up again. 

It's a good question. Mark Rippetoe even acknowledged in Starting Strength that muscling dumbbells around and getting them into position for a dumbbell press is part of the movement. When I carry a pair of dumbbells from the rack I always take one with each hand. Even if I take them back separately, I take one with each arm. I don't think moving a 45lb plate around does anything for me anymore in terms of progressive overload, so I don't think I'm in danger of getting unbalanced by doing that. However, if you are a novice, and it is actually work for you then you should be trying to divide all of the work evenly between the two sides of your body. Weight training tends to even out strength imbalances. Make sure you have good form and don't come up from a lift crooked, or else you will never balance out. One of my workout buddies has had the same messed up benchpress and press form for years because of this. Edit: and by the way, I do dumbbell press and dumbbell benchpress in preference to the barbell versions specifically to ensure an even development in both halves of my body. But even properly done barbell movements will balance out your body. 

It's really hard to disprove steroid use. Any muscular physique that can be attained without steroids can also be attained more quickly with the use of steroids. Only very, very muscular bodybuilding pros have naturally impossible physiques (Ron Coleman, Arnold Schwartzenegger level). The guy you linked could be natural. I doubt he is, but he could be. If you want to stalk a particular person, you should track their rate of gains over time. That's the biggest clue. 

And aerobically, the 1 mile run time is an excellent, objective benchmark. Most importantly, go to the gym at least three days per week, and work with heart and soul every time you go. You will see the benefits very quickly. Good luck sir! We who are about to lift salute you. 

I know how you feel. I just switched to Texas Method about 3 weeks ago. It's the original Madcow. The theory behind these intermediate programs is that you've programmed the load on the bar such that this workout sufficiently disrupts homeostasis. Meaning that, if you've chosen the correct weight, you don't need to do more volume to trigger an adaptation. Mark Rippetoe's "intermediate" book, "Practical Programming", describes the Texas method in detail in chapter 7. He's also got a quick rundown of the same thing on T-Nation From the link, 

Peer reviewed literature on testosterone appears to have inconsistent conclusions, however, the well designed studies all agree that abstinence raises T. Some studies say that masturbation raises T, and some that abstinence does so. But the well-designed studies all conclude that abstinence raises the baseline amount of T in your body. Well designed studies measure blood T levels for at least ten days after a masturbation event. One frequently cited study only compared T levels a few hours before and after the masturbation event, which lead its authors into an incorrect conclusion. It is true that there is a brief spike in T during and after sexual activity that lasts a few hours at most, before returning to a baseline level, b. But 5 days after an ejaculation event, blood T levels begin rising, and flatline at about 1.5b on about the 7th day after masturbation (presumably, after any orgasm). They stay at this highly elevated level until you orgasm again. Long story short: protracted abstinence dramatically raises your T level. And the best part is, you don't have to take anyone's word for it. Just try it for yourself and you won't doubt it anymore. The effects of that extra testosterone are powerful. I assure you that you won't be able to mistake the difference. The strength, motivation, clarity, and drive that you feel after protracted abstinence has been noted by men throughout the ages, and all across the globe. To give an extreme example, the Spartiate warrior caste lived in barracks their entire lives, and only had carnal knowledge of their wives when they were able to sneak out (at the risk of formal censure). The warriors of the Maori, the indigenous inhabitants of New Zealand, widely famed for their ferocity in battle, engaged in rigorous, extended periods of sexual abstinence in preparation for war. 

Is there a hard bump there that hurts when you press on it? If so, it could be Osgood Schlatter's. Actually, even if there isn't a bump yet, it could still be this. On the other hand, if the pain is in the tendon attached to the kneecap, it could be Jumper's Knee. Either way, as Dave said, make sure your squat form is perfect, BEFORE you go heavy. If you're squatting right, there will be no joint pain, only possible muscle soreness. I had Osgood Schlatters a while ago; it seemed it was because I wasn't sitting back in my squat enough. If you don't sit back on your heels and take the force of the squat in your glutes and hamstrings, all the force goes into your quads and knees. You should be taking barely any weight on your quads at the bottom of a squat; your core should be tight, and your glutes and hams should be TIGHT, taking the weight. Concentrate on feeling that tension in your glutes, ready to explode the weight upward. If you read the Stronglifts "how to squat" article I think he explains it pretty well. 

This might be tough to hear, but you should also consider the fact that not everyone is gifted with a body that can handle pro-athlete levels of activity. If your legs are constantly tired/heavy, and you see no improvement (and ESPECIALLY if you see backwards progress), I would say your body is telling you it's not ready for that level of activity (at least not yet). Back it off a bit, let your legs recover, and try easing into things. I'm not saying you shouldn't push yourself, but at the same time, there is such thing as overtraining, and at that point all the time you put into your training is counterproductive and wasted. Stubbornness can be the enemy of progress sometimes. 

I would say do all of what you mentioned! If your sport is soccer, do sprints AND endurance training. Not on the same day, though. A sprint workout will tax your muscles' explosive capabilities and especially your nervous system. You want to stay away from fatigue, as the goal is to teach your body and brain how to move at the highest speed possible. Sprint practice on sluggish legs doesn't do this. You want full recovery in between sprints. On the other hand, a long running workout should be focused on building your endurance at a pace that is sustainable for long enough that you actually do reach your endurance limits. If you're running too fast, you won't reach that limit. I like to think about endurance as running at a pace where you can get "in the zone," where you can go for a loooong time (think a 90 minute soccer match). Sport specific training, then, would be where it all comes together. Doing all the springs and 5-mile runs in the world won't help if you can't dribble or pass the ball! But, they will help you elevate your game to a new level as your sport-specific skills progress. Basically, there's no reason you shouldn't be able to do all of the things you talked about. But, make sure that each training session has a goal in mind - if you're doing a sprint workout, the goal is speed! So don't tire out your legs. And if you're going for distance, the goal is endurance - so run at a pace that you can sustain to reach true endurance limits. 

Running is harder on your body that walking. This is a pro. It can also, if not addressed correctly, turn into a con. Running will push your muscles, tendons, joints, lungs and heart more than walking will. When you run, your feet will hit the ground harder, your muscles will contract faster and with more force, your lungs will need to supply more air, and your heart will need to distribute blood faster. Basically, your entire body will be working harder - which is a good thing! It will force your body to adapt and improve to meet the new challenge. However, if you've never run before, or haven't run in a long time, there is a danger of overdoing things, especially if you 'jump in the deep end.' Start off slow - maybe 1 mile at a time at an easy pace, and see how it feels. Don't just try to run 3 miles a day during the first week - your body won't be ready for such a drastic change. Make sure you have good shoes, make sure your technique is decent. Otherwise overuse injuries will inevitably happen. If you ever have pain that is not normal soreness, take a break. Don't try to fight an injury - this is counterproductive. Overall, I would say running is a great and logical next step after walking. Like I mentioned before, it will improve the fitness of all the parts of your body, more than walking will. BUT, remember to be smart about it, and listen to your body. Ease into it, and you'll be fine. Good luck!