Since you mentioned you don't want to get to the office all wet - I'll assume you don't have shower facilities or don't want to regularly shift your shower to close to work (many commuters ride as it and only shower once they reach a gym or club close to the workplace) This makes the choice of bike much less important - you won't be hammering the miles so anything with good fenders, a chain guard and racks will not slow you down much at a slower speed (11 to 14 mph). I know it sounds obvious, but do stop by several bike shops and ask who to talk to in town about bike commuting. Bike shops will quickly steer you to the ones that have the experience to let you know exactly what clothing works, and where to spend your money based on the local conditions. Commuters are ideal customers as they will over time spend far more than recreational riders - a steady diet of maintenance, consumables and upgrades is far better for businesses than the occasional big splurge on a frame. These professionals are there to help you find the joy of powering your commute. Make use of them :-) Biking builds body heat, so you won't be cold - even when it's wet once you get the right clothes. Do buy your bike in town - they will stock more appropriate bikes and you will be feeding the local ecosystem with good will with your investment there. Don't turn down a cheap bike - but I would avoid buying one before you move. 

I've done something like that ages ago. But had a friend working in CNC shop - he made a steel insert to fix the threads. And 10 years after - the cranks are still going fine. But not everyone have access to CNC machinery. So it might be easier and cheaper to replace the cranks. 

Is the chain always goes up/down? In this case usually the adjustment is off. Try adjust the cable. Is the mech hanger bent? Sometimes during a crash you can bend a mech hanger. Most of the times you can bend it back, but there are cases where you need to replace the mech hanger for a new one. Usually they are cheap £5-15. Is the shifting very slow? Dirty outer cables and rusty inner can cause the problem with shifting. Replace inner cable and outer cable for new ones. Is the shifter clicking OK? I've seen cheap shifter wearing out and not "holding" clicks properly, so the chain would jump. Are the mech cogs (small chainrings) worn out? are they wobbly? Chain can only be placed properly if the cog is not moving sideways. If that is the case, replace the top cog. Also worn out cog can affect the shifting performance. Is the mech itself not bent or otherwise damaged? There are plenty of ways to destroy the mech.. usually that is beyond repair and you need to get a new one. If the mech is very-very cheap, it sometimes gets bent while in normal use (not MTB abuse). Only replacement will fix that. 

It really depends on how big the bumps are. You might want to stay away from a full carbon bike as they are rigid and you will feel everything. You can get "Roubaix" style that are built for a bumpier ride. When you say road bike I assume you mean racing style. A tourer or hybrid may also do the job but the fastest will be a racer. 

They are more efficient. Firstly you need to do less work to keep your feet on the pedals. Though it seems like that might be trivial you do expend energy and or concentration on keeping you feet on the pedals this will reduce that somewhat. Additionally in some circumstances it is safer, your feet will not slip off the pedals when you go over a bump. Finally you will be able to pull on the up stroke using different muscles and giving you more even power. I had a problem with toe straps that I have not had with proper clip in pedals and shoes. In order to remove your feet from toe straps, especially ones done too tightly you must take them straight back off the pedals. This is most unnatural as the reflex action is to move them sideways especially if you are slowing down and staring to lean to one side. 

Perhaps you'll have more luck with answers on specialised trials forums, like $URL$ However, I'll try to address your questions briefly. 

Pretty much all bike-related lights for helmets are mounted with velcro straps. My mate was riding in full-face helmet with lights on helmet. He had vents on top of the helmet and mounted the lights through the vents. Worked just fine. We use Light and Motion for "battery in the pack, light on the head" set up. If you are planning a DH in the dark, I highly recommend have 2 lights - one on your helmet to shine where you are looking at. And another on your handlebars - to put light just in front of the wheel. You can never have too much light for DH, and even with all the lights you can get, it does not give you the same confidence as with day-light. So take care when you are trying to do that drop you usually nail daytime. In the dark it'll be a whole new territory. 

A lot of your questions are down to experience. You'll know when you need a better rear break and what other parts to change. And you'll slowly assemble a great bike, going along with your skill level. And good luck! 

Sadly, cycling at speeds that much slower than traffic has some serious tradeoffs. For maximum visibility, you need to ride on the road itself - inside the right lane marker as drivers really don't pay attention to things not on the road. I don't know if it would be safer to take the lane the majority of 50 mph roads in the us - but you might experiment with where you place your bike in relation to the other vehicles. Ignoring the rude drivers that buzz you even when they see you - you'll want to be very, very bright and visible. I'm talking a two foot tall slow moving vehicle orange reflective triangle visible. The tradeoff comes since you rightly want to be as far outside the path of a car as possible - but you can't ride so close to the edge of the pavement that you are startled into the ditch. Do know that the further off the road you are - the less likely the average driver will a) notice you and b) slow down. I would try riding closer to the edge of the road and see how you feel. Also, experiment with anything that makes your hearing better. As silly as it seems, a "rear view hearer" is much more effective than a rear view mirror for being aware of vehicles approaching from behind. Modifying your helmet to ensure a clear path for noise behind you. Temporarily adding a small plastic half-cone just in front of your ear that would reduce airflow over your ear and/or direct more noise from behind might be just the thing to give you that extra warning to prepare for an upcoming vehicle. 

When riding in a group you often find that small changes of speed can mean that you do not need to pedal when it slows down and have small bursts of power when it speeds up. By soft pedaling when the group slows down your legs will already be spinning when its speeds up again. 

It depends on what terrain you are doing. We have a number of methods on training rides to combat this. In addition to the leaving someone at cafes. However this is more to do with hill climbing. If Ken finds it too easy to climb a hill at the same pace as Barbie can comfortably climb then he should go at the same pace but in a higher gear (with out too much pedal mashing), that way he will find it equally strenuous. Alternatively, Ken climbs at his own pace until he reaches the top of the hill. When he does he goes down and meets up with Barbie. He can either go off again at his own pace or do the second climb at Barbie's pace. This way he gets to push himself, but will not leave Barbie on her own to do the whole climb. I would add to Unsliced's cafe suggestion that, if he left her at a cafe for 30 mins after doing 20km she could probably manage another 10km on the way home at an easy pace. That way Ken might get 15 to 25km (at a hard pace) in while she is resting and then they can go home together in a leisurely fashion. That extra 10km could expand the range on places she can stop. Finally I would suggest they joined a cycling club, we have some couples in ours who do not ride at the same level. They have all the same social advantages, but the stronger rider does not have to worry about the weaker rider being by themselves. They can sometimes ride together and sometimes ride separately in groups appropriate to their level of riding. 

On Trek 4300 you have RST Gila fork which is cheap and simple. You can't really lock it completely, just pre-load the spring to maximum. I'd say you should not worry about it - the internals are very simple and can't really be damaged easily: this is no oil/air fork. It has a steel spring and some rubbers to work as dumper. And most likely the juddering you notice is not from the fork, but rather from the breaks themselves. 

Given all the above, plus possibility to keep normal shoes in the office, I cycle to work and change shoes there. 

The only way to know for sure what happens with your fork is to take it apart and have a look. Any other suggested procedure will be a guess. So if that noise bothers you, get your tools out and open the fork. Apart from checking the internal condition, you will gain a better understanding of the fork structure and operations, and you'll know what to expect from it. And next time you face with strange sound, you'll know what's happening there. 

No, these don't exist. You can get cable-pulled disk brakes and hydraulic disk brakes. Also you get cable-pulled rim-brakes or hydraulic rim brakes Sram S-700 (thanks to @mikes for the pointer) or Magura variation: 

You could use your old tires for when you are on the trainer and your new tires for road riding. That way your trainer wont wear out your new tires. 

It seems silly to say I don't know how to breathe, but I don't. When doing weights, I know you exhale when you do the work part of the rep. In Yoga similarly breathe out on the stretch. Rock climbing too, when you pull yourself up breathe out. The list goes on. What on earth do I do for cycling. Is it different for riding on flats or going up hill? I am talking here about when a reasonable amount of effort is being put in, not necessarily racing or time trial but not exactly bumbling along either. I remember when I was younger and did Cross country running at school we were taught to do two short breaths in and two out. Does that apply here or is there something else. I saw watching time trials no TV that some of the riders seem to ride with their mouth wide open. I tried this and found that on hot dry days it really hurt my throat and lungs. 

Presuming you are doing a standing start and coming to a complete stop at the top of the hill. The simple requirement is you need energy to move your from the bottom to the top. Most of the energy required will be to raise potential energy of the payload (you and the bike). Essentially you will be creating kinetic energy (moving the bike) by converting chemical energy in your body. There will be loses due to heat, friction with the road surface and air resistance. Disregarding them for the moment (they are not negligible, but complicate the calculation). Potential Energy (PE) = m * g * h Where: m = mass g = gravitational acceleration h = height PE is proportional to m, so a 10% increase in mass will increase the PE by 10%. Meaning you will need 10% more kinetic energy to get to the top of the same hill. Power is work done (energy) divided by time: P = W / t Where: P = Power in watts W = work done or energy in Joules t = time to do work. If your power is constant we can rearrange the equation to get P = (m * g * h)/ t becomes: t = (m * g * h) / P so with constant power, gravity and hill height your time will increase proportional to increase in mass, given by the above equation. If there is no wind air resistance will become less relevant the slower you are going. Friction will increase due to increase in weight. The steepness of the hill is theoretically irrelevant in this calculation. You are gaining the same amount of Gravitation Potential energy when you the same mass to the same height. So it shouldn't theoretically matter whether the hill is 10% or double as long and 5%. However, as you are generating the energy you need to create it from chemical energy, and there is only so much you can generate at one time. Your muscles will become inefficient and therefore on steeper hills you may require more energy than less steep ones. So on a steeper hill wind resistance might become less relevant but power (how much energy you can put out over time) to weight ratio will become the most relevant factor. What I am trying to point out in the last paragraph is that the energy you require to put into your body and for your body to convert into forward motion is not the same as the simple kinetic energy required to get you to the top of the hill. However all things being equal a change in mass will have the same affect on the time as I stated in the equations. 

Risk to damage the fork/frame? Yes, absolutely. But all depend on what you are doing and what bike it is. I've snapped a few frames doing trials and stunts. But chances of damaging are less if you are using trials frame. Wheel size is a great debate in a trials world. There are 26", 24" and 20" (19") wheels. All down to the preference and rider level. I'd start with 26" and then once you know what you want/need, decide on the sizes. If you are very keen on trials and have finance, definitely get a trials bike. Many times while learning I found my bike stopping my progress. Good quality parts... get a good chain and good freewheel. Because if freewheel slips while doing gaps - you are going down. And that can lead to an injury. Also get a great rear tyre with good brake. A lot depends on that. Other parts are essential, but these are high priority. Breaks are another point of debate in trials world. Magura HS33 - hydraulic rim brakes used to be very popular 10 years ago. Now I'm not quite sure about the trends. Certainly I'd put some cash in for a good rear break - that is a vital part of the bike.