There are prices in the utility function and $\frac{\partial U}{\partial p} \gt 0$ . This solves the problem but it introduces more issues. On the one hand, the price doesn't belong to a basket. On the other hand, he doesn't just spend all of his income to buy just an extremely overpriced glass pane, so they must be introduced carefully. The basket has a "perceived as expensive" variable that accounts for the behavior. How would such variable differ from being just the price is intriguing... 

On one hand, there's a reserve requirement. This ubiquitous regulation comes from the fact that banks are by their very nature illiquid: if they make a profit by lending other people's money then they can't give all that money back immediately. A minimum of liquid reserves may (or may not!) be established, by the central bank and/or the bank itself, to safeguard deposits. On the other hand, consider that the bank lends all the money he's allowed. The borrowers won't have immediate use of that money, so they store it in the bank once again as deposits. Now, the bank can get those new deposits, fulfill their reserve requirement and lend that money once again. Repeat this to infinity, that is, until 100% of the original money is reserve requirement. Suppose you have 10% of R.R.: $$ C_1=100\%-(100*{10\over 100})=90\%\\ C_2=90\%-(90*{10\over 100})=81\%\\ ...\\ C_n=0.9^n\\ \sum_{n=1}^\infty C_n={0.9\over{1-0.9}}=900\% $$ What this means is that, even though the economy has a certain amount of cash, it may behave as if there's more, with an upper bound on 900%. The bank isn't benefiting with money creation except that it's lending more money than at first sight. 

First, you need to be more precise about what "society contribution" means. After all, working as a drug seller may or may not contribute to society! Using a pretty standard definition like Pareto Optimality, by sacrificing consumption for a price and allowing others to consume or invest, someone else is better off and/or more production is available in the future. Indeed, they can afford less things in the future. But that's like saying you can afford less coconuts because you bought a watermelon. There's a trade-off with expenditures, but in this case the trade-off is against the future. While it looks like hurting society, consider the economic forces put in motion because this individual, with a desire to spend, now has the ability to do so. Just as an example, if everyone had to save their own cash to buy a house, the construction sector would be highly inefficient, volatile and people that want houses, even if they could pay in a few years, would stay homeless. It has more to do with the social value of banks than of lending, but let's have a stab. Indeed, A and B may come into an agreement. This has a couple of hidden assumptions. Say: 

This is part of the reason why this question is too broad. We could say that while some systems abandon it, others will use it. I also don't know if a capitalist-like system didn't exist before Adam Smith, as from reading some Roman history, there seems to be times where there was a merchant class featuring open markets with entrepreneurs where they would meet the needs of those they traded with and while they certainly didn't call it capitalism (I assume), like we do, seems very similar. I believe Plato pointed out that civilizations often move from one system to another, like Oligarchy to Democracy, before reverting, so the very nature of a Meritocracy may be a transitional stage in a civilization's history. 

A few pundits have been stating that we have a student loan bubble, and this bubble will pop, similar to housing. I'm struggling to imagine the economic impact of what this would look like if these pundits are right, outside the obvious bailout or student loan forgiveness. Hypothetically, let's say a scenario where 15% of students are unable to pay back their loans occurs, and the government bails them out (or forgives their loans), how would that be a negative economic event? Would it create inflation? Would it cost in terms of productivity, in that students would spend more time borrowing money and staying in school than working and producing? 

This isn't to say I agree or disagree; I find it helpful to understand that focusing on the demand side cannot help if we have a supply shock. To my knowledge, the best preparation for a supply shock, like the California Drought leading to food prices quadrupling (ONLY in theory), would be to have a supply surplus saved or ready in case of such events. 

A few years ago, Peter Schiff and a few other Austrians (not all Austrians, as Mish was stating the opposite) were adamant about hyperinflation and Paul Krugman stated that it was like talking about fire problems during a flood, which made sense because of the credit crunch (the inverse problem). However, Schiff kept pointing to Zimbabwe and the Weimar Republic as examples of hyperinflation and even now, we're seeing it in Ukraine. As far as Ukraine and Zimbabwe are concerned, neither appeared to have much gold before their hyperinflation. For instance, Ukraine has next to 0, if not 0 and Zimbabwe, from what I could find, had less than 5 metric tonnes. When I was looking online to see if anyone knew how much gold they estimate the Weimar Republic had, I couldn't find a figure and was curious if anyone knew, or could find a historic estimate? The reason I ask this is because the United States owns the most gold in the world (and it's not a close competition), assuming we don't believe the people who think it's not there, and thus it's hard to believe that, unless the U.S. begins to liquidate its position, that it would face hyperinflation like these other countries even without a currency backed by gold because people know that in a really bad situation, it could trash the dollar, create a new currency backed by its gold (note that I'm not saying this would happen, but the US is hardly a country comparable to Zimbabwe when you consider its gold holdings). 

The spread neither influence the reserve requirement nor the money supply expansion argument seen above. 

Mix everything up and you can forecast population with a combination of previous population levels, surprising events and population growths. 

I can only give an answer on the theory behind it, hopefully that will be enough. You can solve this using a game-theoretical framework and a solid source is the classic Fundenberg & Tirole's "Game Theory". This game depends crucially on the way the bid is structured and if there's any knowledge of how other agents respond. In a typical bid with no extra knowledge, a natural result is that everyone offers the lowest (or almost the lowest) possible price they can afford. Buyers like bids for this reason. A second enrichment to this theory appears if you can gauge other agents' responses with a signal (previous contracts or quarter reports). In that case, you end up with a probability distribution for other people's prices and the price you'll set will depend on the probability you want of winning the bid. 

A can appraise (a) the investment risk and (b) person B's inherent risk. In practice, a bank is more likely to know and evaluate those two risks. A knows and performs risk mitigation strategies like insurance, maybe even building reinforced walls for preventing theft. A has enough money to finance B's needs. In practice, there are very few individuals with enough money; banks pool money from different lenders. A knows B. Usually, time and space constraints interfere with this. 

There's a bunch of different answers, depending on which of the paragraphs you want to address. In order: 

14.5% ±2.5 for 2017 (they already failed, it will end up around 20%) 10.0% ±2.0 for 2018 5.0% ±1.5 for 2019. 

Notice that, if you log-linearized your equations, $\epsilon=1$ would mean a 1% deviation from the steady state. 

Add this with huge information asymmetry and you'll get a highly volatile, high-rising price. As long as (1) doesn't change too much, it's a bubble. 

This is over looking the fact that much of the wealth is invested in companies who hire people. As an example, if 90% of Warren Buffett's wealth was in Berkshire, and he had to liquidate to re-distribute his wealth, that would have an affect on the economy, some inflationary, some deflationary. But it would also cause some people to lose their jobs; that money invested is providing jobs - it's lending to a business, which in turn hires people, buys resources, etc. 

You're asking questions in a very disorganized manner, which will prevent most people from attempting to answer you. Also, there's an emotional feel to your question - you sound upset that people are avoiding taxes. This is economics and in economics we often discuss how people behave in the market, whether we like it or not. For instance, socialism, emotionally sounds wonderful, yet anyone who's studied the Soviet Union knows it didn't work ... at all. Will people avoid taxes? Yes. Do the rich? Yes. Do the poor? Yes. I worked at a bank for a while and we were required to report when we saw suspicious behavior of customers and I can tell you about the number of times I reported to my manager Americans who collected disability or unemployment while also working for people in cash - they were getting free money from the government, but working for people in cash and not reporting the cash (blatant fraud, which taxpayers funded). For instance, this video, which many think is an embellishment, was not uncommon at all. For some direct answers: Bartering is one of the best ways to avoid taxes (as is negotiation) because if the bartering is more financially beneficial than the ease of taxes, a person may barter instead of paying income that was taxed. Anyone, of any class, can barter. To prevent bartering, an economic system wants the tax system to be arranged in a way that would make bartering more costly than just paying taxes. Charity scams will be favored by the rich, and no the IRS can't audit every charity, even if it's a multi million dollar charity. It can only audit some and hope that deters the others; also, some charities, like the Susan G. Komen foundation, might not be audited because the IRS would fear something else, like being accused of sexism, so billionaires would probably choose politically correct charities, knowing they could get the media on their side and the IRS wouldn't touch them (if billionaires were to go this route). Getting free stuff? Any class can do this; this is really negotiation. Most international people, who live or visit the US, negotiate and it makes sense. Yes, the IRS loses money, but at the end of the day, it's the rational economic decision. Also, things like cryptocurrencies (speculation) are ways the rich avoid taxes, as well as buying assets privately held in other countries (see the Chinese bureaucrats as examples). The rich have many more ways to avoid taxes than the poor and middle class, though the other two income categories can avoid taxes as well. Economically, a simple and fair tax system is the best way to prevent all of this. No one wants to avoid something they perceive as easy and fair. What you're seeing is that some don't think this about the U.S. system, whether any of us in particular agree or disagree. 

It really depends on context and model. As an example, consider a Real Business Cycle model, with a representative individual that values consumption and leisure. Given a technology shock, adjusted labor will drop and, eventually, return to the stationary state. This could mean that people are laid off because the new technology replaced them, or because there's a shortage of qualified workers, or even that people decided to work less, now that the rest of the (more productive) society gives them unemployment benefits. I haven't worked much with search&match models of unemployment, but given a set of firms with varying productivity, I guess a model could be constructed to define labor-saving and labor-augmenting in precise terms, based on the effect a shock has on the probability of firing people. Finally, labor-augmenting technology is necessary for balanced growth. You may not care about it, but many models do. 

Convenience yield. That is, they provide some convenience, like cash for making transactions. The convenience is especially linked to illegal transactions. This already has a model to describe behavior: Baumol-Tobin (which is also a model for storage and logistics). There's a huge lack of information to apply it (who knows enough about money laundering to make a prediction?) Rational bubble. This is where all models break apart. Speculators don't care about the future value, just volatility now (because that's how they turn a profit), much like they don't care about a bond's yield but for changes in its price. In the short term, supply is limited: Bitcoins aren't being created fast enough, competitors like Ethereum or even Dogecoin have still to catch up and there are no derivatives that allow betting against Bitcoin prices (Bitcoin futures have only recently started being offered). Demand is also limited because speculators are buying the asset for short-term profit, not for keeping it long-term. 

First, I'll introduce the observation and then ask the question. I have a brother-in-law who has a quirk: given the same product and two prices for it in different stores, he's willing to pay the greater one. For instance, he preferred window panes cut from a more expensive store, even if they are the exact same thing. He also goes to expensive restaurants and order basic meals (say, beef with salad) so there's very little extra they can offer for a steep price increase. Trust me, I can continue providing examples until you convince yourself that he just like to pay more, given the opportunity. I wonder how would one model such behavior. The easiest way is to give up and say he's irrational (his choices can be easily shown to be intransitive) and be thankful that he's a minority. I'd like to explore other alternatives: