Unless the bike was specifically designed for a wheel size conversion, like the 18/20 Prodigy from Hoffman in 2003 or so, changing the wheel size is generally not a safe and practical option. Brake mount positions and tire clearance to the frame prevent it. 

The Mundo is a great Cargo bike. The Bobike Junior seat base will fit on the rack without issues, but you may need to be creative in attaching the footrest portion, as you will not have the Bobike designed rack to work from. At the price you are looking, I'd say this is a great option. Shipping a bike is likely to push it well above that price, so I'd stay local. 

Loctite Blue 242 is a light duty, adjustable, and removable loctite designed for jobs like this one. It will prevent vibration from loosening your screws without preventing the adjustment you need for your brakes. 

Anti-sieze is a corrosion preventer. It is not a lubricant. Generally, using it on threaded parts is acceptable, but using it on bearing races, bearings, pressfit installation points, seatposts, handlebar stems, etc... is not a good idea. There is no hard and fast rule, but if you think about the purpose of the "lubricant" on the specific part, you should be able to make a good judgement. i.e. "Do I need lubrication for this part to move smoothly and work efficiently? If so, I should use grease." or "Do I need lubrication for this part to so that it is not stuck in the frame later? If so, I could use anti-sieze." 

Many axle nuts for an internal gear hub will fit directly without modification. If yours does not, then there are options to fix that, similar to the set from Tacx below. As with many issues with trainers, there is a solution available for this issue. This is a set of accessories designed to fit most solid or thru axle bikes. You would need to make sure that you get a set that correctly fits your bike. Details of the accessory kit here. 

Your dressage helmet had 2 advantages, in one sense, which is that you were landing on a prepared dirt floor in most instances, and that they usually included a harder exterior shell that helps protect the protection foam. That said, there is no way to know if it was still doing its job after the first head to ground impact. Even if it still looked good, and you still wore it for years, its impact protection ability drops each time the foam is compressed in the helmet. The bicycle helmet has nothing but this foam, so damage is more immediate and visible, but your riding helmet was damaged, too. The impact that damages a helmet is as often from the momentum of the riders head as it is the impact with ground, so a dressage helmet will usually have the same kind of damage. It just doesn't show as easily. 

Technically, no, there is no current commercially available gearbox bottom bracket. Most likely, the Truvativ Hammerschmidt is the crankset you are thinking of. There were also gearboxes designed by Honda, and a few other brands. It allows a single chain ring, 2 x 9 or 2 x 10 gearing. 

You may need to change your cassette with your chain due to damage, but only if your bike has missed out on some previous maintenance. If you ride one chain beyond the point of wear, it will damage both cassette and chain rings to different degrees. Your chain is a consumable component on your bike. For most people, 1200-1500 kilometers on a chain is a safe distance to ride it before it stretches enough to damage the cassette or chain rings. If you treat changing your chain like changing the oil in your car, and just do it based on mileage, regardless of the actual wear on the chain, then you can continue to use the same cassette through (on average) 5 chain swaps. The chain rings, at least a good quality set, are thicker metal, with a larger diameter, so they don't wear as quickly. Usually, I get 10 chain swaps before I need to change the chain rings. But they will eventually need to be changed as well. I hope that helps. 

There are several versions of SRAMs power links. The original versions were intended for reuse, and you would have no problem using them in that manner. If you have an 8 or 9 speed bike, you've got one of the original designs. If you have a ten speed SRAM drivetrain, then you need to look at the link and the model of the chain. SRAMs newest power links for 10 speed are not designed to be used more than once. They are sold in a 4 pack so that you have replacements to use. The gold power link you've pictured is either 9 speed, or one of the first 10 speed links, which is reusable. If yours is black, you have one of the newer, non reusable variety. If the chain is a PC-1071, PC-1091 or 1091r, this is the links it comes with, and while you can remove them, they need to be replaced with a fresh link each time you do. I hope that helps. 

Most likely, while you had the wheel out, the brake lever was pulled, and the piston position was reset too close to the disc. You need to remove the brake pads, and very gently push the pistons all the way back into the caliper. Then replace the wheel, and pump the brake lever. It should take 2 or 3 pumps to feel normal again. Hope that helps. 

The short answer is yes. As @Criggie notes in his comment, the rear half of your shifting system is working. So there is no need to mess with it. The front derailleur and crank are both Shimano road product, so if you replace both from current 9 speed triple Shimano road product, you're pretty safe. The 9 speed part only matters to maintain chain rings that match your existing chain width, and 10 speed rings will work reasonably well also. Do not use a 10speed front derailleur. 

As answered above, aero wheels aren't likely to improve your speed enough to be worth the investment, unless you also use the bike for club racing, triathlons, or the like. Good wheels come in 2 categories: 

On Sora brakes, if adjusted correctly, it should not be possible to force open the wheel release lever by applying the brakes. Likely, your brakes are adjusted too tight to allow the lever to close completely. Try releasing a few millimeters of cable, and see if the problem continues. If it does, you may have a damaged or defective brake. Take it to your LBS, and have it checked out. 

The DE Valve, or Dunlop Valve, is the same size and thread as the presta valve, at the tip. However, the length of the valve where it is the same diameter as presta valve is much shorter. Pump heads which rely on the compression of an o-ring to attach to the valve, especially with multi-valve heads, often do not find enough surface area on the DE valve to stay attached. There is no good solution to this problem, aside from changing the pump head. 

Unless that isn't your bike? They don't look like they offer adjustment, but they do.Try tightening the brake pad fixing bolt just enough so that you can feel a little tension on the bolt. Then grab both ends of the pad holder, and try moving it in the plane of the change you're having trouble with. It should move, if a little stiffly. I would leave the bending of the arm adjustment to a shop, unless you are very confident. It's a legit technique, Park even makes a tool just for that, but it can cause permanent damage to the brake if done badly. 

Bicycle size is determined first by frame size, which is top tube length, seat tube length, and some more minor geometries like head tube and seat tube angle. The primary determining factor for comfort on the bike is your reach measurement. Although it is affected by various factors, like skeletal flexibility and the type of riding you do, ideal reach is generally considered to be the distance from your seating position, (where you actually rest on the saddle), to your hand position, (where your hands fall when placed in a neutral position on the bar), while your back and arms are relaxed and at roughly equal positions approximately 45 degrees each. Balance is what you are looking for here. The stem length is a portion of the reach measurement. That is, reach = saddle setback + top tube length + stem length + bar length. Any of these factors can be altered to some degree to produce a correct reach measurement. But there are other factors which affect this as well. If your stem is too short, your steering will be too quick to react, as small movements of you body and hands will move your wheel too far, too fast. This will make the bike difficult to control. If you go the other way, with too long a stem, then your bike will handle sluggishly, and you might not be able to react quickly enough to an obstacle in the road. Based on the measurements that you were given, I would expect that you are approximately 5 foot tall to 5 foot 2 inches. I think that the shop is likely offering to adapt a bike in their stock to your size, rather than getting you the correct size. If I am correct about your approximate height, you should be looking for a 47 or 48cm frame which will have between a 65 and 80mm stem on it. If I am not correct, post your height and riding style, and we can give you more general advice on the correct size. Best though is to find a shop which specializes in bike fitting, and get a second opinion. I am good at bike fit, but is difficult to accomplish well without having you in my studio. 

The answers to how to increase leverage have already been stated above. But the best option is to put it back on the bike first. The vise risks at least cosmetic damage to the crank arm. Using pipe to lengthen the lever work, assuming you have 2 pipes, with large enough internal diameter to fit over the crank arm and the pedal wrench, but can also do cosmetic damage. The aforementioned position close to the crank increases leverage, but still requires strength and that can't be increased easily. If you put it back on the bike, and use a proper pedal wrench, the bike acts a stable base, obviating the use of a vise, and the pedal wrench has plenty of length (in most cases) to carry the leverage necessary. 

It's a stem, which has had the bar mount replaced with a seatpost clamp. It is a custom part for this frame design, only. They are having it fabbed. 

Yes, a 6700 chainring will work on a 79oo crank. There are a number of other chainrings which will work as well, although they all look a bit silly, since the crank is designed with the integrated shape of the 3D crank arm in mind. A flat chainring doesn't really look right.