In other words, removing pubic hair increased the risk of sexually transmitted infections, especially sexually transmitted infections of the skin. But not removing increased the risk of lice. 

Radiation exposure from CT scans in childhood and subsequent risk of leukaemia and brain tumours: a retrospective cohort study Lancet 2012; 380: 499–505 shows a definitive increase in cancer among young (under 22 years) patients who received CT scans. 

According the 1988 Sales, service, and sanctity: an anthropological analysis of Japanese department stores 

So they significantly predicted them and some of the correlations were quite large (.84 for optimism). Some correlations weren't significant, so this is of course not in the realm of "there was practically no difference" (quoting you), but it's also a different study. This wasn't such a small sample to begin with (13 teachers, 8-20 students per class, so at least 104) and they varied it too (thinner slices, predicting principal's ratings of high school teachers). The paradigm is used quite often in different variations nowadays. You actually asked about a different study, so I didn't go in very deeply. Maybe you think my answer strays too far from the original question. Question two "Are first impressions a surprisingly good judge of character?": Yes, this step has been taken, but I wouldn't call it surprisingly good. Peer ratings, even by friends, aren't usually highly correlated with self-reported personality. There is a classic meta-analysis about thin slices by Ambady & Rosenthal (1992). They found no increase in accuracy of predictions of various objective outcomes after half a minute (to 5 minutes). It's contradicted Carney, Colvin, & Hall (2007) who found that accuracy increased with exposure time, which they varied from 5s to 5min (peak for extraversion after 5 min clip .55). Extraversion after 20 seconds was .41 correlated with self-report. I don't know if you consider this "surprisingly good". The results are different for less obvious traits (openness). Are first impressions unchangeable? Srivastava, Guglielmo, & Beer (2010) (great names, simply great names) found that stability of perceiver effects (peer ratings in students) increases over time. Across the Big Five: Week 1-2: .37; Week 2-3: .55, Week 3-4: .65. So, they are certainly not unchangeable. 

(the "-0.75" above is an exponent, as in kg^(-0.75)) So absorption by the intestines is not necessarily the only limit to consider. In fact: 

The source is reference 4 of the August 2012 NRDC paper, specifically The Progressive Increase of Food Waste in America and Its Environmental Impact PLOS One (2009). The 40% for United States is specifically attributed to this reference in line 4 of the NRDC executive summary (page 4 of the paper). The PLOS article, particularly Fig. 1D and the discussion thereof, says that while the USDA estimates ~28% (on an energy basis) is wasted in the full process from being grown to being eaten, the mathematical model of the authors shows it is about ~38% at the latest date in the graph, 2003. A more-recent statement from the USDA is : 

Her evidence to the contrary wasn't published in peer reviewed journals, so if somebody has something stronger, better pay attention to that instead. From the abstract of her dissertation: 

I think this is a large effect (did I do the math right? are those CIs or SDs?), but it's a small sample. They didn't detect any bad "hard" outcomes (lower performance, more lapses, more sleepiness), but this might be a power problem. But then again, this one night didn't press levels down to anything anormal. Also, sleep efficiency is not the best measure of sleep quality (polysomnographs give better estimates of NREM sleep, stage changes, etc.). Essentially they did what you had in mind already, right? But it was just one night and they call for longer tests (I have access to the full text, but I probably am not allowed to send it to you?!). From their conclusion: 

Yes, according to the 1760 book The natural and civil history of the French dominions in North and South America, vol.1 , page 27 

For more-primary research see the studies in table III of Genetic Counseling and Screening of Consanguineous Couples and Their Offspring: Recommendations of the National Society of Genetic Counselors Journal of Genetic Counseling April 2002, Volume 11, pages 97-119. The first study Jaber et al. (1998) researched 9 populations spanning the USA, Norway and the Middle East and found 2.1% general risk of "major malformations" versus 4.5% risk for first cousins. 

Disclaimer: Infrared is maybe the wrong term, I took it to mean anything that we do not currently perceive with a longer wavelength than what we see as red. I don't think in the following they refer to "seeing any light with long wavelengths". I encountered a fourth-hand claim of army experiments to give humans infrared vision a while ago. He quotes in full from a textbook (Sekuler, R., and Blake, R. (1994). Perception (3rd ed.). Springfield, Ill.: Thomas.) pp. 62-63: 

No. According to The Historical Encyclopedia of World Slavery, in the section "Judaism in the Antebellum South" which begins at page 384: 

(photos by Sandy Dwyer, also in Trouble with Harry Hay Founder of the Modern Gay Movement, Stuart Timmons, 1990) 

So basically in Illinois, if there is an unnatural accumulation of snow or ice on your property you do need to remove it (or at least not be negligent with respect to it). See the link for more information about the distinction between natural and unnatural accumulations. If the accumulation is natural, the owner can only be liable if the underlying pavement is negligently designed or maintained, or if there is a contract requiring the owner to remove the snow. Whether or not you shovel naturally accumulated snow is not an issue. However, it is possible that by removing naturally accumulated snow you could create unnaturally accumulated snow, for example the instructions cite to "McCarthy v. Hidden Lake Vill. Condo. Assoc., 186 Ill.App.3d 752, 542 N.E.2d 868, 134 Ill.Dec. 522 (1st Dist. 1989) (negligently conducted plowing created jury issue as to unnatural accumulation)". However, the Snow and Ice Removal Act, partially quoted in the instructions, provides a specific exemption from liability for shoveling of sidewalks abutting residential properties. The full text of the act is: 

As far as I know Botox works by paralysing the facial muscles whose activity causes wrinkles so I think it's somewhat plausible. 

Funny that you bring this up, just this evening some drunk in the subway claimed that recent tsunamis were caused by submarines. For earthquakes, however, there is even research as to whether large-scale earthquakes may have been caused by human activity (not deliberately in this case). Specifically, Kerr et al. argue that there may have been a Human Trigger for the Great Quake of Sichuan?. There is speculation that the man-made Zipingpu reservoir caused or at least triggered the quake, but data is bad. 

The cartoon seems to originate from Resources Spent on Consumption of Animals (citing to a video from Bite Size Vegan) which gives slightly more detail: 

Also, as reported by the International Business Times, the Caleb mission obtained a copy of a 791 page North Korean law enforcement manual that goes through 721 crimes/situations. 5 of the 721 involve cannibalism, for example: 

According to Metabolomic and elemental analysis of camel and bovine urine by GC–MS and ICP–MS Saudi Journal of Biosciences volume 24, pages 23-29 (January 2017): Bovine urine contained 0.005673 ppm gold. 

Maybe you want to go through their references and those who cite them, if you care about this research area. 

Maybe you'd like to read this, in a way it's a case study of what you're asking about. I think it counts a little more than an anecdote, because it's systematically done, but it's just one issue of course. Block (1995) describes how the publication of "The Bell Curve" by Herrnstein and Murray in 1994 shifted debate, so suddenly they were discussing "the degree of blacks' genetic inferiority" when it comes to IQ, when before it wouldn't have been okay to assert any genetic inferiority at all. 

In Conclusion, physically the president alone can not use nuclear weapons; the involvement of other people is absolutely required. However, if the chain of command is followed, policy is that the president is the sole authority for use of nuclear weapons. 

This claim is analyzed by Douglas M. Gildow in the article A True Likeness of Śākyamuni? He concludes it is of recent Indonesian origin and definitely not at the British museum. 

Another poster has 3 children holding cards saying "Be American", "Think American", "Speak American". The journal Primary Education November 1919, page 604 has a list Slogans for Better American Speech Week with patriotic and more general suggested slogans including: