Not only are grease stains often permanent, but getting caught in the chain can lead to an accident. Here are some options: Shorter pants. Shorts or knickers will stay out of the way. In the winter, you can wear tights underneath. I love my wool tights so much that I wear them under my jeans during the day and at night as pajamas. They're expensive, though. Metal pants clips. These are dirt-cheap, durable, and they work great. I usually only put one on my right leg, but in the winter it can be nice to have one on the left, so cold air doesn't blow in as much. I store one on my top tube, but if you're concerned about your paint job, you'll need another place. There are even some with built-in reflectors , but I haven't tried them. Velcro straps. They seem attractive at first, with bright colors, built-in reflectors, and sometimes even LED lighting. You can even buy bulk velcro at a hardware or crafts store for not much money. However, I find they work loose as my calves flex. Also, the time I tried the LED style, they broke within minutes. Full chain guard. This is what I saw in Sweden and The Netherlands, where riders wore business suits and full-length dresses. In the USA, most riders worry about weight too much to consider these. Tuck in to socks. This only works if your pants & socks are long enough. As you ride it can still work loose. If you're not wearing socks today, obviously this won't work. But it's nice in that it doesn't require any extra equipment. Roll up pants. Again, nice because it doesn't require special equipment, and even works on no-sock or short-sock days. I find I have to roll my pants up really, really far to keep them out of the chain, and they unroll as I ride. Meanwhile, cold air hits my delicate ankles. 

Crr is the coefficient of rolling resistance. Now, if you go to an online calculator like the one at Analyticcycling.com you'll see that you must provide values for rho, Crr, Cd, and A; then, given a particular value of speed and slope, it will calculate power. It's easy to find online calculats for the air density, rho, but much harder to find estimates of Crr and CdA (or separately, Cd and A). The easiest (but most expensive) way to estimate CdA is in a wind tunnel. There, an object is mounted on a scale (basically, a very precise and accurate bathroom scale), wind at a known speed is applied, the air density is measured, and the total force on the object is measured by the scale. Watts are force (in Newtons) * speed (in meters/sec) so force (in Newtons) = watts/air speed = 0.5 * rho * CdA * (airspeed^2). The tunnel operator knows rho, knows airspeed, and the expensive bathroom scale measures the force so you can calculate CdA. Wind tunnel estimates of CdA are considered the gold standard: when performed in a good tunnel with experienced operators, the measurements are precise and repeatable. In practice, if you want to know the Cd separately, you'd measure the frontal area A with a digital camera and compare it to a digital photograph of an object (like a flat square) of known area. As an historical aside, nearly 100 years ago Dubois and Dubois measured frontal area by taking photographs of a person and a reference object, cutting out the photos along the outlines of the object, and then weighing the cut-outs on sensitive scales. However, the resistance in tires, tubes, or bearings are not affected by air speed, so one cannot estimate Crr from wind tunnel data. Tire manufacturers have measured rolling resistance of their tires on large rotating drums but they cannot measure aerodynamic drag. In order to measure both Crr and CdA, you need to find a method that measures both and allows you to differentiate between the two. These methods are indirect field estimation methods and they vary a great deal in their accuracy and precision. Until the last 20 years or so, the most common indirect field method was to coast down a hill of known slope and to measure either maximum speed (also known as terminal velocity) or else the speed when passing a fixed point on the hill. Terminal velocity doesn't let you differentiate between Crr and CdA; however, if one measured speed at a given point and were able to control the "entry" speed at the top of the hill, you could then test at different entry speeds and get enough equations to solve for the two unknowns, Crr and CdA. As you might expect, this method was tedious and liable to poor precision. Nonetheless, many ingenious alternatives were explored, including coasting down wind-free corridors or inside large airplane hangars, and measuring speed to relatively high precision using "electric eyes" or timing strips. Some of these methods are described in the review by Debraux et al., cited above. With the advent of on-bike power meters, new opportunities emerged to measure aerodynamic and rolling drag. In short, if you could find a flat wind-sheltered road, you would ride at a constant speed or power on the road; then, repeat at a different speed or power. The requirement of "flat and wind-sheltered at constant speed" meant that you could ignore the PE and KE components of power and only had to deal with the rolling resistance and aerodynamic components so the overall power equation simplifies to 

Is there anything specific you'd like to achieve or try while cycling? I cycle purely for fitness purposes and will cycle quite differently depending on available time as well as what I'd like to achieve in terms of strength or cardiovascular goals. As you're a runner, I'll assume you're well versed in gps devices like those by Garmin which will assist in tracking your efforts. I was able to increase fairly quickly from regular 10Km trips to once off trips off 30Km to 50Km to 80Km to 200 Km in the space of 1 month. Since then I've focused on better return for time in the saddle as opposed just worrying about distance covered. For my round trip commute of ~20Km, I will cycle pretty hard either on the way to work or on the way home which usually gives me a pretty good cardiovascular workout over ~20 minutes. For part of this I may go all out for 60-90 seconds. If I've got 1-2 hours available for a cycle then I'll either go for a 25-40Km flat route at 25-30Km/hr effort for cardiovascular training or a 15Km hilly route which will provide cardiovascular and strength training. For long spins of 3+ hours I will try to cover mostly flat terrain with a couple of hills included and will aim for about 25Km/hr depending on weather conditions. As with any exercise, your nutrition and fluid intake before, during and after will be key in helping you maximise the return on your efforts. 

Suppose want to park my bike outdoors all the time. Conventional wisdom is that you should park a bike under cover, but suppose that's not an option. What should you do? Maybe sealed cartridge bearings would be better than cone-and-cup? Maybe belt- or shaft-drive, or at least a full chain guard to keep rain off the chain? Maybe a treatment to protect the tire rubber? 

The best shop rags I have ever used are blue medical operating room towels. They are much stronger than old clothes. They are intended to be thrown away, but I wash them and use 'em again. 

As noted above, part of the ranking of a climb depends on its placement within a stage: usually, the ending climb of a stage gets "bumped up" by a category. You can see that in the plots below, which show climbs as categorized by the organizers of the Tour de France itself for the 2012, 2007, 2005, and 2004 editions of the Tour, and plotted by the length of the climb and its average gradient. If given the length of the climb and gradient, you can calculate the total elevation change for that climb, and the dotted contour lines in each plot show that. Cat 2, 1, and HC climbs are named. For example, in 2004 the Vilard de Lans climb was classified at a Cat 2 climb rather than (evidently) a Cat 3 because it was the end of the stage. Similarly, in 2005 the climb to Pla d'Adet ended the stage, and it appears that its category was also increased from (arguably) Cat 1 to HC. As an aside, the Madeleine was climbed in both 2004 and 2005 but, as you can see, the length and gradient of the climbs were different in those years. In 2004, the Madeleine was climbed from the southern side; in 2005 and 2012, the approach to the Madeleine was from the north. 

We should absolutely give cyclists special traffic laws. We should adjust the laws to make bicycling safer (e.g., car vs. bike accidents automatically the driver's fault) and more attractive (e.g. STOP is a YIELD for a bicycle). While we're at it, let's stop spending tax money on improving driving infrastructure, and direct it to walk/bike/bus infrastructure. Also, let's lower all the speed limits by 10mph. That makes walking & biking more pleasant, and reduces the time advantage that cars have over other options. (Marking as community wiki because this is subjective and argumentative.) 

As I've nowhere to hang my bicycle gear in college, I will have 2 plastic bags in my backpack for my used gear. 1 is for stuff I won't use again, most of the time this is just socks but on occasions, where I've sweat a little too much I'll put base layers there too. The other is for gear I will use again on my return trip like jacket/tights etc. If my jacket is not particularly smelly (yes it happens) then I'll hang it off my chair in college to let some air at it. By the time I get going in the afternoon/evening, the gear I put back on will be smelly so it gets washed at the end of the day, this is very important from a hygiene and odour perspective. In terms of cleanup, I will bring odour free baby wipes and will wipe myself down paying particular attention to creases (elbows, groin, behind my knees etc.) in my body. I'll then use a small microfiber towel to fully dry myself. You mention you're an amateur biker, so am I but if I didn't have the gear above I probably wouldn't even feel like going cycling as I'd be too cold/wet when I got going. Always choose the right equipment for the job. Your bicycle gear will be an investment in a healthier you. Organising your bag the night before goes a long way. I get mine done as soon as I'm from my day, so I'm replacing anything I used that day with fresh stuff for the next day. 

Jan Heine performed some wind tunnel tests of "Real World Aerodynamics" a few years ago. A link to a blog post (and the results published in Bicycle Quarterly) can be found here. Those tests cover only one component (the aero drag component) of commuter-type bicycles vs. "racing" bikes. If you want to make your own apples-to-apples comparisons of performance potential between any number of bikes of any type there are five pieces of information you need to know: 

What you will see is that the groups of points are far from horizontal so the error between the power desired and actual power (as measured with a Power Tap) is not at all constant. At high wheel speeds the Flow is unable to generate enough load to maintain constant power. Whether that inability is related to the load generator itself (which is also used in the I-Magic) or the Flow's control head, I could not determine. 

For your hands, doubling up on padded bar tape is a cheap solution which a lot of the pros will do when racing cobblestone or bumpy roads. For video, I'd opt for an inexpensive helmet mount (straps preferably but sticky pads do work) but if you've got cash to burn then you could look at either a bike or chest mounted gimbal which will produce smooth video regardless of terrain. 

I find myself in a similar situation when I commute to college on weekends. During sleep you'll get sweaty and our beds are not the most hygienic places in any case so before starting off on your journey, have a shower. If you don't have a shower and you sweat, you'll be combining sweat with dirt etc and this is when body odour will form. In terms of what you should wear: 

As long as you are moving through the air, aerodynamic drag will account for some portion of total drag. Here is a plot that shows the relative contribution of aerodynamic drag vs. rolling drag on total drag for a rider at constant speed on a flat surface with the given CdA (drag area) and Crr (coefficient of rolling resistance). There is no magic threshold speed at which aerodynamic drag suddenly appears. Whether the amount of drag is important or significant to you will depend on your power and riding goal, but for this example roughly 25% of total power will be consumed by aerodynamic drag at about 10 km/h (or about 6 mph).