Feeling is caused. Feeling belongs to the five aggregates. So technically there is no feeling in Enlightenment(Nibbana). However since the defilements are cut off, it is said that after one emerges from enlightenment, it may feel like a heavy burden has been taken off of one's shoulders or it may feel like how a cancer patient in extreme painful condition would feel, if he was suddenly cured. Here's a related answer. 

Devas and Asuras are not considered in depth teachings of Buddhism. Not all Asuras are in heavenly realms. Only those Asuras belong to the Catumaharajika(the lowest heaven) are considered to be having a pleasant state of existence. But the Asuras who belong to Asura Apaya are born there due to bad Karma. Yes, humans can keep to the 5 precepts and do Dasa Punna Kiriya to reach heavenly realms. But once the good Karma runs out, they can fall back. They can also keep doing more good deeds to extend their lives or to be born in higher realms. But it is easy to do bad and difficult to do good. Once they get intoxicated with the refined pleasures in heavens, they forget about impermanence and suffering. That could result in them being complacent and ignorant and not doing good deeds to extend their stay. It's easy to go to hells. But it's hard to get to heavens and stay in there. So except during the period when the world ends, hells are the most populated places among the planes of existence. 

Whether one is enlightened or not, there's no sense of control if by 'control' you mean there's a 'self' or 'I' who does the decision making. But there's a sense of control in the sense of a citta performing the function of decision making. 

It doesn't say that it is the same king Brahmadatta. It's probably a different king with the same name or a descendant of the original Brahmadatta. Just like king Edward the 1st/2nd/3rd/4th/5th... Samsara is very long and it's not unlikely that the Bodhisatta met many kings with similar names ruling the same land. Once there was a Brahmin who wanted to bury his corpse in a place where no other person has been buried. He found a large tree with roots sunk deep into earth. He thought "surely there can be none buried here". But when he was ready to uproot the tree, the Buddha told him that he had been buried in the same place with the same name for fourteen thousand times in his previous lives. 

Another reason could be the wanting to control each other. Have a cordial discussion with her and come to a solid understanding of each other's expectations. As long as you two don't exceed that framework, don't try to control each other too much. Come to an agreement on how to resolve issues. Make a determination with her to always use kind words and wisdom to find a solution rather than disrespectful words and emotional thoughts. 

Doing something bad without knowing it is bad falls under ignorance. Ignorance is there in all bad Karmas. But in the case of a lion killing a deer, it is stronger compared to a human killing a deer, given that he knows it is wrong. So the lion has strong ignorance on top of strong aversion and craving. That makes the Karma worse. One thing you have to understand about the law of Karma is that it is a law of the nature. It is not a god. So there's never a question of whether it is fair or not. Is it fair for children to get burnt if they touch fire without knowing it burns? Probably not! But the fire doesn't have a conscious to decide whom to burn or not to burn. 

It is not directly related to Metta, but the idea is to keep lust away from the mind when you interact with women. It doesn't mean you should ask women to become mothers, sisters, daughters etc. The person who uses this technique to curb lust does not really care if the women he interacts with become mothers, sisters, daughters in real life. :D It is only for his personal usage within the mind. 

Greed is one of the 3 defilements that causes bad Karma. The other 2 are aversion and ignorance. A greedy thought is bad Karma. Killing is caused by aversion. It is more unwholesome and causes more suffering compared to craving for the taste of meat. Because killing breaks the first precept. 

If you remember something, note it as remembering, remembering, remembering... until it stops. If you remember something and have already become upset or sad, note it as sad, sad sad... until the sadness goes away. Simply observe the 3 characteristics of regret. 

Tanha is liking sense-pleasures, liking for becoming and liking for non-becoming. Upadana is clinging for sense-pleasures, wrong views, rites-and-rituals and self-doctrine. Upadana is at the level of clinging whereas Tanha is mere liking of the above mentioned. Ex: you see an expensive watch in a shop and you start to like it. That is Tanha. That liking leads to wanting it for yourself. That is Upadana. That wanting leads to trying to buy it, buying it or trying to steal it, stealing it. That is Bhava(Karma). 

Is her faith similar to yours? Does she have similar moral standards? Is she generous as you? Does she have similar wisdom? 

Atheism is not a religion. It's just a view that says there are no deities. Atheism is harmless & compatible with Buddhism when it just means there is no creator/almighty God who is responsible for our fates. But it becomes extremely dangerous and contradictory to Buddhism when it grows into nihilism & materialism. On the other hand, Buddhism is a comprehensive religion with vast number of texts containing in depth teachings and clear guidance on the nature of phenomena and their workings. It teaches the causes of these phenomena, what we need to aim for, and how to achieve that which needs be achieved. These teachings include deities, non-humans, hells, heavens, rebirth, karma etc. & also guidance on how to make the household life successful. Buddhism also has rules & rituals associated with it. 

The right view caused by faith in another's teaching and/or faith in personal feelings,perceptions and reasoning. ex: having the view that rebirth is true without actually knowing and without knowing the nature of phenomena The right view caused by Panna ex: having the view that rebirth is true by direct knowledge and/or by inference(through understanding of how phenomena arise). 

Sangha here means the monks who preach inline with the teachings of the Buddha. So if a certain monk teaches something that goes against the teachings of the Buddha, it doesn't prevent you from taking refuge in the Triple Gem. You just have to find an authentic member of the Sangha to teach you. Even if you can't find one, you still can take refuge in the enlightened monks in the past. 

During the destruction of the world, most living beings become Brahmas and dwell in Brahma realms which are not affected by the fire. One hundred thousand years prior to the end of the world, a type of Devas called Loka Viyuha, who foresee this doom, come down to human world disguised as humans, announce the coming obliteration. Most beings on hearing this warning get rid of their reckless way of life and practice meritorious deeds and are born in Deva realms. From there they meditate and attain Jhana to get to Brahma realms. Hell beings are also born in human realm due to their past good Kamma and go up from there. Therefore all beings except those who profess wrong views (Nihilism AKA niyata miccha ditthi) reach Brahma loka at least once. Those who cannot escape the destruction are born in a hell called Lokantharika Naraka. The Lokantarika Hell When three universes meet, there is space where Lokantarika hell exists, where neither sunray nor moonbeam can reach. Complete darkness reigns there. Beings in this hell cling to the walls of the universe in complete darkness. They mistake the other sinner to be some food, and try to bite each other. On doing so, they fall down into the icy/acidic water and perish. 

It's not that complicated. Mental states that lead to suffering are bad and the mental states that lead to or conducive to freedom from suffering are good. In other words; craving, aversion and ignorance are bad; whereas non-craving, non-aversion, non-ignorance are good. 

In the first Buddhist council, it was agreed by all the 500 Arahaths headed by venerable Maha Kassapa to preserve all the vinaya rules. The Theravada tradition has been following this ruling ever since. 

No, the Buddha did not wait for people to ask for help. Only at the beginning, after attaining the Buddhahood, he waited for the invitation of the Maha Brahma, to preach the Dhamma to the world. That is customary to all the Buddhas. The issue with making it a rule to wait for people to ask for help is that people rarely realize that they need help. Even when they are in a pathetic condition, they don't realize the type of help they really require is the Dhamma. Lord Buddha would often open conversations with strangers without waiting for the other person to engage. Sometimes he would travel great distances, just to meet one person. ex: the story of King Pukkusati. Sometimes he would use Samyak-Prayoga to convince someone to practice the Dhamma. Ex: The story of Prince Nanda. All Nanda wanted to do is to marry Janapada Kalyani. He had everything and never felt like he needed help. If you want to bring a friend to the Dhamma, you have to be smart about it. You can study the likings and dislikings of the friend and figure out what method of convincing would work best. If one method doesn't work, you can try another. Read about how Anathapindika, the chief supporter of the Buddha, convinced his son Kala to listen to the Dhamma. Also read about how Ghatikara the potter convinced his friend Jotipala to go see the Buddha. Sigalovada Sutta lists down four kinds of good friends. The 3rd kind is "he who gives good counsel". No one can force someone into Nibbana. But that doesn't mean you should always wait for the SOS. :) But, if you get upset when your friends don't listen to you, that is not Karuna. That is expecting them to act according to your liking. That is a defilement. One important thing to notice is that in most of those stories, the person who does the convincing had already attained a stage of enlightenment. Anatapindika was a Sotapanna. Ghatikara was an Anagami. So it's best not to waste too much time trying to convince others, if you are still ordinary. Focus more on seeing the Dhamma yourself first. It's not very effective, trying to pull others out of the mud, if you yourself are still stuck in it.