Hitler at the time was demanding a corridor of territory linking Pomerania with the Germanic peoples of East Prussia known as the Danzig corridor. During 1938 Britain and France had acquiesced and actually agreed with Hitler's Carlsbad program demanding that the Czechs should surrender territory which had majority German populations. Anglo French support for these demands undoubtedly persuaded Hitler that Britain and France would come to agree with his point of view over the Danzig corridor. The other side of the coin is that during 1939 Poland was threatening to seize Silesia from Germany for Germany suspending war reparations payments in 1935. Poland was banging the drum and demanding that Britain and France support her in making such a seizure so there was heightened tension before the German invasion. Poland was trying to invoke the treaty of Brest-Litvosk to induce Britain and France to join Poland in its invasion of Silesia. It may be that Hitler interpreted Anglo French unwillingness to participate in the proposed Polish annexation of Silesia as an unwillingness to defend Poland. The short answer therefore is that I do not think Hitler anticipated the British response. 

General Electric which was the majority shareholder in AEG was a large corporate donor to the Nazi party up to and including 1942. They also funneled laundered money through Lisbon to the Nazi regime after 1942 as royalties from their subsidiary Union Carbide. GEC was prosecuted and convicted for this after the war. In July 1943 the Nazis could not afford to continue development of the V2 rocket, thus privatised the project selling rights to manufacture the weapon to AEG. This German company raised capital on Wall Street to pay for Mittelwerke ostensibly as a loan to GEC for the establishment of an Osram Lamp factory in Brazil. Most of the funds were diverted from Lisbon to Switzerland where it was used to pay for the missiles which later rained down on London 

Was the supernova detected in Europe, but not reported? If so, detected by whom? Why was is not reported? Or if reported, why has the information not been conserved until now? Was the supernova not detected in Europe, and if so why not? Was there less interest in celestial phenomena than in the Orient? Or was there less knowledge available to interpret observed phenomena? Why is there no report of observations of the supernova in the Western arab word, either the Magreb or the Andalous? These civilizations were perfectly up to date on scientific advances, and well connected with the rest of the arab-speaking sphere of influence (e.g. Baghdad). 

Basically, what can be seen here is that the 1054 Crab Nebula supernova is at about 20 degrees removed from the sun during daylight hours, when at maximum emission. It must have been difficult to see in this conjunction, as are the planets Mercury and Venus when very close to the Sun. Difficult - but not impossible. Moreover, this difficulty would have been precisely the same, seen either from North-Western Europe or from East Asia. At earlier or later dates, the Sun would have been further apart from the supernova thus lessening glare, but the supernova's own emission levels were much lower. Now, consider where the supernova has been documented from: very clearly in China and Japan, with perhaps one observation from the Middle East. Does this mean it was not observed in Europe? One must think not, even though local conditions could have interfered: increased cloud cover or volcanic emissions. These could have had an influence in some parts of Europe, but not on a sufficient scale to affect the complete continent[2]. Thus, we are confronted by a natural phenomenon that, from a physical standpoint, could very well have been observed from Europe as from Asia, but that has been clearly documented only in the East. To my mind, this is already a significant development, leading us to a series of questions: 

Actually the M3 Sherman was considerably undergunned and in the battle of Villers Bocage Michael Wittmann with just one tiger tank destroyed 14 Shermans in succession. The British up-gunned the Shermann to a 90mm gun and called it the Firefly at which point it was more evenly matched gun wise, but not in terms of protection. The Sherman had a radial aircraft engine for propulsion therefore used high octane fuel. For this reason the Germans nicknamed it the "Ronson Lighter" for its ease to set alight. The Cromwell British tank was far superior to the Sherman and led to the Post war Centurion, so other than being able to produce the Sherman in large numbers I don't see the question is all that valid. British Tanks used in the desert campaign were "Infantry tanks" the product of 1930s philosphy. The Lee Grant and Stewart light tanks were not much different. The Sherman arrived late in the north Africa campaign developed from lessons learned by mistakes. USA was able to implement changes to the Lee Grant with a new turret and hull quite quickly. It was still only developed to take on the German Mark IV. When it met the Tiger it was outclassed. 

For the Hiroshima bomb (Little Boy) with 64kg of Uranium only 700 grams was fissioned, or about 1.09% before the remaining HEU was blown apart. Interestingly a soil sample survey from Hiroshima in 1983 could no longer detect evidence of Uranium above background levels. The superiority of using Plutonium came from the fact reactors at Haniford could produce it from un-enriched Uranium. It also made the weapon fail safe. 

The whole discussion fails to point out that there were also differences from the sources of immigration inside Italy. Most immigrants to the US were immigrants from southern Italy, which began to industrialize later. In Brazil, most immigrants were from northern Italy, which was industrializing earlier. Veneto, Trentino, Lombardia, etc. There was also a difference in immigration pattern between immigrants to São Paulo and southern Brazil. Immigrants to São Paulo mostly stayed in the city, which was already catching up with Rio de Janeiro in population and importance, or in coffee plantations, while immigrants to the brazilian south were making their own settlements and having their own land. While italian immigrants to coffee plantations in São Paulo were probably being mistreated, in southern Brazil they were owning their own lands and creating their own cities and companies. Moreover, even in São Paulo, the situation was probably not as bad as the propaganda in Italy made it seem. Many italians in São Paulo were not only becoming successfull as also quite rich. While in NY at the beginning most rich italians were associated with the mafia, in São Paulo, by 1927, the Martinelli building, São Paulo's first skyscraper, was built by a rich italian immigrant. And while NY had the powerful Rockefellers, São Paulo's most rich and prestigious family in the first half of the 20th century were the Matarazzos, also from Italy. $URL$ "At the age of 26, when Italian emigration to Brazil was widespread, he moved to the city of Sorocaba, São Paulo with his brothers, wife and children. Initially he sold oranges and lottery tickets and shined shoes, reinvesting the proceeds in new businesses, eventually including plantations of tea, coffee, corn, rice, rubber and cotton.[1] In 1890, he moved to São Paulo and with his brothers, Giuseppe and Luigi, founded Matarazzo and Irmãos. He diversified its business and imported wheat flour from the United States of America. Giuseppe took part in the company with a lard factory in Porto Alegre and Luigi with a deposit-warehouse in São Paulo. War between Spain and Central American countries made it difficult buy wheat flour and he obtained credit from the London and Brazilian Bank to build a mill in São Paulo. From there, his business expanded rapidly to a total of 365 factories[citation needed] throughout Brazil. The conglomerate became the fourth largest in the country and 6% of the population depended on its factories in São Paulo. The Gestapo spy Hans Wesemann reported that: An entire fleet sails under his flag. Tens of thousands of workers toil in his factories. He makes cement, cuts down trees and turns the pulp into paper, on which he prints his newspapers. The public drinks his beer and watches films in his cinemas. He contrives to be both wealthy and popular and when the president of Brazil visits Sao Paolo, he calls upon Matarazzo first.[1] In recognition of his financial and material assistance to Italy during the First World War King Victor Emmanuel III conferred the title of Count. Matarazzo died in 1937 after an attack of uremia. At that time he was Brazil's's richest man, with an estimated fortune of 10 billion U.S. dollars 

There are several points to be considered in this question. Let us start by seeing some hard facts. As quoted by Wikipedia article SN1054: "Crab Nebula probably appeared in April or early May, rising to its maximum brightness of between apparent magnitude −7 and −4.5 (brighter than everything in the night sky except the Moon) by July. The supernova was visible to the naked eye for about two years after its first observation. Thanks to the recorded observations of Far Eastern and Middle Eastern astronomers of 1054, Crab Nebula became the first astronomical object recognized as being connected to a supernova explosion." Mayall, Nicholas Ulrich (1939). "The Crab Nebula, a Probable Supernova". Astronomical Society of the Pacific Leaflets 3 (119): 145. The important facts are the months in which each phase of the supernova took place. Supernovas have a characteristic curve (actually, two or more types of curves) which describes how light emission takes place. From a low initial value (April/May in the case of SN 1054), emission increases rapidly to a maximum within about 20-40 days (July 10th), then decreases more slowly over a period of 40-60 days. Now, the position of the supernova in the sky is also relevant. In this case right ascension is 5h34m, declination is 22 degrees. However, in early July (such as now), the sun is very close to this position, at least during daylight hours as seen from Northern Europe. Please consider the following screenshot from the Stellarium software, calculated for Paris on July 13, 2015. 

Perhaps we need more hard information in order to give correct support to a serious explanation of the facts. In the present state of our knowledge, I am afraid we simply cannot give a definite answer to the question. [2] Compare with the 1783/84 Laki event, that affected mostly the British Isles and parts of the North of France - but not Southern Europe or the Balkans. This is typical of wind patterns over the North Atlantic.