If they can somehow separate the hydrogen or the helium from their food or enviroment to keep it in special bladders they could gain buoyancy and float out of the water (where they breed) into the air over dry land. If then they can detect a prey right under them and quickly release gas to drop straight down, they can substitute birds of prey in a ecosystem. Sea animals extract oxygen from the water with gills and such, maybe they can keep the H after taking the O2 (I don't know a lot about underwater respiration so ask someone who does before taking the idea into serious account) 

Rent it to whiskey makers. They can age the barrels artificially and find out what is the true optimal age of a whiskey. 40 years, 60 years, 100 years? Finally the liquor enthusiasts will find out at what point it stops getting better, or even if it does... 

The area is not longer no the planet, but has shifted to another dimension without gravity and THE PORTAL IS STILL OPEN. Though I call it portal it is not necessarily a door but a spherical field, like the surface of a buble, that transport you to that dimension/plane. Since the portal completely encompasses the zone you cannot step (sorry, float) out of it to the rest of the dimension without returning to earth and everything (light, air, animals, people) crosses freely through in and out of the field without realising they are leaving the planet or coming back to it. 

Having every peasant own a horse and be able to ride doesn't make them into a mounted warrior any more than normal peasants being able to walk allows them to be foot soldiers. They are still lacking training, weapons, and armor and the skill and desire to use them. This also applies to their horses. 

The real restriction on the range of an army is the horses. Imagine your army heading out into a place with no food. Every day you march, you need to put food in the wagon to feed the horses pulling it for 2 days. At a point, you have to fill the entire wagon with food for the horses pulling said wagon and you are stuck. This distance is pretty short, and that's just to feed the cart horses and not the army. Foraging can help some, but it also restricts the distance you march, and a large army will exhaust an area rapidly. Think of how fast your pantry would empty if you had 50 guests for dinner every day. So in reality, nations needed to keep a supply of depots to store food, and river transport to help fill them, and many other logistic support systems to allow an army to go anywhere. Any interruption of this system would bring an army to a halt, even with no opposition. Bad weather often did this. 

The best way to do it would be option D, without force. In the 19th and 20th centuries the US took in nations worth of immigrants most of which spoke other languages. There was no official support, or opposition to this - and immigrants often had their own newspapers in cities where they were living. However, the children tended to learn English readily, and were bilingual. Grandchildren sometimes knew a smattering of the original tongue to speak to their grandparents, but in all other respects were English speakers. This was the result of no edict or law, just the working out of the fact that being able to talk to everyone is easier than keeping your own language once you start mixing populations rather than living in isolated communities. In fact, in your case you would be better off adopting C and not bother with langauge D. That way nobody can argue one side gets a better deal. 

Irresponsibility. A group of ancient aliens, evolved from mammal-like, ape-like animals, traverses the universe stopping here and there, going down to the surface without any care of how they might affect the ecosystem. In some planets they see lizard-like creatures predating on mammal-like furry critters, and since they find them cuter that the reptiles they scare away the predators, giving mammals an evolutionary leg up via butterfly effect. In other planets they find ape-man like beings and they interact with them, again without a second thought to how the affect them, which is by leaving the impression of incredibly powerful beings that would affect how they chose mate in the following generations, with the individuals that resemble them, with their walking on two legs and wide foreheads, being considered the best mates. So... Irresponsable aliens. 

If i were you i would send my own drone down to the surface and communicate through that, that way they would know for sure they are not being punked by a pirate radio signal and a kid with Mad FX Skills. Let the humans decide who steps in front of the drone. 

The rainforest people probably noticed that that insects don't approach the leaves of a certain plant, so they would use it to make an oil that they use as repellent. Also, it may sound like a bit "Flinstone" but keeping chameleons or frogs in or around the hut so they eat the mosquitoes is not a far fetched idea. Cats were kept as pets because they hunted down the vermin. 

The Wizard would be better off casting the spell on a man-sized boulder, and then just letting it fall on the other army. 

Just set up a system of GPS-like emitters on the surface as you go. As long as you were in range of one, you have a position on the map. If there is no ionosphere, you just need more of them. 

I question whether a carnivorous race could even have a million man army. Carnivores need herbivores to live on, and a lot of them. A million man army would have at least 5-8 million dependents at home, and would have to raise many times that number of cows or other food animals to live on...and crops or fodder for all those animals. Carnivores can't pack themselves together like humans can. It just isn't possible. 

Well, unless the EMP plane is a suicide plane, it needs to have protection from EMP just to stay up and use its weapon more than once. So the other side just needs to steal that technology itself. 

I'm not sure why you deride putting the spirit/brain of an animal into the robot as "handwavium". Given the limits of a magical world's tech, that would be the best way to do it! Whatever spirit motivates a dog, or bear, "knows" how to run a body already, so magically attaching it so that those same thoughts activate the golem's equivalent parts correctly would be as straightforward as magically making an articulated physical body the same way. You might need a different, specialist magician to bind it for you, perhaps. 

Mesothermics. Contrary to believe, cocroaches would not survive a nuclear winter, but not because of the radiation, but because of the cold. A global nuclear winter would see the appearance of endothermic characteristics in animal that use to be exothermic. Sadly this would mean that lizards and insects would be much more voracious. But the ability to lower the metabolism when there is little food or a creature finds itself in a warmer place could also be crucial. So many creatures could appear with the capacity to generate just enough internal heat to survive eficiently. 

Maybe this is how the aliens evolve themselves. They discover new organisms, the hybridised some individuals, and they keep them in their "society" for a trial period of time. They can observe then if this additions bring any benefits to the collective or they just eliminate the individuals and move along to another species. Maybe make so humans are not the only species on earth they have hybrids of. 

That is not a great idea. If your enemy has access to the same technology they probably can send another current at contact and destabilise your shield/blade, making them useless. It is probably easier to cause the material to return to liquid than to keep it in shield form so unless you are using it against someone you know doesn't have the technological level to do it you are giving the enemy an advantage. 

I think that there is a mistake in thinking that there are genetic or biological factors at all in force sensitiveness. First of all, the force is in all things, even Han Solo has shown remarkable speed and accuracy when shooting from the hip. Huts and Nomoidians are believe to be naturaly resistant to mental tricks, but this could be a product of their culture, which makes them wary of "things that look too god to be true" or "conveniently simple". SO it would be possible for any individual to achieve a level of understanding and limited use of the force simply by training. Skywalker's family is riddled with internal emotional conflict and external galaxy-shaping conflict. That could be very well why they are strong in the force and not their genes. I personally think that the force would regulate itself how many individuals achieve this kind of higher understanding of the force and when a sufficiently number is achieved there simply won't appear any more, no matter the trainings or breeding programmes. 

Grow your stave branches around lumps of lead, then harvest them later for a more effective quarterstaff. Technically all you are hitting them with is the wood. 

Cavalry charges with horses do not work against formed infantry in lines because the horses will not run into something that looks like a wall of their own volition. They will instead stop, and turn aside. Even without horns, a 'kamikaze' horse will break into a line or square. I recall a story of a horse being shot and killed in a charge and the body crushed in the square and disordered it, allowing it to be broken So if a unicorn reacts like a horse, it would stop to 'fence' with its horn when faced with formed infantry and its momentum would not matter at all, unless the line broke. Only if a unicorn would allow itself to charge that solid seeming wall would they be any better than horsemen, and then the horns don't matter as the mass of the body would be sufficient. 

Some microscopic animals have a wheel like structure that drives a flagellum. The issue with a natural macroscopic wheel is that the wheel and axle unit is basically not attached to the rest of the animal. If it were, the blood vessels would be torn off or spun into a knot. Therefore it can't get nutrients to the wheel part, and it can't grow, or be alive for long. 

I'll take an idea from Henry Taylors' answer. I think that the converging moon would appear black as it transited the face of the larger, outer moon. But lets assume that the small moon is tidal locked and has a volcanic core that has emitted a permanent a lake of magma near the center of the moon. This would be invisible or nearly so when illuminated by sunlight. So when the two moons coincide near full, the black moon appears in the 'white' background. Then when the lake appears you see the glow of the magma pool and you get concentric white - black - red. 

If you only have one small sentient individual per big organism then the small ones would evolve adapting their life cycles to the big ones, which means they would not herd in big numbers or mate often. Maybe the big ones can produce very big litters but the small ones not so much, which would mean that there won't be as many small ones and lesser generational change than with humans. That would make their evolution slower. Also an individual protected by a big organism wouldn't need to develop ingenuity as much as humans did to avoid predators and find food. I'd say the odds are slim. 

You could make it so the inner sun is not on the perfect center of the sphere, but in a orbit that brings it closer to some parts (and further of others) as the year goes along. A slight change in the distance could be the difference between the temperature of the seasons thought you would need other factors for the changes in humidity and climate. 

I am not sure if you are asking which one is more plausible or wich one would be a better setting for a world you are building. You would have to specify what are you looking for. In general terms I would always recommend the tunnel network. if you look at the Underdark in Dungeons and Dragons or the cyber-labyrinth in Tsutomu Nihei's "Blame" series. A tunnel system can hold any number of ambients, from claustrophobic passages to caverns so wide you can't see the wall on the other side. Hosting entire cultures of peoples that could be as primitive and isolated or advanced and networked as you want. On the other hand Hollow Earth does not really differ so much from the surface, other that you can spy on the other side of the world with a good enough telescope. But mountains and seas should not be that different, and you have to explain how the gravity works and where does the sunlight come from. My vote is for Tunnel Network. 

I've heard that same stat used for dying by being buried alive...as you fix other problems and become less vulnerable, the chance of dying from one of the other causes goes up. The stat says nothing about immortality increasing your chance of cancer. If it did, then the 'eternal life' would have to be balanced against the decrease due to cancer risk. If this was negative, it wouldn't be worth taking the treatment. The behavior changes seems a stretch, as we already live with not knowing when we die. 

When we want to strengthen a material, like concrete, putting in a bit of metallic structure into the mix helps a lot...as in reinforced concrete. An animal could in theory, do this to its own bones..depositing a metal into the bone structure in fibers, producing an internal web of stronger material. Think of a fiberglass like result, but with metal. 

In theory you can move a black hole. If you pump charged particles into the black hole, it keeps the net charge. This would make the hole respond to an electric field and in theory movable. Of course, if you have the technology to create immense charged beams and huge fields that can move a multi-solar-mass item about like a billiard ball, you might as well just use this stuff on the target right off, and skip the messing about with a black hole. 

Records occasionally get destroyed in accidents. You could claim you were from that area and get new documents that couldn't be checked. Another dodge I heard was to get birth certificates from people who died young in the same year you were born, and use them to request new documents.