What is this part's name and function? Should I remove it or adjust it? How can I best go about this? 

My best guess as to the function of this part is that it supposedly helps guide the chain into the front gear set (at the pedals) - but in my case it seems to be interfering with the chain's movement. My questions are as follows: 

I carefully loosened this screw and then very slowly rotated the derailer away from the chain until it had about a millimeter or so of clearance. I then tightened the screw and tested functionality. Now the pedals ran smoothly with the front gearset in 3rd. I took the right shifter down a couple of gears to verify its continued functionality (all was well), and then I tried taking the left shifter down to 2nd. To my dismay, the chain transferred to 1st gear instead - so I believe my configuration is still amiss. Here are two better shots (with the bike in upright orientation, post-adjustment) of the derailer: 

Your best bet for all around tire in the winter is going to be a cyclocross tire. They are made to race in grass, snow, on pavement, in sand, singletrack, and just about any way possible. They also have different types of treads for different conditions. You can't beat the Hutchinson Bulldogs, if you are looking for something more affordable, maybe the Maxxis Locust CX. CX tires offer low rolling resistance in the center of the tire, and have good grip on the sides. A less aggressive tread would be found on something like the Kenda Happy Medium. Give those a shot this winter and you shouldn't be disappointed. 

A couple of days ago I was riding my bike and when I hit a hill and was shifting down through my gears, the chain slipped off the gears. I hopped off the bike and walked it back home, flipped it upside down, and got the chain back on the gears. I figured maybe I was shifting too quickly through the gears or something. Yesterday I went out to ride again, and shortly after I started - this time on fairly level ground - the chain slipped off again. I put it back on the gears again and rode a bit farther, but yet again it slipped off. This time when I took it back home (and yet again got the chain back onto the gears), I tried to carefully troubleshoot what was going wrong. I noticed that my troubles always started when I tried to take the left shifter to 3rd (it's an 18-speed mountain bike) or 1st. When shifting to 3rd, it wouldn't transfer to the gear (stayed on 2nd) and when going to 1st it would come past 1st next to the pedal hub. It might help for me to mention that the right shifter was going through all 6 back gears just fine through all this - so I was getting the idea that my problem had something to do with the left shifter only. After manually applying the chain to the 3rd gear, I slowly turned the pedals and noticed that the chain was rubbing up against and sometimes getting stuck on the part in my photo that I've highlighted with a red circle and for which I unfortunately do not know the name (since I'm a bike noob). 

I guess you are struggling with a lack of stopping power? Ben Delaney from VeloNews has a funny take on it: "’cross brakes don’t slow you down, but instead just squeal to warn the guy in front of you that they’re about to be rammed." (He also wrote a great review of the brakes I am about to suggest: $URL$ Try these: $URL$ they are linear pull cyclocross brakes. They should provide more than enough power. If that's not enough power for you, you could do a full blown V-brake like the shimano XT. If you are stuck on the look of cantilevers, try avid shortys, I run avid shorty 4s on my bike, but the Avid Shorty Ultimate seem to be pretty awesome, too. they work just fine for commuting and cross. 

As for price, brands, geometries, gear ratios, frame materials etc. this is very much personal preference and the rules are the same as for any bicycle. You can typically splurge a little on a fixie because there are far fewer other components that you have to purchase and maintain. 

The number one thing that you should look for is a brake. Again, others may offer dissenting opinions on this, but riding a fixed gear bicycle on the road without a brake is extremely dangerous. Chain tension mechanism. You will have to be able to tension the chain on your fixed gear bike as it lacks the derailleur and pulley mechanism that handles that task on traditional geared bikes. This will likely be accomplished by means of horizontal rear wheel dropouts within which the wheel moves back and forth for adjustment. You may also encounter models with an eccentric bottom bracket mechanism. These typically add some weight and may be of less interest to you unless you happen to go for a rear disk brake (in which case moving the rear wheel to adjust chain tension is not an option) If you are new to the world of fixed gears then you may be interested in having an option to run a freewheel as well. A flip-flop hub can offer the best of both worlds in that you can ride fixed or flip the wheel around and ride with a freewheel. This adds a small weight penalty and absolutely requires that you install a brake of course. 

For Shimano: SS - Short Cage Road Double - Maximum Cassette Cog is 27 and Total Capacity is 29 GS - Medium Cage MTB/Road Triple - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34(MTB)/27(Road) and Total Capacity is 33(MTB)/37(Road) SGS - Long MTB - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34 and Total Capacity is 45 For SRAM: Short - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34(MTB)/28(Road) and Total Capacity is 32(MTB)/31(Road) Medium - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34 and Total Capacity is 37 Long - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34 and Total Capacity is 45 For Campagnolo: Short - Maximum Cassette Cog is 26 and Total Capacity is 27 Medium - Maximum Cassette Cog is 29 and Total Capacity is 36 Long - Maximum Cassette Cog is 29 and Total Capacity is 39 NOTE - THIS INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE BY MANUFACTURER And a great source for all of this is Sutherland's 7th edition $URL$ Hope that helps 

If I had the money I'd just take it to a bike shop and watch them fix it, but I'm broke so unless they'd do it for free that's unfortunately not an option. As I've already indicated, I'm a total novice at bike ownership so I'll appreciate helpful, constructive replies. I look forward to getting this resolved so I can get back to riding. Thanks for your time. --------------------- EDIT --------------------- Operating perhaps prematurely, I tried adjusting the positioning of the derailer to stop it from inhibiting chain movement. I noticed the whole assembly was attached to the post via the screw highlighted in the following picture: 

Determine Maximum Chainring Difference by subracting the number of teeth in the smallest chainring from the number of teeth in the largest chainring Determine Maximum Cassette Cog Difference by subtracting the number of teeth on the smallest cassette cog from the number of teeth on the largest cassette cog Determine Total Drivetrain Capacity by adding Maximum Chainring Difference to the Maximum Cassette Cog Difference Record the Maximum Cassette Cog (the number of teeth on the largest Cassette Cog) 

If you are asking how to calculate the maximum capacity of the chainrings and cogs, based on looking at the derailleur, then it's not going to be as easy as just looking at them. Finding a derailleur to fit your chainrings/cogs based on just the chainrings/cogs is going to be a lot easier than finding chainrings based on looking at your derailleur. HOWEVER, there are some standards for manufacturer, I have listed them below. I have also included the formula to find out your capacities, since I misread your question initially and decided to answer the part you weren't concerned with. I am not deleting it because, well, it took a while to type. According to United Bicycle Institute: 

You are likely going to get some opinionated comments and answers in response to this question. There are lots of good brands (frames and complete bikes) from all over the world. There are more and more options showing up in local bike stores, so if you can it will be best to go have a look. Even if you choose to purchase online, having spent some time looking at physical hardware will help you make your decision. I'm going to make an assumption that you're asking about a fixed gear bicycle for road use as opposed to a track. If you haven't read Sheldon Brown's detailed article then please do, it's a great place to start. Without reiterating all of the detail in that article I'll simply point out a couple of highlights: