Now, when you say "pressure" to create black holes. The pressure inside a black hole, or, I should say, pressure inside a Neutron Star about to turn into a black hole, or the pressure inside a collapsing core of a very large star about to create a black hole - those pressures are crazy high, but if we could re-create that pressure on earth (We can't), but if we could, it wouldn't be enough to make a black hole. Pressure alone doesn't do it, you need mass (at last about 3 solar masses) to fit within a certain size and the less mass you have, the greater the required density (and greater pressure) is needed to achieve the necessary mass to schwarzchild radius ratio. The pressure required inside the forming black hole actually decreases as the mass of the black hole increases. (based on simple pressure equations and schwarzchild radii). Equal pressure in a lab on Earth wouldn't accomplish it. What makes black holes theoretically possible is the small quantum size and possibility of extra dimensions and quantum rules that only apply to the very small, so it's a very different set of circumstances. Collisions in CERN are measured in Electron-volts. It was theorized that if there were extra dimensions on the quantum level, then micro-black holes might form at the energy of CERN's collisions (this would imply that black holes of this type form in Earth's upper atmosphere all the time, implying they're not dangerous). But so far, no luck. No micro-black-holes have been observed. They should dissipate very rapidly but their decay streams should be recognizable so they should get noticed, but so far, none have been spotted and as a result, there's no evidence of extra dimensions. That doesn't mean they're not there, and that micro-black-holes can't be created, but so far there's no evidence that they've been created up to about 13 trillion electron volts, the current peak of CERN's collision energy. See here Hope that makes sense. Corrections welcome. 

For the last 11,000 years the Northern Hemisphere Summer TSI has been decreasing. More recently and for the next couple thousand years there's been a leveling off and after that, in two thousand years or so, there will be a turn towards warming again, lasting 15,000 years or so. No major orbital effects are anticipated for several tens of thousands of years, also noted in the other answer that we're in the middle of an unusually long between ice ages period, and any chance we might see a mini-ice ages have been thwarted by our greenhouse gas output. These charts on orbital variation and Northern Hemisphere summer TSI are effectively moot with 400 PPM CO2. They really only apply with pre-industrial levels. 400 PPM CO2 is probably enough to prevent any chance of an ice age. 

But for such a scenario to actually exist, you'd need a lot of luck, because the forces that tend to tidally lock a planet or moon tend to also reduce any other rotations other than the synchronous 1:1 tidally locked rotation. Another problem is the Equatorial bulge which is a consequence of rotation, tends to have more mass and that would want to orient itself towards the planet, so for this to work you'd need a slow rotation and a small equatorial bulge where the added mass around the equatorial bulge was small enough to not alter the direction of the heavier side of the planet. Now it's not hard to imagine a planet that's not tidally locked having just the right orbital velocity and position to do what you want, but in such a scenario with no tidal locking, it would be temporary. Planets rotations tends to slow down over time, so perfectly matching without tidal locking would be coincidental and temporary. More likely you'd have a very slow rotation, not a permanent side facing the planet, but a very gradual movement. There are no planets (or moons) like you describe that we know of. It's probably a hugely unlikely scenario that would probably only be approximated (a bit like Uranus). 

There's still a whole lot we don't know. As Wayfaring stranger points out in the comments, Origin is a whole different question. It's possible that life originated outside our solar system and came to either Mars and/or Earth from outside the solar-system. I don't think anyone who studies this idea is "Assuming" life originated on Mars, only that the idea has a chance of being true. 

A complete answer gets long and above my pay-grade, but when the earth and solar system were young, it's unlikely that the Earth had much atmosphere at all. The young sun was hot enough to burn off most gases and ices in the inner solar-system and when the earth coalesced it was largely metals and silicates. The oceans and atmosphere came later by comet and asteroid belt impacts, and, as Jeff Y points out, after that it's just heat and chemistry. Oxygen or O2 binds so easily with other molecules, like Methane or Hydrogen or Iron that it goes away pretty quickly until those are used up. Like O2, N2 wasn't nearly as present in the young atmosphere as it is today either. More on that here: $URL$ The four most common early ices/gases on earth were CH4, CO2, H2O and NH3. Over time, the NH3 and CH4 get used up by bacteria or chemical processes, lightning, volcanoes, UV light from the sun, etc. The H20 and CO2 are much more stable, though photosynthesis did slowly pull most of the CO2 from the atmosphere, returning O2. 

The article doesn't go into specifics and appears, not to be written by Dr. Evans at all, but I'll pull some quotes. 

Source The 2nd source, above, doesn't even mention Nitrogen (N2), Wikipedia does, though they don't give percentages beyond 60% for water, 10-40% for CO2. Earth's volcanic gas today is probably not a good measuring stick because of 3 plus billion years of life (some nitrogen fixing, lots of long chain carbon molecules) and some 4 billion years of plate tectonics. And to my knowledge, a sample of volcanic gas from Venus has never been studied. In fact, there are no known active volcanoes on Venus at all. Source. Outgassing can perhaps be estimated by atmospheric content, but I'm skeptical on the accuracy of those numbers they gave. I think your first article from NASA far more reliable. They quote a ton of sources and several times in the article, indicate legitimate uncertainty. What I took away from the NASA article: Yes, when the solar system was very young, the t-tauri phase of the sun blew most of the atmosphere off the 4 inner planets (or 3 Earth-like if you want to ignore Mercury, which the first article does). This is backed up in part by the lack of Xe-129 which should form as a gas based on the 15 million year half life of I-129. If the atmospheres weren't blown off, we should see a certain percentage Xe-129 in the atmospheres of Earth/Mars/Venus. The percentage is much too low, suggesting the blow-off did happen over the first, perhaps 100 million years, continuing well after the end of the T-tauri phase, when the sun was still very active with solar flares. The giant impact that is thought to have created the Moon (about 30 million years after planet formation) may have blown off a chunk of Earth's atmosphere as well, but the Solar wind probably did too. Where the primordial atmosphere came from? Whether out gassing or comets (or a combination of both), I don't think that's a resolved question. What seems true, based on the first article, is that Venus's water evaporated and it lost it's water by a combination of photo-chemistry and it's higher temperature and perhaps some jeans escape. No water on it's surface may have slowed down any hope it had for plate tectonics and that reduced the rate that it outgassed. (a general summary of the NASA article). To get a better idea of Venus history, they'd like some rocky samples, but they don't have any. Earth maintained it's oceans, perhaps because it had more water to begin with, or a lower temperature or combination of the two. The lunar impact may have sped up Earth's outgassing as it liquified the entire crust for thousands, perhaps as long as a couple million years. It's unclear if Venus ever had it's crust liquified. But after Earth cooled after the giant impact, it had enough water for oceans and oceans made it possible to form carbonate rock and remove much of the CO2 from it's atmosphere. Life assisted with the removal of CO2 and fixed some nitrogen too. Ammonia also dissolves in water, so much of the nitrogen that came to Earth by comets could have been stored in the oceans, while ammonia that came to Venus by comet would have been vaporized as gas and light enough where some of it would inevitably be lost to jeans escape and subject to photo-chemical dissociation, and, a weaker magnetic field. Earth and Venus have similarish amounts of CO2, it's just that Earth has most of it's CO2 stored in carbonate rock. Earth and Venus may have similar amounts of Nitrogen too, though Venus atmosphere has about 4 times as much as Earth's atmosphere, currently, that doesn't take into account Nitrogen in the oceans and fixed or bonded within the Earth. I don't think Venus "extra" CO2 is a mystery because it didn't have oceans long enough to pull the CO2 out of it's atmosphere. We also don't know enough about the materials that formed Venus might have been different than those that formed Earth, and we don't know that much about the process that followed, so I don't think it's fair way to say it has too high a CO2 to N2 ratio. It's entirely possible that the giant impact did blow away a portion of Earth's atmosphere, leaving it somewhat atmosphere depleted compared to Venus, but your NASA article points out that there's some uncertainty on how much atmosphere the Earth had after the giant impact leading to uncertainty on how quickly the Earth cooled. It could, I think, work in the other direction, where the enormous heat of impact and liquification of the crust may have enabled more atmosphere to outgas, giving Earth a thicker atmosphere early on but post impact, where, the Venus equivalent of that gas might still be trapped inside Venus. There's a lot about this subject that remains unresolved. This is just my takeaway from the articles. Take this answer with a grain of salt.