"Natural rights" refer to the right to do (and it is by the nature of being human that humans have rights, which is how "human rights" and "natural rights" get equated). "Human rights" as used in the OPs reference and in most current usages include various rights to have, which is how people can now speak of a right to be provided an education, be provided with potable water, and whatever else you may have encountered. 

That would depend on your ethical principles. Some people have no objections to theft of physical property; there are those who have no truck with the concept of intellectual property (so it would be wrong to take an artist's physical painting, but okay to make a copy). I assume you generally accept the general moral principle that a person owns the intellectual "content" that he creates and this has the same property rights as he would have to his vegetables and house. Moral philosophy also admits "exceptions", for example killing a person is immoral, but there are contexts where it is not -- for instance, if the person is attempting to kill you, then you may kill him if it is necessary to preserve your life. Such an "exception" follow, at least in an egoist framework, from the purpose of a moral code which is to prescribe how to live your life – being killed obviously contradicts that purpose. So: what could possibly justify an exception for the purpose of understanding the fuss? Well, it would be something like, "The wish to understand a popular internet trend justifies ignoring the property rights of others". But this is obviously not a general principle, it's a post-hoc rationalization. I can't conceive of any reasonable principle that would lead to such an exception. 

I can offer only one angle on a many-sided question. I largely agree with the first answer. Then in my own terms : ▻ IDEALISM This typically means that only ideas exist - ideas in the, or a, subject's mind. Hence Bishop Berkeley's claim that all that exist are minds or spirits and their ideas. Point to a so-called object in the external world, say a chair, and the answer from an idealist is likely to be that he chair is just a collection or complex of ideas : we say it is brown, but that means just that we have a perception of brown. We say that it is solid, but that only means that we will experience the idea - a feeling - of resistance if we touch it. Berkeley needs careful handling. On his account ideas cannot be the effects produced in us by objects in the external world. Then how do they originate ? Among the minds or spirits is God. God produces in us all our ideas. What's more, God controls all minds or spirits simultaneously and creates the aggregates of ideas that we call chairs, the sun, and other constants and continuants in what we (or 'the vulgar') take to be the external world. Some ideas exhibit a regularity in our experience which causes us to regard them as Laws of Nature. Though the term 'idealism' does not derive from Berkeley - Leibniz had already used it and Berkeley doesn't use it so far as I know - Berkeley's use of ideas as fundamental (along with the minds that have them) suggests the origin of the term in the notion of ideas. Idealism is idea-ism and only 'idealism' for ease of language. ▻ MATERIALISM Various possibilities here but most, or quite, likely the view that all that exist are physical things. Everything that exists is purely physical and can be described in physical terms where the physical is whatever occupies a space/ time region. This is an extreme form of materialism. Materialism can also refer to the view that them material has primacy, that it is fundamental and everything else dependent on or derivative from it. (Thanks to ttphns for reminding me of the distinction.) This gives the broad contrast and I hope it helps. 

Although I'm a linguist, I'm going to not give a report on the sociology of the term as used in the field (though the quick answer is "yes"). Instead, I will focus on the basic conceptual distinctions. The term "language" refers to the numerous methods of encoding propositions and communicating, which humans use -- examples are Greek, English, Swahili, Chinese. However, in the modern era, the concept has been extended metaphorically so that we now hear about "the language of dance" or "the language of bees", and in the aforementioned instance, "the language of computers". It is not clear what "language" refers to in the modern extended sense -- it seems to refer to any regular pattern, and DNA encoding can be seen to be a "kind of language". The term "natural language" then is used to specifically identify "language" in the classical sense. However, we rarely use that expression, since we consider the extension of the term "language" to other forms of animal behavior, or complex physical systems like DNA, to be misuse of the term "language". Since the term "language" clearly refers to human language, we don't need to add any modifiers. But it may be necessary when in a popular forum. (It has also become necessary in computational linguistics, in the field "natural language programming", precisely because "programming language" is a standard term in that field). That said, one of the top journals in the field is in fact named Natural Language and Linguistic Theory. 

While none of Descartes' arguments for the existence of God is valid, I should say that the 3rd Meditation cosmological argument contains less falsity than the ontological argument. The cosmological argument relies on causal considerations. It infers the existence of God from Descartes' having the idea of God and the assumption that only a perfect being could cause an imperfect being to have the idea of a perfect being. Deeply dubious as this argument, which I have only briefly summarised, is, it is mainstream in the sense of relying on causal premises. Most of us use causal arguments; Descartes does the same, if in this case with egregious errors of reasoning. The ontological argument in the 5th Meditation - not called such by Descartes - is seriously different in its attempt to prove the existence of God a priori from concepts alone. This takes us along paths unknown to ordinary methods and rules of argument. A causal argument for the existence of God is one thing; an argument for the existence of God based on the idea of God's being the idea of a perfect being; on existence being a perfection; and on God's necessarily existing because a perfect being must have all perfections, including that of existence, is baffling in its leap from the idea of a perfect being to the actual existence of a perfect being on the assumption that existence is included in the very idea of a perfect being. This looks packed with falsity. I have set out the ontological argument without the full detail in which Descartes encases it. But it is, if I may put it so, inherently less probable and more counter-intuitive than the causal argument. Both arguments fail but if either had a chance of success, the casual argument would be the more likely, though neither argument has a probability far removed from zero. REFERENCES Descartes, Meditations, ed. J. Cottingham, Cambridge. J. Cottingham, Descartes, Oxford : Blackwell, 1986, ch. 3. H.M. Bracken, Descartes, Oneworld Publications, 2010. 

I disagree with the end of the initial statement "The Judiciary generally holds the power to interpret the law based on the legislative intent" – they have the power to interpret the law, period, and "legislative intent" is just one of many theories of how to do that (one resoundingly rejected by Scalia, for example). The root of the problem is that there is very little by way of universal metatheory for judicial interpretation. This is a consequence of the nature of our common law system, as contrasted with statutory systems as found for example in Europe. It was the original purpose of judges to make wise and just decisions, to create law, not just interpret it. This explains much about the nature of judicial (mis)interpretation in the US. Our justices are simply carrying on a long tradition, where strict reading of objectively-stated law is not the primary principle behind rendering decisions. Generally speaking, justices are guided by the "meaning" behind a piece of written law. The principle stare decisis holds that once a "meaning" has been assigned to a piece of law, that meaning holds in all similar cases (though stare decisis is not actually enforceable). But justices have proven very adept at assigning all sorts of "meanings" to the words in a statute. If you believe that the "meaning" of a statute is the "intent" of the enacting Legislature plus executive, who make the law, you face the problem of establishing that there is indeed an intent. An individual can have an intent in voting some way (such as "get this thing passed so that I can go home, and not get crucified in November"), but getting from individual intent to "group intent" is probably impossible in principle (one reason is that no legislator ever reads and understands all of the bills that s/he votes on). Legislators are generally quite willing to pass unclear laws, in the hope that the courts will later define what the law means. The book The Language of Judges by L. Solan gives a nice catalog of subjective interpretations of essentially the same facts of legal language, depending on the justice in question. T. Smith has written a number of articles ("Why Originalism Won't Die"; "Originalism's Misplaced Fidelity: 'Original' Meaning is Not Objective") which addresses the problem of "meaning" most clearly (from a non-linguistic perspective). 

▻ RYLE'S DISTINCTION The distinction between knowledge-that and knowledge-how derives from Gilbert Ryle. It is best known in the formulation he gave it in The Concept of Mind ch. 2 (1949). ▻ THE DISTINCTION ILLUSTRATED Knowing-how is analysed on the model of knowing how to do a task (e.g. how to tie a knot). Knowing-that is a matter of knowing that something is the case (that Queen Victoria died in 1901). Ryle's view was that knowledge-that is a propositional state; knowledge-how is a non-propositional state. Knowing how to tie a knot is not a matter of knowing that a proposition is true. What is at least the case is that I can know-how to tie a knot without being able to explain how to do it. If (IF) knowledge-that is necessarily articulable, knowledge-how is not. ▻ DIVERGENCE FROM ORDINARY LANGUAGE This doesn't exactly tie in with ordinary language. I might say, for instance, 'Susan knows how a computer works'. This doesn't mean (usually at least) that she knows how to do a task; it means that she understands that a computer operates as it does because it has this hardware and that software. Also if I say 'I know how you feel' I mean that I know that (e.g.) you are feeling betrayed. ▻ WHEN KNOWING-THAT ENTAILS KNOWING-HOW But that still leaves Ryle's conceptual distinction intact. It is true that at least some cases of knowing that can entail knowing how. 'James knows that Kennedy was assassinated in November 1963' entails 'James knows how to answer the question, "When was Kennedy assassinated ?"'. ▻ KNOWING-HOW IS OF TWO KINDS (AT LEAST) If we grant this, however, then we seem to have two kinds of knowing-how : 1 James knows how to answer the question, "When was Kennedy assassinated ?"' 2 Sally knows how to dance the tango There is an important difference between 1 and 2. Knowing how to dance implies having learnt a skill or capacity through practice. Knowing how to answer 'When was Kennedy assassinated ?' does not imply having learned how to answer the question through practice. ▻ IS KNOWING-HOW REALLY NON-PROPOSITIONAL ? A good case can be made that know-how can easily be propositional. For instance if I say 'Bill knows how to steal sugar from the supermarket' then this means no more nor less than the propositional statement 'For some way, Bill knows that he can steal sugar from the supermarket in that way'. ▻ REFERENCES G. Ryle, The Concept of Mind, London, 1949, ch. 2. G. Ryle, 'Knowing How and Knowing That', Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society New Series, Vol. 46 (1945 - 1946), pp. 1-16. (More detailed than the preceding.) J. Stanley, Jason and T. Williamson, (2001): "Knowing How", The Journal of Philosophy, 98.8: 411-444. J. Stanley, 'Knowing (How)', Noûs, Vol. 45, No. 2 (June 2011), pp. 207-238 

Knowing or not knowing the consequences of an act is essential to evaluating the morality of a choice. Take one of those contrived examples where some evil genius has rigged explosives to a light switch such that when Mrs. Smith turns on the light, the victim is blown to smithereens. If Mrs. Smith knows of the consequences of turning on the light, and assuming there isn't some countervailing life-or-death paradox involved, then the moral choice is to choose not to turn on the light. If Mrs. Smith has no knowledge of this arrangement, the moral choice is to turn on the light (rather than curse the darkness). In the former case, she is choosing to both turn on the light and to kill the victim (the latter being the immoral choice), but in the latter case she is not choosing to kill, though that does turn out to be an unforseeable consequence of the action. The operative principle is that choosing to kill an innocent person is immoral; not all choices constitute "choosing to kill". Your two examples have in common killing, but that is not the only domain of moral evaluation. To see whether there is a general principle (i.e. are we just dealing with a viceral reaction against death, are you getting bogged down in death penalty morality or meat-eating), you should look for a less extreme scenario. The proper moral question to ask is whether it is morally justified to choose to execute a person for theft, per se. If it is not, then doing it yourself versus commissioning someone else to do it for you does not change the picture, and it is even less relevant whether you implement the execution yourself. 

REFERENCES Amie L. Thomasson, 'Existence Questions', Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition, Vol. 141, No. 1 (Oct., 2008), pp. 63-78. Penelope Maddy, 'Mathematical Existence', The Bulletin of Symbolic Logic, Vol. 11, No. 3 (Sep., 2005), pp. 351-376. Chris Mortensen, 'Explaining Existence', Canadian Journal of Philosophy, Vol. 16, No. 4 (Dec., 1986), pp. 713-722 R. I. Sikora, 'Rorty's New Mark of the Mental', Analysis, Vol. 35, No. 6 (Jun., 1975), pp. 192-194. Stephen Mumford, 'Intentionality and the Physical: A New Theory of Disposition Ascription', The Philosophical Quarterly (1950-), Vol. 49, No. 195 (Apr., 1999), pp. 215-225. 

I think we can do a bit of work to help the questioner here. The quick answer is that there are elements, prefigurations, of deism in Aristotle's ontology, his account of reality. ▻ Deism I take to be the view that God, separate from the universe, creates a universe fully determined by a set of invariable laws. By initial impetus God sets the universe going but has no further concern with it. Theism I take to be the interventionist view that God, separate from the universe, creates a universe in which God is continuously active. Deism generally posits a physical universe in which, none the less, human beings are special - exempt from deterministic laws to the extent of having free will. ▻ The Aristotlian universe is generally considered to be 'aion', timeless, which would appear to mean that it was not created by God or anything else. The Aristotelian God does not intervene in the universe but acts in a sense to be explained just below as the 'unmoved mover'. God is perfect; there is no other perfect object for God to contemplate than Godself; and contemplation is the perfect activity. Therefore God does nothing but contemplate Godself (Aristotle, 'Metaphysics', Book Lambda, ch. 9. However, Aristotle has a teleological view of nature. All nature strives for such perfection as it is capable of. Everything therefore is moved to aim at its own perfection. Nature has an intrinsic 'telos' or goal of imitating God as best it can. This explains all change and motion in nature. So, while God does not intervene, God provides (with no intention) the impetus to movement and change; God is the first, unmoved mover (to proton kinoun akineton : 'Metaphysics, Lambda 8). Motionless, God initiates motion through the need, the inherent tendency, of nature to imitate God's perfection as best it can. If this seems a God of surpassing strangeness, it probably is. ▻ Back to your question. Aristotle's God is definitely not theistic since God is not active or interventionist in the universe. God is not quite deistic because God does not create the universe but there is a strong parallel with, or prefiguration of, deism in God's separation from the universe and non-intervention in it. Hope this helps. 

Even forced labor with excellent working conditions and high pay is slavery. "Forced" is all it takes. However, the question is somewhat blunted by the under-scrutinized question of what rights prisoners have. That is, if prisoners do not have the rights that others have, then nothing would follow from this being slavery. I think the key to solving this is to understand that in violating the rights of another and thus ending up in prison, there is a specific and limited restriction on your freedom, which does not in fact include forced labor, at least, not in Canada or the US. Needless to say, not all prisoners are rights-violaters. [EDIT] To clarify, the fundamental question is the nature (and source) of rights, and what follows from that. Imprisonment is, properly, a product of a person denying the rights of another, but if A violates the rights of B, that does not mean that A entirely loses their rights. A simple case would be breach of contract, which is a violation of property rights of another, which obviously is not properly rewarded with death. I would say that a concept of "justice" is what both justifies and tempers punishment for rights violations. That concept does not then justify forced labor, at least the indiscriminate kind potentially sanctioned by weak laws of the US and Canada. I don't believe that forced labor is absolutely immoral (because I don't believe that morality can properly be absolute), but it would be tangential to discuss rare circumstances where forced labor would be proper.