This theory does not explain why if a vertical a viewing angle is good for 1920x1200, it is bad for 1600x1200. It also does not explain why high-end medicine and industrial monitors such as Eizo RadiForce who always used matrices with high viewing angles in all directions also undergoing slow transition towards wide screens. So what were the actual reasons behind such total transition in all areas without leaving a possibility of choice? 

When there is a continuous fire, the enemy can adjust their distance, placement of shields and attention. It is not impossible to avoid singular arrows. On the other hand, synchronous firing has the advantage that 

This makes overall impression that the number of deaths on the East-West Germany border was unusually high (note that there is even a museum dedicated to the victims). But the number cited (136 people) looks negligible. So how this number compares to the number of deaths due to incidents and illegal crossings in other inter-state borders, such as Israel - Egypt, India - Pakistan, the USSR - China, United States - Mexico, North Africa - Europe? 

I want add this, third answer to clarify some issues with terminology and how the things were run in the USSR. First of all I want to point out that I have learned from the Internet that in the USA there is common sentiment of some distrust of the government, a dichotomy between "we" and the government. But in the USSR there was no such dichotomy. The government was "we". The system of feedback in the Soviet system was overwhelming. If you wanted something concrete done and it was uncontroversial, you would have it done, even if it was formally illegal or against the regulations. A petition usually was more than enough. A petition from an initiative group or a merited citizen was excessive. So, people generally had no grounds to criticize the government: if someone had good arguments for something changed, it would be changed. Any idea would be heard. Coming up with ideas was encouraged. Criticizing the government thus would be like criticizing themselves. At worst they would blame some certain official who barred the idea. 

Regarding Milch, his mother declared that his biological father was another man, an Aryan, so he would be treated as Aryan. In other cases when "honorary Aryan" certificates were issued, they had a provision that the certificate would be reconsidered after the war is over, so all the "honorary Aryans" were to undergo one more selection after the war, possibly, based on their performance during the war. 

People used paints from the very ancient time. When first books appeared, people quickly accustomed to paint the pages and make colorful images. In the Middle Ages the majority of books published had colorful images in them. The state symbols, coats of arms, military banners and religious icons were also colorful. With the invention of printing press the number of colorful images in the books reduced because this technology initially did not allow to make colored images and painting them by hand would increase the cost. As time went on and technology progressed the images gradually returned to published books. 

Erdoğan is a conservative nationalist politician. His ideology is similar to Pochvennichestvo in Russia, Völkisch movement in Germany or radical catholic parties in France. This public always was anti-Semitic. 

It can be surely believed that overall military investment is highly profitable for the United States. The profit comes not only from the resources directly captured but from "soft power" that is based on the US military potential. By conducting such wars they show that they can easily overthrow any government whose policy they do not like very much and that no costs can stop them. This is a very clear message to any other countries and governments which forces them to conduct pro-US policy such as implementing US-imposed legislation, conducting privatization and keeping their money in US banks. 

Apperently Michael II of Romania visited the positions as well diring WWII. Whether it counts depends on what you consider participation in battle 

MiG, Sukhoi, Tupolev, Yakovlev, Ilyushin, Mil, Kamov, Beriev, Antonov were design bureaus, not manufacturers. It was totally common if a certain factory would produce planes of Tupolev and Ilyushin designs at the same time. Why several design bureaus? Possibly because of different personalities and methods of the chief designers. A person who had sufficient achievements would be given a team to guide. And the team's volume was limited by the leader's physical capabilities. It is also to note that while the purpose of the planes could be interchangeable, there were differences in approach. For instance, Antonov produced civil airliners, like Tupolev and Ilyushin. But they specialized on planes with the wing on the top of fuselage while Tupolev and Ilyushin designed planes with the wing on the bottom. Tupolev designed narrow-body aircrafts, while Ilyushin designed both narrow and wide-bodied. All of the design bureaus and plants were the subsidiaries of the respective Ministry of Aviation Industry. 

Possibly, the Chinese civil war. It lasted from 1927 to 1950, that is 23 years (with some armistice during WWII). 

First you should not confuse the monarchs with ordinary people. Monarchs usually called by the traditional forms of their names in many countries both then and now. Regarding spelling of the names of common people, it depends on the language rules, I an totally sure I would change the spelling of my name when moving from Russia to another country. 

Is/were there cases of hazing and violence against younger conscripts in armies of Arabic countries? It is often advertised in the media that there are no such things in Israeli army, but what about their neighbors? 

As answer by Mark says, it is useless. Because it is not the same as the 17th century steam engine, which can exert much greater force. At the time Greeks already had water-powered machines, and maybe wind-powered as well. Such machines do not need fire and fuel. You do not have to go to forest to cut logs. And they were much more powerful. So this kind of engine is simply useless for them. 

This idea also does not explain why those anti-communists themselves supported regimes that were sometimes hostile or indifferent towards religion or even concluded alliances with states which worshiped non-Christian faith such as Islam or Buddhism, and why they were equally hostile towards left-leaning clerics (counting them as traitors). So what are the reasons of the widespread hatred towards communism in the first half of XXth century? 

A recent science-fiction film had been themed around police privatization, "Tokyo gore police". The police force of Tokyo has been privatized, the father of the main heroine, a police officer, was shot during an anti-privatization rally. The privatization led to the uncontrolled corruption of the management. The film also features fictional funny "advertisement reels" supposedly by the police corporation where they advertise the population on how well they can protect them. 

Well, Africa is in the Old World, but most of sub-Saharan Africa was developed less than the Maesoamerican civilizations. Pre-Christian North-East Europe was also at the stage comparable with American cultures. Siberia and North Asia were less developed also. That is, only the European civilization developed from Classic Antiquity had significant advantage over Mesoamerican civilizations (as well as over the rest of the Old World). 

In his 1988 song "The Star Called Sun" Viktor Tsoi sings about a city that is 2000 years old. His fans for a long time speculated which city he could mean. So it is interesting what cities were founded about 2000 years ago? Other details about the city from the song are those that the city conducts a war for the whole 2000 years. It lays out as a patchwise cover and encircled by a road loop. 

I wonder whether Edward VIII was forced to abdicate due to his pro-Nazi views or his romance with Wallis Simpson? I know that some politicians urged him to abdicate but was there something more substantial than that? I know that after abdication Churchill even treated to open a court-martial against him but was there anything similar before the abdication? Are there any mechanisms in British monarchy that can force a king to abdicate? 

I see nothing special in that the cardinal could give such a letter to facilitate assistance to his envoy. On the other hand, I am sure that such a letter would not have any legal force in case of trial or charges. 

Actually you should specify which medieval society do you mean. Middle ages saw very different societies co-existing. The difference was so high that while some societies had access to extensive literature and philosophy the others even had no writing and no laws. If you compare say 800AD East Slavic society you possibly would not find much difference with Iron Age. At the same time comparison with Italian cities such as Venice or Genoa would make completely opposite impression. The main source of the difference is of course writing. The medieval society had 

Do you think, was it possible to avoid dissolution of the USSR? It was inevitable - It was possible to avoid - Don't know 

I think your information is incorrect. I think Khrushchev very rarely wore military uniform when he became a leader. The son of Nikita Khrushchev tells in his memoirs $URL$ that until 1958 Khrushchev had only WWII front-line uniform. In 1958 for the 40-years jubilee of the Soviet Army he sewed a new uniform for the occasion, in which he did several photos, one of which I suppose is shown in the question. Similarly Brezhnev usually appeared and was portrayed in civil suit. Among Soviet leaders only Stalin somehow preferred a military-like costume, and never wore a necktie. This can be traced to the times when he was still far from supreme power, like in this image from 1919: 

While it is not that similar to a classic medieval feudalism of Europe, it still is bearing a striking similarity to European absolutism. Absolutism is characterized by rise of state bureaucracy, rise of professional armies, appointed officials ruling the territories rather than hereditary nobles, extensive codified laws. The timeline of Qing Dynasty also exactly coincides with absolutism of Europe, that is 16 century - beginning of 20th century. Similar forms of government occurred during the same period for example in England, France, Prussia, Austria and Russia. 

If such discrimination existed, it certainly would be secret. We can judge about it only from rumors. The paper deals with filtering allegedly happened on a faculty of fundamental mathematics, where Chineese-Russian mathematician Alexander Hanyevich Shen (to whom the cited list is attributed) is working (I met him personally several times). Since he is a relatively young person, I suspect the list came to him via third hands. An important feature of the Soviet enrollment system was that all proposed problems should be taught in the course of the school program. If somebody was asked a question outside of the school course, such exam could be easily appealed. The alleged discrimination most likely arose as a policy, similar to "affirmative action" or "diversity programs" in the West. For example, according to the Shen's paper, among the graduates of selected Moscow mathematical schools who applied to Mekhmat MSU in 1979, 47 were non-Jews while 40 were Jews (46%). This makes Jews the largest ethnic group to participate (of whom only 6 Jews and 40 non-Jews were enrolled). Further the article says that enrollment statistics from non-mathematical schools does not show ethnic discrimination. Even after the filtering, the percentage of Jews in MSU and other universities far exceeded their percentage among the population which was about 1%. It was possibly seen as unsatisfactory by the proponents of the principle of the "equality of the result" as opposed to "equality of opportunities". An interesting article by Mekhmat professor Ilyashenko furthers the allegation by a claim that the policy was not directed only against Jews, but against all talented and stronger pretenders. Especially it affected the graduates of the Moscow mathematical schools. In a given example, out of 100 graduates of Moscow mathematical school №57, only 3-4 could enroll MSU at best during the policy in force. The policy as he claims, was justified by an idea to give a chance to students from "poor", "peasant" and "workers" families who showed much worse performance at expense of stronger ones. Since some teachers protested the policy, they were told "there are no bad students, there are bad teachers", a claim that even if somebody shows poor performance, it is not due to their natural skills, but due to insufficient teaching. This was possibly supported by the story of Mikhail Lomonosov himself (after whom MSU was named). He being a peasant son made a way from the Russian North to St.Petersburg so to make a successful academic carrier. Another justification was an idea that each student should be judged based not on universal standard, but depending on their individual skill level, that is, stronger students should be judged more strictly and should make more efforts to get the same marks as poor students, another variant of "affirmative action". This led to the serious drop in the students' skills and abilities. As Ilyashenko tells, since the policy was implemented, the students who had all "satisfactory" (the lowest permitted to pass) marks became the majority while before the policy in force, such students were very rare. The university teachers were pressurized not to give "unsatisfactory" marks at all, so that the examiners had to justify each "unsatisfactory" before the administration, and created a special writing-book where they protocolled each "unsatisfactory" answer so to protect themselves against pressure. By the way, there are similar accusations against the US universities as well, especially were accused the so-called "leadership" requirements which put social activity above academic skills, and allegedly were introduced to reduce the number of Jews in American universities. P.S. The original paper by Shen: $URL$ 

The first known treaty determining the borders was concluded in 2100 BC in Mesopotamia between Lagash and Umma, the first known treaty in Europe was concluded in 493 BC between Rome and Latin League, the first known treaty in Europe that deals with borders was Peace of Callas in 450 BC. That said, it is quite safe to assume that nearly every treaty ever concluded, clarified the border issues to an extent. This does not mean the borders were patrolled on a regular basis though. I do not think when first permanent border fortifications emerged, but they were totally in place by the time of Roman Empire, with border checks and filtering. It is reasonable to assume that first established fortified borders coincided with city walls.