Don't use cotton socks for hiking. When your feet sweat, the socks become wet, and take forever to dry out. Good socks remove the bacteria and moisture that thrive in the environment created by sweating feet and help to prevent blisters. Cotton retains moisture, thus cotton socks will not do the job properly. Rather, buy non-itching ("merino") wool, nylon, alpaca, elastic, polyester, spandex, or polypropylene(can also be used as a layer between the sock and skin) socks. I wear wildland firefighting boots (all leather) for work, and they can take a long time to fully break in (6-12 months!), so a good pair of socks/combination of socks is crucial. I've found that I like to wear a thin sport sock under a full boot sock, which helps to add more padding and support up to the ankle, where it counts. A very helpful source of additional information, including more information on the different benefits of different sock types and materials: Foot Care, Socks 101 & Sock Care. 

I have a lot of experience with the federal lands, and the rules are pretty much the same between agencies, whether the Bureau of Land Management or the National Park Service or the US Forest Service. The rule is: don't remove anything. There are some serious consequences, even a felony in some cases. 

This may seem kind of obvious, but I use a scanning technique. I like to look at the next 10-20 feet, look up on all sides, look down, and then look up. It's a lot like driving, scan your mirrors, then your environment, then your dash or whatever you need to, and then repeat. It does take mental purpose, so you will have to train yourself. I like to scan ahead, look up at one area, say my right, scan, and then look to the left. Mostly it is second nature. 

You can bring more items, and leave them at the bottom of the tree stand, say in your pack, and use the rope to bring up just what you need. You can always go back down to get something - as it can get awkward sometimes having a lot of equipment in the stand with you. 

Waterproof, cheap, and very durable. Another option is to use Tupperware or something similar if a smaller size is desired. Buy higher-end containers that will be much more durable: 

A tent may give you slightly more protection than sleeping out in the open, but not much. If a bear wants at you, the fabric of the tent is no match for his sharp claws. Bears, both black and grizzly, have been known to cause severe damage even to buildings, high wooden fences, and even vehicles. I knew of an apple orchard that had an 8-10 ft. high wooden slat fence that a small black bear tore through to get at the fresh, ripe apples. The point: Don't count on a tent to give you any protection. Keep your bear spray handy. 

What you want to do is find a good knife, that is partially serrated, so that you can have the choice of cutting things with the serrations or without... I personally recommend the CRKT M16-10KZ (EDC) or another knife of the M16 line, as they cut small trees/shrubs quite easily. I've used the M16-10KZ (3" blade) to cut stuff like this before and it does it easily. 

Have a look at AfterBite, it is a treatment for insect bites and stings. You can apply it to bitten areas, provides relief from mosquito, ticks, fleas, horse flies, black flies, etc. Note: I am not affiliated with this product in any way, shape, or form. 

You can use IFTTT (If This, Then That). You can use it to create your own rules to check the weather for you and then email or even text you with a link and what kind of condition changes. For example, mine is set to email me whenever there is more than X change in temperature, or if it is going to specifically rain/snow or have something out of the blue like thunderstorm, etc... then it emails me 1-2 days in advance... Usually it emails me for the next two days... Pretty neat app and useful for all kinds of other things, free as well. I'm not affiliated either. 

Learn to inline skate/rollerblade. Seriously, learn to rollerblade first. Many techniques that you apply to roller blading also apply to skiing, the two activities are very similar, all that varies really is the surface. I roller bladed for a number of years before I first learned to ski, and my ski instructor said that roller blading can help pick up skiing more quickly and easier. This has a lot of advantages: 

I would dig a deep hole in the snow - and then cover it up again, because when the snow melts, the waste will decompose fairly quickly with warm temps and water, it'll break up and disperse. If it is practical, find some dead branches, leaves, or even rocks, and cover it up and then put snow back on top of it. 

Like Thomas Rawyler said, one should lay aside his waterproof layer or anything similar that a cinder can burn through when he is working with fire. One doesn't need a waterproof layer when he has a fire, since he is being kept warm by the fire. Or in most cases anyways. If it is raining or you really need it, then the fire is not doing it's job. So I would suggest keeping it aside and out of reach of the cinders. On a related note, keep your tent out of reach of the fire as well, since most tent fabrics can be burnt by cinder holes. 

You can also rub 1 tablespoon of lavender oil with 1 tablespoon of olive oil and rub it directly on the bite, this helps with reducing the swelling. Keep this mixture away from the eyes though. Source: Natural Remedies for Insect Bites. Have a look at AfterBite, it is a treatment for insect bites and stings. You can apply it to bitten areas, provides relief from mosquito, ticks, fleas, horse flies, black flies, etc. Note: I am not affiliated with this product in any way, shape, or form. 

When backpacking, I might carry a MagLite flashlight or something similar that requires two AA batteries. I tend to favor rechargeable batteries for a variety of reasons. How can I recharge my batteries in the wilderness? 

The mesh liner is for breath-ability, also makes things more lightweight. That way, the inner layer isn't as dense, and still allows moisture, heat, etc, to breathe through the outer layers, if they are so designed. 

Use an ammunition box - commonly found at Army/Navy surplus stores or on eBay/Craiglist for ~$10 USD, depending on the caliber size of the box. .50 caliber boxes are larger than, say, 30 caliber. 

You're making a big safety mistake by putting your gun in your pack when you climb into a tree stand. In reality, it is safer to haul up all of your gear, including your pack, and your gun unloaded with the action open by a rope, rather than have it on your back where it could a) go off or b) hurt you when you fall. You could also damage the gun. As for other things to bring, the list is subjective: 

I've heard that iodine water treatment tablets can have negative side effects. Is this true? If so, what are some healthier alternatives? 

It's not necessary, but something that you probably would want to carry, especially if you plan on using your knife much. Buy a diamond file, very small & lightweight, and you can resharpen your knife with little effort. I like to use something like this to keep my knives sharp: 

It is possible your son is allergic to mosquitos. Some natural solutions to itching & swelling include rubbing the area with: 

A good outdoor job that allows for much hiking and outdoor activity is that of an archaeologist, especially one who works in Cultural Resource Management (CRM) (often includes private companies that survey for oil pipeline projects or power lines, etc), or for one of the federal land/wildlife management agencies, such as the National Park Service (NPS), the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), the US Fish & Wildlife Service, or the US Forest Service (USFS). 

When hunting in the forest/mountains, how can I track large game (in particular, deer, elk, sheep, the like) after I've shot and wounded him and he's escaped? What should I look for? What signs are there that the animal has passed this way? 

I agree with DavidR, in that in this digital era, many things are shared better via video or photograph, as it can be more widely shared. This may seem obvious, but this is for the collective good. Simply put, if we all took a flower, there wouldn't be any or a few flowers. I realize sounds overly simple, but the logic applies. Not sure about state lands, but I'm sure similar laws apply. 

Kayak guide here... Blisters form because of friction, as many know. What most don't realize is that it matters little if your hands are wet or dry. Because you are gripping the paddle tightly, your hands will rub against the paddle plastic. Depending on how you are holding it, you want to minimize the "sliding", try to keep your hands on the same place on the kayak paddle - don't move them up and down the paddle shaft as some do. I usually open/close (flex) my "highest" hand when I am paddling (i.e. my lower hand is down by the water, pulling me forward, and the other hand is higher up the paddle, keep it in line). The biggest place for a blister is the inside edge of your thumb, between your thumb and first finger, so move your thumb around as you paddle to different positions; your thumb doesn't always have to wrap around the paddle. I still developed small callouses, but little by way of blisters. Never used gloves personally - I would only recommend them for part-time paddlers (3-5 times/year - any more than that, start working on callouses, it is worth it for longer paddles) as it really reduces friction and makes beginners more comfortable. You may want gloves if you're doing much whitewater/rougher water (rapids, lots of rocks) since you may be trying to push off rocks/trees, etc., but the focus should always be on your paddle and using it properly). For reference, REI.com stocks a few pairs (link).