YES there is. It's just a hypothetical particle, but the tachyon, if existing, is faster than light. We can't tell if it exist, but at least it's plausible and this handy for any not fantasy based sci-fi scenario. Einstein was talking about a Time-Telephone which would allow to send information back in the past, but not the future. This hypothetical device is based on tachyons. 

This depends in "how" the invasion takes place. A big military strike versus a well armed(at least same quality of armor and stategic knowledge) nation is difficult and needs some advantages like the element of surpris and a very fast strike of combined forces (see Blitzkrieg for further informations). This is probably the most common sence of "invasion". But also, one could invade a nation by undercutting their government and place some string puppets in their parliament or whatever the government is build in. So depending on "how" you invade, you have differend initial situations. A military invasion gives the advantage, that you have a lot of manpower in the enemies land wich gives you the abillity to rule them. You can foist up your law and force them with your military to hold it. A very effective way to assimilation would be death penalty to everyone who practice a prohibiden religion, language or whatever. But this can't be enaugh at it's own. What exactly do you need after a military invasion? 

First of all, the fire in Chicago was historically a small fire, compared with comparable disasters. 1776 fire in New York(usa) 500 death 1871 fire in Chicago(usa) 200-300 death 1881 fire after explosion Wien(austria) 500-700 death 1906 fire in San Francisco 700 death 1943 bombardment on Hamburg(germany) 45 000 death 1945 bombardment on Tokio(japan) 80-100 000 death I think bombardment is comparable to fire in this context, due an underground city isn't bombardable in that manner. However, back to topic Building an underground city in 1871 Is this even plausible? Why not,... The London tube was finished in 1863, so the ability to build megastructures in the ground was given. Current has been discovered long time ago and electrical light has been in use since 1840(at least). Even in ancient Rome they had pumps(powered by people, animals or rivers) to build drydocks, so water in the city would be an solvable Problem. What impact on history would that have? Sure,... Question like these are highly speculating but I want to portray my idea: In the late 19th centurie, industrialization has reached a peak. Productivity was the highest value in the part of the world we call the "West" today. Working class riots begun some decades before and there had been a giant change in society. At this time, there where several concepts (Capitalism, Communism, Socialism) which competed for implementation. Capitalism requires the ability for rapid economic growth. This means, the relatively very costly process of building underground would be an problem, it decelerate rapit scaling. In that manner, capitalism either couldn't stand a chance against the other concepts, or capitalism had prevent underground cities. What kind of society would we have, if capitalism had not been implemented? This cannot be answered reasonable. 

1. Constant light harms your health. The Pineal gland, an organ which is producing the sleep-hormone melatonin, is triggered by darkness and give malfunctions if there's constant light at long term. The CIA made some experiments with that in the MK-Ultra program, just google it. The people get desorientated, aggressive, depressive and have massive cognitive malfunctions and impairments. So at least for sleep you need darkness. 2. Artificial light Is not the same as natural light! The Body needs UV-B to produce vitamin-D. Vitamin-D deficiency can lead to many physical and psychical issues like depression, nervousness and so on. Even illuminant to buy which are declared as "daylight" can not prevent this. Also, it seems like artificial light can raise cancer. Don't panic, its always a question of intensity. 3. How? There are multiple ways you could bring up constant light. We are not only able to do so, but we really do. Think of facilities which are running 24/7 to produce goods. Large and expensive assembly lines as like in car-constructions are good examples for that. Due they are so expensive, they have to run continuous to be economic. Other examples are control room of naval vessels or the International Space Station. So 24/7 light isn't a real problem. You only need a UPS to make sure the light keeps up during blackouts. Look at modern LED-Bulps, they need very low energy. If accumulator get better capacity in future, UPS can keep them up for long. Redundant energy pruduction will help a lot. Conclusion Technically it is possible with easy. But it makes no sence due it would bring massive health issues. 

Invasion without military: Make as many people of your culture settle in the foreign country to assimilate them. This will take many many generations. Therefore so the black/asian subcultures in the USA. Assume that you can bring at least 1/3 of the folks number with your settlers. Probably doesn't work when the folks 'look' different (skin colour, size,...) 

Ban their language, religion and so on. Your military advantage could act as some kind of police. Therefore compare the occupied european nations during WWII. The german Wehrmacht and SS practically acted as a foreign police. But further you should force the local police to join your guidance. The folks may not like or trust you. The relation to their folksmen in the own police may be better. If the local police-troops don't want to join you, make an example of your power and kill some. This initial step is very brutal and will raise resistance. You musst prepare this case. But you should not keep this brutality up for a long run, only at the first time to show them who rules. Teach them your language, religion and so on When there is no doubt on your power, teach them your culture in schools. The children are those who accept it very easy. Show your "new folks" the benefits of the new culture and make them "wanting" it. For example, as the marks of war are getting less, make tax advantages to those who establish the new culture. Settle people from your folk in the conquered nation, the more the better. (3 and 2 can be done simultainouse). People are social creatures. They talk with each other and overtake behavior of other people. Teach your old folks, that the new folks culture is a very very bad thing. Just like Hitler teached the Germans in 1930s that the jews are pure evil, but they have to understand that the culture, not the people themself are evil. When they settle in your new country, they will bring up and implifie your culture. Therefore see any multicultural country in the world. 

I like that Idea but the answer is pretty boring. An algorithm is nothing else than a rule of execution. You can also say "Theoretical law of nature". A simulation on other hand is the execution of an algorithm (See tourinmachine). I assume that you are talking about a "computer-simulation" and then I state, that a computer is nothing else than an environment which is capable of execute an algorithm. So depending on this states, our world actually is a simulation. EDIT due to your edit: This doesn't change anything. If one "finds out" is the same like normal science under assumtion that it is a simulation. And if one is able to "manipulate" it's the same as one could alter laws of nature in real world. 

There are theories of lifeforms which do not depend on carbon (As we do). But while reading these theories, you'll notice that those who set up these theories, tried to recreate life as we know on different chemistry but did't really looked "how life else could work". For example, I remember this one episode (Dont know the #, sry) of Star Trek - The next generation in which they met a giant crystal which was floating in space. This crystal had some kind of consciousness and had to consume energy to stay alive. In the episode the creature consumed the warp-field or something, not sure. But you see the point I guess. I do not think life has to be 'biological' as we know. My personal definition of life, which doesn't really go against the common one (due there is none), is that living things have these: 

Citys grow We don't need to discuss that, there are a few examples of planned citys but these are not the topic here. So when we assume that your city is a grown one, the question is how it is grown. There are various effects on the way a city grows and I want to cut the most important ones: Economy This aspect has multiple effects. Beside the speed, which is increased by good economy and decreased by a bad one, this also effects what kind of buildings raise and where they're locatet. For example, a miner-settlement will grow living houses beside the mines. As the settlement grows, some of the living houses will be used as shops and light crafting houses. Later there will be workshops like smiths, butcher etc. Workshops which emit smell are likely to be build in a little distance to the town. Later other workshops of this kind settle beside the other smelling workshops and even later, as the city grows, there will be no more distance between the workshops and the living houses, so even if they smell, one day they might be surroundet by houses. In my example, what happens when the coal, or whatever they're mining, is empty? Many workers will leave and the economy might collaps. But maybe they find another economy. The city might have some dacades very poor economy, thus some houses will be abondoned and colapse. Terrain This is surely the most important point. If the city is build nearby a river, one day they will build an harbour and like any economic facillity the houses will grow toward the harbour. If there's a natural border like a cliff, they might cannot build on the other side of that border. But later hey might be able to. Epoch As I already told, growing fastens and slowers ofer time, depending on the economy. This means that several buildings, which have the same purpose, are build in different epochs and look different. Best example for that is an old town. Also, over time some buildings collaps due bad maintenance, fire, whatever. These will be replaced when space get rare, thus there might be younger buildings in older parts of the city. Current epoch has good economy or just came out of big destruction? There might be many buildings out of this epoch. Current epoch has bad economy? Maybe they build a few houses, maybe they altered existing houses,... Disasters Epidemic, fire in "wood-only" parts of the city, earthquake and most destructive: war. These events often destroy wide parts of a town and kill many people. Depending on the political and economic situation this can be both, good and bad for the city in long term. For example, after WWII western germany managed become one of the leading economys in the world. Not really a city, but the issue should be the same. At the other hand, many citys get abondoned when they're destroyed (not talking about metropolises wich are rebuild in general). Disasters which destroy large parts of the city lead to the different buildings as I wrote at epoch. None of these points are standing on their own. Every point is effecting the others! Epoch has a strong bounding to economy. There will unlikely be a good economy over long time if the terrain is bad (no mining, bad infrastructural connection, ...) The most important point of citybuilding is: Its art! Be creative and have fun! If you don't like it you surely manage someone else who does and will help you. If you are not happy with your outcame, show it to other people and ask them for helpful critic, this issue can't be handled with general tips. 

What is "modern society"? America rules the world these days, basicly since the Sowjetunion colapsed as antagonist but you there are already signs of decay. EU und China are getting more powerful and even Russia is still a factor. but thats not the point. Let's do not focus to much on the situation of this exact time we are living in, but how it has come to what is now. The colonial era has gained a giant boost due the exploration of America but this event hasn't started it. The technological improvments have. Ships where able to load more and more cargo, travel faster (further) and could be build cheaper and cheaper. Also there, finally, was a proof that earth is round. (It's a common myth that medival europeans thought it was flat, they did not. But they did not know for sure if it's round or not.) The first intention of seaexploration was India. European countries got access to indian spices and also heard of an incredibly rich country named China. Trading with this nations was extreme expensive and there had been the powerful (enemy) arabs in between the europeans and their tradingpartner. So seaexploration started just to lower the costs on the long run (so you might imgine how expensive these spices had been). While exploration they found many locations they did not know about and everywhere they where technically overpowered and able to rule the people. (Africa, America, later India and China...) So this power, which gave them access to rich resources, is the reason they had that high motivation to explore further. From this point it's very unlikely that they did not explore America. But even if, we must ask why europe lost this power. Answer is: Europe was not an Empire but several rivaling countries. The rivalry has also lead to many wars, which often where fought in collonies. This is a point where the Americans had implified a plot twist. As the settlers in America wanted to get autonom and no longer be ruled by the empire, the war begun which the British Empire lost(!) Never bevore something like this had happened. (The struggle was real ;-) ) But in the end the "rule the world" power of Europe where lost in the World War I. The leading countries (Great Britain, Netherlands, Spain and France) which forced the countries to take the focus off their colonies on europe itself. After World War Two there where practically no more collonys (only a few). Europe still where "some kind of powerful" compared to Africa, South America and South Asia, but America and Russia have become the real forces. As we assume that America doesn't exist and thus the Wars had endet different, we must assume that one partie of the Wars had completely rules Europe. In WW1 there surely had no one been the "real winner". The attrition warfares bleedet the nations dry and at any point they surely had done any kind of peaceagreement. WW2 had surely not starden with such an end of WW1, but if, Nazi-germany had surely ruled europe. The technical advantages and motivation was way to high. Sowjetunion had not been able to hold the first time of the war that good without american material (Yes, the Sowjets got a lot of guns, tanks, artillerie,... from the US in the early years of war). Only the USA, or the american material in other nations armies, had been a real problem for Hitler due they've been master of aggressive tactics. Same where the german troops. Good engagers, bad defenders. Everything after WWII is younger history wich I don't want to speculate about but I think with an unified Europe under the Hakenkreuz, not much good had been in our Wold now. 

Personal diary of Professor Dr.Dr.Dr. Kim Johnsen - 01/29/2317 We live in a spectacular world. Our scientists are revealing the deepest secrets of our universe and with each generation it is becoming clearer and clearer: God does not exist. Whatever our scientists find, eventually shows to be a part of something else. There is no particle in the world, which we cannot understand, if we just have enough info about it. However, something is strange. Particles, which rebel against the law of nature. Particles, which are at two places at the same time. Particles, which can vanish out of a sudden, just to appear somewhere als immediately. Why is it, that a flap of a butterfly in colorado can cause a storm in tokio? Why is it, that people that have been dead in a clinical definition, can be reanimated and "wake up" with knowledge they simply can not have? There is a theorie, so fantastic, scientists repel to even think about it. But in the last years, every answer they find, throws more and more question at us. It's insane. How can we think, that everything is just assambled out of little particles which we cannot break down further? I don't think it's like that at all. This world is not assambled out of particles, but out of actions. These actions, eventually, give birth to everything you one can see, hear, touch. Not the other way round. I don't only think it is like that, I know it is like that. The actions which are forming our physical body, are the highest form of action which we know. There is nothing else, that pure, strong, powerful, as this kind of action, which so many people call "soul". How can I know? I'm a scientist. A physicist. On that one day, I was working on a device that should visualise the indifferences of photons. That day, another physicists, Robert Stein, died in our laboratory. It doesn't really matter why he died, but my the device showed something else. As he was dying, something left his body. I was unable to identifie the data and, after several weeks of research, I gave up. But then, decades later, it happened again. At that time, I hat a simmilar device with me, in my car. There was an car accident and I could not resist. A young mother, and a children, both died. I was able to measure a soul, again. That was the day, that changed my life. From that day on, I started to be, what people call a serial killer. I murdered people, homeless in the beginning, to do my research. It took me only a few souls to notice, that a soul es better, as more love they have in their live. Also, the older the carrier (person) of that soul is, the worse their action-potential gets. So you can say, that "soul" is the energy of "life" in a person. After years of research, I managed to identify what it is, exactly. I managed to capture it, and eventually, to consume it. So I begun killing young mothers, what else is so young and full of love. That day, that changed my life, was on Friday the 14 June in 2013.