Remembering the scene where the U-Boat meets the destroyer during the hunt in "Das Boot": Destroyers have a low gauge (2.5-5m) and are very top-heavy (all those guns and waterbombs over the waterline with high wind resistance and only a small, lean body below to achieve speed). How were they able to operate under storm conditions ? Normally I would expect that the destroyer tumbles and wobbles like a drunkard on ice, barely managing to ride out the storm. That they were still able to spot and hunt boats seems like a small miracle. Did they had stabilizers or how did they manage it ? Were there losses when destroyers encountered bad weather and finally capsized or even turtled (hope that is the right word) ? BACKGROUND: I have now read the described scene in the book again (the author Lothar-Günter Buchheim was really on the boat U-96 as observer). In the book the destroyer was met when the wind was Beaufort 5 (fresh breeze) and sea state was 4 (moderate wave height), it was raining with an overcast sky, so no stormy conditions. Still the captain decided to attack the destroyer; the author mentioned that he thought the captain is crazy because destroyers are very hard to hit (low gauge, high maneuverability, changes course too often) and they have already been spotted. The destroyer was 1000 m (1100 yd) away, coming from the left when the destroyer captain charged with flank speed. 

Yes, they were able to deny the holocaust. First every party was asked before the trial if they consider themselves guilty or innocent and everyone declared himself innocent. Julius Streicher, who were responsible for the Stürmer, a propaganda pamphlet, said first that he did not knew that Jews were killed and when the prosecutor was able to prove that he read passages where the killings were clearly stated, he said that he did not believe the passages. He also interrupted the trial several times with diatribes. The reason why the other accused did not try to deny the holocaust was that for one time they were aware that there was much evidence left. Another reason was that they were aware that the Nuremberg trials were not very lawful by inventing new laws, applying them "ex post facto", excluding the jury from the laws and redefining evidence as "what I like to believe". 

People scoff often for because it seems something for a child, but an abacus is the fastest device for doing calculations, once muscle memory has learned to operate it effectively it is 10-100 times faster than a pocket calculator for addition and subtraction. I am not exaggerating, the first computers were doing contests against people with abaci and often lost. ADDENDUM: If you had the idea that the romans must have used their system for calculating like we do with arabic numerals, don't feel that you oversaw the obvious, you are not alone. Gary Kasparov, former chess world champion, wrote in an essay 

But here is no fortress ! Yes, exactly, because you are building it. Every night. The Greek warriors, the hoplites, carried a bronze armor: 

A long time ago I read Das Boot (which is the collection of experiences as war correspondent in a U-Boat, it contains also more gruesome depictions never mentioned in the movie). I would like to know if there are similar (well-known ?) autobiographical depictions for the allied side (submarine, destroyer). I do not want propaganda kitsch or "we-are-so-tough", but a truthful account what a seaman experienced on board on those ships. 

Gregor Reisch, Margarita Philosophica, 1508 In the image you see a contest between abaci math and numeral math. Abaci were finally abandoned and replaced with mental addition/paper addition and slide rules for multiplication and division which was the calculator during the 50s; it also supported higher math (powers, roots, logarithmic and trigonometric functions) in the necessary precision. 

Estimated weight: 32 kg or 70.5 pounds. A little bit heavier than the Roman equipment. So, what do you think ? Were Roman and Greek warriors strong ? 

As German my perspective: Sure WWII influenced the role of WWI for the coming generations. Once you get the role as baddie, it is quite hard to get away from the image which is quite understandable for the reason that Germany played the main role in two(!) of the biggest wars ever known. It is even more understandable because in the second case Germany acted like a real villain. But, and this is a big but, the perception of history is influenced by the winning powers. You asked about WWI and as some answers want to paint Germany as baddie, too, so I feel compelled to give some counterpoints. Because it is quite a tragic incident, I will tell it with a spoon of black humor. Denis answer about the arms race are straight to the point, but the brazen rhetoric and arrogant, haughty behavior came after Bismarck's dismissal. Bismarck had built before a network of pacts and relationships which were neglected and antagonized the other nations with the behavior. Everyone believed that the own nation was superior and should lead the other nations (imperialism, wink, wink), but Germany was the only one who informed the other nations of this attitude. Essentially we sucked big time at diplomacy, but we were also a militaristic power which was growing alarmingly strong. The last fatal mistake was giving Austria-Hungary (which was also a fledgling power because it was a state with many nationalities) carte blanche and allowing Austria to threat Serbia and its protector Russia, so that really every major power was antagonized. What happened now is important: Nobody knew or expected what was going to happen. War was romanticized (Paintings, games for boys etc.) and seen as a valid political option and a power contest, it was also often quite restricted in dimension and time. The parties should have looked at the experiences of the technological American Civil War which was quite a warning about the new massive defensive capabilities. There were nobody saying at this time (or at least meaning) "German is waging a war of aggression!". If you see the images of soldiers it looked like they were going to a holiday. Kick the other's nations ass, get the capital city and everything is fine. Now to the bad reputation. After a short time it was clear that it will end in a two-front war, something which Bismarck wanted to avoid at all costs and also the German commanders knew that time were working against them. So they wanted to throw down France as fast as possible. The idea of the Schlieffen plan was to flank France through the occupation of Belgium. Some background information which is conspicously missing: During the 1871 campaign German command experienced strong resistance by partisans (franc-tireurs) which resulted in brutal retaliation. Fearing that the march through Belgium could be contested and delayed, the Germans reacted with excessive force of real and imagined attacks: mass executions and burning down of whole villages, especially Dinant and Leuven. But during the 1871 war the very same, but rarer brutal reprisals were irrelevant for England because France was the archenemy, but now as ally the real atrocities were not even enough: The English press and offical channels invented fairy tales of horrors. Babies spiked on bajonets, women hacked to pieces or breasts cutted off, little girls raped, little boys maimed on hand and feet, nuns tortured and bound on bells. The bloodier and gorier, the better. But at least it seemed to be not enough: During Christmas 1914 it came to completely unexpected scenes of affection between the trenches. Sure, the British and French soldiers couldn't be that dumb to give child-raping mutilators a present? But they did. I do not need to describe the horrors of gas warfare and the infamous role of Fritz Haber (His wife, a pacifist, committed suicide after the first gas attack). But I wonder if anyone still knows what "défaitisme" (defeatism in english, Defätismus in German) means and how it was used. If you search for it seems to be only a word for hopelessness and giving up. After the failed Verdun attack (it was called Blutmühle, blood mill) the Germans realized that artillery and mass attacks are simply idiotic and prone to fail. So they concentrated their powers on the East front and built a deeply connected system of fortifications, the Siegfriedstellung or Hindenburg line. During 1916/1917 hundred of thousands French and English soldiers were killed in senseless attempts to take the line with the methods which were shown to be ineffective. The generals did not care a bit, they were exactly as evil, ruthless and uncaring as the purported Germans. The Germans named the soldiers Löwen, die von Eseln geleitet werden, lions led by donkeys. Finally, in the first half of 1917 the soldiers were breaking. Whole divisions stopped fighting and obeying commands. The generals denied any responsibility and accused the soldiers of cowardice and defeatism and started to kill their own soldiers in trials and cruel punishments. This unjust treatment was simply eradicated from WWI history. Breaking rules of war. It would be interesting if the naval blockade of the United Kingdom is mentioned in the history books. GB was infamous for "paper blockades", saying e.g. that France is now "blocked" and this gives them the right to stop any merchant vessel (even in the middle of the Pacific) and search and confiscate any "contraband" which could be targeted for France (often without compensation). Many nations balked until finally 1856 the Paris Declaration was ratified, including England. This makes on point 4 explicitly clear that a blockade needs to be in the vicinity of the coast to be binding. This was further clarified 1907 in the Hague Convention and ironically 1909 an even better protection suggested by the Britons in London (the London Declaration) was never ratified. Great Britain violated international law by declaring 1914 open water outside the territorial waters as "War Zone" and despite the explicit prohibition to block anything apart from belligerent material the Royal Navy also confiscated food and fertilizer, knewing that it would cause famine in Germany. They also knew it because the blockade was incomplete during the first months because they feared to aggravate US merchant vessels. Only after the horror stories of Belgium (remember, many of them purposefully invented) was beginning to take effect, the US allowed the full blockade. The RMS Lusitania which was blamed as attacking an innocent vessel 

The first thing is that we do not know how difficult it is to invent scripture if you haven't it. In retrospect things which we consider now "easy" were judged as rubbish or impossible. The second thing: It is entirely possible that it was invented far before the known scriptures, even as far as 100 000 BC. But how could we know ? Lets say our culture will be wiped out by a global catastrophe. What will remain of our culture ? All the computer media ? Destroyed in decades. Books, scriptures, microfilm ? Destroyed in centuries. Only metal/stone/ivory engravings under favorable circumstances would be able to last 10 000 years or more and now think how much of our knowledge will remain. So it is possible that ancient people wrote but used materials like us which were not able to last this timespans. Sure, they could have engraved them on the things we found. But very old findings are very rare (we simply missed them) or they did not use them for cultural reasons (taboo). As long as we have no proof we must assume that they did not write. 

Correct, Gary, they did not use roman numerals, they used the abacus. D'oh! --ADDENDUM On November 12, 1946 Private Thomas Nathan Wood of the 20th Finance Disbursing Section of General MacArthur's headquarters competed on a electric calculator against Kiyoshi Matsuzaki, a champion operator of the abacus in the Savings Bureau of the Ministry of Postal Administration.. Matsuzaki added 50 numbers of 3-6 digits in 1 minute 15 seconds which means he needed approximately 0.4 seconds for one digit. You can do addition, subtraction, multiplication and divison with ease, even square root is possible. Any other operation is extremely hard. This also explains why higher mathematics needed such a long time to develop because so powerful the abacus is for basic math, so useless it is for understanding and using powers and exponentials. Only the adoption of the vastly superior system of Arabic numerals allowed people to finally use numerals itself for mathematics, the Persian Al-Khwarizmi wrote 825 "On the Calculation with Hindu Numerals". 

In one novel I am currently reading a traitorous commander who is responsible for atrocities against the people he should protect and killing the remainder of the army he once belonged to was promoted to leader again after getting captured. As "reason" it is indicated that he is the last able commander in the army. While I found other novels of the series quite entertaining, this is breaking the suspension of disbelief. I cannot think of any other action which is more damning that the person is unfit for command than betrayal. In fact, the usual course of action is that if the traitor is caught, his former superiors show profound displeasure with the actions. Knowing that humans are capable of truly disturbing amounts of stupidity: Was there ever a case that a traitorous military commander took command again for the side he betrayed and the superiors knew that he is a traitor? Because "traitor" is often used as polemical term, I rule out some at least comprehensible edge cases. If the military commander acted because he reasonably feared that he was to be executed or ruined not because of misbehavior, but as a political sacrifice or because someone sees him as an inconvenient person, I don't count it. I also don't count it if the actions of the superiors can be reasonably counted as betrayal itself (Offering a defended city if the own life and belongings are spared). I also exclude whistleblowing, showing that something is profoundly wrong without personal gratification. What I want is really a stab-in-the-back-and-turn-around-the-blade betrayal. Selling secrets or necessary equipment for money. Fall own units in the back or abandon them because it suits oneself. Trying to build an own empire without provocation. That kind of thing.