Related: How much of the Looters' philosophy did Fred Kinnan actually accept? I think that the key phrase here comes at the end of that speech: 

I was reading Metaphysics: a Very Short Introduction and encountered the following paragraph in the discussion on time: 

The phrases are clearly parallel. Was Hank's realization basically what Jim Taggart was saying here - "you've never felt anything at all" meaning that only to suffer is to feel? Also, the text says that Jim's comments "seemed bewilderingly irrelevant" (which seems to imply that they actually weren't irrelevant after all). How does Hank's realization here make it Jim's comments relevant? 

In what sense does pressure "put people on streets", and why does it do that? Is this referring to "the man on the street" and implying that people are either going about the "daily grind" because of pressure, or that people are about to "crack" under the pressure of the daily grind? The later line 

How did one become a Wizard in A Wizard of Earthsea? Is magic basically just a skill that anyone could theoretically acquire with study, or did one have to be born with certain abilities before you even had the theoretical capability of learning to use it (like in the Harry Potter series)? What's to stop "ordinary" people from studying things like True Speech and using them successfully? 

That's definitely the implication, yes. It's a sentence that should be taken fairly literally, if obscurely. Story-wise, this serves a functional purpose. It shows someone who used to perform actions counter to what the government wanted, and was, in essence, reformed into participation. O'Brien is extremely knowledgeable about the past - likely far more than he lets on to Winston. On top of that, it seems that people of the Inner Party are all generally more well-read than those of the Outer Party (go figure). How else would they know about the contents of books? 

Note: the fact that farm tools double as weapons is pertinent to understanding some of the things characters say, and isn't explained as such in-text, except contextually. 

5 symbols, 7 symbols, 5 symbols. So when we talk about "syllables," this meant something much more specific in Japanese. And this happened to be something of importance to Japanese poetry. Of course, this haiku is easier to read if we split it up by words: 

This is a broad topic, and this post only scratches the surface of it. Hopefully I've given you both reason to consider that certain elements may be true, but don't take the historicity of the story with anything more than a grain of salt. 

I only recently started the book, so I'm hoping that I'm not missing something that's made clear in the book later, but the first character introduced in the book is named Bastian Balthazar Bux (whose names start entirely with the letter "B"). The second character introduced is Carl Conrad Coreander (whose names start entirely with the letter "C"). Why "B" and "C"? These are obviously consecutive letters, but if the author is going with consecutive letters then why not "A" and "B" or something like that? It seems a little weird to just start at "B" and "C" here. 

When she gave actual prophecies, Sybill Trelawney had a completely different "persona," not remembering what she said afterwards. Was she named after "the" Sybil (the one known for multiple personality disorder)? 

From the scene early on in Atlas Shrugged where Dagny Taggart told her brother Jim that she had canceled his order with Associated Steel in favor of purchasing Rearden Metal track instead: 

This suggests that Snape actually joined Voldemort (he didn't even bother to deny that that was his intent), so he clearly wasn't a double agent at this point. See also this question about whether Snape was actually prejudiced. If he had been a double agent prior to agreeing to do whatever Dumbledore asked, it would make no sense for Dumbledore to ask what he'd do in return for protecting the Potters. He had also given Voldemort accurate information about what he heard about the prophecy. This suggests that Snape was actually working for Voldemort up until the point that he found out that Voldemort intended to kill the Potters. Evidence suggests that he remained working for Dumbledore all along (e.g. the fact that he saved Harry in the first book and the fact that he went to great lengths to protect the Sorcerer's Stone). In the sixth book, you see him working with Dumbledore to protect Draco Malfoy and working to re-establish his cover with the Death Eaters by meeting with Bellatrix and taking the Unbreakable Vow to cooperate with Draco's plan. There are multiple lines of evidence that he was lying to Bellatrix at their meeting, such as the fact that he apparently got the information on Draco's mission by using Legilimency on Draco (rather than directly from the Dark Lord like he claimed), the fact that Bellatrix believed him to be lying until he agreed to take the Unbreakable Vow, and the fact that Dumbledore apparently had to persuade Snape to agree to kill him. Even at the end, Dumbledore apparently had to persuade Snape to go through with killing him. Thus, he appeared to continue to be working with Dumbledore at this point. Clearly, he was also secretly carrying out Dumbledore's intentions throughout the seventh book as well, up until the point that he was killed by Voldemort. 

While it's possible to hypothesize about how O'Brien ended up in government work following being had, perhaps suggesting that practices have changed over time, or aren't as absolute as they seem, the fact remains: he was probably caught, and was probably stopped. 

It's actually satire and I'm misreading it under a modern lens with modern expectations, or - It's poorly-executed satire, or - This portrayal isn't satire at all, and it just seems like it could be because of a modern lens. 

After doing a fair bit of digging on the question, I think I've come to an answer, and it's one supported by a couple sources: Quotation marks denote real dialog. Absence of quotation marks denotes dialog in memory. She uses quotes when she's writing about dialog in the present, as it's happening. When the dialog is happening in the past, however - i.e. in her memory - then the quotes are missing. In the example you've posted here, the quotes occur around the block you've selected in the present tense, but not the block in the past tense. It appears to be a reasonably well-noted and very intentional part of the book. I found this reference, and while debatably authoritative, it does concur: 

There is no proof that the lyrics were supposed to sound like "blackjack". Donald Fagan and Walter Becker of Steely Dan wrote the lyrics to this song. I have not found any first hand source from them or any other members of Steely Dan that the line was supposed to sound like "blackjack". The general belief is that the lyrics represent a man's failure to learn from his mistakes. Hence, the "Go back Jack do it again" line. There's a piece written about the lyrics of the song on musicbanter. 

The novel is intended to be somewhat of a dark comedy with levels of illogical reasoning. It is a satire on the yuppie culture of the mid 1980's. The "take away" that I got from the novel is the absurdity of consumerism and how it can not only shape someone's identity, but entirely consume it. 

The "Little House" series of books depict real people, places and some real stories when pertaining to major life events. For the most part, the books are embellished and/or dramatized versions of Laura Ingalls Wilder's memoirs. 

The majority of the characters in the "Little House" books were real people. The majority of the places described in these books were real places. There was, however, artistic license (for lack of better term) used for the storytelling in these books. I would like to state that I was fortunate enough to attend a guided tour of The Laura Ingalls Wilder Historical Society in De Smet, South Dakota approximately 10 years ago. The tour guide explained to the group that some of the places that we were being shown and the people that we were learning about were actual people and places that were depicted in her books. However, due to the harsh reality of homesteading life, the majority of the storytelling in her books was fictionalized. (as described by my tour guide) Laura Ingalls Wilder began writing her memoir (that would later be an autobiography titled Pioneer Girl) in 1930 at the encouragement of her daughter due to financial difficulties the family was facing because of the stock market crash of 1929. The memoirs were originally intended for a novel targeting an adult audience, but were edited and revised and essentially marketed as fictional children's books. An article published in 2014 by The Guardian quotes Wilder biographer and publishing director: 

I just read through Orwell's short essay, What is Fascism? In it, Orwell defines fascism (or doesn't) with two sentences: 

I recently finished Flatland (full text link), and I found it generally a somewhat disconcerting read. I realize that it's satire, and it's written in the tone of satire, particularly when it comes to women - but some of the remarks that they make in writing are very off-putting. I can conclude roughly one of three things: 

You don't have to read that. You probably shouldn't, honestly. But this is by far not the only example of this sort of stream-of-consciousness meandering excess in the Papers. I know Hamilton was operating on a short time-scale when writing, drafting, revising, submitting, and printing these essays. But this smacks of a disregard for any sort of editing process. This sort of leads me to wonder: were the Federalist Papers ever edited in a thorough and rigorous way? If so, by whom? And if so, what on earth were they checking for, and what changes did they make (if we know)? I'm more interested in whether there is evidence that they were vetted by a third party, but if there's information on Hamilton's approach to self-editing that could be relevant, I'd count that, too. 

There are certain stories that are completely true and not overstated. One example is Laura's sister, Mary going blind. As described in one of the books of the series, By the Shores of Silver Lake, Laura attributes Mary's blindness to scarlet fever. Mary Ingalls did actually go blind due to what they thought at the time was scarlet fever. It should also be stated that there has been much controversy surrounding the authorship of the "Little House" books. Many accuse Ms. Wilder's daughter, Rose Wilder Lane of being the ghostwriter of her mother's books. This is due to the correspondence between mother and daughter during the time the book(s) were being written as well as Ms. Lane being a respected author herself (though not nearly as celebrated as her mother). This led mother and daughter to have several conflicts. However, Ms. Lane did the editing and "embellishments" using her mother's stories as sources. 

Note: There was also a popular and long-running television series based on the "Little House" books titled Little House on the Prairie that aired from 1974 - 1982. This series featured characters and places from the book series, but took drastic creative liberty with the story telling (as should be expected from a television show). This is just another example of the real people from Laura Ingalls Wilder's stories being exaggerated for dramatic purposes.