E.g. in total, how many people around the world spoke Spanish and French respectively in the 18th century? Well, I know the data on most languages are scanty. So no, I'm focusing on major world languages like English, French or Spanish, whose data are supposed to be abundant. And no, I don't need a precise number or a particular year. I'm only interested in the general trend. A rough estimate in units of century will do. I've tried many times searching things like "English number of speakers in history", "Total population French over time" or "Portuguese users historical data" on Google. But I just can't find any statistics. Some of the historical trends I'm interested in include: 1) how the total number of English speakers increased over the past 1500 years, from the tongue of a few Anglo-Saxon tribes to a global language. 2) how the total number of French speakers increased over the past 300 years, as more and more West Africans in the colonies adopts it. It would be even greater if there are mini-trends, e.g. how the proportion of Spanish speakers in Mexico increased over the past 500 years. From what I know, half a century after the conquest of the Aztec Empire, Central Mexico was still predominantly Nahuatl-speaking. Today, however, Spanish is the mother tongue of 97% of the population. How did this language shift take place over time? 

Before answering this question one must agree upon a definition of parts of speech. I will assume that we define POS not semantically (which would give rise to an almost infinite number of categories), but structurally, i.e. by the way they behave morphosyntactically. It is nowadays evident that POS (as any construction) cannot be established cross-linguistically. Some languages do not even distinguish between nouns and verbs, at leat not in the way English does. But even if two languages seem to share the same POS category, despite the similarities it is almost never going to be the exact same. Verbs in Russian inflect for aspect, while German ones don’t, for example. When we talk about "verbs" or "nouns" we always have in mind some prototype category that we compare language-specific categories with. When we ask "does language X have category Y", we are actually looking for something similar to Y, so the answer doesn’t have to be "yes" or "no", it will often be "somewhat". To answer the question about "like" one must consider how it behaves. Of course, it doesn’t behave like an adverb (it takes a complement), so that is ruled out by any traditional notion of "adverb". It seems to behave more like a proposition in that regard; interestingly its complement is also in the oblique case ("like him", not "like he") very unlike German for example (note however that the oblique case has long spread to constructions like coordination as well). On the top of my head I cannot think of structural features that contradict the preposition theory, but it is possible there are some (I’ve never studied English grammar in detail). There is no a priori reason why the word couldn’t be in a category all of its own. Note also that I didn’t consider the uses of like as subordinator or discourse particle. These would be other lexemes. 

In particular, I'm curious about the phenomenon where a language creates most new, modern words using a dead ancient language, rather than its existing, living original word roots. One example is Japanese, which created most words using classical Chinese instead of native Japanese word roots during the Meiji Restoration (and English since the end of WWII). Another example is modern English. Yes, of course English could've created most new words with the original English roots in theory. But people just don't do it in practice. Why? A simple explanation is that it's just a tradition. A convention. A habit. But this is actually begging the question. The question remains: why do people stick to this tradition, when the Roman Empire fell long ago, when it was just a dead ancient language, and when it was no longer the dominant academic langauge from the 18th century on? Now it isn't even a minor academic langauge. Most scholars don't write in it any more. BUT English is STILL deriving NEW, modern words from it today. Somehow, people just find it more "suitable", more "appropriate" to continue to express new, modern things using Latin words. So my question is: Could we start creating new words using old English roots again? Could we stop borrowing from Latin from now on? By "could" I do not mean its capability in theory, but whether it's feasible, workable and/or possible in reality. Since modern English is still creating new words TWO CENTURIES after Latin ceased to be the academic langauge, can I safely assume that without major social change, it will continue to do so over the next two centuries? Or even 1000 years later? 

I think you got that wrong. Syncretism in a number of forms (as typical in the neuter in IE languages) does not mean that the structural categories themselves merge. And a language that "fails" to distinguish nominative and accusative case everywhere, cannot really be said to have either of them. (which would mean that arguments would have to be differentiated on some other basis, e.g. head-marking, word order, direct-inverse marking or so) If you have to tag a form that could be either nominative or accusative you'd usually employ whichever is appropriate in the context; if no context is given or you need to be explicit you can also indicate the syncretism e.g. as "nom/acc" edit: and you (mostly) got that case relationship wrong. with respect to their prototypical usage, nominative, accusative and dative are closer to each other as they all express argument roles while the genitive is typically used for possessor constructions (although in a number of IE languages some verbs do actually require a genitive argument, but this is a minor pattern) 

Kiranti Languages are known to exhibit a remarkably unique feature, so-called altitudinal cases. Nouns are always (? I think, it's been a while) marked as being either "above", "below" or "across" (= level). This is tied to both the geographic profile of the region and to the mythological dimensions of verticality. 

Clearly, there is a lot known about acquisition of second language by adults, and the different degrees of fluency (at least on the phonetic and phonological levels) which are obtainable. What models are most commonly used to describe second language acquisition (in terms of speech sounds)? Forgive my ignorance, I have little experience with second language acquisition. Thanks! 

I have the impression that physiological parameters like e.g. the size of neck will alter their f0. It's just an impression but it seems to hold - I can usually guess someone's neck size over the phone (at least relatively so). But if I google this, nothing shows up - I see no evidence of a correlation in the literature. Maybe some of you guys have some idea of whether there is a correlation between f0 and e.g. neck parameters? 

In a quest to understand the tenants of phonology, I've been reading up on autosegmental phonology. In this article, Browman & Goldstein write: 

Is there a tool I could use, like a macro or something, that changes a Cyrillic orthography to IPA (and vice-versa) according to my specifications? (it's for a non-Slavic minority language). I'm not a programmer, but this strikes me as a simple thing. Thanks! 

No. I have yet to meet structural categories in linguistics that have single, universally agreed upon definitions. Even "word" is not strictly defined in any way. You can compare terms only within the same framework. "Mediopassive" is a term used generally in historical linguistics for a certain kind of language-particular constructions/forms - anticausative is a term i know from typology. Unless given a precise definition of the terms, I don't think it is possible to answer your question. 

I disagree with the accepted answer. If there is a difference in inflection between mouse "device" and mouse "animal", the natural way to model this is with two different lexemes. Anything else seems like a poor model to me. Historical categories don't remain the same. Just because the etymology of "mouse" is still transparent, it doesn't mean it's still both the same lexeme. Of course, concepts such as "polysemy" and "homonymy" are made up by linguists; I don't expect them to have psychological reality. But that doesn't mean we can't use them to model semantics, just as we use terms such as antonyms, meronyms, etc. Be that as it may, there are certainly several competing defintions of homonymy and polysemy, so it's kind of wrong to argue which one is "right". 

Is there a standard representation that combines onset, nucleus, coda with mora? That would help me visualize the prosodic hierarchy better, because I could put something beneath the syllable level. My intuition says that the relation between onset, nucleus, coda and morae is language-independent, but I'm not confident. Can one of you help me shed light on this? 

I'm looking at coordination strategies in the languages of the world and I wonder if all languages have a distinction between conjunction and disjunction. 

This is a popular image floating around the internet, but like many things floating there, it seems like a gross simplification and just plain inaccurate. However, I’m more of an armchair linguist than a bonafide linguist like most of you guys. To what extent is this accurate, would you use it as a heuristic for undergrads? For ex.: It seems strange to distinguish between “literal meaning” (do linguists even believe in literal meaning?!) as an object of study itself? Also, the first four circles suggest a “is made up of” relation: “phrases are made up of words are made up of phonemes...) but that doesn’t work for the outermost two. Etc etc. but maybe this is still a useful tool to understanding units and subdisciplines in the field. What’s your take? 

Edit: Since I got a downvote, I reworded my question to better reflect my original intent. You are right in claiming that there is (very probably) no "pure" ergative language (although some, such as Dyirbal, come close). But then also consider that there is possibly no true accusative languages as well. While English certainly aligns fundamentally, accusatively, there are some constructions that are sensitive to other distinctions than subject/object. Past participles are one such example: 

I'm sorry but this cannot work without significantly stretching the boundaries of "categories" and making the task in a way arbitrary. While it's true that nouns and verbs seem to be distinguished (though not everywhere by the same means) in many (but not all) languages (and some languages do have this distinction, but it's much weaker than in, say, Latin), everything beyond that is highly dependent on the specific language. In particular the suggestion that "determiners" are in any way universal is just incredibly short-sighted. 

Have a look here, maybe there's something useful among those tools: $URL$ Technical note: A "database" would be a less than ideal format for a language's morphology given the high redundancy among different word forms (all with the same stem); one typically uses a finite state machine/transducer for that.