Queen Hatshepsut ruled as pharaoh over ancient Egypt from 1479-1458 BC. From what I can tell, she was a highly successful pharaoh, both in wartime activities early on in her reign and later in peacetime governance. That being said, becoming pharaoh was an almost entirely unprecedented role for a woman in ancient Egypt, and even being in power at all was an extremely rare occurrence in of itself. Was there ever any significant public resistance to Hatshepsut's reign during her lifetime? (I am aware that after her death her successor, pharaoh Thutmose III, made an attempt to wipe her from the public records, but that was neither a popular movement, nor was it during her lifetime). 

TL;DR: Bayes' Theorem was discover by Thomas Bayes during his lifetime, but wasn't published until two years after his death in 1763. Except for a brief period of use by the mathematician Laplace, his work went largely unheeded until after World War II. It is now one of the two major interpretations of statistical reasoning. 

Despite what you noted in your question, I would still argue that Leonardo Da Vinci meets the conditions you state for a scientist "ahead of his time." He made a number of inventions during his life, including the parachute, functional scuba gear, and a primitive tank/armored car. As for his flying machine designs, ornithopters very much like what Da Vinci designed are a real modern heavier-than-air flight technology. It is true that ornithopters are not the dominant mode of human flight today, so they are not very widely known, but they do work. The first successful manned ornithopter flight took place in 1942, and the first successful human-powered ornithopter flight took place in 2010. While Da Vinci did not invent the idea of an ornithopter, he was the first to recognize that humans were not strong or agile enough to fly by simply strapping wings onto their arms. He was also the first to put serious effort into trying to overcome this problem. It should also be noted that his ornithopter design is a perfectly functional glider. While I am not aware of any tests, with a few minor modifications, it should be able to fly unmanned using a modern engine. 

No, we do not. The origin itself is disputed. The 100 senator story is a quote from Livy, but there are alternative theories, both religious and/or hereditary in nature. There are no contemporary sources to confirm and in my opinion there have been multiple sources for what later became the dominant political class. Fact is that the patrician class originated very early and became strictly hereditary for a long period of time. There are some 55 gens known to be patrician and this list is known to be incomplete. Prominant examples are Julia, Fabia and Claudia. Consular status is only one place to look for evidence of patrician status. King Servius Tullius' census is an earlier source. Priesthood was originally a patrician monopoly which declined as plebeian influence grew. Still for a long time only patricians could hold important posts like the office of interrex or interim head of state. Eventually at the time of the late republic being a patrician became a political liability rather than an advantage. During the empire the emperor was required to be a patrician and was the only person that could instate new patricians. These appointments should be well documented but I cannot find at this time a good source. References: $URL$ $URL$ A Companion to Livy edited by Bernard Mineo The Oxford Companion to Classical Civilization edited by Simon Hornblower, Antony Spawforth, Esther Eidinow Patricians and Plebeians: The Origin of the Roman State by Richard E. Mitchell 

Social mobility during that time was low. So an individual would have to be pretty special to be noticed. For something like teaching one would need references to be accepted by the upper class. Or acquire the endorsement of a pillar of society, preferable someone of nobility. An example may be boxing. It started out as a rough lower class amusement but after the Queensberry rules in 1867 is was adopted by the upper class. So conceivably a good lower class boxer might build a reputation, be noticed, sponsored, and end up as a teacher of some upper class hobbyist. Nice link: $URL$ 

The short answer to your question is that the ancient Seleucia and the Medieval Seleucia are in fact two different cities. The original Seleucia was built in 305 BC as the first capital of the Seleucid empire, as you found in your sources. This city was built on the western bank of the Tigris and was ultimately abandoned in 165 AD, when it was destroyed by the Roman general Avidius Cassius. That Seleucia was never rebuilt, and we have since uncovered a wealth of archaeological evidence from the site. A little over sixty years later, the Persian emperor Ardashir I sought to rebuild the city of Seleucia, as part of his own empire. However, he built it on the opposite side of the river from the original Seleucia. This city was originally referred to as Veh-Ardashir, but it appears that this name fell out of use over time and the city was eventually referred to as Seleucia, even though it was a different city from the original Seleucia. The city of Ctesiphon was yet another city, distinct from both Seleucias, built on the eastern bank of the Tigris river. In a religious context, however, these two cities together would have been known as Seleucia-Ctesiphon because they shared a single bishop. To put all of this together on a single map, the three cities are shown in the map below: 

The flag is known as the Black Standard of Muhammad. There are many variants of the flag, and as far as I can tell the variant used by ISIS is original, but other variants have been used by many groups before. The flag can either be a pure black flag, or it may have the Shahada ("There is no god but Allah. Muhammad is the messenger of Allah.") printed on it in white. 

The oldest confirmed use of any version of this quote that I was able to find is from Ray Cummings' short story The Time Professor, published in the Jan. 8, 1921 issue of Argosy All-Story Weekly (thanks to mgkrebbs for pointing this one out): 

While I doubt there was much debt involving monthly payments as compared to today, it is known that (any) calender reform caused a lot of confusion that even today confounds historians. All legal documents were impacted and there even were protests where people reclaimed the days lost as they were believed to shorten their lives. Theoretically if your debt was due between September 3 and 14 in the Britain of 1752 you'd be off for free as these days never existed. In practice I think that did not happen at all as failure to repay your debts made you a felon and punishment was harsh, the law being very much on the side of the creditor. In the end I expect people just muddled through with the courts having a field day. References: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

The Netherlands mainly has so-called 'waterburchten' or castles surrounded by water on all sides. Best-known example is Muiden Castle, founded around 1280. Today it is accessible as museum and mainly features the middle ages and the 17th century. It was almost demolished in the 19th century after a century of neglect but today is regarded as probably the best restored medieval Dutch castle. References: $URL$ $URL$ 

The main reason for avoiding the sling is that it is a difficult weapon to use. Requires training to do right EVERY time. So your slinger could expect a short career indeed which would abruptly end the very first time a live grenade slips the string and falls at his feet. Very bad trade-off for more range at questionable accuracy. What you had instead for more range with accuracy was this weapon: The stick grenade. It was widely used during both WWI and WWII. 

No baron would ever wear the livery of another. Livery originated in Europe in the 14th century and was applied within the household and by followers of the noble they owed fealty to. A baron would have his own coat of arms and his retainers would wear his colours, his livery. Likewise for an earl, although he would likely (not always!) have more retainers. No noble would ask another to wear his livery. That would go against all that the feudal system stood for. The clothes you wear are your identity, and there even were laws to forbid you to wear clothing other than what you are. Merchants could not clothe themselves better than nobility, despite being richer. Some colours and materials were restricted to royalty. It was taken very seriously indeed. References: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$