Is anyone here familiar with the details of the Constitutional Convention of 1787 enough to know if any of the actual participants of that event left any writings that either corroboration or dispute the duties of the presidential electors as described in Federalist Paper #68 ? Minutes of the convention? memoirs? personal letters? etc... 

I'm going to add three short anecdotal stories told directly to me by someone who lived a long time in the USSR. I am going to tell these stories as much as I can in her voice. These are her personal stories of her life under Soviet rule. This woman was a retired professor so she was respected and considered more fortunate than most in the grand scheme. To be fair, this was in Romania which suffered under Ceaușescu -- and so in some ways represents the worst examples of life in the USSR -- but also note that these stories are also fairly recent (circa mid-late 1990's) after the official collapse of the USSR (the Yeltsin era), a period that supposedly represented new economics but in reality many of the old systems were still in use, especially in communities located away from the urban centers. These stories go to how economics were enforced in subtle ways... Food Supply In the small town where she lived there was a food store. Each person was given a specific day of the week when you would go to the store. On that day you would go early in the morning (before sunrise if you were smart) and wait in line. When it was your turn you went inside and you were told what was available and asked what you needed. While the store had many shelves they were mostly empty but it did not matter because your order was filled for you and put into a bundle. You were told how much to pay, given your bundle, and sent on your way. Afterwards you left the store and headed home. You would get home and open your bundle and then try and figure how you would make it last for the week. Rice was a good thing for making ends meet and you might get 2 kilos (~ 4.5 pounds) of rice in your bundle, but you had to open the package and carefully sift the rice to remove the small twigs and pebbles that were always there. A 2 kilo bag usually yielded about 1.5 kilos of rice afterwards. Sometimes on your way home neighbors would greet you and ask how your "shopping" had gone. Now just because you asked for something did not mean you got what you needed, because often the store did not have everything you needed, but the important thing was that you always were satisfied -- even if you were not -- because to be unsatisfied with the food distribution was disloyalty and that was a bad thing. So when asked about your shopping you always answered "very good". There were people who sometimes were unhappy with the meager bundles they had and sometimes they forgot themselves and expressed their unhappiness. Under Ceaușescu being unhappy with what the State provided was disloyalty. Knowing someone was disloyal and not reporting it was also disloyal. And disloyal people had a strange habit of disappearing. Even after Ceaușescu was gone people would still ask how shopping went and you would still always answer "very good" just to be safe. Healthcare We had excellent hospitals and doctors but if you needed emergency help and called for an ambulance the first question they would ask was not "Where are you?" or "What is the problem?" ... the first question was "How old is the patient?" and then they would ask the questions you would expect. When you retire you are considered non-productive and therefor a drain on society. So when you need medical care you are de-prioritized. If the answer to the first question is "25" the ambulance will arrive promptly, but if the answer is "60" it might be a couple of hours sometimes. It sounds cruel -- and it is -- but once you stopped being productive the State wished you a good retirement but they also expected to live only a short while longer. Of course living as long as possible was the one safe way to defy the State. Exit Visa Her children had been living in other parts of the USSR and during the Gorbachev era they had come to the United States and become citizens. So when she retired they asked her to come and live with them. At first she refused but eventually they convinced her and she filed a request to emigrate. The following are the steps she had to take in order to get approved: 

"World War" I was largely a war between France and Germany. The problem was, that France couldn't really afford the war with Germany (remember, they lost the war in 1870), so they heavily borrowed from the US, as did Britain. Meanwhile, Germany had a highly industrialized economy and could afford to pay most of the war's cost out of their own pockets. Germany was fighting a war on 2 fronts. By 1917, a large numbers of war casualties and persistent food shortages in the major urban centers of Russia brought the February Revolution in Russia, which forced Tsar Nicholas II to abdicate. The position of the Provisional Government led the Germans to offer support to the Russian opposition, the Communist Party (Bolsheviks) in particular, who were proponents of Russia's withdrawal from the war. In April 1917, Germany allowed Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin to return to Russia, and financially supported him. In return, Lenin pretty much immediate announced the withdrawal of Russia from the war. Now, think about it: Meanwhile, the war in the west was more or less at a stalemate, with France & Britain combined barely holding the lines. 4.5 million allied soldiers vs. 5 million German soldiers at the western front. Then comes the peace Treaty of Brest-Litovsk (actually signed later), which ends Russia's participation in World War I. Soon after, more than 2 million German soldiers moving from the eastern front to the western front. What do you think would have happened ? Barely stalemate in the west, and now here there come 2 million German soldiers in reinforcements... Quite frankly that meant France & Britain were screwed, the war was lost for the allies, and the USA could write-off all the money they lended (at least to France). To give you an idea of the epic proportions, during World War 1, the US debt level rose from virtually nothing to about 33% of GDP. Previously, in 1915, the US had decided to send the Lusitania (at that time an armed Merchant Cruiser, not a passenger ship) to Europe, on board ~173 metric tons of weapons for Britain (and troops?). Newspapers advertisements by the German embassy in the US in the New York Times warned everybody not to board the ship, as it was liable to destruction. When the ship reached Ireland, destroyers escorting the ship were are ordered to leave (with the express intent of leaving it vulnerable), which made the ship an easy and very inviting target for German U-Boats. As the ship came under attack (inside the declared "zone of war"), and called for help, the destroyers were ordered to stand-by and do nothing. This had turned public opinion in the US against Germany, since the presence of the weapons were conveniently omitted at the time. Due to the "political" pressure this created (a possible US entry into the war), Germany stopped the unrestricted U-Boat war against Britain. So, with the German government seeing the end of the war in the east coming, on January 31st 1917, Germany resumed the unrestricted U-Boat war (in the war-zone). Three days later, the United States broke diplomatic relations with Germany, and just hours after that, the American ship Housatonic was sunk by a German U-Boat. Consequently, on the 22nd of February, the US congressed pushed a USD 250 million arms bill, with the intent to ready the United States for war. 4 more US "merchant" ships were subsequently sunk by German U-Boats in March. Then, on April 2nd, US President Woodrow Wilson appeared before Congress and called for a declaration of war against Germany. On the 4th of April the war-declaration passed through the senate, and two days later, it was endorsed by the House of Representatives. With that, America entered World War I. A year later, Germany was "defeated" (acknowledged the futility of continuing) by the "allies", and the "peace treaty" of Versailles, which actually was an armistice for about 20-25 years, was signed. The fact that it wasn't a peace treaty also explains why the blockade and torpedoing of German commercial vessels continued well after the armistice was signed. In the treaty of Versailles, Germany was declared the "sole culprit" of the war, and had to pay the equivalent of 960'000'000 kg gold in "reparations", which at today's gold price means about 33.6 trillon US dollars. Later, as the US couldn't pay its debts, because France and Britain couldn't pay them back because Germany couldn't pay the insane reparation payments, the US loaned money to Germany (at 7% interest), to pay back France and Britain, which payed back the US; loans on Hitler later defaulted on the payments. Post-1945, the Federal republic of Germany had to agree to pay those loans back. 

This is not actually an answer to the question as stated, but rather a commentary on "them criticizing the founders' attitudes regarding the American Indians" (which does seem to be the actual crux of your question, however). It should be noted that Thomas Jefferson (also, obviously, the principal author of the declaration of independence and therefore the statement in question) had the following to say in his first State-of-the-Union address: 

It should be clear from this that the founders of the US did not intrinsically hold any bad attitudes towards the Indians, but rather had an interest in seeing them flourish and wanted to engage in intercourse with them. As for what explains the apparent discrepancy between this statement and that in the declaration of independence, I cannot say for sure, of course, but if I were to speculate, I would choose between the following explanations: 

This is a good question. I don't have any hard sources, unfortunately; but I can speculate a bit. If we speak of the extremes to which care and protection of cultural artifacts have been taken today, I would think that the most important reason is reactions against the somewhat careless archaeology of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Seeing how much was lost in the hasty and sometimes amateurish work probably prompted measures to curb careless excavations, which may well have led to further compounding of a general sentiment for a "prerogative", so to speak, of properly scientific archaeologists. I admit this explanation alone is somewhat incomplete without an answer for why archaeology "boomed" so fast in the 19th century, though. I can only guess this was because the rising living standards of the middle class allowed more people to travel abroad and visit ancient ruins. Another contributing reason could be that the growing colonial empires of the West allowed western subjects to travel further and longer while still under greater security and a reasonable protection of law. If we speak of the modern prices more specifically, this is easier to answer. Since many (all?) nations have adopted laws for the strict preservation of archaeological artifacts, the supply of such artifacts available for purchase has been very greatly diminished, obviously driving up prices a lot. It can probably also be said that the active practice of archaeology as a discipline has only started to be possible due to the general increase in wealth since the middle ages onwards. Archaeology is a rather specific science which is hard to practice without the specialization allowed for by a more advanced division of labor, which can only come from greater capital accumulation. This is all speculation, of course. If I were to try and find sources, I would look for preparatory investigations and/or parliamentary debate for the first laws which regulate trade in antiquities. I don't know where to find such, but it would probably reveal why such laws were enacted, and shed some light over the sentiment of the day.