Get them lost. Basically you want to get them out to where they lose their bearings, and then as a group, get them to find their way home. Good acting helps. If you can pretend you are also lost then they get the mental experience. This is a great way to teach people how to deal with really being lost. There are a couple of key points here, and the first is that you know the area, can navigate, and plan this in advance. If you have a second adult who can respond to emergency signals (blown whistles, etc) that is even better. Step 1 - Get them lost. This can be trickier than it sounds. A "trail run" can be a great method, especially if you aren't actually on a trail. However, a good conversation will often do the trick just as well. The key is to trick them into not paying attention. Step 2 - Reveal that you have "lost track of the turns". Solicit the group to get you home. It is important that you are always there for safety. You must always know the way back. Don't let them get you lost trying to find camp. Give them enough support so that they can succeed as a group. 

Another item to be aware of is that they will also react to a sudden change of behavior. I've been walking noisily in the woods with friends and passed within 20' of deer that didn't care at all until we changed behavior (stopped talked, stopped walking, etc.) When you are approaching, try to only move when their heads are down. Watch for tail swishing as they do this more when agitated. If they are agitated, just chill and be still for a while. As pointed out by James, large herbivores are not harmless. They may run away when you surprise them (which you eventually will) or they may decide to trample and gore you. The average person is no match for even a smallish buck. 

It's not strictly too soon. I have known plenty of people who camped with a nine month old in rougher conditions than you describe. It's too early if you are not in condition to carry a baby in addition to all of your gear. They make packs specifically for carrying wee ones. That's really the best way to go. 

Crocs are generally more active at night and typically go for smaller prey. So as long as you do not make yourself too tempting, they are not likely to waste time on you. 

I recently started indoor rock climbing at a local spot. I got to the top and (after appropriate communication) my partner started to belay me down. I instantly starting swinging and spinning pretty wildly, more than 10' arcs. I was able to catch the wall, but every time I let go the same thing would happen. I didn't see anyone else having this problem. How does one descend in a relatively vertical fashion without swinging like a pendulum? (edit: Top-roping) 

There are three simple rules to roadkill. If all three aren't answered yes, it is not what I would consider "safe". 

Stop coating your wires with peanut butter! In all seriousness though, squirrels can and will eat wires. However this is a very unlikely occurrence, as noted by ShemSeger in comments. I have known exactly ONE person it ever happened to and the car was at their house, not a trail head. You could discourage most pests by putting mothballs in your engine compartment (after it has cooled). Of course mothballs are toxic and it would be vitally important to remove them before you drive away lest you poison yourself on the fumes. Most other rodent deterrents are lethal (traps, bait) and it would be pretty unethical IMO to use those in this situation. Outdoor activities all have risks and you have to weight the likelyhood of the risk coming to fruition against the cost and effort of prevention. 

I'm assuming white tail deer. There are other deer, but generally people here mean white tails when they say deer. This should generalize to mule deer, but probably not to elk, moose, etc. 

My friend wants to do an overnight on the grand canyon this summer. We are experienced hikers in pretty good shape. However we've NEVER hiked out west, much less the Grand Canyon. What are the key things we should be careful of that we wouldn't think of as hikers in the Eastern US? 

By far your largest risk is from puncture. Rupture due to heat appears to be something that happens after "prolonged exposure to fire or intense heat". Even if the canister ruptures, it isn't at all likely to turn into a fireball without an ignition source. $URL$ MSDS: $URL$ All that being said, most recommendations are to store at less than 125 degrees Fahrenheit. So don't go parking your car in directly sunlight in the summer. Lot's more interesting reading on canister failures here. 

Even in the case of state and national land this isn't necessarily trivial, but you can find most of what you need on the web. With private land you'll need to first check with the local courthouse. If you're not lucky, this can mean going in person to look at plats. If you are very lucky, the plats will be web accessible. Next, you'll need to get contact information for the owner. This can be tricky as the courthouse may have only an address. Once you've done that you will need to contact the owner and get permission. In both cases (government and citizen owned) get permission in writing. "He said I could" will not hold up in court. (edit) As Olin notes in his comments, an official policy that allows use is good enough and can be considered "permission in writing". 

In average to less than average physical shape, I'd say that is pushing it a bit. There is a serious incline followed by a steep decline, which are going to slow you down. It's going to make for a very long day. If everything goes well 10 to 11 hours, if you don't stop for breaks or lunch. If you are in less than average health then you will probably need breaks. The greatest concern for me would be risking the downhill in the dark. If you do run late and into the night, downhill becomes much more dangerous. In addition to your fitness level, it's also important to let us know the total weight of the gear, which will make a difference. Reasonable is a matter of perspective, but I would plan on a long grueling day, probably finishing after dark (for someone at your level). 

I've been reading a lot of product reviews, and filter/pump solutions seem to be very high maintenance, very heavy, or both. Are there any lightweight filters which can be relied on for many liters of water without requiring lengthy clean times, lots of extra cartridges, and/or spare parts? I'd prefer a recommendation from someone who has used one on a lengthy hike (one requiring more than 20 liters of water filtering over several days). 

I'm finally going to take the plunge and trim all the excess cordage and belting off of my pack. How much strap material should I leave to allow for adjustments in gear (adding layers for cold, etc.)? 

Would it make sense to carry soda instead of water in respect to save weight (you can carry less food because you have energy in your "water")? No, for a variety of reasons (leaving out, as you say "other health related topics"): 

Many pre-packaged meals are designed to cook in the pouch by adding boiling water. If I am making my own meals with mylar pouches, would it be safe too cook them by adding boiling water to the pouch? To be clear, I'm not concerned about it thoroughly cooking the food. I am concerned about chemicals from the heated mylar leaching into my meal. 

The moisture ending up in your insulating layer is not necessarily a bad thing. That layer is not touching your skin, and you have an air buffer between it and your skin. That is definitely better than keeping that water against your body and since perspiration is not optional. Regarding the risk of moisture ruining down insulation: If you're in a region where the humidity is such that your sweat will not readily evaporate through your down layer... then you probably shouldn't be using down. Down is a less ideal choice for humid/wet environments. But that's not a base layer problem and has nothing to do with why using cotton as a baselayer is generally a bad idea. Another point about the insulation layer getting wet. If you are sweating so much that you're soaking your insulation layer faster than it can evaporate then you're not managing the layers properly. One of the key points of layering is to manage temperature and avoid sweating. 

For group hikes where we plan on having a fire, I carry a hand chain saw for dead wood. We've used ours for a while now and it is definitely getting dull. How do you sharpen this? 

I've constructed a cat can jet stove as described here. He has a windscreen design, but it seems to be overkill (and doesn't work for my pot). I've tried a couple of my own now, but they are all failing due to what appears to be not enough space between the wind shield and the pot. What is the minimum gap needed between pot and windscreen to allow for a steady flame on alcohol jet such as the example given? 

This is a pretty straightforward and simple test that will keep you from risk (beyond the normal risks of eating wild game). Are there ways to "estimate" how old a carcass is? Sure! Would I be tempted to use any of those methods in any situation short of starvation? Nope. 

As you have observed, you can legally hunt them year round; You just will not be as successful. Some times of the year are better than others. The best season for coyotes is late fall / early winter. During the warmer months when prey is plentiful they are going to be harder to call. It all comes down to how successful (or not) you want your hunt to be. 

What are the advantages and disadvantages of carbon fiber vs. aluminium when buying trekking poles? Are carbon fiber really lighter, do they break easier if jammed wrong, etc.? 

Dehydrated food is key. Water weighs a LOT. Breakfast -- Any variation on oatmeal. You can make your own or buy prepackaged meals. Lunch -- Peanut butter on hard tack. (did i mention water?) Dinner -- Any dehydrated meal will do. I've used both Mountain House and Backpackers pantry. Snacks -- I prefer Clif bars and Justin Nut Butter for a good weight/calorie/taste compromise. Luna bars are more calories per ounce but (IMO) taste horrid. By far the biggest weight factor in food is going to be water. If you know your route will have water, carry minimal. I have went so far as to carry only one liter (emergency) and drink from a .5 liter bottle that I sterilize with a steripen or other purifier. Needless to say, you have to be pretty darned sure, because not having water is a huge issue. Secondly, repack all your food. Even with dehydrated meals you can cut ounces by repacking them all into ziplocs. Use a very lightweight stove & fuel. A lot of hikers swear by the beer can method here, but I find my msr pocket rocket to be fine. But if you really want to cut ounces, go with the can. I use a snow peak .7L titanium cup for all of my cooking. Get a titanium spork. Great weight ratio. I went a little beyond just food into the whole eating plan, but I hope it helps. 

This appears relatively safe. Even accident statistics produced by groups pushing for regulation are pretty mild. Industry regulation is a pretty politicized process, creating plenty of pressures to inflate injury rates -- so if even those are small, it's probably safe. Those sites (such as this one) only have a minor injury rate of 0.001%. Realistically your wife is more likely to be hurt driving to the location to parasail and showering afterwards than in the actual event. "Statistics" that give raw counts without perspective are useless. Is 59 accidents in 20 years a lot? A little? It informs very little regarding the risk of accident. 59 accidents in 59 trips would be 100% chance of injury. Without knowing the ratio, the number of accidents is meaningless. (A note, I just edited this after three years and I have no idea where the link was originally intended to go) 

You may also have a clogged hose or some other problem. If you were using it according to the manual and fuel spilled everywhere that would indicate a big issue with your fuel delivery. 

My experience is that I can cast farther and with greater precision with a baitcaster. That being said, you have to practice... A LOT. There is a tensioner for the gears. You have to balance the tension for your personal style to avoid backlash, but still get a good distance. Backlash is bad, very bad. It creates the worst tangle you've ever seen. A bad one and you just have to cut the line out and respool your entire reel. Most times you won't be able to just pick up your friends baitcaster and cast it without re-adjusting the tensioner (at which point they'll probably use you for cutbait). However, it's well worth the practice. When I regularly fished for bass I could drop a lure into a 2" square underneath a low hanging bush from 40' away. You just won't get that kind of performance from a spinning reel. From a technical standpoint, baitcasters generate less drag and friction on the line during the cast.