You'll also need a spoke wrench, but that's a good tool to have around anyway. I highly recommend reading a copy of The Bicycle Wheel by Jobst Brandt. The obligatory Sheldon Brown link is also in this section, because his description of wheelbuilding is a great read. Hub For the hub, there are indeed different sizes, both in terms of axle length and flange size. However, for the axle length, there are really only a few different standard sizes, so you should be good to go with a road hub. For the flange (which only matters if you're building a wheel), pretty much anything will do, but the flange will have a significant impact on the length of the spokes that you'll need. I always take my rim and hub to my local bike shop and get the folks there to cut spokes for me, since it seems like some sort of black magic. Drivetrain Once you've got a new rear wheel, you need to connect it to the pedals. At a minimum this means you need a cog on the rear wheel (typically hubs do not come with cogs), but depending on what size you get, and personal preference regarding the chainring, you might also need a new chain and chainring. Cog You'll definitely need a cog, the gear that goes on the rear wheel. You should also get a lockring. Getting the cog is actually a little tricky, because it turns out there are two different widths of bicycle cogs, and they are not interchangeable. (There are actually two different widths of bicycle chain, but the chain, chainring, and cog all need to work together.) The wider setup, usually seen on track bikes, is 1/8", and the narrower one is 3/32". Here you'll need to decide if you want to stick with the 3/32" setup that's already on your bike, or move to the 1/8" ; again, mostly this has to do with personal preference, but be aware that whatever you pick will affect your options for the other items. If you get a flip-flop hub, you should probably get a freewheel cog as well as a standard thread-on one. Typically the freewheel cog has a higher tooth count than the fixed one, since you won't need to pedal like a rabid gopher while you're coasting downhill on your freewheel side. Chain You'll definitely need a new chain if you go with a 1/8" drivetrain. Sometimes it's a good idea just to get a new chain, even if you're sticking with the existing sizes. New chains are really nice. Chainring and crank There'll already be a crankset on your existing bike, which can probably be used just fine for a conversion (provided it works with the chain/cog). There are a couple things to think about it however : 

If you have the serial number of your bike, the police will enter the information into NCIC. That's the National Crime Information Center. Anyone running that serial number will get a "hit" on your report. The main problem we have is that folks simply don't do it; they don't keep track of the serial number and we have to tell them that even if the bike is found, the chance it will be legally identified as theirs is minimal. One Trek 4300 looks pretty much like another... I have never used any of these sites, and I can say with some assurance that we police in this area don't check them. I suppose it might catch on.... I'll have to do some research. 

To dissent slightly... It's common practice for mechanics and bike-shop folks to recommend this... It does result in selling more parts... However, if your chain is all rusted up as a result of sitting out and not as a result of running it in that condition... The cogs and chainrings might be fine. The skipping while backpedaling might well be due to similarly gunked-up derailleurs. Before springing for a bunch of new parts, I would take everything off. Both DRs, chain, etc. Clean and lubricate everything. I spray the DRs down with WD-40 and let 'em soak for a bit, then attack 'em with a toothbrush and the wire wheel on my Dremel to get off any caked-on lube and road grit. Then just wash 'em in hot soapy water and re-lubricate. Make sure the idlers are free-spinning and unworn on the rear one. I restore old bikes for re-sale, and I've done dozens this way with only a chain replacement and they shift perfectly before I let them go. 

Also, on a fixed gear, the length of your crank could be important : If you're taking a tight corner, you might lean over far enough that the bottom of the crank scrapes the road as the pedal turns, which can lead to a wreck. You can get a crankset that has shorter arms to avoid this, though if you're not into tight cornering it might not be a problem. It's something to be aware of though, since you never really know when you might need to pull an emergency maneuver. Other stuff Once you've gotten the rear wheel and drivetrain set up, you're technically good to go. You can opt to switch many other things on your bike, but chances are that it already has a seat, headset, fork, handlebars, etc. 

I've noticed that getting repeat punctures can simply be a sign that your tires are past their useful lifespan. I went on a long tour and had no flats for weeks on end, but then once my touring tires passed the 2000 mile mark, I got two flats in two days. I replaced my tires and had no flats again for weeks on end, and again when the tires passed the 2000 mile mark I got a couple flats in as many days. My story is only a couple of data points, but there does seem to be some consensus that tires simply wear out after a fixed distance -- though that distance depends on make, air pressure, rider weight, etc., see here and here. 

I was going to say that a 'cross bike or tourer might be a good option. (though considerably more expensive than the typical hybrid) Both can easily be equipped with rather gnarly tires which should take just about anything you can throw at them. The problem with upright-position hybrid or "fitness" or "comfort" bikes is that they are not particularly efficient. 10-20 miles a day is not "serious" mileage, but still turning in that distance constantly with essentially all your weight on your....Fundamental bits can be a strain... Such bikes are intended for more casual use. 

Impressing your friends with your awesome skills should you master the thing? Potential work in the circus field? Vast improvement in balance? On the downside... Lost skin, closer relations with your orthopedic man... Good luck! I've always been rather balance-challenged. 

Some pro racers have successfully campaigned full-suspension bikes. However, pro racers have big budgets and team mechanics to keep everything ship-shape. A good rear shock absorber can cost more than an entry-level bike... For most off-road riders, they are simply not necessary; let your legs be the suspension. 

"Freeride" generally refers to the type of riding described above, using Summertime ski-trails to ride essentially downhill. You usually truck up to the top. "Downhill" normally refers to a particular type of MTB racing on a downhill course. This would be pretty close to what you describe... Minus the competitive aspect. Some of these races are conducted head-to-head on the same course, some are one-at-a-time "time trials". 

For riding in the rain, I would definitely recommend putting fenders on your bike that cover as much of the wheel as possible. This will help prevent "skunk stripes" on the back of your clothes due to dirt thrown up by the rear wheel. Fenders also generally help keep water from flying all around during riding, which keeps other things from getting as wet to begin with. I'd also recommend putting a plastic cover on your seat, as (a) wet seats tend to stay wet for a long time, and (b) keeping your seat dry will help extend its usable lifetime. For this, you can simply tie a plastic grocery bag over the seat -- it's not very elegant looking, but it works well as long as there aren't any holes in the bag. Make sure the bottom of the seat is covered as well as the top. For the drive train, it's difficult to keep this part of the bike dry during rainy weather. You could look into getting a chain guard, but these are typically designed to prevent dirt and grease from the chain rubbing onto your leg or pants, not to keep the chain dry in the rain. It might help keep rain off from above, but it won't help keep things dry from below. You might also prophylactically keep your drivetrain dry by using a wax-based chain lubricant before you go out in the rain. This will help repel water during the ride. 

As Zenbike says... Much of the noise is generated by the tires. Any smooth harder-compound "slick" is going to be quieter than a tread with a lot of pattern. The one I have now, a Minoura, is decently quiet. I can't hear it over the TV. However, my previous item generated a high-pitched buzz that was quite annoying. 

Tire size is not a sure indicator of flat resistance. As Kibbee notes, proper inflation pressure, road character, riding style.... All factors. I rarely get flats; can't remember when I had one last riding on the road. However, they are as inevitable as anything else in life. A good, durable 28mm tire is nice compromise between super-skinny "racing" tires and something you might put on a hybrid. Avoid tires with tiny little cuts or "sipes", these tend to trap road debris and it will gradually work it's way through the casing. Check pressures frequently, don't use super-light-weight tubes, etc. Watch the road! Potholes, new pavement seams, broken glass and such from auto accidents (or car theft!) are all hazards that can generally be avoided. And carry everything you need to fix a flat....Just in case. 

Kind of depends what you're looking for. For classic, straight top-tube roadsters, a good starting point is "standover height". You should be able to straddle the top tube with your feet flat on the ground. Unfortunately, this is not how bikes are normally measured; "frame height" is measured from the center of the bottom bracket to the top of the seat tube. Go to a bike shop and look around. Straddle a few bikes and have the friendly shop folks help you get an approximate size. Then go looking for used.... Warning... If you are not an experienced cyclist who knows what to look for then buying used can be fraught with problems.... Also, bear in mind that that straight-top-tube roadster is increasingly a rarity; many manufacturers use a variety of sloping top tubes now which defy measuring in the old-fashioned way.