There are many methods that real world gaming companies use to stop people from cheating in their online games. Reduce the quality of their experience Slow down their in-game movement speed, take away their in-game money, anything of the sort that might reduce their fun with the game as punishment for trying to ruin it for others. A Server for nothing but Cheaters In one of the Marvel vs Capcom games, Capcom had a problem with people leaving the game early. So what did they do? If someone kept leaving games early, they would be put on a server filled with other people who kept leaving early. Something similar to this would be useful for your simulation. If they're going to cheat the game, then they may as well use it to cheat against other cheaters so that the experience isn't ruined for non-cheaters on the normal servers. Obnoxious Labelling This is a tactic that Payday 2 uses for cheaters. If someone is cheating in a game, above their head is displayed in huge red lettering the word "CHEATER". If this simulation is important enough, then this will be a huge source of shame and embarrassment for the cheaters, preventing them from wanting to risk it. Doing nothing at all Ironically, this might be the most effective way of dealing with them. If the Overseers simply watch for people cheating, then they can fix the bugs and hacks that they used to cheat the game. Once these are patched, then the cheaters won't be able to cheat anymore, but will still keep playing the game. Saving resources of the Overseers for fixing bugs and hacks rather than spending them on punishing players will allow the simulation to be uncheatable, and prevent future cheaters from using the same exploits. 

For the purposes of this answer, I'm assuming that "a clone of yourself of the opposite sex" just means a clone who shares your genetic material, except that one of your sex chromosomes is swapped for a "synthetic" one. In this scenario, people don't "date themselves." Identical twins have identical DNA1, but they're different people with different personalities. Your opposite-sex clone has an entire chromosome that you don't have, and doesn't have one that you have. Realistically (ha), my man-clone is not going to be that similar to me. At best/worst, people are marrying people with similar personalities--which is already something that happens all the time. Marriage and family law Option 1 Leave the law pretty much as it is. In most countries, people can contract legal marriages without passing any kind of fertility test, let alone a "will your fiancé(e) save you from clinical depression?" test. Why should clones be any different? Option 2 The government decides people should only be allowed to marry people they can have children with. Fine, so pass that law/issue that royal decree/certify that bureaucratic regulation. Then you need some kind of system that allows people to find the people they're allowed to marry. This could be based on a government clone-registry, if such a thing exists. You could even turn it into a dating app! In our dating apps, you can set it to only display men or only display women. Building an app that only shows you people you're genetically compatible with won't be hard. If each person only has one clone, then you're looking at a society of mass arranged marriage. This is not without precedent, and generally means a society that doesn't strongly associate marriage with shmoopy-doopy romantic feelings. You get married because that's your role--to run a household and raise a family together, not because you're in wuv fowevuh. Just like we don't expect to be BFFs with everyone at work, but still decide to get along and do our jobs, these people and their clones will get along and do their jobs of raising families. This can be facilitated by clearly delineated gender roles. For example, if it's understood that women are in charge of childrearing, then it's not an issue if your arranged husband has a different philosophy of sleep-training than you, because it's not his domain. 1 Well, almost--they have slight genetic differences due to random in-utero mutations, but it's likely that clones would experience the same mutations. Even if not, the genetic differences between twins are less than an entire chromosome. Insofar as personality is determined by genetics, the chromosome swap outweighs the non-mutation. 

Let's say you have the entirety of Earth's nuclear stockpile at your disposal (you don't have to use it all, and if you need it there's an infinite supply of extra ICBMs) and that every weapon you fire will have 100% accuracy as to where it explodes. Is there any way these explosions could take place without causing any environmental (or at the very least Limited) damage to the planet's environment? I'd imagine the problems with this would be that the explosion would either be too high in space for the EMP to affect anything, or too low in the Atmosphere to not cause damage. Am I correct in this, or is a (mostly) worldwide nuclear EMP feasible without causing mass environmental damage? 

What I'm thinking for this question is that some kind of filter is put around the sun by aliens that prevents some kinds of solar energy from passing through but allows other types. Like if it stopped visible light but allowed UV. Is there any way that the parts of light plants need for photosynthesis can be separated from visible light, allowing the plants to survive but preventing visible light from passing through? I've tried to do my own research on this, but all I've found is that they require a nonspecific "light", and I'm not sure if this means specifically visible light or all kinds of light, such as UV. For the question, assume that the barrier around the Earth can sort between different types of light, regardless of whether or not this makes any sense. EDIT: Close voters, I understand my question may be slightly difficult to understand due to the nature of what I am asking, however reading the answers below should allow you to see what I am looking for, and show that there are others who understood the question even if you didn't. 

There are really only 3 social roles a society needs to be successful 1 - Farm/gatherer class these will be your society's food producers. For example, they could grow food and develop long sharp claws for harvesting, they could be gatherers with strong skeletal structures for supporting heavy loads, or even be photosynthetic and generate fruit-like things over time. 2 - Builder class this class will be responsible for constructing your society's buildings, maintaining existing structures, etc. They should have dexterous appendages to manipulate building materials such as wood planks or stone blocks, and should also be able to lift heavy loads and collect these materials (strong skeleton, maybe one or more arms solely designed to chop down trees or cut stone). 3 - Warrior class: these would be the members of society responsible for protecting your society from outside invaders. They should be resilient to damage, with maybe a tough exoskeleton or a thick hide, preferably resistant to temperature changes both hot and cold. Now, depending on how advanced you want your society to be you could develop sub-classes for each grouping. For example, a sub-builder class that can mine for iron ore or rare materials, or a sub-warrior class that can take on aerial enemies with wings and honeycombed bones. And if you want to get really advanced, you could have certain organisms with larger than usual brain capacity and a degree of autonomy from the hive mind, allowing them to learn and design new ways for the hive to operate (think engineers to design new buildings or scientists to design new weapons). 

Someone mentioned communist brain drain, but let's look at something more specific: the brain drain the Soviets created by purging the engineers. Solzhenitsyn goes into a lot of detail in Volume 1 of The Gulag Archipelago, but the basic idea is this: Accuse your country's engineers of "wrecking," or intentional sabotage of critical infrastructure and industry. Put the leaders on trial publicly, detailing their treason and malevolence. (Minor figures like good foremen can be dealt with in smaller and less well-broadcast trials.) Then exile, imprison, or execute them all. Now everyone who knows how to run a power station efficiently, repair a drill press, or build a road is in [Siberia|Gitmo|the grave]. Things start to break down, and there's a massive recession. 

It's important to the country to have a lot of llamas, like some kind of Strategic Llama Reserve. Possible reasons for this: 

Having fertilized eggs disintegrate pretty much goes against your assumption of immortality. Biologically speaking, a fertilized egg is a living organism in its own right. What you're talking about is the mass death of the very young children of immortals. Of course, you could just let your immortal women go through menopause and be infertile after that. Alternatively, recall that regular human women are born with all of our eggs--(actually, we have them all before we're even born. In real life, these eggs degrade over time, which is why it's harder for older women to have children, even if they haven't hit menopause. If you keep either of these effects, you're capping the number of children each woman can have. Iboth these mechanisms are too much like aging for you, how about this: An egg is only viable for about twenty-four hours after ovulation anyway. After that it can't be fertilized.* So you could (a) shorten that time, or (b) lengthen the time it takes an egg to travel far enough down the fallopian tube to meet the other cell, or (c) both. [*Note: probably someone's wondering whether this means a woman can only get pregnant from intercourse within twenty-four hours after ovulation, i.e. twenty-four hours every month-ish, and the answer is no. Prior to ovulation, a healthy woman produces cervical mucus that both provides "swimming lanes" for sperm to get where they need to go and also actually keeps the sperm alive for a matter of days. It varies from woman to woman, but the actual (potentially) fertile window can be around a week.] 

So when I say everything, I mean everything. Humans, animals, plants, fungi, bacteria, all dead. If the bacteria and other detritovores and decomposers can't decompose anything since they themselves are all dead, what happens to all the carcasses and remains of the life? Do these remains decay through other inorganic means? What do they look like throughout this process? And how long would it take? (For the purposes of this question, let's just say that Viruses and Prions count as "alive", they are "killed" in this scenario as well) 

State-Sanctioned Divine Beings Short answer: No These divine beings aren't the church, the church is simply an organization that worships them. The beings themselves are separate entities, and as a result contracting them should have no legal implications in terms of separation of church and state. This only changes if the beings are a part of the leadership structure of the church itself. For example, if an Angel holds an official position of power in the church equivalent to a bishop or priest. Weaponized Priesthood Short answer: No, but only if they are being contracted like mercenary groups This part of the answer is a simple one. If they're being given specific contracts as if they were mercenaries, then this is no violation. This isn't a violation because they're never becoming a part of the state itself. If they are official government employees, however, then this is a violation. These are official parts of the church that are also official parts of the government, and this is a violation of church and state. However... As Daron's answer has indicated, there's no law that enforces a separation of church and state. This answer is more of a guide of things that are and aren't violating the concept of separation of Church and State, which while it might not be useful for the legal aspects of your world, might be useful for the societal impacts. 

Everyone else has disappeared, but presumably many of them have left their cars behind. So go out and collect all the car batteries you can find, and then connect them to blinking Christmas lights. String the lights around the top of the tallest building in your area (like in "28 Days Later"). If you use efficient LED lights, they should last for about a day on a fresh battery while you explore the rest of the city. (Feel free to use your library to set up a more elaborate circuit, with more batteries, for multi-day trips.) Unlike a flag, they require semi-frequent maintenance, so you won't keep attracting people to your area if you die. You can either keep stealing car batteries, or hoard gas and recharge them in their cars. (This is how they keep the radio on in Alas, Babylon. If you don't have a car of your own, the library will tell you how to hotwire one.) 

You say you want to go with something accidental, but you can take it even further. What if some people do something they think is helping and it causes catastrophic failure. Imagine this: A private software firm develops a new program for power grid management. You may or may not be aware of this, but most power grids need constant maintenance to balance supply and demand of power. Too much provided, and the grid shorts. Too little supplied, and systems shut down. As a result, the power plants for each regions grid are constantly changing output. It is inefficient and relies nearly exclusively on human influence. Water flow through dams, burn rate for coal plants, and number of cells active in nuclear plants are all dependent on people, with very little computer influence. What if that changed? What if our software company found a way for a computer to observe supply and demand for power and learn when and why to adjust output, adapting to all forms of generation. This company would instantly become rich, as energy firms seek to use their hopefully patented tech. It starts small, taking root in cities first and then is applied to nationwide grids. It is amazingly effective, causing the energy industry to reduce failures and increase reliability. BUT THEN It was a simple mistake. The software firm is working on an update to their system, one that energy firms are deadly waiting for. When it comes out, all of them want it, and they allow some of their newly computerized systems to accept the update and all goes smoothly. They wait a week, a month maybe. All seems well. So, they push the update to more systems it until all of their grids use it. After all, if it didn't fail within a month, it must be safe. And it was, for a time. But unknown to all, there is a glitch in the update, a miswritten definition in one of the program's library files. This particular file isn't called on by the main function very often, so the glitch remained unnoticed. Then, one day, catastrophic power failures everywhere. Coal plants stop working. Dams are frozen at their current flow rate. Nuclear plants completely shut down, their cells grow cold. The lights go out. The world is dark. Basically this idea depends on a glitch in computerized grid maintenance causing a global shutdown. This idea, scarily enough, is plausible even today. I'm sure the energy industry would love a way to manage the grid without constant human attention, and a bad update is something everyone deals with eventually, from iPhones whose hardware can no longer handle the new iOS to government websites with broken links. Hope this helps. 

You've got a space gun. There's no doubt this idea could work, as the article I linked will tell you. So essentially yes, this contraption of yours is entirely possible (as for whether or not you can use a Space Gun to launch a projectile unnoticed into space, well that might be a good idea to ask in another question, since that seems right up this site's alley) 

Life would exist very briefly, before exhausting every resource The recycling of elements is vital to how our ecosystem evolved into existence. Whenever an organism dies, detritovores return the nitrogen in the organism back to the soil. But if this nitrogen simply disappears with every death, it goes nowhere. It doesn't get returned back into the soil, and as a result the autotrophs would die out quickly after using it all up in the first era of the evolution of life. Life would exist, but not long enough for any complex life to evolve. 

The main reason they wouldn't view humanity as a monolithic whole is that we aren't a monolithic whole, and we live very spread out over the planet. So wherever they first land, they'll meet whichever humans live there, and those humans will be only too happy to tell them how awful the other humans are. The aliens will side with these humans if they can offer something the aliens want. The answer that first comes to my mind is that the humans offer to give the aliens the other humans' land, natural resources, or people (as slaves). It's in the aliens' best interest to take this deal because then they can get the land/resources/slaves with less effort and expense than if they had to take them on their own, and they don't have to worry about all of humanity banding together to fight them off. 

But it's also important to the country that llama-tending not just be the work of a minority, lest they become a permanent underclass and lest the non-llama-tending people forget the importance of the SLR. So every citizen has to spend a year taking care of a llama as a form of national civilian service. It happens in middle age because youngsters are just not that good at taking care of llamas, but they also want to wait for people to get sufficiently established in their careers that a year-long absence won't mess them up too much. Many people do in fact skate by with just a day of llama-tending, but many people take their duty seriously and find it to be a life-changing experience. 

TL;DR: What tactics can a professionally trained army use against a horde of untrained conscripts using human wave attacks? (This scenario takes place in the very-near future.) Background information: The two forces of SEDA and GAU have been at war for the past decade, SEDA defending against the constant onslaught of GAU conscripts. Brainwashed and forced into service with minimal training and faulty equipment, the armies of GAU are nothing more than hordes of conscripts rushing blindly at the enemy (in a similar method to the Banzai Charges of WW2.) In modern history, human wave attacks have often failed and have only served to waste entire battalions by having them be cut down by machine-gun fire. However, the size of the GAU forces have the sheer excess of numbers to make this a viable strategy. They are vastly more numerous than their opponents, overwhelming their enemies with sheer numbers. The forces of SEDA are professionally trained and equipped soldiers, defending against the hordes of conscripts. While in normal scenarios this alone would be enough to counter such an unorganized attack, the sheer numbers of their enemy calls for a more specialized counter-strategy. What Tactics and Strategies can SEDA use to defend against this human wave attack style? Are there any formations or positioning that could help them gain an advantage?