Generally both at the same time. 1. Magic is not learnt Sorcerers just happen to know how to use some magic, or even to just use some when needed. For example, for what I know, the character of Merlin the wizard never followed an education in magic. He just has the powers (because he is the son of some kind of devil) and that is it. For your scenario it is not really helpful, but if by studying magic you mean mastering the powers you are born with (a bit like the X-men). 2. To perform magic you borrow power from a superior being That is a recurring pattern in medieval literature. You either get your powers by passing a contract with the Devil, or by receiving the blessing of God (the latter is basically what a miracle is). Therefore to use magic you are dependant on the good will of some superior entity (which is beyond your understanding). You can not directly study magic, but you can study how to please different entities, or how to ask them a favour the right way. 

First of all, if you want it to work, you need to prepare you country. It is quite clear that if you just drop it now without warning, it will be disastrous. Not because a direct democracy system must be flawed, but because the change is to brutal. To get were they are, French people went through 4 different styles of republic (it is now the 5th), at least two dictatorship and a brief return to monarchy. Monarchists probably said that the problems arises because the new system was bad. It is not the case, the transition in Britain were much smoother. So what preparation do you need to achieve a smooth transition to direct democracy ? Reform education Stupid people take stupid decisions. In elective democracy, you can hope that whatever happen even stupid people will elect smart representative, with DD you can not. The actual education's goal is to make everybody capable to find a work and become a happy average Joe. The actual system (depend on where you live actually, I speak here about Switzerland where I live) is probably not bad, but surely not sufficient for our goal. You need to add lectures about: 

If you could twist and/or rotate space-time in a fashion then you could have the rotational effects without tearing the planet apart itself. How you achieve that rotation is beyond known science and discovery, but non-flat spacetime is a very real aspect of physics, so it's not a huge leap to other manipulations, whether natural or artificial. If it helps, visualise a plastic ball floating on a drain in a large bathtub as it empties. The ball will spin with the water and rotate. Relative to the draining water the rotation is quite slow as the ball is spinning with the water but relative to the rest of the standing water in the tub the rotation may be much faster. 

If you look at the evolution of warfare, certain features tend to crop up repeatedly, such as the importance of logistics or mobility and manoeuvre. Using Centaurs as shock-troops might seem effective, but it seems like a waste compared to what they're capable of. Their size might make them ill-suited to the task as defenders would be able to generate a much larger volume of fire in return. Cavalry (centaur or not) are large units that can't pack in nearly as well as people. Instead, their horse half grants them increased mobility compared to your standard issue human, which makes them excellent skirmishers. They're capable of carrying large amounts of supplies and crossing large distances which also lends them towards reconnaissance. Neither of these roles really lend themselves to heavy weapons. However, if you want to make the most of their abilities in a heavy battle, you might consider arming them with a Gatling gun. A pair of centaurs could carry ammo on one and the gun, mounted on a swivel, on the other. Like this, they could perform shoot-and-scoot type manoeuvres, placing very heavy fire onto flanks and being able to reposition without any time needed to setup or tear down the weapon. A Gatling gun also doesn't have the recoil issues that you would have with heavier artillery like cannons. 

You have a magic guild, this mean that there is some list of (more or less) every magicians. If you can retrieve that list, you can then check the identity of everyone and forbid magicians to enter standard polling places, and force them to go in separated polling places. If magicians are a small minority, you can even ask them to auto-regulate their polling places, since whatever they do in the process will have little effects. The idea is that during the whole process you keep every magicians far from the urns, so that they do not get the chance to modify their content. The other strategies (i.e. changing someone's mind directly) seems really hard to counter. However, unless the magicians are really powerful or numerous, they might not have the ability to act on a sufficient amount of people to change the result of an election. 

(the flux of particle is graduated in what could look as a strange unit, but the label on the curve are way more informative, $1$ m$^{-2}$ s$^{-1}$ for example represents the level corresponding to 1 particle crossing an area of 1 meter squared each second) You can see that around one particle with energy about $10^{19}$ eV pass through a surface (on earth) of one kilometer squared each year (1 km$^{-2}$ yr$^{-1}$ label). That is an energy one billion time hight than is CERN, and given the total surface of earth and its age, if something could have gone wrong with particle of this energy, it would most likely already have happened. Note however that since in quantum mechanics is about probabilities, worst case scenario in CERN can not be excluded for sure, but it could as well happen inside my kitchen due to a nasty cosmic ray. So the worst thing which could probably happen at the CERN is some kind of "regular" incident, like fire or leaks of supercooling liquids or gases (if you visit CERN they actually tell you what to do if it happens). Note that the link I gave, reports a leak of "approximately 6 tonnes of liquid helium". 

This could be possible with a two-part process: firstly, one culture could decide to regress another that it had conquered as punishment for some kind of slight. Enforced over a long enough period, maybe relocated to a resource-poor region, that culture could regress to fairly primitive ways and end up on that sort of level. The more advanced culture could then encounter some disaster of their own, wiping them out entirely and leaving the regressed culture in that state. As long as the advanced culture was distant enough (say, on a different continent), access to their tech would be difficult and unlikely to advance the regressed culture until discovered. 

Obviously wanting him dead, intending him dead, all of this is fatal, so his death can only occur naturally, without intent, or via indirect intent that does not directly foresee his death. Natural causes could just as easily be an accident or due to age. But locking him up, while the intent isn't to kill him but protect others from his abilities, could still result in his death should sufficient guards die. Equally, scientists could work out a way to block his telepathic abilities without intending harm or death, just safety. They certainly could be made to work in an anonymous fashion that makes it harder to form deathly thoughts and only subsequent to their success might Joe be killed. The sticking point is that you can't intentionally commence that process with killing him being the goal in mind. The only other solution that comes to mind is regenerative mutants who can survive death. Joe may kill them each time they have the thought, but as long as they can come back from that, they can arrange his death in some manner. However, I don't think Joe really has that big of a problem. Most people who know anything about him, especially in the context of other people having died as a result of him, are probably going to conceive of his death pretty quickly and therefore die as a result. If his power extends to the rather anonymous thought of 'I'm going to kill whomever did this', you might find most of humanity dying to a viral outbreak of fatal desire for vengeance fairly quickly. Even if not, Joe's power is likely to make him fairly unknown and, if he has any sense of himself, he will seek out solitude rather than wantonly risking the lives of people around him. 

As an introduction to the subject of world population growth, I recommend this video of Hans Rosling (do not trust the title, it is barely about religion). First, if you trust these data, the number of baby per family tends to stabilize around 2 when child mortality drops and income raise. So it is probable that fixing the maximum at 3 children will mainly be ineffective on the long run. Second, family having more than 3 children are (mostly) both poor and lacking medical assistance. Therefore your system threats to remove subsidies and free healthcare to (mostly) people who already do not have access to them. And that is letting apart the problem of actually implementing the system. 

The way I understand your question is (taking your edit into account) : "How to justify that all aliens evolved independently into human-like creatures, but without justifying it by the fact that evolution of sentient beings must result in human-like creatures ?" Restated that way, the question is contradictory. Therefore there is a false assumption in the question. There is two possibilities : 

However, the most probable reaction of the population is no reaction. If you do a more general parallel with manipulation (by publicity for example), it becomes fairly clear : you can prove that manipulation works, most people are convinced that it works, but still everybody think it will only affect others. Most people will probably just ignore the fact their memories could be altered. It could perhaps change if the educational system heavily adapts to it and starts to teach people that the risk is real and have to be taken in account (other answers are good about how to do it). Or the government will just erase the memory of the possibility of doing it in everybody. 

Due to the laws of physics, my instinct is that the destructive power of weapons will always exceed the defensive potential of armour and other defensive technologies. Therefore the escalation towards bigger, tougher ships is avoided and instead the priority is on nimbleness for evasion over tanking the damage. However, on the flip-side of this is the problem of speed. FTL travel or no, you will likely require a much larger vessel for logistics and viable long-distance travel. More generally, there will always be tasks that favour one property over another, so it's difficult to favour one specific attribute as the one 'future' of space war. It's far more likely to develop a combined arms approach that uses a variety of archetypes. The simplest one would be a combination of carriers/hive ships that provide all the qualities that favour larger sizes, combined with unmanned drones or nano-ships that encapsulate what's desired from smaller vessels. 

As a melee weapon, this actually doesn't really confer much effect. Unlike hot temperatures which can go to the extreme and create almost instant incinerating effects, cooling is a lot harder to do and requires a mixture of prolonged contact and/or a cascade of coolant (e.g. immersing in a stream of liquid nitrogen rather than a pool) to achieve a rapid effect. At best your blades might have a cauterizing effect that may make their wounds less severe. Arrowheads or bullets, on the other hand, if they continued to suck the heat out of their target by simply resting inside them, could be very dangerous indeed. A handwavium splinter-based weapon, even more so. Your rabbits might have more luck turning their cold handwavium to superconductors. Temperatures like that enable fun magnetic manipulation that could lead to giant electromagnets for countering metallic armour (especially in a siege situation), maybe primitive coil guns, or if you want to be fancy, multi-piece blades that are held together with magnetic fields or telescopic spears. 

The most probable outcome may be some free for all wars, followed by a theocratic gerontocracy. When the domination of the Xenquians collapse, the local leaders will want to keep they (limited) power, and probably to extend it. This will most likely results in wars, but this also means that the local governments will mainly remain the same. However it will not last too long before the information that Xenequians now all dies young spreads (economic links means exchanges, also exchanges of informations). So the people will connect the dots : Xenequians die young, but they don't, and it is what make the Xenequian domination end. It must be a divine intervention ! Somebody at some point will have this reasoning, and conclude that the gods are in favour of them, that they are some king of chosen people. Since it is an easy reasoning and that it is seducing, the idea will spread. All local leaders will be united around the idea that they are all part of a chosen group of people gifted with long lives. The religious people will use that belief to pacify the region and extend they powers. The next step follows quickly : they are gifted with long lives, but that also means that they are gifted with old people capable of accumulating experience. Thus older people will gain a new respect, since they are missing to the Xenequians. Even more, as soon as Xenequians lost their old people, they were unable to keep their domination (of course the immediate and massive deaths also count, but it will be easily shadowed). Old people are the key to success, and only us are gifted by the gods with them ! Now all ingredients are there. Religion strengthened, increased respect for the old ones and some efforts to unite the local leaders... well this results likely in some sort of council of the oldest local leaders under the supervision of religion. 

The current structures of power in the more advanced nations of the world are difficult to infiltrate quickly and a lot of the world is indoctrinated into notions like democracy or patriotism that are hard to turn around in even a timeframe of the likes of 25 years. No one person could unite the world through politics and I also doubt an Alexander the Great-type figure could unify and maintain that unification of the world through conquest. Paul's main way to power in the modern world is through corporations. Money talks and Paul is more than capable of starting up businesses and creating profitable ventures in a realm that nobody would question or be able to significantly oppose a rapid rise. Once his organization reaches international levels, he can dictate policy and use his influence to shape things in the direction he feels things need to go. As to the types of business his companies engage in, there's no reason that he can't acquire R&D and work on defense tech (also a good way to get in tight with various states). There's also opportunities to form private military companies that could be prepared to double as a defense force in 25 years. Given Paul is the adept person that he is, there's also no reason that he cannot secretly engage in some of the other activities mentioned by other answers. The right approach is to have many eggs in many baskets, so he shouldn't just start one cult, he should start many. Alien hoaxes would be a great way to galvanize defense spending that can be spent on his companies, while media influence could subtly prepare people for invasion. One of biggest opportunities others seem to have missed, however, is attempting to duplicate himself. If others were to have the same Handwavium experience, we can assume we would be creating instant allies with similar capabilities. Even without the vision, having more people on his level could do more to overcome the resource problem he has as one man. All that said, I don't think Paul's chances are all that good- we already have plenty of olympians and geniuses and excellent thinkers in our time and yet the world is in the state that it is. Paul's new capabilities alone will not be enough to make the difference he desires- when the aliens come, Paul is going to need some luck to turn things around. 

I will try to generalize a bit celtschk answer : To defend against teleporting dragons, the best thing to do is to prevent them from teleporting. To teleport by surprise near your fortress or in your fortress. To teleport a dragon need two things : 

It is not only possible, but easy. You have to realise that standardizing language took a lot of efforts, and was greatly helped by the use of the radio or the television (one language for everyone in a country, more or less). As a very revealing example, when the French revolution occurred, more than 80% of the population of France did not speak French but other dialects, part of them also coming from Latin, as occitan language (sorry my reference is in French, I did not find the information in English). In fact until the ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts (1539) the language, in France for official matters was not even French, but Latin. During middle age the language of the jurists, scientists, philosophers and priests was Latin. So actually a given elite used a language not understandable for the commoners during most middle-age, in Europe. Moreover, a category of the population can create a new dialect in order not to be understand by the others. One example is thieves' cant. It looks like slang is more often used by the commoners, but it proves possible for a given elite which do not want to be understand to develop a new language.