While gym and spinning are good complementary activities to cycling, I would recommend that you also look at adding an element of riding on a real bike (like the dark knight said in his comment). For long distance road riding, there are a number of things you need to practice. In my honest opinion, the two things that need the most practise are: 

One may assume that you're a rider somewhere between 5'9 and 6'1. The best gear ratio for *SPEED will depend on your ability for a) high cadence and b) power in harder gears. Since I'm predominantly a roadie, I'll provide an answer based on road cycling / TT alone. Let me know if this is the incorrect context. Since we are talking about speed, I'll start with the harder gears (big ring in front and the small gear in the back). A lot of bikes ship with compact chainsets (a fairly recent trend have brought back doubles, 52s) which are a 50-34. That means that the big ring will have 50 teeth on it. For every pedal stroke, you will feed 50 gear linkages through your rear cassette. Thus for SPEED, for the fastest riding, you'll want your chain on the smallest gear in the back, which would typically be an 11 (or a 12, but let's assume an 11). So, if you're on the 50, for every pedal stroke you will force 50 chainlinks through an 11 tooth gear, which will turn the wheel times. If it's a typical 700c wheel with 23 road tyres, that's usually around say metres per turn, or metres per pedal stroke. Get that to 100 cadence (100 pedal strokes per minute, and you'll be cruising at over 57kph) ... ; But, unless you're a pro, you'll probably not be able to do that on the flat. Cadence. Cadence simply is the name for the number of pedal strokes you can do per minute. If you are better able to pedal at a high rate than at grinding a difficult gear, then you might get your bike above the same speed mentioned above, by spinning a 50 chainring through a 16 gear at about 147 cadence. I know of track riders who ride fixed gear 48 on 16 and in sprints can get to 180 cadence, which is over 75kph. *SPEED: Assumes the fastest speed you can ride the bike. 

A 1980s Fuji should have an English bottom bracket with a left-hand threaded fixed cup. A few methods I have used to remove very stuck bottom brackets: 

Apparently you are not the first victim of this problem: $URL$ I suggest you should also submit an incident report to the CPSC (assuming you are in the US). Since you were injured you may also want to talk to a personal injury lawyer. RacerMate's website claims they offer an "indestructable build". The manufacturer should provide guidance on the safe use and maintenance of their products. I'm sure they are aware of this type of failure. Update: the currently shipping Computrainer flywheel is apparently made of copper. That sounds like it would be less prone to shatter. 

Shimano rear derailleurs are mostly interchangeable (except for older Dura Ace) since the 6 speed days. With a few exceptions, you can pair any Shimano rear derailleur with any Shimano shifter. The 9 speed XT rear derailleur will work fine with 10 speed shifters. (Edit: Looks like the Dyna-Sys rear derailleur is probably not compatible, but 9 speed should be fine. I have not used Dyna-Sys.) The left/front Shimano shifter is designed for either two chainrings or three, so you just have to pick one or the other. Regarding the brakes, the original Tektro RL520 levers on the Trucker are designed for linear pull, which is nice because it lets you choose from the larger selection of disc brakes designed for mountain bikes. But you can also purchase disc brakes designed for road brake levers, which will work with the STI brake lever without modification. 

So, unless you really really know your abilities very well, and want to fine-tune your bike to be specifically fast for your abilities, I would recommend you look no further than perhaps the simple basic compact (50-34) on a 12-28 cassette. You'll be faster up hills once you build your strength, and you'll hardly ever spin out your hardest gear once you've built your cadence. 

Sitting down in your saddle for a long period of time - 200 to 300 km will see you sitting down anywhere between 8 and 18 hours (depending on ability and terrain). That is a VERY long time in the saddle even for an experienced rider with the best type of shorts / saddle. Nutrition - One does not simply ride for more than 3 hours without a tried and tested nutrition plan! Your body usually stores around 90 minutes worth of glycogen (at Tempo effort). This means that around that time, you should have already eaten and digested food, ready to be burnt up by your muscles. You should top up these reserves as often as possible, so that you do not go into a minus and become hypoglycemic (bonking). I usually eat a bar every hour on the hour, sip carbohydrate drinks every 15 minutes (700ml an hour) and I top up in between with gels. A typical 4 hour bike ride for me burns 3500 calories. Pro-riders easily go through 8000 cals a DAY! 

I have 2 torque wrenches. One that goes up to 20Nm and another that goes from 20-60(ish)Nm. The little one is necessary for most of the things on my bike like my headset bolts and hollowtech crank bolts (around 7Nm and 14 NM from memory) and the big one is mainly for the cassette (40Nm) and bottom bracket (can't remember) and (just quietly) undoing stuck things (it's my longest spanner, so if I can't undo it with that I need to go get some pipe). Unless you're doing super precise stuff with them a lot you'll probably be okay with cheap ones. I got mine when they were on special at Aldi, and probably use them less than once a month, but it's good to have them when you need them. I balked at the cost originally, until I ruined a set of cranks by over-torque-ing the bolts, which cost me quite a bit more than if I'd just got a torque wrench in the first place). 

TRP make road hydraulic brakes at a reasonable price, I'm thinking about a pair of these, with bar-end shifters. 

I'll just add some points no-one's mentioned yet: if you're riding in urban areas your lights are mostly not for seeing with but to be seen by cars and other traffic. So a light that makes you visible is what you need. Generally you want this light to be pointed straight out, parallel to the ground so that it can be seen for as far as possible. 

Which hubs are you thinking about? It would be very hard to make a carbon hub flange strong enough to withstand spoke tension, assuming you are building a wheel with conventional spokes. Most carbon hubs I have seen use aluminum flanges, and the few which offer significant weight savings are ultralight equipment not for general use. Carbon probably won't replace the axle, bearings, freehub, or quick release, either. So you're talking about a few inches of tubing being carbon instead of aluminum, and you're trading the one-piece hub shell for something assembled. The hub is subject to considerable stress from riding so it's not an area where it makes sense to compromise. 

It will work, but you will add considerably more housing and 2-3 more bends in the housing. The additional bends will introduce friction which will affect shifting performance, but it should be usable if the cable and housing are good quality and you avoid damaging the cable during installation. 

Use the Stein Fixed Cup Wrench Clamp (FCC-2) to secure the wrench onto the fixed cup. This will allow you to apply more leverage without the tool slipping off. It also allows you to pound on the tool with a mallet which sometimes helps. Clamp the flats of the fixed cup in a vise and turn the frame. You mentioned keyed rings - if the fixed cup does not have flats on it, you could flatten the sides with a grinder and then stick it in the vise. If there's any chance that thread locking compound was used (probably not likely) then applying heat would help move it.