I would view front suspension as a nice comfort option for your use-case, particularly in cities with speed bumps, potholes etc. Fully rigid frames, particularly aluminum ones which is what you'd likely get in your price range can be pretty unforgiving and while fat tyres help a bit, front suspension makes a bigger difference. Given that you don't plan to do serious off-road riding I wouldn't say that you should avoid front suspension bikes like the plague but you definitely don't need it certainly shouldn't sacrifice other things like proper gear controls to get it (avoid grip-shifters like the plague instead). Don't forget that second hand hard-tail XC mountain bikes are just a tyre swap away from becoming decent hybrids which is what I would recommend for under $500 The best thing to do when trying to choose a new bike is to test ride as many as you can and see which ones you like. 

Rubber rim strip is pretty stretchy stuff--and you want it to fit snugly! Therefore, if buying rubber the diameter of your rim strip is not nearly as important as the width. It should cover all the spoke nipples and/or the large holes drilled for the spokes, and fit well along the rim. That said, your local shop should have some in a size that fits 26" rims best. Alternatively, there are brands of rim strip which are not one continuous piece and are not rubber, but instead are similar to thick tape. It's important to note the thickness--electrical tape may work in a pinch (and after a couple layers) but it's not nearly as resilient. This type of rim strip is basically one-size-fits all and is generally considered higher quality that the rubber type. 

I would say that whether a bike is Unisex (men's) or women's specific it is of fairly little relevance. What matters more is an individual's fit on an individual bike. Tall people need big bikes, short people need smaller bikes, regardless of gender. As it says here: $URL$ A women's bike is built to fit the average woman but a lot people aren't average. The punchline is this: try the bike out before you buy it, if it fits.. it fits! NOTE: The photographed frame is a compact frame so you are expected to have a lot of seat-post exposed. If you have to lower the seat way down below the handlebars to reach the pedals, that's not a good fit. 

I need to move two bicycles from work to home. The route is 5 miles long and car free. My only means of transport is to ride one of the bicycles so my question is this: What is the safest way to get both bikes from work to home in one journey? (without some kind of trailer) The bikes are a Carrera Virtuoso and a Scott Yecora (dropped handlebars) 

Looks pretty typical for a non-WAAS GPS. Height measurement is somewhat erratic for non-WAAS (or WAAS in RAIM failure mode) GPS devices. 

That depends... I usually carry inflaters AND a pump. I've had problems with both. The CO2 cartridges aren't too crazy expensive, but my most recent flat I used 2 of them and still ended up finishing with the pump. It's really easy to blow the CO2 out without getting it in the tire, and if that happens, you'd better have another cartridge to try, or a pump on standby for backup. The inflaters seem like a good idea and worked fine at home, but in practice when stuck on the side of the road, I'm unimpressed. The small handpumps I've also found difficult to work with. They just don't latch on as well as a regular pump. I'm still looking for a good reliable solution (which I need 'cause I get a LOT of flats). 

I think the investment casting of the entire headtube is something particular to BMX bikes. It makes sense, for reasons outlined below. Typical parts of a bicycle which can be investment-cast are: 

When riding long distances, either solo or with groups of people, it is obviously necessary to carry a first-aid kit in case of a crash or other injury. What are the most important items to pack, while still considering weight or space? What items can be included in 'travel-size', and which items should be 'full-size'? What items should definitely be left at home? 

New pads. After a bit of wear (or sandpapering), the squealing will stop. Misalignment. As some others have mentioned, misalignment may cause squealing (although it would be reduced with some wear). Check out Sheldon Brown's tips for alignment suggestions. Oil or water on the rim. Either of these substances, even in small portions, combined with dirt or debris on the rim can create squealing. Wipe the rims thoroughly on the braking surface, as well as the pads, with a dry cloth. Incompatible rims/pads. No one else has mentioned this, but this is often the most common cause. Rims are generally made from one of two materials: steel or alloy. (You can tell the difference by seeing if a magnet will attract (steel) or not (alloy)). Incidentally, brake pads are made of specific compounds to work on one or the other. Often, using pads designed for alloy rims (like most Kool-Stops) will squeal if used on steel (which I'm guessing you have). 

I've not had any luck consistently finding used parts online. For used commuter/entry-level stuff the best source I've found is local garage sales. For used nicer stuff try your local racing clubs. They tend to discard nice stuff, for cheap, on a regular basis as they always need the latest greatest to go the fastest. Surprisingly the local touring bike clubs have not been a great source as those people seem to hold onto stuff forever. :-) 

A common problem. I ran into 180lb weight limits on both wheels AND pedals when putting together my last bike. That seems to be the typical number, so those of us that are bigger than that need to be careful and just expect more frequent failures. Seems like everything bike related is designed for short skinny people. :-) 

You're absolutely right--children's bicycles with training wheels are good for exercise and entertainment, but they do little to nothing for balance. In my experience, the best way to teach anyone--children included--to ride a bicycle is to take the pedals off, lower the seat, and let them scoot & coast around until they develop the proper balance. Then, add the pedals, and let them coast, pedal, etc. For children, there are several popular brand that makes 'run bikes', which are usually made out of wood, and have neither training wheels nor pedals. They are low enough that the child can sit in the saddle and place both feet on the ground, but high enough that they can still propel themselves & lift their feet to coast. These bikes allow the child to quickly and safely develop good bicycle balance. (See $URL$ $URL$ and $URL$ 

Many things on bicycles are consumable and anything that moves or rubs is going to have to be replaced, it's just a matter of when. It's unusual for a cassette to wear out completely within a year although if it's been ridden on a stretched chain or without regular cleaning and lubing it'll wear out much faster. In my experience chains are normally the first things to wear out, presumably because they almost constantly in motion and rubbing against the cogs while you ride plus picking up all kinds of stuff that flies off of the wheels. I normally replace my chains every year regardless of the state that they are in simply because of the low cost of a replacement chain and the relatively high amount of damage that running a worn chain can cause. You can tell if the cassette (or the chainrings) need replacing by checking the teeth. If the teeth looked ramped you should switch out the part. See Image: 

Therefore, if WD-40 isn't doing the trick, get some ammonia, apply it in a similar fashion, and let it sit. It may just be all you need! 

They are formed into a different shape from a cold, pre-formed piece of metal (Stamped, Bulge, Machined/CNC'd), thereby reducing strength, or They have some weak spot (Rolled, Welding/Brazing), thereby reducing strength. 

The easiest way to see why investment casting is preferable is to compare it to the alternative ways the same items can be made: (modified from here) 

Chain noise is not completely avoidable on fixed-gears, due to the stress from chain tension, etc. However, there are many types of chain which would be inappropriate to use and would cause extra noise. Be sure to purchase a 'track' chain (some are produced by Miche, Izumi, and KMC) and expect to pay $20+ for a quality chain. Also, be sure to keep your chain clean and well lubricated! Even on regular bikes, the majority of chain noise comes from a dry chain. 

If the teeth don't look worn but are black with dirt you can clean them with a de-greaser you may find it easier to clean the cassette if you remove it although this requires a cassette removal tool otherwise you can leave it on and clean it with a brush and ordinary dish soap, just rinse afterwards, dry it and remember to lube the inside of the chain again after cleaning it being careful not to overdo it as that will just cause muck and grit to stick to it while riding. Do not use WD-40! To check the wear on your brake pads look at them from the side and check for grooves. New brake pads come with groves which allow water to escape from under them much like the tread on a tyre. If your brake pad has no visible groves on the face that touches the rim, they should be replaced. 

My trainer came with the appropriate front stand. However, I occasionally forget to use it and it really doesn't seem to matter either way. Since I have it, I try to remember to use it, but if I didn't have it, I wouldn't bother to buy one. 

Whatever it is I do I guess. I've never had one break. I don't even worry about stretch. If it's dry, I oil it, but otherwise I leave well enough alone. I don't even bother to clean my chains. 

Large dogs don't seem to be much of a problem, they usually don't seem to care about me when I'm cycling. It's the little yippy dogs that like to chase. They're pretty easy to outrun, so I just go ahead and do that. They tend to give up real quick. Large dogs I've always just slowed down to a walking pace and they've always lost interest at that point. The plan has been to dismount and keep the bike between myself and them to fend them off while hopefully waiting for an owner to appear. The plan of last resort is my handgun. Unfortunately due to the laws in the area that I cycle, spray strong enough to affect animals (such as bear spray) and tasers are not legal (considered "weapons" of a type that there is no license available to carry them). If you choose to carry anything, be sure to check your local laws, you may be surprised at what's prohibited!