In Astronomia Nova (1609) Johannes Kepler used observations of Mars in order to refute circular orbits. Throughout Astronomia Nova he hardly even mentions other planets than Mars, Earth and the Sun (and the Moon in a different context). Were there any astronomical reasons for him not to continue, or even beginning, his investigation by using data about other planets? Tycho Brahe had collected corresponding data about the other planets too, right? 20 years of data is enough for Saturn to make 2/3 of its period. Jupiter and Saturn have almost twice as frequent oppositions as does Mars. And Mercury has twice the eccentricity and its much shorter period should help getting data about its apsides when it is best seen. 

Did they just put a ruler on the photographic plate? Quite some precision must have been required to discover Neptune from its influence on Uranus for example. 

The Sun will not become a supernova, it will never explode. A star must have about 8 times more mass than the Sun in order to cause a supernova explosion. When it starts to fuse helium, the Sun will become a red giant and expand out to about Earth's orbit and throw out gas to form a beautiful so called planetary nebula. Mercury, Venus and maybe Earth will be inside of its photosphere when it is at the largest. I don't know if they will evaporate completely inside the thin hot gas of the red giant Sun. The remaining planets will keep orbiting the white dwarf remnant, which is not a star (no fusion) but a compact planet sized object. It will shine like a star because of its stored heat. Orbits will change because the Sun will have only 40% of its mass left, the rest having been thrown out to form a nebula, over very long time. Orbits should become larger, and planets maybe will be pushed out a bit by the ejections from the red giant too. Gas planets maybe get their atmospheres a bit stripped off, icy dwarf planets like Ceres and Pluto could melt and evaporate a bit of their mass since the helium burning red giant is hotter than the Sun today. But I'm kind of guessing here, I don't know if those are significant effects. 

BACKGROUND The Breakthrough Initiatives is in the news because of a $100 million private donation for a SETI project. It doesn't seem to be for building any new observatory (but maybe for buying computing power for handling the data for SETI purposes?). It will use two of the greatest radio telescopes in the world, Parks and Green Banks, and optical Automated Planet Finder Telescope at Lick, some part of the time during 10 years. QUESTIONS 

Carbon is the fourth most common element in the universe and in the Solar system. It is about the ninth most common element in Earth's crust. It doesn't seem to be part of any of the ten most common compounds in the Earth's crust. So where is all the carbon hiding? Why isn't it more common in planetary and lunar crusts? Is it maybe mostly occurring in volatiles together with hydrogen and oxygen, and has left bodies which lack atmosphere or freezing temperatures? Is it primarily biological processes which binds carbon to solid molecules? Having a look around on Earth's natural surface today, there's lots of solid carbon compounds everywhere, so the contrast is interesting. 

Earth's center of mass must be at one of the two focus points of a satellite's elliptical orbit, or at the center of a circular orbit such as a geostationary orbit. One cannot orbit a certain latitude, except for the equator. But there are clever alternatives for different purposes. Geosynchronous (as opposed to geostationary) orbits mean that the satellite will always be within sight from the same location on Earth, but it would move around and probably need antennas which continuously aim towards them. Japan is building its own regional GPS-system in this way. There are also semi-synchronous orbits which put the satellite at the same place on the sky at the same time every day. This is used for some Earth observation purposes because the shadows on the ground remain the same for the same location on Earth everytime an image is taken. 

I asked a question here about returning to Earth a physical memory capsule along with soil samples, as a complement to radio operations as today. This might return a much larger amount of data compared with radio today, but of course only at the end of the mission. How useful would it be for a sample return mission like Mars2020 or Hayabusa2, to be able to return much more data? Would the choice of instruments change to allow for higher sampling rates, higher resolution, more filters et cetera? Is Big Data science instruments from an interplanetary mission even a possibility, or is today's bandwidth good enough for any conceivable payload? 

In Mysterium Cosmographicum (1596) Johannes Kepler proposed that the relative distances between the orbits of the six ancient planets (six because heliocentrism had recently added Earth as one of the planet) correspond to the geometry of the five Platonic solids. Each planetary orbit was assumed to be the grand circle of a sphere. Each Platonic solid would circumscribe an inner planet's orbitally defined sphere, and in same position inscribe the next outer planet's "orbital sphere". 

Sirius B is a massive white dwarf of 1 Solar mass, orbiting at about 25 AU distance from the 2 Solar mass Sirius A. As it evolves and expands, will the A star start shedding matter to the white dwarf, and when will this start happening? Will the Sun be at a safe distance when/if it does happen, or is Sirius our doom? 

While such locations might be habitable to some (of Earth's) lifeforms, for life to actually exist there it must also be an originable location for life (or somehow had life transported to it). The origin of life on Earth is a big unknown. For sure, Earth was a very different place when it happened and it could've happened underground. 

Space is really very empty and large. The Earth moves one radius in orbit every 3½ minutes. There are half a million minutes per year. So a pretty tiny push is enough to make the difference between a hit and a miss, given that there are a few years' warning and prompt action. 

Some cartoon simulations (an example) of an object (assume here a large moon with Earth-like density) which crosses the Roche limit of a much more massive giant planet, illustrate a circle suddenly disintegrating and forming a ring. But such a process occurs gradually over geological time scales. I doubt that there would be a single bad day when the whole moon disintegrates (as in -Oh, there Mt. Everest broke off and flew away!) Wouldn't the tidal tugging cause volcanism and gradually melt the moon as its (somewhat eccentric) orbit spirals inwards across the limit during millions of years? How would the melting moon deform? Would it really assume an oval shape, elongated towards the primary planet? Since the near side wants to orbit faster than the far side, wouldn't that cause the moon to spin at an accelerated rate, even if it initially was tidally locked? Would the melting, deforming and spinning save it from disintegrating further to within the Roche limit? Some examples of Roche limit crossings I know of: 

1) Could a starshade in orbit be used by ground based telescopes? If so, what kind of orbit should it have? 2) Could the same starshade be used by two different space telescopes, or does the positioning make it impractical? 

Neptune was discovered 170 years ago with the help of observations of Uranus' orbit. A great demonstration of the scientific principle for its time. Recently, Earth and cis-Lunar based radio interferometry together with the Cassini orbiter have measured Saturn's orbit, 10 AU from the Sun, with very great precision. This has already helped determine some characteristics of a possible planet Nein 200-700 AU from here. What would be the best way to gravitationally measure the yet unobserved mass concentrations in the Kuiper Belt and beyond, by observing orbits of objects among the known planets? It takes alot to move Saturn to a measurable degree. What about a space probe with the sole purpose of being easy to locate at high precision, maybe in a highly inclined orbit? Or a family of them in different directions. Would its deplacement from the very weak gravity well of a planet Nine be detectable? If it is the history of Saturn that contributes crucially to the precision, what about an asteroid like Ceres which is known since 200+ years? Is there any special property of Saturn that makes it especially useful? Would a second object as well measured as Saturn be extra helpful by some kind of triangulation of distant gravitational influences? 

As my username indicates, I'm eager to point out that we are currently inside the "local fluff", which is "stuff" which has been ejected long ago by some disturbingly active young stars in that evil Scorpius-Centaurus association through the local bubble. The waves of their stellar winds just happen to pass us by in our current million year era. However, our Sun does circle the entire Milky Way every 250 000 000 years. Dinosaurs appeared about one galactic orbit ago, but died out a quarter of an orbit ago. Earth has had quite advanced life during at least one galactic orbit. That's why I argue that there is little dependence of a solar systems habitability on its orbital position in a galactic scale. (Or that life on Earth has been incredibly lucky, and finally someone will, right? So what do we know from observing no one but ourself?) 

Most apparent stars have ancient names. But some of the newer (since 200 or so years) discoveries have been given the name of some prominent astronomer. Kapteyn's star is one example, and there are several more in that Wikipedia article. Edward Barnard et cetera. But there aren't too many, are there? It seems hard to get ones name attached to a star, or am I missing a bunch? 

The diagram below, which I stole from this post by @HDE226868, shows that angular resolution as a function of wavelength suddenly drops by three orders of magnitudes from visible to UV-light. The resolution of wavelengths shorter than what the Very Large Telescope Interferometer or the European Extremely Large Telescope detect, in the near UV, suddenly cuts off to a factor of a thousand. This is obviously because of the properties of Earth's atmosphere. But major space telescopes like the JWST and WFIRST will fill in the far infrared gap. Why aren't there any as ambitious space telescopes planned for UV and shorter wavelengths? (Or is the sudden cut off in that diagram misleading?) Is it because it is more difficult, even from in-space observatories, or is it because the angular resolution of UV and shorter wavelengths are of lesser scientific value? 

I had a chat with a European PhD student who plans to make an attempt to find Oort cloud objects in data from the Gaia space telescope. This could be possible thanks to microlensing events when an Oort object transits (near) a background star and relativistically magnifies the star's light for a moment. Best case is that in a few years we will have a map of a statistically useful number of Oort cloud objects. Enough to claim that we have "seen" it. 

How much mass per unit volume do known dark matter have, for instance in the Bullet Cluster? Does the density vary in space, for example, do individual dark matter structures have denser cores? 

One must consider the mass of the object being orbited. Kepler's third law is true for all planets orbiting the Sun, and for all moons orbiting Jupiter, but not across different gravity wells. This was not understood until Newton, and must've posed an interesting problem (I've never thought of before) already in Kepler's time since the orbital periods and relative distances of the four Galilean moons were known then. And of course the orbit and relative distance of Earth's own moon. Maybe it was even a key inspiration for Newton's thinking about gravity?