The example you've given is anecdotal evidence: "evidence collected in a casual or informal manner and relying heavily or entirely on personal testimony." To put it in terms of a fallacy, Wikipedia has said this is the cherry-picking fallacy or the fallacy of incomplete evidence, also correctly equating it to confirmation bias. As you've identified, people use one or two personal examples to counter the general rule. They might be standing in the middle of an un-ripe cherry orchard, but they've found one ripe cherry. So if you say that the cherries aren't ripe, they'll say "what do you mean? Look at this cherry here!" In other words, they've falsely claimed that your rule is either entirely right or entirely wrong; there is no middle ground. So when they see one data point that runs contrary to the general rule, they disregard the rule, not the outlier. 

Edited to add, as a preface: I think that I identified what you meant by "complexity" in this case, but it is worth noting that it is perhaps too broad a term without further qualification. I hope that Michael Dorfman doesn't mind me quoting him from the comments (with some added formatting): 

In each case, the discreteness which we find to be "emerging", may only be emerging because of discreteness which is present at another lower level. Simple continuous mathematical objects, such as the real number line or an exponential curve, don't betray any particular sign of discreteness at all; although our only tools to describe the concept of the real line is through discrete symbols — and by demonstrating its failure to conform to any naive model of discreteness. Discreteness and continuousness as heuristic concepts Perhaps your remark 

Freud's "Thoughts for the Times on War and Death" might be a relevant read - it's fairly short and deals with contemporary political struggles. Freud saw psychoanalysis as a way to improve life for individuals, and applied its methods on a societal scale as well, for example in Civilization and Its Discontents. His view of the relationship between politics and desire might be somewhat like the Marquis De Sade's take on the French revolution - how can we become free from oppression if we are imprisoned in ourselves? As for Derrida, all of his work has a political and ethical element, and his life also involved engagement with more immediate political struggles. As for the question of whether he wants to make society a better place, I would say sure, who doesn't? Even Hitler thought he was going to make society a better place. And as we know, many social interventions inspired by Marxism have not been successful, so understanding the relationship between a thinker and politics requires more than attributing good intentions to him or her. The best source for Derrida's political views (that is, his immediate engagement with contemporary political struggles) is Negotiations. He wrote against apartheid and in support of Nelson Mandela, he wrote on behalf of Mumia Abu-Jamal, he organized teachers and others in Paris to oppose the elimination of philosophical education at (their equivalent of) the high school level, taught seminars favoring the abolition of the death penalty, was imprisoned in Czechloslovakia after visiting dissident intellectuals there, and had many other political engagements and views expressed throughout his writings and interviews. Just as important are the political implications of his thought. Given your interest in Marx, Specters of Marx would probably be the best place to start regarding his engagement with political theory. As Derrida said from the beginning of his work, there can be no transcendental signified or master discourse which encompasses all others and gives them stability. Marxism attempts to treat economics as such a transcendental signified, claiming that all history is in essence the history of class struggle, and that all alienation will be eliminated once economic alienation is eliminated. The subsequent history of Marxism belies this claim. For example, in the seventies, groups such as feminists pointed out that their interests and the social changes necessary to eliminate their unique forms of social oppression and alienation were being opposed by the Marxists who said such issues would either take care of themselves after communism was in place or that they were of secondary importance. This is only one example of a form of difference other than economic difference (although intertwined with it - gender is also not absolute or a transcendental signified) which can produce what Marx called alienation. Derrida's intervention in Marxism is to attempt to open the space for these different forms of alienation to speak. He does not think that challenging economic structures is unimportant - but rather that it is not the only form of oppression or alienation we face, and that only relative, not absolute, improvements are possible. Specters of Marx also elaborates a list of projects which he feels would further the goals of Marxism within our vastly changed economic and political world. 

Many non-believers look at these two possibilities, and by Occam's Razor choose the latter. To them, there is no reason God is necessary to solve the issue of a first cause. 

God simply was, requiring no first cause, and created the universe. The universe simply was, requiring no first cause. 

The most compelling argument I've heard in this vein is that the existence of God just adds an extra step. As Jo Wehler has pointed out, claiming God is the first cause raises the question: "What is the cause of the creator god?" The most common response I've heard is that God requires no first cause; that's part of what makes God God. However, this raises another question: if you're willing to accept that there exists something which does not require a first cause, why could that something not just be the universe? In other words, there are two possible ways the universe came to be: 

Language here is Sprache. Heidegger relates this elsewhere in his writing to German versprechen, which means promise, and Anspruch, which means claim. He sees it's Greek root as logos, which he derives from legein, meaning to gather. You might be interested to look at On the Way to Language, especially "A Dialogue on Language" where Heidegger poses a question much like the one you're posing to a Japanese interlocutor, and "The Nature of Language" where the Anspruch of language is explored - the claim which ties the human being to language before any particular language or its individual use. 

Well, there's pure theoretical reason, pure practical reason, and even pure judgment, but it sounds like this is not the thrust of your question. I definitely disagree with the commenter you cited who claimed that God and human beings have the same faculties of reason. Possibly the single most important distinction for Kant is the distinction between intuitus originarius and intuitus derivativus. Only God has an intuitus originarius, a faculty of intuition which is capable of generating the object it intuits. The human being is a fundamentally finite creature and thus has a passive intuition. The object we intuit must already exist, by virtue of some power beyond us (as a thing-in-itself) in order for us to be able to receive or intuit it. Kant calls God’s faculty an intellectual intuition, because like our intellect it is spontaneous and discursive. We are capable of taking two concepts and combining them in thought spontaneously, but not so in intuition (keeping in mind that imagination is a separate faculty). As I said, this distinction underlies everything essential to Kantian thought. Because of the finitude of our faculties, we are incapable of immediate intuition of the thing-in-itself. Thus all the questions posed by metaphysics cannot be answered by our pure theoretical reason, and rather represent the confusions of a finite mind grappling with the idea of infinity. The impossibility of answering these basic metaphysical questions, including the question of the existence of God, is the theme of the Critique of Pure Reason. Because our reason does have immediate access to the moral law, and is capable of spontaneously affecting itself in this domain, practical reason is our only access to ourselves as a thing-in-itself, which forms the theme of the second critique. This point is also essential to the distinction between Kantian thought and the German Idealism of Fichte, Schelling, and Hegel. Fichte says that every self-consciousness is infinite and an intellectual intuition by virtue of the fact that the ‘I think’ creates itself by thinking of itself. Thus, like God, we create our own self-consciousness by thinking of it. This infinitude is the fundamental break with Kant, though these thinkers claim to be carrying on aspects of his work. Here is a relevant quotation from the first critique: 

I know that utilitarianism does not take time into account when determining which course of action provides the most utility. Going to a classic utilitarian example, if I kill one person now to save 10 people a year from now, that's no different from killing one person now to save 10 people now (in a vacuum, of course). However, I'm having some trouble making sense of that. Specifically, I don't understand a temporary condition would affect utility. For example, lets say I get a cut. It's not debilitating and it doesn't have any lasting effects, but it hurt like hell to get. In a week or two the cut heals. There's no scar, no effects; it's like the cut never happened. In other words, from that point in time onward, there is no difference in my utility for having been cut. Does utilitarianism really weigh these outcomes (being cut or not) as equal? It seems pretty obvious to me that being hurt would be treated as a negative, so I assume I either understand wrong, or utilitarianism simply isn't the correct tool for this example. 

Suppose the predictor actually has the described power, and you both believe it does and trust that it will provide the $1M if you intend to take the contents of only the one box. Then, if only for selfish reasons, you'd be a fool to plan to take the second box. And after the reveal, it doesn't matter that you could then grab the second box as well: by hypothesis, you are in that circumstance because of a prediction, assumed accurate, that you won't choose to. If the predictor actually has the described power, but you either don't believe it does or don't trust it to provide the $1M, you will be receptive to taking both boxes. The predictor, knowing this (by hypothesis) and also knowing whether you would choose to take the second box given the opportunity, will leave the opaque box empty if so. It would in effect be producing a self-fulfilling prophecy, but only because it knows enough about your intentions to do so, and because it has for some reason resolved only to give you $1M under specific circumstances. 

If you wanted to approach this question as a pure Heideggerian, it would be a matter of deciding whether a new epoch of being has overtaken us, determined by some change in our relationship to technology, or whether we are still immersed in the same epoch described by Heidegger. He describes modern technology as completely determining the possibilities of Dasein, so that we see ourselves as set forth by technology, rather than vice versa. If you understand us as continuing within this epoch, then the possibility of salvation (so to speak) still remains in recognizing the essence of technology. If you prefer the theory that our technology has opened a new epoch, then you could take these reflections in any number of directions. I believe that Bernard Stiegler has developed a philosophical project along these lines - you might take a look at Technics and Time, 1: The Fault of Epimetheus. My own preference is for Derrida's response to this direction (or Weg) of thinking. Derrida questions the possibility of distinguishing authentic from inauthentic thinking, and thus deconstructs the oppositions between animal or technological existence and that of Dasein as they are developed by Heidegger. You can take a look at Derrida's Of Spirit: Heidegger and the Question or "The Pit and the Pyramid: Introduction to Hegel's Semiology" (In Margins - of Philosophy for more on how the deconstruction of authenticity and inauthenticity leads to a questioning of the distinction between Dasein and mechanical thinking. One way to think about how deconstruction can change our thinking about our relationship to technology is to consider what it is that we are trying to get away from when we try with Heidegger to disclose a thinking that is not technological. Derrida would argue that the possibility for technology, which is the possibility for any sort of prosthesis that extends or alters our "natural" capacities - of voice, reach, or physical power, for example, is not something that comes along after the fact to affect a subject who is completely self-contained and authentic, but rather an extension of the difference-from-self that is already present in all of our self-relations, including thought. This or that technology may change our relation-to-self, but never in the essential way that would transform a self-present (authentic) subject into an absent-from-self or inauthentic one. Of course, according to Heidegger we are always falling away from authenticity, and requiring an effort to arrive back at an authentic relation to our own possibilities for being. But I would like to question the extent to which "technology" is a force preventing our return to authenticity. It may be that there is still something technological, technical, something of technique that is still a part of even the most "authentic" thinking. The developments of mechanical and computer processes that increasingly resemble human thought should also lead us to pose the question whether or not authenticity and/or inauthenticity are possible for machines, that is, for technology unto itself. 

Is Q ⊃ P equivalent to P ⊃ Q, or does it allow you to infer P ⊃ Q ? The short answer is that they are not equivalent, and neither one allows you to infer the other. There are two easy ways to see this. is a constraint on when P can be true, while Q ⊃ P is a constraint on when Q can be true. In general, these are not comparable constraints; neither one allows you to infer the other. We can make reference to the truth-tables for each, using the table we've already computed for P ⊃ Q to find out the values for each row in Q ⊃ P: 

which is not a terribly convenient way to express the same thing, but it is still equivalent so long as we list all Scots, and no person (or thing) which is not a Scot. The ∀ symbol is more powerful in this way — it allows us to express a notion