You've stalled them. You never say how long you intend to think, and you don't promise you will actively get back to them to continue the conversation. Flat intonation means the pitch (frequency) of the sound you make should change as little as possible through out the sentence. My second approach. Say what you are currently doing, addressing as much yourself as them. Your tone shouldn't indicate you are responding to their question, you are simply friendly communicating your own actions. 

It makes other employees scared to resign and shows that company doesn't trust their morality. It is also a bad idea, culturally. Coming from Europe I'd say that you can do this differently, we do this differently, and all the terrible risks and obvious reasons enumerated in existing answers don't apply. This is because they only exist in your brains and not your world. They are errors in your judgement. A company in financial sector. Some employees of IT dept resigned trough the history, who could technically: steal credit card numbers, introduce back doors, install subtle bombs that would fire in future. And who could with just a little bit of thinking devise how to do it anonymously (I said it already: IT). They worked 3 full months after resignation. They didn't particularly like to work these 3 months and stated it plainly, but they were legally obliged to do so. They didn't even like the company. The company could have legally walked them out on day 0, but the decision was to keep them. The bad stuff never happened. And they fixed some stuff during the time, cleaned some of 'their' mess, did some knowledge transfer. It was more than one occasion. Go figure. Employees actually have some morality. They don't go around harming others just because they see no immediate penalty. I think that after 3 months if they found on a sidewalk a wallet of their CEO, they would return it. Their managers trust in that morality. And the upper manager knows that they can trust the lower manager's judgement. The owners know they can trust the upper management. A magical chain of trust. It's bad I believe that other answers, maybe because of the immersion, didn't see what is obvious to me. If you (a person) hire yourself a janitor, and interact with him for years, and as he says he would like to resign the next minute you send guards to escort him? Really...? Because your stuff is so precious? Unacceptable risk, huge liability? A minute before it was acceptable, now it's not? Nevermind how long is the list of your stated reasons and justifications, the action brings a clear message about the employer. It shows how employer treats others, how much trust they have with morality, what you could expect of employer's own morality. (Update) Cause If you see a company that experiences this, and want to find the cause you ask a simple question: "what needs to change before this company can keep employees after resignation?" If you address all the stated reasons one by one, and somehow magically exclude them all (the risk that an employee would reduce staff morale, poach customers, sabotage, etc) I won't expect the situation to change. I expect they would still have been escorted out and I expect the enumeration of reasons would get new entries. So these are not actual cause: they don't influence reality. If you re-create the trust in human morality, I expect things to change. This is because you nailed the true cause, not just a stated reason. Now, how it is repaired, is there a recipe to change a mistrusting company, I honestly don't know. 

They don't really mind the answer, they want you to imagine working there. As you answer those questions, the more you will identify working in this environement. So, yes, answer you avaibility, there is nothing dishonnest about it, but don't be fooled about the intent. 

I don't think any choice you would make would ruin your chance with this company, but it might impact your relationships with recruiters in the future. In general it reflects badly on your reputation. 

Obviously, don't mention what she said and that you disagree with her. Don't try to prove her wrong, show her the positives and the will to progress. It's sometimes too easy to see the problems and not the good things. Good luck! 

I think you are overlooking something. You think they are asking you this because they will make a better offer, etc. I don't think so. Asking questions like this is a way to put you in the shoes of the guy accepting the offer (before even seeing it, it's brilliant!). 

following the contact with the recruiter, you contact a friend you know to meet about the position: you should go with the recruiter. You were supposed to meet this friend before hand for other reasons. But since you get the information of an opportunity, you bring on the topic to your friend: you should go with the recruiter. You were suppose to meet this friend before hand for other reasons. Then you received the offer from the recruiter; but you don't mention it to your friend: He brings the topic on: it's a grey aera, could go either way. 

If you focus the conversation to the next sale instead of the previous (litigious) sale, the discussion will be more open and you may get your way without making an ennemy in the process. Best case scenario, the situation is clarified and you get your monney back. Worst case scenario, you don't sell this item in the future and try to stay away from this manager's path. In general, as a new member of the community, it's better to ask questions than make affirmations. 

The Impostor syndrome is quite common in Junior Developers. Sometimes, what is needed is some ego boost. Does he know you think:"He is technically very knowledgeable and skilled"? In order for talented devs to blossom, they need a safe environement and some validations. Some ideas: 

It might not be a contractual statement, it is still your word. In the future, some reserve could be used in the same situation. 

I wrote a rather long diatribe expanding these points, but it grew so bitter I decided not to share it. The observation which could escape many readers: publicly known salaries give a great power to employees to get more money from the employer. Some say that secret salary negotiations are advantageous to the most powerful employees. Are they? Well, the power of these employees is quite soft: knowledge, skill, experience, relations, performance. Publicly known salaries could lead to the public salary negotiations, which could then lead to collective negotiations (think trade unions). What is the negotiating power of a whole team? Humongous. Just for starters it trivially includes the soft power of the team's top employee (the same knowledge, skill, experience, relations, performance that a top employee could use in secret negotiations). Now combine it with the soft powers of all other team members. Now add the hard power: "we are yet to see if our entire team could continue to work inside this organization". This illustrates how even the top performer can expect some gain, while it's true that the mediocre performer gets relatively more. 

There is no obvious objective "right or wrong" here. Ultimately, any ticketing system aims at turning the unpredictable&unstructured human interaction to resemble a boring machine-to-machine interaction; it shows a staff as a machine, and to the staff the requests also look like a steady factory line. Your manager wants to strengthen this factory line abstraction; you don't. He wants keep the content as close to the (did I mention boring) facts as possible; you don't. In my opinion you're right and he's wrong. Others have their own opinions. What really matters is that you are not a slave. You are free to use your judgement in major things as well as in such minor things. I know I go against the standard Workplace.SE way, but sometimes you don't do as your told and it can harm your career only a tiny little bit. But you need to weigh the risk and try to predict the management response. If you proceed with good-karma-stupid-nice-smile way, your boss could go bonkers and turn this into a horrible ego trip. Another boss would just point the thing out twice more and then say to themselves "what a moron, well, I've seen worse, whatever". Another boss would just find some light punishment (like "so, mister nice guy now always gets tickets from our wonderful top priority customer XYZ") and forget about it altogether. Experienced managers more often than not are used to really serious discipline issues; they just don't let everyone to see it. Your problem is not so serious. I guess it's up to you to risk this tradeoff. 

It seems you do not have a good view on your situation. You have to be more inform to take decision. Try to be gather information by probing: Make a very reasonnable request that has little to no impact on her. It will give you information on what you are dealing with. If you get a direct no, you are in trouble. If she says yes. come back to her some time after, thanking her about this small favour, and ask HER what you could do for her. The idea is to reopen the communication channel little by little. You are only guessing, but if you are correct and she has a grudge, the only way to make it work is to know/understand the problem. In the meantime, be patient. 

It is a difficult situation but things can be done. You cannot overstep your position, so you have to convince your N+1 (your direct boss) and you need to give him the tools to convince his boss. Say, a new directive from the top to the bottom is made in place and force you to log in another webpage everyday to log your time again. You are impacted, as your fellow colleagues, but you feel this is unnecessary because this information can be found on another webpage. I would advice to gather the number of people affected by this decision (roughtly), add up the number per day/week/month/year used up. Maybe investigate quickly around with technical people to know if this information is accessible somewhere, and what would be the cost of this access. 10 000 employes x 10 seconds (time to access the page and log the number) x 52 (weeks in one year) x 5(working days per week) => 903 days used per year 903 x 5 years x 400 (average salary cost /day) = 1 805 555 $ cost to create a tool that do that automatically (multiply by 5 the number given by the technical guy): 300 000 $ Compelling number have a powerful ways with managers! Your boss will have one and a half million reason to go convince his boss. 

Another approached to your problem is to stop focusing so much on the development process. Maybe it's not well implemented, but at the end, your goal should be to satisfy your customer (and it's very hard to change processes in a project). If your requirements change too much, it's because your clients don't know what they want. It might be because of a lack of knowledge, inexperience, etc. It doesn't matter, it also doesn't matter whose fault it is. But they want to improve their business, and you are here to help them. That's why I would recommand to increase your dialog with your customer to UNDERSTAND what they want, why they want it, why they want it the way they asked it. It might be their job, but it will make you an awesome developper if you do that (it's much more fun too!) There is so much cases in which, by being passive, you are actually creating something useless for the client just because he thought of something, formulated in a way for some reason, you understand it in some fashion: TA DA: waste. Talk to they, ask WHY multiple time to understand their need. Once you understand what they need, you will be able to answer your own question/issue while developing and they will be thankful for that!