Why is it angled like that? Does it have a purpose? I lowered my handlebars and with that angle it looks hideous. The stem sticks out over the spacers now. When it was at the top with no spacers below it looked fine. 

Whenever I use my CycleOps magnetic trainer (like the one pictured below) my knees always end up hurting. 

I came across this article that somewhat explains why it is angled. Basically what it does is provide a slight angle without having to use a stem that is adjustable. What it fails to mention is that you can't place spacer rings above the stem meaning your handlebars must be at the top of steerer tube. Too add to all of that nonsense you have to use a top cap that has a hole that is off center to accommodate the angle. It seems really stupid to me but if those extra few degrees of angle are what you need to dial in your fit then I suppose having an angled shim would be useful. 

You can but there are a couple things you will have to do first. Like @FreeMan was saying, to do it properly you would need to thoroughly clean and I would also use a degreaser before you paint it. Something you could try before using the clear coat would and adhesion promoter like this. Even after doing all of that, there is no telling how well it will work and/or how long it will last. Without a proper paint booth or ideal conditions it can be really easy to screw up a paint job. If there is any underlying rust that hasn't presented itself, it will eventually even with a new coat. Your best bet if you really want to do a proper job, is to sand, prime, paint again, and then use a clear coat. If you want preserve the paint then you may be out of luck. If you want to simply restore/reuse the frame then I would just go back and do a proper job. It all depends on if it's worth the time, money, and energy to you. 

Sheldon Brown has a page about adding a second set of handlebars above your first set. It looks terrible: 

You shouldn't experience pain on a well-fit bike. If you are finding that you have a lot of pain while cycling, you probably have one of two problems: 

You'll be able to get a surprising amount of this out with a bit of steel wool on the end of a rod (how you'll attach it may require some ingenuity). Afterwards try to clean it out with a rag. 

Thoroughly clean the chain with some degreaser. Let it dry off. If the new lube comes into contact with degreaser, they won't be happy with one another, and the lubrication will not be as good. Apply one drop of chain lube to each bushing on your chain. Apply these on the bottom run of the chain, below the chain stay. Gravity and the centrifugal force in step four will help to work the lube into where it needs to be. Let the bike sit for a minute, then spin the pedals for 2 or three minutes. Be careful while spinning the pedals, especially on single-speed drive chains there is a real risk of injury from getting a finger stuck between the chain and the chainring. Clean as much lubricant off the chain as you can. It only needs to be inside the bushings. Any left on the outside of the chain will pick up debris and increase wear. 

It probably means that the pedal was never installed correctly: either it was not tightened enough or it was cross-threaded. It's actually not that hard to install a pedal incorrectly. If you miss perfectly aligning the threads, it's called cross threading. It's possible to cross thread the pedals and still have them feel like the pedal look like it is installed properly. However, if you look closely, you'd see that the pedal isn't perfectly perpendicular to the crank. When you pedal, you'll feel a pop as the pedal goes around when your foot crests and the pedal (due to not being parallel to the crank) has to change orientation. Over time movements of the pedal relative to the crank will slowly strip out the threads on the crank, on the pedal, or both. I could speculate that your raleigh may have been purchased at a department store, and that it wasn't assembled by a professional. They didn't install the pedal correctly. 

From what I was told, steel frames show their degradation with rust while aluminium alloy may not show any signs at all even though it is still degrading. How can you tell if an aluminum alloy frame is starting to degrade before catastrophic failure? How long can I expect an aluminum alloy frame to last? 

If I understand your question correctly, what you could do is add a thin piece of rubber underneath the rail clamp before you tighten it down. That should have the same effect as using a rubberband to help remove a stripped screw. The rubber will fill between the cracks that have been worn down, previously causing your saddle to slide back. It's worth a shot considering it will cost you nothing or next to nothing. 

I learned for the first time that aluminum alloy frames are said to have a "life expectancy". This is the bike in question, my 2007 Felt Z80. It has an aluminum alloy frame. I really like it and don't want to buy another road bike for a while. But it is almost 10 years old. My specific frame is a 7005 series alloy. 

From the images they all look the same. Furthermore, what is the difference between mountain bike specific cables and road bike specific cables? 

I have jokingly talked about using Rain-X on my glasses, but now it's starting to seem like a good idea. Is there a way to keep this from happening or at least to a minimum? 

In my experience the best way to fix/prevent that issue is before you install the pedals make sure to apply a water proof grease like this to the threads. 

It costs about 3 dollars and will ensure that the threads will be less likely to cross thread and most importantly the pedals won't seize or stick to the crank arm the next time you change out the pedals. If the damage is already done you can buy a 9/16" 20 tpi die to re-thread the pedal like in the image below and a 9/16" 20 tpi tap to re-thread the crank arm. 

7 speed systems use slightly wider chains, and the teeth on the chainring are slightly wider too. You might run into an issue with a ten speed chain not fitting over the teeth, or at least not fitting well. 

I was making a left hand turn the other day when a u-turning vehicle t-boned me. I somehow managed to land on my feet, but the bike didn't fare as well. It landed on the drive side. My back wheel was tacoed, and the driver bought me a replacement. 

It's best to have chain, shifters that match your cassette, both in terms of number of speeds and make (and to a lesser extent model). In a non-matching configuration, your chain will try to sit slightly between gears in certain settings, which is actually rather annoying. Having said that, what you propose will work for locomotion, and depending on how much annoyance you're cool with bearing in a given day it may work well enough for your desires. I tell you these things as someone who has piecemeal upgraged from 7 to 9 speeds; it isn't an ideal solution. 

Frame has worse than just surface rust: i.e. extensive pitting and / or holes. Seized parts, especially if they need replacing. Sometimes a seized seatpost isn't so bad, as long as the bike is sold along with that information. However if the bottom bracket needs service and can't be removed, the frame is scrap. The same goes for quill stems that can't be removed, locking the fork into the frame. Damaged threads. If it's not possible to rethread an interface that has been wrecked (e.g. cross threaded), scrap the frame. Bent or cracked tubing. The odd dent is fine, but if a bike has obviously been bent in an accident I scrap the frame. Same goes for tubes with any cracks in them, even if it's fixable. Obviously any carbon frame with cracks is worthless. 

Acera is on the lower end of Shimano's line of components for hybrids and other bikes that aren't going to see an exceptional amount of stress. They fit that bill relatively well, but being built mainly of plastic they do have a tendency to wear out over time. Having said that, it's probably the best deal you're going to get in terms of usefulness and longevity per dollar. 

I'm relatively new to cycling so this question may be obvious to some of you. When I get into certain gears my chain or drive train makes a noise that I can only to compare to the noise a rollercoaster makes when it starts going up the first hill. (That analogy will either make perfect sense to you or you won't get it at all) It happens specifically when I get into higher gears on the rear rear cassette. What could be causing it to make this ungodly noise? 

Today in the middle of my ride it started raining and I could barely see due to the amount of rain on my glasses. This is basically what I could see 

This is probably a stupid question and the answer is more or less subjective, but when should you join a team or club? I've just started to take road cycling seriously and noticed on my rides there are many teams/clubs out riding where I live. Is there normally a criteria for joining? Right now I go on 30 mile rides and average around 13-14mph. That's somewhat pushing my limits. How far and fast should I be able to go to keep up with and consider joining one of these teams? I will have to wait around 30 years to join the 50 and over club, but truth be told I probably couldn't keep up with them anyway lol. They are no joke where I live. 

Did I just happen to get a weird size? Are there standard sizes for different types of bikes? What would be the best way to figure out what size I actually need? (All of this is assuming you don't have the old brakes to measure) 

Thanks to @R.Chung I was able to do some research and figure out what my problem might be. This article, Climbing vs time-trialling: same effort, different power output, explains in great detail the differences in inertial load. To sum it up in relation to my problem: When on the road where the elevation changes often I use slow twitch muscles and exert force longer during the pedal stroke and occasionally fast twitch muscles for stretches of flat ground. On the trainer I use fast twitch muscles a lot more, because I only exert force for a very short period of time on only a small portion of my pedal stroke. The muscles in my legs/knees are not used to having to fire that rapidly for such a sustained and extended period of time which is what I believe is causing me pain. 

Don't ride that. Aluminum will randomly snap at the best of times, and a fold-looking bend like yours only makes it worse. 

Jockey wheels seem like the most pointless thing to upgrade on a bike. I can see swapping out the usual grey ceramic jockey wheels for an anodized alloy one to match the look of the rest of the bike, but I can't see any possible performance related reason to do so. Do they aid in shifting quality at all? I know that dura-ace and ultegra derailleurs use jockey wheels with bearings instead of bushings to improve durability, but they still use ceramics. Is there any benefit of using the alloy jockey wheels? 

You can see that the 11 tooth cog is only really useful for cruising speeds that riders at the professional level can maintain, or for short bursts. So, like I said, if you aren't trying to break your own max speed record, you may be better off with a 12 tooth cog. (Tables screen captured from bikecalc.com. Check it out.) I remember reading a while back about how most riders can't maintain a high enough wattage output to make an 11 tooth cog worthwhile, but I couldn't turn it up. Maybe another contributor will post it. 

Crank arms snap all the time. Odds are pretty good that it was an older crank and the fatigue in the metal built up enough that it was no longer structurally sound. Metals are a lot like crystals on the atomic scale, but when you repeatedly put a load on them tiny cracks begin to form and grow, until the metal is warn out and cracks. Fatigued metal is also more likely to snap when subjected to above average forces, so it makes sense that this happened when you were hammering up a hill. Airlines around the world are required to have their aircraft x-rayed periodically for signs of fatigue. When they see microscopic cracks they replace the part. If it wasn't an old part it's likely that there was a flaw in metal.