Cultivating bodhicitta (both ultimate and relative) is absolutely indispensable on the Mahayana path; and one who has vowed to do so is called a bodhisattva. From my understanding, this vow can be made with as little or as much pomp and circumstance as befits one's mind - the key is to inspire confidence and commitment. Check out Shantideva's 'Way of the Bodhisattva' for a truly awesome and beautiful way to undertake this path. Also see Patrul Rinpoche's 'Words of My Perfect Teacher' and his discussion of the vow of bodicitta starting at p. 220. He says: "True absolute bodhicitta is attained by the power of meditation and does not depend on rituals. To generate relative bodhicitta, however, as beginners we need some procedure to follow, a ritual through which we can take the vow in the presence of a spiritual teacher. We then need to constantly renew that vow, in the same way, over and over again, so that the bodhicitta we have aroused does not decline but becomes more and more powerful." The "presence of a spiritual teacher" can be either physical or visualized, based on the various presentations I've encountered. Based on commitment to bodhichitta, one trains in the precepts of aspiration and application. The final fruit is perfect Buddhahood expressed in perfect wisdom and effortless compassion toward all sentient beings - nothing at all limited or 'private' about it! 

Yes. It's frowned upon generally in Buddhism to practice on your own if suitable teachers are available. Dogen (the Zen founder) stressed the importance of finding and studying with a teacher, so did Ajahn Chah (a teacher in the Theravadan tradition): 

$URL$ If you just want to do intensive meditation I think you would quickly find homelessness (especially homelessness without the support of a sangha) was more of a hindrance than a help. 

Conceptualising puts you one remove away from reality. Buddhism is about being in and harmonising with reality, not a private side-show that's going on in your head. Buddhism is not against thought per se, just thought that increases your sense of separateness from reality. 

Knowing that people in our social circle are not versed in the Dhamma, they seek gratification through the sense spheres (sensuality). For example, most people like to be praised and engage in idly talk. But we know that these things strengthens the kilesas (especially when the topic is about political or social issues). The Buddha said that the Dhamma is the greateast gift. But common social occasions are unfit to talk about the Dhamma (or even anything really meaningful which will lead to a long term benefit). If I don't engage in idly talk with someone, He/she will probably think I'm being cold. But if I do, I will be contributing for the increase of their attachments and unwholesome mental states. So, I wonder if there is a proper way to exercise goodwill and merit towards someone in such situations. Or am I thinking too much and should only intend to keep a heart of goodwill rather than make a active effort to preserve or increase their wellbeing? 

Express this view in your own words; and Carry this view (or not) into how you travel the Eightfold Path? In particular, what are its implications for how you train in ethical discipline and/or concentration? 

I don't think I would claim that 24-minute increments are 'ideal', but they've worked in my experience. Perhaps this is simply because I feel tremendous confidence and respect toward Alan Wallace, and am used to working with 24-minute increments in following his instructions. I encourage you to experiment (perhaps taking the gathika as a working hypothesis) and find out what works for your mindstream in light of your aspirations and the specific forms of meditation you wish to pursue. There are many variables to explore! Finally, here's some interesting food for thought, which I think highlights how the appropriate length of a meditation period corresponds to the condition of one's mind, and requires introspective assessment of one's own meditative experience. Padmasambhava has been quoted as saying: 

Alongside, be virtuous, be generous, pratice metta indiscriminately, cultivate genuine interest for the welfare of all beings. Goodwill (metta) is the healthiest nutrient for the mind because doesn't have drawbacks and support concentration. Enventually, you will learn to be in a agreeable mood without relaying in external circumstances and then concentration will happen naturally. 

Remember that this is meditation as well and has to be done repetitively in order to weaken the hindrances. Always use the Four Noble Truths as guidelines to evaluate your current mind state: 

As one's understanding of emptiness and dependent origination deepens, the reasoning that "things appear because they are empty, and are empty because they appear" actually becomes quite compelling and seems quite simple (though profound) when compared to more elaborate analyses such as the "vajra splinters" reasoning (referenced here). 

I am in no position to speak for the Dalai Lama, though personally confident that he will never abandon Bodhichitta. But I think I can partly answer your question even so. Choosing not to be reborn as the Dalai Lama of Tibet says nothing about whether he might choose to reincarnate in some other form and position that is of greater benefit to beings, and in particular better serves the further development of Tibetan politics and culture. In other words, it certainly doesn't follow from HHDL's statement that he has foregone reincarnation altogether. 

'One mind' means reality, the reality which is in front of you now and which you are part of. It manifests in two ways - as the absolute, when you don't concieve in terms of self and others; and the phenomenal, when you do. 

Ultimate reality isn't voidness, it has both the character of voidness and the character of things - in Shitou's terminology 'sameness' and 'difference'. See his poem 'Sandokai': $URL$ 

The tiger is in his home in the mountains (in the Eastern imagination), dropping off body and mind you return to the natural state. 

Right view has a very important role in that unfolding. One's very definition of "Noble" or "wisdom" reflects one's view, and in fact it seems that inquiry into and transformation of view is integral to how and where one travels as a sentient being. As Bhikkhu Bodhi writes in the same book: 

Context First, let me frame my question by establishing a shared understanding of what I mean by "view." Throughout all forms of Buddhism as far as I know, the Four Noble Truths are considered essential Buddhadharma. Included in the 4th Truth is the Eightfold Path, which Bhikkhu Bodhi (in Noble Eightfold Path) describes as follows: 

The monks are suppose to develop concentration as much as possible and concentration demands a life with no preoccupations, if they had to work, it could undermine their proficiency in concentration. Also, they have to keep practicing satipatthana uninterrupted, if they had to work, it could provoke lapses of mindfulness, which would undermine their gain of insight. Not to mention, lay people supporting the sangha is a opportunity to practice generosity and make merit. 

First of all, keep in mind that lay life is not conducive for high proficiency in concentration, so, be patient with yourself. Inability in concentration means that the mind is under influence of counterproductive tendencies rooted in it, which may be: craving for gratification through the six senses (remember that mind is a sense media too), restlessness, worry, ill-will, aversion, resentment, negativity, annoyance, boredom, tiredness, drownsiness, doubt. In summary, whatever mind state which prevent you to be content and satisfied in the the present moment (independent of external circumstances) is a hindrance (and this include your craving for attain concentration as well). The cause for the presence of those hindrances are related to how you live your daily life: Pursing and indulging in those sense experiences which you like or trying to run away or destroy those you dislike. So, first you have to weaken (and eventually extinguish) the unwholesome latent tendencies of the mind. Practice "mindfulness immersed in the body" (see Kaygatasati sutta and Satipatthana sutta) during your daily life. Be always mindful, do not let yourself be carried away in the agreeable aspect of the sense experiences, attend to it as a whole, turn your attention to their drawbacks, see how shallow, brief, unsatisfactory it is and as you crave for these experiences, it causes tension, discontentment and uncertainty ruining your peace of mind. A good simile used by the Buddha to illustrate the pursue of gratification through the sense medias: 

Self-sacrfice for me is doing the washing up in the temple (or anywhere else for that matter) - I'm doing it in service of the dharma, other motives (besides obvious practical ones) are wrong (this is on a good day btw, normally I'm doing it because I'm told to :)). Other types of self-sacrifice often look to me like acts of extreme defiance coming from anger and ego, but I think it's a matter of choice ultimately. 

They're two wrong views which the Buddha wishes to quash. Sometimes they're referred to as 'extremes', but I think the problem is simply that they're concepts which jump into our minds from time to time and usurp the reality lying before us.