When I attempt, as a non-Christian, to evaluate the historicity of various historical claims in the New Testament, I come across various things that come across to me as obvious falsifications and propaganda. Examples: 

How viable is this as a reading of the history? My impression would be something like the following. Gaddafi was a nasty dictator in the mold of Saddam Hussein, who used ruthless force to keep the lid on internal divisions in his country, whose borders had presumably been drawn arbitrarily by Europeans. He was a pragmatic socialist, and Libya had good economic development by African standards. Gaddafi's government carried out terrorist attacks in 1986 and 1988, the former resulting in US air strikes that attempted to kill him and that did kill about 15-30 civilians. Libya had a nuclear program, which it gave up in the early 2000s. A civil war broke out during the Arab Spring period, in 2011. Within a month, the US came in with airstrikes to aid the rebels, with token participation from France and a fig leaf of legitimacy from the UN Security Council and NATO. (Had Libya not given up its WMDs, they might not have been able to do this.) The rebels won, and Gaddafi was killed in a ditch. Libya is now undergoing a period of warlordism involving sectarianism and tribalism. I'm wondering if, as implied by Patel, I'm just not knowledgeable enough to judge the facts, or whether I have biases I don't realize. How viable is her reading of the history? It seems to me that Gaddafi was a demonstrably dangerous and threatening figure, and that if Libya has been destroyed, a lot of the blame is to be laid at the feet of Libyans themselves -- they started the revolution in 2011, and they continued it on their own terms, even if US intervention did tip the scales so that they won. 

In the 1980s there was a movement to use boycotts, divestment, and sanctions (BDS) to apply pressure on the apartheid regime in South Africa. These efforts included sports boycotts, refusal of some countries to allow direct airplane flights to and from South Africa, and divestment of universities' pension portfolios from corporations doing business in South Africa. Does the historical evidence allow us to say anything objective about how effective a contribution BDS made to the end of apartheid? Can it be quantified in economic terms, or was it more a question of psychological pressure? Can we tell from historical records whether, for example, the masters of the apartheid system saw BDS as a source of concern? 

Latitude To find the latitude of a point on the land, one would simply have to measure the elevation of Polaris above the horizon. Therefore the question of the precision of (land-based) latitude determinations in this period reduces to the question of how accurately people could measure angles in the sky. The Almagest was the state of the art during this time, and its angular measurements seem to have been precise to about 15-30 minutes of arc.[Goldstein 1976] Longitude Since there were no accurate clocks until Galileo, and no sea-transportable accurate clocks until much later, the determination of a longitude in the ancient world would have been equivalent to estimating an east-west distance (using surveying chains, estimates of sailing speeds, ...) and dividing by the size of the earth. Columbus appears to have underestimated the size of the earth by about a factor of 2, leading to his belief that he could reach China and Japan by sailing across the Atlantic. So even as late as the Italian renaissance, the conversion factor between longitude and distance appears to have been uncertain by about a factor of 2. This is very roughly comparable to the precision of the ancient estimate of the radius of the earth by Eratosthenes, i.e., there was not much improvement over 1700 years. Goldstein, Journal for the History of Astronomy, 7 (1976) 54, $URL$ 

Is it really valid to say that Protestantism made the church subservient to the state? Doesn't Luther's doctrine of the two kingdoms sound a lot like separation of church and state rather than subservience? Is this just a back-handed slap at Henry VIII, as opposed to a realistic appraisal of the Reformation in general? 

There is a lot of controversy in the US about how this should be interpreted. What was the historical context? 

If you're looking for the reasons the US fought in Vietnam, I think LBJ is too late. Kennedy in 1963: "We don't have a prayer of staying in Vietnam. These people hate us. They are going to throw our asses out of there at any point. But I can't give up a piece of territory like that to the communists and then get the people to reelect me." There is a great deal more material of this type in the Pentagon Papers. It seems fairly straightforward to me, and I don't think there's any need to invoke a shadowy role for the military-industrial complex. The war was fought for very clear political reasons. In WWII, the US made an alliance of convenience with the USSR. After the war, there was an almost instant pivot to anticommunism and the cold war. 1949, who lost China? The Hungarian uprising of 1956. Alger Hiss, McCarthy and Nixon. Domino theory. World politics viewed through the lens of WW II, with a focus on the need to stand up against tyrants. Given all of this well-established history of the overwhelming political impetus behind the cold war, it seems hard to imagine how Kennedy could not have committed the US to a fateful entanglement in Vietnam. Although the military-industrial complex did end up involved in a huge amount of economic activity in supporting the Vietnam war, that came much later. There was nothing like that going on as early as 1963. 

Swing music and swing dancing peaked in popularity around World War II. The war made it difficult to assemble a big band, and there were musicians' strikes in 1942 and 1948. A lot of jazz also started to become less danceable; this started with bebop and continued with Coltrane and West Coast Jazz. Starting around 1955, rock and roll started to be heard on the radio and attract white listeners. On this 1956 TV clip, you can see Bill Haley performing his big hit "Rock Around the Clock," with an interracial (?) group of dancers doing what mostly looks like swing dancing. The dance craze of 1958 was the stroll, which you can see self-conscious white teenagers doing here. Here is a clip from American Bandstand, also from 1958, of young white people in suits and skirts dancing to "At the Hop." Up until this point, everything looks like a pretty recognizable evolution of European-American pair and line dances, but being done to African-American music. It seems like the big change happened in 1960-62 with the twist, which was a dance craze started by a Chubby Checker song. It's the first thing I see in these old films that looks like a distinctively African-American dance that's broken free of the conventions of European ballroom dancing. Dwight Eisenhower evidently agreed that this was a radical change: 

There is a paper on the radiation stuff that you can find online (in English): M. Mine et al., "Mortality of A-bomb Survivors in Nagasaki and Hiroshima." 

The principle of inertia Galileo was an early and prominent advocate of the principle of inertia -- roughly stated, that things naturally keep moving rather than naturally slowing down. In his 1624 reply to Ingoli, he described a specific experiment, which he claimed to have carried out, in which a rock was dropped from the mast of a moving ship, and struck at the base of the mast rather than behind it. (In writings from this era, it's sometimes hard to tell what's a thought experiment and what's a real experiment.) His views on inertia were tied up with his advocacy of Copernicanism, which in turn was at least one major factor that got him in trouble with the Church. Galileo did not understand inertia in mathematical detail, and in particuler he did not clearly understand that it only applied to linear motion, not circular motion. Gravitation