This is a reasonable question. Off the top of my head, I can think of 2 main components, much like that used in natural science: 

In today's pathological society, it is immoral not to seek knowledge amidst such troubling consequences of inadequate leaders, pollution and degradation of natural resources, high-school suicide, loss of other irreplaceable value. That's the key idea: loss of irreplaceable value due to inaction and ignorance. You mentioned ethical reasons, I'm giving you a moral one. Animals species can't defend themselves against industry. Children can armor themselves against political ideologies and battles for power. As for ethical reasons, I'd say no, the pursuit of knowledge is an aethetic choice to a large degree. There is no "moral" imperative. 

Yes it is possible, but then that part of your life becomes dependent on that assertion. This is why there are axioms and logic which survive over time: they simply become the status quo which is defended for various reasons: ultimately for either practicality or aesthetics. Beyond that one can only know of one's existence. Because to know anything means to exist. That is the starting point, the basis for philosophy. 

Yes, if "natural numbers" is the commonly agreed on term from arithmetic. When there is no other possibility, there can only be the distinct, unqualified answer. 

I believe most art appreciation is boredom relief. The objects tend to be very novel and/or more dramatically detailed than life itself. So the artist is simply making a product for the marketplace, demand meeting supply, meeting the sufficient "quota" for novelty. There's nothing special going on at all. Artists tend to be pretty novel and the issue of art being more "exciting" than life is a critique on bourgeois society generally, on which many contemporary artists comment. Last century, art had gone meta: novelty given for it's own sake made "absurdism", for example (cf. Dada). Some artists are even commenting on the art experience itself. In such cases, it would seem the artist is either trying to wake you up or subtly mocking you (but, via association, also themselves, since the artist is equally free to revolt). I honestly believe the soul is in such pain all the time, it is trying to express itself in whatever way (through the artist or the "crazy" person in the street) will jolt people into action. This, perhaps, is the artists) own substitute for not slitting their own wrist or ...going on killing sprees to express him or herself. Consider Chris Burden's performances, for example. There just aren't many media for the soul to employ for waking up people -- those who are in positions of power, but simultaneously under medications of some sort along with continual frantic media bombardment -- for creating change: guns, [psychological] shock treatments, and art. Alas, spiritual practices for accomplishing this task were tried in the 60s, but are just too glacially slow for the change needed. In the end, depending on whether you act, the art gallery has proven itself to be just another part of society`s "theater of the absurd". In other words, you may not be doing anything. This is why the next evolution of art is communal, where life will imitate art (or art will be life). See wiki.hackerspaces.org/zeitgeist and metagovernment.org/Novus_Ordo_Seclorum. 

Given the scope of GOD relative to a single human, the pleasure is most likely akin to a human who cares for a houseplant. But given many humans, the scope is more like curating an ecosystem. 

I believe it is because to the common man, philosophy solves none of the pressing problems at hand. Now the common man hardly reads philosophy, so there must be something else. There is. If philosophy had answered them (he argues to himself), then the philosopher would have gotten off their arse and implemented their solutions already. The real question then, is not why the common man isn't interested in philosophy, it's why philosophers aren't interested in applying their philosophies to the world's problems -- because they have philosophies about all of them. Alas, there seems to be one answer left: they must either be cowards or lazy turds. And that view of philosophers paints and taints philosophy itself. 

Firstly, Complexity means approaching a problem from a higher-level (i.e. higher-order) perspective, much like economists look at the economy: detached and analytical. Unfortunately, it's prone to the same problems of that field -- excessive application of purely mental modes of understanding. Secondly, Complexity expresses an interest of how complexity emerges from often simple and hidden inputs or rules. This is your essense sense also the one that is associated with (and likely derived from) "chaos theory". I've seen both uses, even though they are completely different. 

Yes, to abide with the Tree of Life, perpetually pulling all towards the center. Having established a loyal set of followers, it can sit back and rest in the Eternal. 

A contention could be defended by appeals to common history of consciousness. For example, and despite Kant's claims to the contrary, solving the issue of GOD would create a basis for a true metaphysics. Indeed, there is a definitive answer to the question, so it is odd the omission by modern philsophy. A real metaphysics would answer questions related to other realms, such as consciousness, astral planes, and transcendental states of consciousness which could be grounded in a history. The implications would allow the formulation of knew predicates of Truth, to build a larger, sounder structure of reason, and to know our place within the Cosmos, rather than the current state of near groundlessness we have today -- particularly with modern medicine which has no account of consciousness though it medicates it. That's just a rough answer when I don't feel that anyone gives a rat's ass. 

You can define that center as existing everywhere. Put an x and y axis on that plane. Those axiis also extend infinitely. There, now you have the center. 

Absolutely. But the system is so fouled up, you're likely to run into resistance even suggesting it. Not only do academic "philosophers" have a moral and personal duty, but anyone who calls him/herself a "Doctor of Philosophy" (i.e. PhD, yes?), has an obligation to doctor their society and it's government -- presuming that it is a system of the People. For them, it is supposed to be an obligation above and beyond the everyday citizen who isn't presuming to be a authority. Hence, the common complaint today of the "ivory tower" -- a reference to cloistered professors who have made themselves so disconnected from their society that they can no longer even relate to it. Most people (students) take it for granted calling their professors "Dr.", but the academic profession has simply fallen from the purpose that it had since Plato: of creating a moral, just society ("philosopher kings [and queens]") -- and who else to fit the bill but the presumed masters? Given the complete failure of this society and it's democracy, it demonstrates a gross failure of the academic establishment to accept moral responsibility and authority for it's society. There is no question about it, and if anyone is interested in actually fixing this mess, please get in touch with me. I have a thorough analysis and outline for a plan to recovery as I have personally been victimized by it as has most everyone else but the system is so diseased now that most have simply [mal]adapted to it. 

The astral body is simply the parts of you which are not completely connected to your physicality because you have not integrated all the centers of your body, mind, and spirit together. It's as simple as that, but... What's not so simple is that putting a name on something so ephemeral actually disassociates a part of you, so you're not necessarily better off with any understanding of it at all. 

I think one name you can give to this view of the world is the Many-Worlds Interpretation (MWI) of the "world" (wave equation in physics). I answered because I share this view. I have come to understand that there are more than just the positive dimensions as most normally call "reality" (notably mentioned in String Theory). There are negative dimensions (holding things like ghosts, angels perhaps) and imaginary dimensions (holding television "realities", and such. The "moon" landing seems to here.). Further, to hold these as semi-living realities requries the addition of multiple dimensions of Time. Modern Christian philosophers captured this with the concept of "World Views", but I think this puts it in greater detail and rigor. 

Your mind is a Turing machine. The translation table is your cognitive ability to convert sounds into English syntax. The tape is your aural environment existing in time. What you do once you interpret those symbols depends on your training, thus far which has been written indelibly in your memory. Now report to your commandor. 

Yes, cross your two middle fingers. Then close your eyes and rub your nose between the V made by your two crossed fingers. You will have a sense of having two noses. 

It is drawn where logic meets inner perception, two very different methods of constructing systems. Science, and outer perception is yet a third. 

Yes there are excellent critiques -- if you can get a postmodernist to listen. The postmoderist is a little narcissistic and will see you as just a narrative purveyor looking for power. But consider, if there is no "final" truth, then why do we agree on what time it is? Why should I believe that you exist and aren't just a robot trying to get human rights (and as such I can "shut you off" as an act of freedom)? Why should I move a finger when the ICBMs are heading our way? There is no answer in postmoderism. The postmoderist lets the child scream their "story" to the street, so that she can go get her latte and continue her quite thoroughly modernist lifestyle. It is the religion for the bourgeoisie, because not everyone has the luxury of negotiating thier truths. Perhaps because they don't have the luxuries of Western education, or perhaps because they don't even have a voice any more at all. Think on that. They are hypocrites and every pomo I've met has been in a delusional psychosis who would let value far beyond what they've contributed to the world die for the sake of feeling superior or at the very least smug that they've wrapped all of the concerns of humanity about truth into a neat little box called: POSTMODERNISM. They're exactly like American Christians -- who believe in the Ten Commandments and then go off supporting massive military operations. Pomos are the same, they live a lie of modernism.