I am reading WILLIAM AND MARY by John Van Der Kiste 2008, 2011, in which he relates William III's reluctant plans to remarry after Mary II's death. This was to ensure the Protestant succession after Anne's death, as well as a future Stadtholder, particularly in view of the young Duke of Gloucester's precarious health. One of the "candidates" was Louise Dorothea Sophia, the daughter of Frederick of Brandenburg. Van der Kiste discusses the protocol when, in 1696,William travelled to the Rhine to meet Frederick and the prospective bride. Initially, neither Frederick nor William would sit down, each reluctant to take the only great armchair. Kiste goes on: 

I apologise if this is too basic a question, but Wikipedia seems to contradict itself! It says here $URL$ that a Quaestor was entitled to one lictor and one fasces, but here $URL$ it says they wore the toga praetexta but had neither lictors nor fasces. As far as I can see, quaestors were more senior civil servants that magistrates; they did not possess imperium, so why would they have the lictors/fasces? 

Jesus was not a Roman citizen. He was not one of the provinciales because he was not born in Roman province (Iudaea). "The Closing of the Western Mind" by Charles Freeman, chapter 8, says he was born and lived almost entire life in Galilee, which was part of a "puppet state" ruled by a king (e.g., Herod Antipas). Jesus came to Iudaea between 29-33 CE, most probably in 30 CE. "Crucifixion in the Mediterranean World" by J. G. Cook similarly asserts on page 216 Jesus was a peregrinus ("foreigner, one from abroad" but in practice a subject of Empire as opposed to barbari), and that there were in all 9 recorded names of crucified peregrini. For example he includes Theodotus rhetor. Also we know three names of crucified full Roman citizens: Valerius Soranus, Gavius of Consa, Gaius Silius. 

Vienna was besieged in 1683. In the Treaty of Bakhchisarai, Russia agreed not to fight Ottoman Empire for the time between 1681 and 1701, and actually kept the promise... until 1686 that is. Then it joined the European coalition and started Russo-Turkish War (1686–1700), which it won, gaining Azov and Taganrog. Both were lost soon in 1711, Azov re-taken by Turks and Taganrog self-demolished. 

I'm sorry you feel that you've been made to feel stupid - I don't think anyone meant that. Its a very long time since I read it, and I might get shot by the moderators for an ahistorical answer, but I'll try to help. You suggest it is an unwritten contract between "the people " and "the government ", and I think that's where your confusion arises. Because Rousseau posits a state of nature where there is no "government" and everyone acts as they see fit. This would be anarchy and the weak would suffer. Let's use an example - a ship full of passengers is wrecked on an island: there is food and water - what do they do? 

According to Wikipedia ($URL$ the House of the Vettii brothers had two atria, one specifically for slaves. 

One reason, certainly in the UK, is that a woman has historically, and still, taken her title/status from her husband not the other way round. So, if Miss Jane Smith marries the Duke of Basingstoke, she becomes the Duchess of Basingstoke. But when Countess Mountbatten succeeded her father in default of male heirs, her husband did not become an Earl. Medieval practice was different, and if men married the last female heir to a title, he assumed her father's title sui uxoris. I am not sure when this practice died out. Whilst not related to the UK, Crown Princess Victoria of Sweden's husband is merely "Prince" not Crown Prince. I suspect as more females inherit under gender blind primogeniture, this may well change. 

This exact phrasing is asserted as being the original one by French Wikipedia article. A less-trusted, secondary source mentions another secondary source that reportedly attributes a similar phrase to some unspecified 1831 work by Enfantin, see Crisis and the Apocalypse of Man footnote 8 on page 315. But I would expect it to be as far as "from each according to his abilities, to each according to his work", which is quite a different idea. Enfantin was one of saint-simonians, which might explain why someone would attribute the quote (correctly or incorrectly) to Saint-Simon. 

I wonder what are the historical circumstances that led to lack of speed limit on German federal Autobahn network. There is an advisory 130 km/h limit, but it is not mandatory one nor obeyed practically. (As a side note, Wikipedia says, there used to be a mandatory 100 km/h limit in former GDR and it was not retained after re-unification.) Please provide the reasons (plus sources) that would differentiate Germany from other "comparable" countries (for example, France) that did introduce the limit on some historical occasion. 

This is purely anecdotal, but in her autobiography "The Past is Myself", Christine Bielenberg, an upper-class English woman married to a German doctor during the Third Reich, narrates her busband's experience of torture. Being on the fringes of the German resistance to Hitler, she says that they noted that when some activists were arrested, a slew of further arrests almost always followed, leading to great contempt for those who had apparently betrayed their fellow resistance workers. Her husband, Dr Pieter Bielenberg, was eventually arrested himself; as it was near the end of the war, with Germany facing certain defeat, Bielenberg was able to "name-drop" members of the British Establishment known to her to engineer his release. On his return, Dr Bielenberg confided to his wife that he would never again criticise anyone who "cracked" under torture, saying, (I quote from memory) - "You don't know what they can do to you!" As stated, this is anecdotal, but suggests that torture can be effective. $URL$ 

No, this interpretation is misleading. Let's say that you analyze the ancient level of inheritance where you had one hundred grand-grand-parents. Using mitochondrial DNA you can only research only one of these 100 grand-grand-parents, the single grand-grand-mother that is in the most maternal position in the tree. In other words only mother-of-mother-of-mother(-of). This is because mitochondrial DNA is only inherited from a mother (Wikipedia). If mother has only sons, they do recombine her DNA further, except mitochondrial DNA. This mother has her line of mitochondrial DNA lost forever. So even if a scientist determined that only seven distinct most-maternal-grandmothers exist it still says nothing about the giant number of the rest of grandmothers and nothing at all about grandfathers. PS. It is impossible to determine if these seven women lived in the same generation (quite unlikely!). PPS. And seven women aren't a "founding population" because they are not even a "population" per standard definition. 

I would suggest the answer is "No" - and the aristocracy would not actually include gentry either. Social gradations at that time were subtle but strong, a wealthy "gentleman" would still defer to a peer, even if the peer were the poorer. Read Jane Austen and Anthony Trollope for examples. But royalty was in a different category, as, indeed, it is today; the tabloids might titter if a Duke were caught in a compromising position, but it would not be the headline news that a royal scandal would provoke. Also - and I stand to be corrected on this - the aristocracy's influence came from land (vast holdings in many cases) industry (they weren't above exploiting coal or other resources) and their power of patronage. Royals, to the best of my knowledge, lacked the first two - Parliament frequently was asked to bail out profligate Princes! And - a final touchstone - would a Duke, say, challenge a prince to a duel (rare occurrences but not unknown)? The answer is almost certainly not, such an act would be treasonable.