In other words, high intensity intervals led to increased fat loss, and increased some measures of insulin sensitivity. Here's a link to a few more studies, with promising results. That said, HIIT can be quite difficult, probably more difficult than standard cardio or many types of strength training. So while I'd recommend trying HIIT, don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good: the best exercise is the exercise you do. Giving up on an exercise program burns 0 calories. Another aspect to consider is ancillary benefits. IMHO, improving strength and flexibility will make you feel better faster than cardio or HIIT. Strength training can improve pain of various sorts (especially back pain) and make it easier to start other kinds of exercise programs. 

A great place to start would be watching this young woman's youtube videos. She started out in a similar place to you (not knowledgeable about nutrition, overweight her whole life, ~330Lb, etc.), and has lost approximately 180 pounds over the course of a few years. Many of her videos contain extremely practical and specific advice, and her story is pretty inspirational. I think the most important thing she did was research losing weight for 4 months before starting on her weight loss plan. When she started, she knew pretty much what to expect, and was motivated to continue tweaking her plan as some things worked, and some didn't. I've read a lot about losing weight, and lost around 50 pounds in the last year. I don't think anyone but you can figure out a diet/exercise routine that will work for you. You need to find a set of dietary changes and ways to introduce exercise into your life that will lead to long-term changes. I can recommend a few things that worked for me, but they may not all work for you. I'm sure there are things that will work for you that no one here has listed. Experimentation is key. I'd suggest trying out the ones that sound appealing or manageable (especially the first one), and go from there. 

In the book The Science of Yoga, William Broad discusses this in detail. My summary: for measures of cardiovascular fitness, Yoga is inferior to aerobic exercise. Indeed a small study of Yoga instructors (who do enormous amounts of yoga) found them to be roughly equivalent in measures of cardiovascular health (VO2 Max, etc) to someone who jogs 3-4 hours per week. Yoga is also inferior to weight training for gaining strength. Not really too surprising: exercises designed to specifically target certain ends are superior to flexibility exercises. However yoga does have significant benefits. He discusses studies showing that yoga can improve spinal health and treat back pain (one theory being that flexing the spine oxygenates the intervertebral discs, which may not get moved much in a sedentary lifestyle). It reduces stress hormones, may increase testosterone levels in men and various miscellaneous small benefits. The main large benefits seem to come in treating shoulder or back injuries. Personally, I do all three: yoga, weights and cardio. Of the three yoga is the most fun, so I'd say give it a try. The poses generally feel good, help with my back pain. It may not be superior to other forms of exercise on most measures, but it's worth doing for its own sake. 

As for exercise, I would say start with walking, but if that's difficult because of your arthritis, I don't know. Try to move however is comfortable for you, even if it's not much. I'd suggest getting some 5 pound hand weights and just sort of playing with them while you watch TV. For example, lift your arms out to the side, do bicep curls, etc. A Youtube search for "exercises for the morbidly obese" turned up a number of home-videos of exercise advice from very overweight people, many heavier than you. I'm not specifically recommending any of them, but they seem like a good place for you to start your research. See which exercises look attainable and safe and try some of those out. Weight loss is a really agonizingly slow process. The main point is to make sure that it's consistent. Getting down to a healthier weight is probably a multi-year commitment. Losing a pound a week is a pretty agressive, but doable target for most people. But even a pound ever two or three weeks is still movement in the right direction. Expecting faster loss is what discourages a lot of people. Still, it's worth getting started for two reasons. The first is that even relatively small weight loss can lead to significant decreases in the risk for diseases like diabetes. The second is that all weight loss is just trucking on with good habits. If you mess up, don't exercise, binge eat, whatever, none of that matters now. What matters is what you do today, not what you did yesterday that you weren't supposed to. That was the key insight for me both with quitting smoking and losing weight. If I slipped up and smoked a cigarette, that didn't mean that I "started smoking again", it meant that I "had smoked on one occasion". Similarly, if you eat too much one day, that doesn't mean you've stopped losing weight. It's just a temporary setback, not an end to the journey. Good luck! 

The pushups are ok if you feel you need some upper body strength but in as so far as your stated goals are concerned, they do absolutely nothing towards losing fat. You say that you cannot control your diet. I cannot see how that is possible. Everyone can control their diet. If you cannot change the actual food you are eating because someone else is cooking it, then you can at least reduce the portions of the food you eat and that will reduce your calorie consumption. Incorporate some cardio into your workout. Start with a nice 30 minute walk at least three times a week. After a couple of weeks, speed up the pace and keep doing that until you feel comfortable running for 30 minutes three times a week. By that time, you will be lean and healthy and you can move on to heavier training if you want to. 

This topic is still quite debatable and personally, I tend to gravitate more towards the "avoid injury and keep muscle oxigenated" school of thought but I recently read a publication by UT researchers J. Antonio and W. J. Gonyea called Muscle Hypertrophy vs Hyperplasia. They conducted some very interesting experiments with birds. An excerpt of this paper: 

I thought that this might be something someone has asked before but I cannot find it so here it goes... I am a 46 year old male. Weight 180 and height 5'10. According to every chart out there, I am overweight. However, I physically do not look overweight since I have been working out for over 20 years and have pure muscle. Not a body buider, mind you, but athletic and elongated muscles. I work out 6 days a week doing all kinds of interval, cardio and weight training. There have been times when I dropped the weight to the supposed ideal (I have dropped to 165-175 on occassions througout my life) just to see how it looked on me and what I have found is that not only do I lose strength but I also look extremely thin. And by extremely I mean EXTREMELY thin. Is it that these charts are just plain wrong or is there some way to remain strong (and by this I mean, as an example, to continue to bench 205 lbs, etc.) and still maintain the ideal weight according to the chart? Thanks in advance. 

It could be joint fatigue from the repetitive movement. Without X-rays and a proper check it is hard to tell. I would try using knee wraps to keep the knee joint aligned. Check them out here: $URL$ 

It's a rowing machine. You sit on the chair and push with your legs against the pads while at the same time pulling the bar with your arms. The round part you see in front is the resistance wheel which you can adjust so that the movement is more difficult. This is a full body workout that incorporates a great deal of cardio. Some people even say that it is one of the most efficient body workouts. I have used it mostly for warm up before a session of weight lifting. Proper way to use a rowing machine 

In the words of every trainer out there: cardio, cardio, cardio. Weight training will give you strength but only cardio will burn fat. 

So, according to this experiment, yes. It most certainly does help with muscle growth. But who wants to tie weights to themselves for 30 days? :-) 

I'll try to keep this as short as possible but if this exceeds the limit then please bear with me. I'm 29 y/o Indian male and I was a serious (if not professional) body builder when I was younger. I started bodybuilding when I was 17 and pursued it for 4 years. Then I got a shoulder injury and simultaneously life got more demanding and I couldn't return to the sport. In next 4 plus years I put on a lot of weight and reached 100 KG (220 lbs) i.e. 32 KG (70 lbs) extra from my base weight when I was in sport. Oh and yes I'm not very tall. I'm 5'9'' I turned 25 and decided it was enough and hit the gym back. For the first time in my life I decided to run (which I thought was running) on treadmill for quicker results. Let's cut it short and let me tell you that I couldn't stop running since then. I quit the gym in next 7-8 months to do more serious running and joined a track. I ran my first half marathon (1:58 hrs) in 10 months from the starting point. Second half (Hill Course- 2:10 hrs) in another 2 months and my first full in another 3 months and there I failed miserably (5:35 hrs) By the time I ran my 1st full I was 30 KG (66 lbs) down and looked good. I now know that I transitioned from a fat lazy boy to a half marathoner and then to a full marathoner a little quick and my body couldn't handle the stress. I didn't stop there and ran 1 half and 1 full in next 4 months and my second full again went pathetic. I finished 4:40 hrs. I went through injuries and bad races but I didn't stop. By June 2014, I finished 9 half and 2 full marathons and maintained my weight (plus minus 3 KG). Till then my HM PR was 1:53 hrs and now I wanted to improve. I added yoga and body weight exercises in my routine and improved myself significantly and lost some more inches too. I ran a 10 KM PR (45:40 mins) and a 5:44 min mile in practice. My 1 KM best is 3:36 mins and 14+ sec for 100 meters. I set all these PRs prior to the half marathon I was training for in Nov 2014. I did all the fartleks, repetition work, speed work, long runs and drills and finished the half marathon in 1:43:10 hrs. Though I was expecting sub 1:40 but I was happy. This was the beginning of Nov 2014 and continued my training for a full marathon in Mid Jan 2015. I did everything what the plan said. Ran high mileage weeks, did repetitions and speed works and everything the plan asked. I did the taper and carb loading too. During this training I ran two 20 milers. Each under 3:20 hrs very comfortably. Every test said I'm fit enough to run a sub 4 hour marathon. I did Yasso 800 workout and comfortably ran 10 rep of 800 in 3:20 mins with 2:30 min recovery between each rep. There I must mention that I was training in North India and the temperature during Dec and Jan was below 10 Deg C in mornings. The race was in South and the temp on the race day was 19 Deg C. After putting all the efforts in training I got drained on 3rd km and felt like quitting. I managed through half way and did 21 km in 1:48 hrs and the pace was very comfortable for me. Then I felt like I'm getting slow. This might be the marathon wall but if it was so then it came a lot too early. I started dragging and again finished with a miserable timing. I finished 5:10 hrs. So where did it go wrong? Should I not go for fullers and stay happy with the half marathons? Even if someone suggests that, I wont take that advice haha! I want to run full marathons and qualify for Boston in near future. I know it'll take time but I'm ready to train. For the time being I'm planning to cut on the junk races and train for a considerably fast half marathon for myself which will probably fall in the 1st week of November. I effectively have 9 months for this race. I want to run a sub 1:30 race. All the plans I see online are 16 to 18 weeks long but I've around 36 weeks. I'm looking for some advice on how I should proceed with the training. I would also like to get a proper strength and flexibility training plan. My arms and legs are toned but I still have some extra inches around my waist. You know everybody loves six packs and I'm no exception :P Thanks Parth