Since both questions are not free from the idea of being an 'I', they are bewildered questions. When a mind ('person') believes it is a 'self' & tries to annihilate this self, in MN 102, the Buddha compared this to a dog chasing its own tail. 

Very good. The Buddha taught the arising & conceiving of self is suffering (SN 12.15; SN 5.10) & a disease (Ud 3.10; MN 140). This is why it is not a self but is only suffering & only a disease. The Budddha said: "The world calls a disease 'self' " (Ud 3.10). Self is not a real thing but only a name, like calling a child 'John' or 'Mary'. There is nothing inherently real in the name John or Mary. 

As a Buddhist, to be engaged in mainstream politics is very difficult because we cannot know the real truth of politics, unless we are absolutely certain. For example, I have heard some of the most famous Western Theravada monks & the Dalai Lamai speak about 9/11 as though Islam really did it & provide ideas that justify war. Since there was no real evidence Islam did 9/11 & since the American wars after 9/11 were unrelated to the alleged (Saudi Arabian Wahhabi) terrorists, how can a Buddhist speak truthfully in any way that supports war & killing with a unknown & unproven view? Similarly, these same Western Theravada monks recently were supporting presidential candidates who were engaged in wars & murder because they believed some other policies of these candidates were better than the other. Therefore, we have Buddhist monks & nuns encouraging their supporters to vote for political parties that engage in unjustified wars & killings. It follows, unless you are truly certain who you support politically will not engage in any harm, how can you, as a Buddhist, support mainstream politics? How can you get passionate about opposing Donald Trump or Viktor Orbán when the alternative is really no better, from a Dhammic point of view. Basically all of the major politicians, when examined closely, are violating the Buddhist moral precepts. For example, the only Australian politician I listen to (occasionally) was originally an intelligence officer 'whistle blower' about the weapons of mass destruction before the Iraq War. Naturally, he was proven to be right. I recently phoned his office about the Syrian gas attack &, as a result, he was the only Australian politician to make an honest & moral statement about it, namely, there was no evidence that is was a deliberate chemical attack. What I am saying here is if you get involved in truly moral politics, you will have very little support & feel quite powerless. When you realize how powerless you are to affect real change, the 'passion' diminishes greatly. Although you may occasionally try to do something, you realise there is little you can do to affect real change when the majority of people are still supporting the major political parties. 

Pain is obviously related to physical posture; obviously related to the mobility of an individual's body & joints. Therefore, some individuals without any samadhi (meditative development) can sit for long periods while other individuals (who might have better samadhi) cannot sit as long without experiencing pain. For example, in the West, are often found slender naturally flexible women leading hatha yoga classes, who display no evidence of spiritual development (e.g., they are emotionally unbalanced, addicted to cigarettes, etc). Imo, the above shows there is no relevance or correlation between physical posture/pain and meditative development. If it was otherwise, a naturally physically flexible person would either be advantaged or disadvantaged compared to another person. When samadhi (concentration) is genuinely developed (absorption into breathing, jhana, etc), awareness of pain disappears from consciousness, even though the legs themselves may become very stiff & very painful. A samadhi practitioner may sit for a few hours without consciously experiencing pain then, after emerging from samadhi, will struggle to stand up & walk. This is why I am not aware of any instructions in the Pali teachings about meditation & physical pain. In fact, the very essence of the Middle-Way is the development of jhana (with rapture, happiness & equanimity) which is contrary to those Theravada schools (Goenka; Mahasi, etc) that teach meditation on pain. Since the ultimate purpose of Buddhist meditation is to develop a bliss (samatha) that liberates an individual from reliance on sensuality & then insight (vipassana) that liberates a individual from attachment, self-view & suffering, it is obvious meditation on pain is not directly relevant to the Buddhist path. When I was young, I practised meditation very intensively and developed some capacity to be non-attached. Then at a later time, my body suffered an injury & a lengthy rehabilitation that was very painful at times. I required no additional training in non-attachment to deal with my injury & rehabilitation. The non-attachment developed in my painless meditation, when I was younger, was more than sufficient. It may sound like a paradox but non-attachment & dispassion towards rapture (piti) is said by some to be much more effective at dealing with pain that direct meditation on pain itself. This is probably why the Buddha encouraged the development of non-attachment & egolessness (rather than meditation on pain itself). 

The word "cessation" ("nirodha") as a Noble Truth means the cessation of craving & suffering (rather than the cessation of sense experience or life). To quote: 

The Buddhadasa text states 'birth' is the mental birth of the 'self' or 'I' thought and that there is no 'rebirth' because each time the conditioned 'I' thought is born it is a brand new 'I' rather than the same 'I' being reborn. For example, is the 'I' you sense yourself to be today the same 'I' as when you were 4 years old? Buddhadasa concluded there is on-going 'ego-birth' for unenlightened people but not 'rebirth'. 

As answered by Yinxu, the term 'Mara' is used in many ways in Buddhism. I think to develop theories about Mara the Tempter, it is useful to understand 'gods' ('deva'), who include human beings with psychic powers, that Judeo-Christianity calls 'angels'. In Judeo-Christianity, the Bible reports angels & also prophets such as Moses & Jesus that displayed supernormal (psychic) powers. These angels & prophets are created (by nature) to rule & guide ordinary people. These angels & prophets teach people to believe in 'God' & 'self'. These angels & prophets with psychic powers exist today within Christianity. Yet they are not interested in or believe in Buddhism because they believe Christianity is best for ordinary people. Hindus are similar, often strongly opposed to Buddhism because of its teaching of anatta & atheism. Therefore, Mara does not necessarily have to be an intrinsically evil being that is tempting people to do evil in the way Christians depict. Satan does not exist in the Old Testament apart from in the Book of Job, as an angel in heaven with God. The Christian idea of Satan is obviously very similar to that in Buddhism but their own version. My point is Mara can be any being with supernormal powers that opposes the Buddhist teachings because Buddhism teaches anatta (nots-self). Such a Mara does not necessarily need to be intrinsically evil. Karmically, they simply need to act with the good intention that the Buddhist teachings of anatta are not beneficial to the majority of people. Therefore, their karma will not necessarily result in a loss of their supernormal powers since opposing Buddhism is not inherently bad karma for them. Or less insidiously, such Mara may simply be testing the Buddhas & arahants. 

The result of enlightenment is an absence of greed, hatred & delusion. To move towards experiencing enlightenment requires abandoning these very three mental impurities. By moving away from selfish desiring, the mind moves towards what is desired. As Jesus said: "To save one's life, one must lose one's life". 

The Buddha did not actually arise for the purpose of teaching about good & bad kamma. The teaching about good & bad kamma is merely a 'secondary' teaching in Buddhism. These kinds of questions that create worry, flurry & anxiety in the mind about trivial matters are not the purpose of Buddhism. Buddhism exists to set the mind and people free (rather than place people into bondage from making mountains out of molehills). As an example, recently Hillary Clinton lost the US presidential election. In her previous terms in government, Hillary Clinton voted for every foreign war resolution & is said to be personally responsible for the destruction of the good nation of Libya. Despite her complicity in the deaths, murders & raping of millions of men, women & children, when Hillary Clinton lost the election, scores of fully ordained Western bhikkhus (monks) & bhikkhunis (nuns) were grieving her loss (such as here). This example shows how individuals in general, including fully ordained monks & nuns, are indirectly supporting evils infinitely more evil than the killing of a mouse by a cat (which is not actually evil since the laws of kamma only apply to people rather than to animals). If the laws of kamma operated in such a indirect manner, these pro-Clinton monks & nuns would probably all end up in the hotttest & most torturous Avīci Hell for eons & eons. 

Similarly, Iti 109 certainly says parents are like 'gods' to be venerated by their children; however when the parents have compassion & wisdom: 

How can this be? How can one single sutta (Cula-Kammavibhanga Sutta) override the doctrine or law found in all of the suttas that a brutal bloody-handed killer of living beings will experience a state beset by suffering? Surely, a killer than feels no pain from killing & murdering is a psychopath. 

Based on the definition above, the final dissolution of the defilement of ego-delusion is a fruition. 

Not all worthy (enlightened) monks have psychic powers. In fact, Satan or Mara also has psychic powers. The Buddha's enemy Devadatta, who tried to murder Buddha, also had psychic powers. Psychic powers, such as telepathy, can only be developed by individuals that have a latent disposition for them. The Buddha had many fully enlightened disciples but they all did not have psychic powers. The most lucid (Sariputta) did not have psychic powers. The disciple famed for his psychic powers (Maha Moggallana) was said to be Mara in a past life (MN 50). In original Buddhism, psychic powers were not considered a sign of sanctity. 

Also, in this Abhassara state/world, there is the idea or perception of "beings" ("sattā"), which can only occur in 'samsaric' becoming fueled by ignorance & craving. 

Qi Energy can be compared to mechanical pneumatic equipment that uses air to lift, move or destroy heavy & hard objects. Where as the Jhanas refine the breathing until the breathing completely disappears. Therefore, the Jhanas in Theravada Buddhism are not related to Qi Energy & are in fact the opposite of cultivating Qi Energy. 

No. There is no idea or thought of "self" when a baby is born from its mother. The idea of "self" only arises when the mind matures & is able to start identifying with things. Modern psychology studies this. A mentally retarded or brain damaged child may struggle to develop a coherent idea of "self". "Self" is a thought. Please refer to the Mahāmāluṅkya Sutta, which states a new born child has no thoughts of self-identity: 

All labels are conventions & attachment to mental states of non-becoming can make the mind uncomfortable with conventions. Also, the term 'Buddhist' is a stereotype, loaded with all kinds of worldly connotations, such as believing in the Dalai Lama, reincarnation, statues, etc. Those people might be more comfortable if asked: "Do you practise the teachings (path) of the Buddha?". 

Buddhism is a discipline with a clearly defined principles about what it considers to be the truths or realities related to the arising & ceasing of suffering. Therefore, the question about "narrow-mindedness" is illogical or irrelevant. For example, Buddhism teaches suffering arises due to ignorance, craving, attachment & egoism and this truth of causal arising is held to be absolutely true & unchangeable in Buddhism. Or, on a moral level, Buddhism teaches about actions that lead to harm. These actions that lead to harm can never ever be changed. Like any authentic science, Buddhism is about accurate, specific & narrow principles of causation. The Dhammapada states: