The infinitive form of the verb in Eastern Armenian (provided there are infinitives) is a suppletive 'linEl'. I am surprised to notice its resemblance to most Finno-Ugric words of similar meaning, e.g. 

Any isolating language would have this type of structure: no difference between parts of speech, no conjugation, no cases, no declentions. The structures like 'fire bad', or noun + adjective, are typical for Russian. These structures are also typical for Arabic. Since even animals have a certain type of language, we have no sufficient data on the existance of a protolanguage of human beings. 

The origin and roles are different since Kannada is a Dravidian language, not a relative of the Japanese or Basque, while Russian makes a part of the Slavic branch within the Indo-European family. The role of the Russian word is a particle (connecting sentence parts) or 'yes'-word, or an intensifier related either to a pronoun or, which I beleibe to be more realistic, a verb meaning 'to give'. The Kannada word ಡಾ, as the dictionaries say, is an abbreviation for 'doctor', which by itself in English could be traced back to a Proto Indo-European verb meaning 'to take'. A theory of Dravidian-IE philum seems to lack any sustainable proof. The first traces of proto-Kannada, as the Wikipedia puts it, could be traced back to 500 B. C., the times when the very existence of any Slavic language and/or nation is less than questionable. Therefore, my answer is negative. 

The Persian-Arabic borrowings were rare (unlike the borrowings in opposite directions, that is, from Arabic into Persian). The data in Wiktionary suggesting that borrowing direction is based upon a sourse of the XIXth century. It is more likely therefore that the Arabic word derives from the root و ف ي (w+f+y) meaning 'to (over)fullfill'. 

To begin with, the Chinese phoneme is not exactly sh but it sounds more like k in Swedish käften. Contrary to the information provided by YS, more exact spelling of the other language is Khitan (with H) or Liao and its relation to Mongolian is at least disputable. The Khitan word does not prove anything, because this is a distant language of a disputed and not widely recognised branch, but these are the minor inaccuracies. What really matters is that the final vowel used to be pronounced in older Mongolian only, but not in Khitan (which is clear even from the poor and insufficient evidence provided by YS). And it is far more important that the proto Sino-Tibetan word for 'new' has been reconstructed as ¤saR; that is, as a monosyllablic word with a final consonant R (see Paul K. Benedict, p. 163). 

The main living dialects are: 1) Moscovian (fast speech tempo, emphasised [a] in unstressed positions, longer [a] in stressed position) 2) North-Western (much similar to modern literary standard) 3) Southern (with fricative [γ]) Caucasian Russian is regarded by some linguists as something between pidgeon and creole, although it does not differ much from the standard Russian. Siberian Russiad is much like a separate dialect (although some dialects, like чалдонская поговорка, are [almost?] extinct now. There are also sociolects (e.g. criminal slang, etc.) differing mainly in style. Some other regional variaties had prevailed, although the modern Russian is mainly a monocentric language with a prescreptive grammar. The Russian spoken by diaspora wordlwide varies greately, due either to conservation (e.g. Russian spoken by first wave emmigrés in France or China), or because of borrwings and language contacts (Russian in America and in Baltic & Nordic States). 

1.Any polysynthetic language would have such a feature having within any of its word-sentences a 'verbal' particle. This is also one of the traits characteristical for French (with no distinction between parts of speech used for word formation, but with occasional differentiation between grammatical forms of the components), because this language may be considered as polysynthetic: prêt-à-porter (lit. ready-for-to wear, adj.+ preposition + noun), bien-dire (eloquence, lit. 'good-to speak'), bien-être (well-being, lit. 'good-to be'), or words like pince-sans-rire (a mocker with a poker face, lit. 'pinch-without-to laugh'). This principle of word-formation also includes combinations of noun+verb: un couvre-lit (bedspread, lit. '[you]cover-bed'), un tire-bouchon (corkscrew, lit. '[you] pull-cork'), un ouvre-boîte (can opener, lit. '[you] open-can') or those with plural imperatives (like cache-cache, formally and semantically (almost) equivalent to English hide-and-seek, ) or laissez-faire (negligence, lit. '[you (pl)] let-to be'), laissez-passer (a pass, lit. you (pl)] let-to pass'). This principle proliferates in structures of compound verbs with imperatives regarded as nouns, e.g. cessez-le-feu (a truce; lit. '[you (pl)] ceize-the-fire), décrochez-moi-ça (ragged clothes; a rag shop, lit. 'give-me-this [item of clothes hanging]'), or even le va-et-vient (the coming and going, lit. 'the [(s)he] comes ans [(s)he] goes'). 2.Considering a verb as a form of action, we might regard some forms of Finnish and Estonian nouns as words-in-action, too, thus making such untypical (yet grammatical) structures as työhönmeno (to [active]work-going), poissaolo (absence. lit. 'away [stative]-being'), or maahanmuutto (immigration, lit. 'into land [active]-[causative] change') as specific examples of compound action-nouns. 3.In Russian, there is a peculiar feature which could be best described as '[ad]verbal predicates' with verbs with a form which looks much like a 2nd person sg. imperative: Это просто не-пришей-козе-баян. = This is strange and ridiculous (lit. 'This is a sheer don't-you-sew-an-acordeon-on-a-sheegoat'). 4.In Chinese, where a distinction between parts of speech is arbitrary and depends on a syntactical structure, the word is regarded as a verb or as a noun depending on its place within a phrase. Thus, 是 in 这是啥？(What is this) is 'is', or 'to be'; yet, although 就 normally means 'suppling' or 'move' or 'at once', the combination of 就是 means 'exactly' or 'just like' rather than 'right-now-being' or 'being in a suppling motion'. 

One of the possible solution would be using if=>then strategy for recognition of German articles before most of nouns. The number of articles, even with flexions, is smaller as compared to that of nouns as such. For example, you make a whitelist for the words preceeded by the German articles Then make a blacklist for proper geographical and/or historical names with articles. 

What are the oldest records of the Armenian verb? Are there any correlates in Iranian and/or Paleo-Balcanic languages? Or maybe there are some correlates with languages from Anatolian group? 

What language is concerned? Different languages may predefine different patterns. The happiness, in my opinion, has nothing to do with happiness of creativity. An unhappy person can be very creative (and sometimes even more so than a happy one). The terms you are looking for are psycholinguistical markers of emotional states (provided a creativity is a form of emotional state, of which I am not sure). 

If I have understood your model correctly, it describes an ergative structure within many natural languages, dead or living. E.g. Sumerian, Georgian, Basque and Tibetan all have the ergative patterns, where an agent of a transitive verb is marked, while the patiens of a transitive verb with a logical subject is not. The subjects of nontransitive verbs in these languages, on the other hand, have no special markers. 

The answer depends mainly on what to be considered as a writing systen. If we regard a picrtogram writing system (e.g. similar to Daba script) to be a writing system as well, then the answer to your question is positive. A travelog by Ahmad ibn Fadlan mentions two kinds of writing system used by who later were identified as Komi ancestors called Wisu (which sounds similar to Balto-Fennic Veps and Russian 'Vesj'). The facts are, however, mentioned not in an academic publication but in a local newspaper (in Russian). Later, a local amateur researcher (and a gymnasium teacher) mentioned in 1850 that the system of 'pases' was used for writing down daily costs, obligations, loans, etc., including dates, types of articles and names of persons. The other system of writing, that of 'shipases', was supposedly an adoptation of some North-Iranian alphabet, also used in Bulgarian Khaganate at its pre-Islamic days as stated by another local researcher in the 19th century (source in Komi and Russian). The systematic nature is confirmed by the fact that the symbols were used as ornamental details and/or inscriptions by representatives of clans other than those owning the Tamgas. The pictographic nature of the system is confirmed by the fact that the symbols had various meanings and interpretations. E.g. the sign X could mean a facet, or crossing beams, or a new ornament (vyl ser), or fire, or sun, or a cross as a symbol opposite for Christianity (the source in Russian) plus a clan could use any sign in some private and particular sense. 

The languages without diacritics: in Europe: Basque Cornish Greenlandic Welsh (apostrophes only) Russian is not exactly a diacritic-free language because of its letter Ёё. On the other hand, many Germanic languages render their umlauts with Latin alphavet only: ü = ue, ä = ae, ö = oe, å = aa (the latter three letters were used in one of the Danish orthography systems changed thru times). And, of course, such languages as Japanese or Chinese are absolutely diacritics-free :-))