Most of the upvoted comments are quite good, so I'll just add my ten cents that hasn't already been covered. Assumption underlying your query - maybe you're not an atheist To have originally come to your query, you must have made some assumptions that your dualistic experience, being a consciousness beyond the material body, is supernatural. More than that, supernatural in the sense of a traditionally understood immortal soul. If what you are suggesting is that your consciousness resides in a traditional soul, then I would argue your atheistic leanings are contradictory to your dualistism. Alternate assumption - maybe you can still be an atheist However, if what you're eluding to is that your consciousness resides in a non-material component of your being, which you are not defining, then this does not contradict atheism. For example, consciousness is believed to be an emergent property of the brain. It's not material but is an effect of all the activity and cannot be pinpointed to any specific parts of the brain. However, you are probably no longer an atheist if.. I would personally argue that there are some limits to how far you can argue this duality and still remain an atheist. The purpose of atheism isn't just to deny god, but gods, spirits, and the supernatural. It's to say, there are natural explanations for the human experience and our natural world. Some of these natural explanations might end up being bizarrely magical in appearance, maybe our consciousness resonates on some quantum level and exists in multiple dimensions, maybe there's an untapped sensitivity in our brains that reacts to the universe. Who knows. But as wild as these possibilities get, it's important that we don't simply replace one type of superstitious gobbledeegook, with another set of gobbledeegook. If you are starting to believe in a model that your actual consciousness does not reside in your brain but resides in a spiritual realm, then your beliefs are moving away from atheism and towards ietsism. Maybe you are an Ietsist ($URL$ ;) 

I've read a few of the answers and have to agree that it can be a complex issue. But, I take note of your question. You've asked someone to highlight the main differences between the three. That means avoiding all the various in-depth explanations that cut across political science, sociology, and economics. Disclaimers :P However, before I give you my simple solution I'd like to provide some caveats and assumptions: 

If you're referring to the legal concept, this holds because there are fundamental rights or expectations (in jurisprudence) that apply to people going through a legal process. For example, the right to be heard, the right to a fair trial, etc. These underlying 'rights' are there to ensure that the legal process can operate effectively and are termed natural justice. Unfortunately, it doesn't mean that a legal outcome will be fair and just. Instead it means that a person has been given a fair and reasonable opportunity to state their case, and that the adjudicator (judge, magistrate, or jury) has reasonably considered the evidence before them. If you're referring to either of the other types of natural justice, then I'm afraid I'd have to say no. I don't believe an ethical or moral compass for decency is a natural justice, and I don't believe that the universe (or diety/s) is presiding over our lives :P 

You say: Any argument for humans and other higher order beings having freewill would have to explain at which point in the evolution process does it appear. This is not a valid starting point: What is free will How do you define free-will? When there are two choices for an animal, and it chooses one path over another, is that the exercise of free will? If an animal has advanced methods of calculating the likely outcomes of each choice to independently take the options it feels most beneficial.. is that that definition of free-will? How is free-will measured? How can it be measured in our ancestors when it's impossible to directly observe them? Evolutionary justification The fact we have capacity for free will, the fact that other animals demonstrate a capacity for free will, that clearly shows these things evolved. What matters more for evolutionary thinkers, is understanding WHY we evolved to have free will. For example (hypothetical), if someone told 1000 people to jump off a cliff, but one person with the genes for free will chooses not to jump, that person gets to pass on their genes. Everyone else who jumped off a cliff will not pass on their genes. So the genes that carry free will survive and get passed on. This is an evolutionary explanation. Free will, which we'll define as the ability to recognise alternate options, calculate the most favourable outcome, and then select that favourable option, greatly increased the survivability of those individuals. That is how an evolutionary explanation works. Demonstrating which ancestor it developed, and how many millions of years it ago it arrived, has no bearing on the evolutionary validity of free will. 

We all use words to communicate, hopefully with a standard "unpacking" from symbols to meaning. However words should not be used as a restriction of what can or cannot exist in the mind. Awareness to me, is what your body, sense organs know from your own viewpoint. Consciousness allows an input of that awareness in addition to other people's awareness. If you made a game where a monster made decisions based upon his/her own threat system, it would be acting according to its own awareness. However when it considers the threat system of its own threats, it may make decisions otherwise. In other words, it may have a chance of doubting its own awareness in favor of another awareness, or in the case of partial blindness, increase its own vision beyond what the eyes/ears etc can see. Consciousness is far more complicated than simply processing the outside world, it is a merging of multiple words into one. (Assuming the merge does not have contradictions, one is seeing beyond what one can see and know directly. And in the case of contradictions, this leads to the capacity of disagreement.) Also to note, a conscious object is formed, as a context of learning and is critical to rapid improvement. A conscious object can contain the spatial graph of many three dimensional spaces, forming a kind of invisible (non sensory) 4 dimensional space. One other thing a conscious object can do, is project one's position into a different one, allowing one to imagine what the sensory experience would be if one were to occupy that position. Eventually the conscious makes decisions in a three dimensional space, but this is a kind of quaternion map back down to three dimensions, or a complex number mapping onto a real number (in analogy). Another thing about consciousness is that it appears to allow the input of thought streams of other people (communication) into one's own (communication object) bringing about the concept of symbolism. Why would we have symbols if there wasn't another mind to receive them? Symbols appear to play a conscious role in thought generation outside one's current awareness. Also note, sometimes when we think of emotional pain, we think of social rejection, possible through a conscious view. The more we understand how the brain handles conscious problems, the more we can figure out what we call a "bad conscious" which can increase fear exponentially higher than simple awareness of a threat, aka someone else knows you are afraid at the same time you are afraid. Therefore I think that my fear, related to my awareness, is heightened by others fear, and is experienced as a different kind of thing in the mind. That is to be conscious comes with both its great strengths and menacing daemons. We can also have empathy for other people's awareness. Sentience however to me, is the ability to take in not the thoughts of another (could be wrong) but the thinking of another (could be even wronger) and is far more complicated. Instead of thoughts coming in from different people, we see thought machines instead. We see the conscious of another, that is, the threat is not person A, but person A + B + C + D if an event were to occur, social grouping up on a person for a thought. The conscious can form a social thought police. Sentience however leads to war. The terminators do not see the human's awareness, but their conscious and deem the human race incapable of the necessary brain power to form sentiance, that is the terminators calculate a cruel salvation for man-kind. Another way to think of sentiance is again by refelcting on consciousness, consciousness allows us to override our own awareness, if another's awareness takes priority, aka our pain because another needs us - because the pain for another is calculated as worse pain, we may sacrifice our selves for another. Sentience on the other hand, can override our conscious, because the solution to the conscious problem is deemed poor, it seem extremely cruel. Awareness bubbles up to conscious, and a conscious problem bubbles up to sentience. Sentience solves the moral dilemma of the conscious, but a person who has a bad "sentience" can have a whole new tier of emotional pain, that of evaluating the consciousness of a group and deeming the entire 4 dimensional space as a poor solution to a perceived larger sentient problem. Actually leaders usually must be sentient, because they seem to override people's conscious all the time, and can be seen as even more evil, yet trying to make a larger sensation work. That is they will fire you, despite your conscious of your family because the whole company is suffering. And yes there are layers beyond that, but somehow it is about how we make decisions. A general rule is that when there is more than one of something, we need description for selection, unless nature decides for us. One such other layer, which I think is a diplomatic layer, increases the mind to the point where we can see something like a world war, and realize how destructive it is. It isn't enough to say that someone was hurt (awareness of another in our conscious layer) but the way it also hurts other people, including the person hurting the other (awareness of the conscious results - sentience, we feel somehow about it. More complicated thinking) But the entire war as hurting a larger social fabric, possibly even the world itself. In other words to be diplomatic is a something more complicated than sentience. Not everyone can be diplomatic. A diplomat, might see the general problems in an organization and realize that while it makes sense to fire a man connected to his consciousness, the sentience of the company is connected to the social fabric and produces more negative problems for the company later on. However it has to be going through even more complicated processing.) I would say that the solution of the terminators was not very diplomatic to say the least. 

Intellectual property is a broad and ill-defined notion so I want to be clear what I am talking about. I am not talking about someone taking credit for another's published work, surely authors should get credit. I am not talking about patenting designs of physical objects with immediate commercial use. I am talking about the ownership of abstract information that appears to take place in the arts and sciences. The notion that someone can own information and legally control its use and expression is absurd to me. Example: Walt Disney creates a drawing of "Mickey Mouse" and makes a cartoon of him on film. He controls the mediums in which the information that is "Mickey Mouse" is now stored. He chooses to release these mediums for public view. I view these mediums. The information that is "Mickey Mouse" is now in my psyche. I can choose to paint a painting of information from my psyche that happens to be a derivative of "Mickey Mouse". Under current laws around the world there could be legal repercussions for this. So Disney has partial legal claim to a medium in my immediate possession. Disney also has a legal claim to any such medium that may exist involving " Mickey Mouse" and therefore has legal claim over part of the expression of my psyche. Almost all cases I can think of involving ownership of abstract information require seizing power from individuals over their immediate reality for enforcement. This is oppression. What do philosophers have to say about such matters? What schools of thought are there involving "intellectual property"? Are there any sound ethical arguments behind these types of laws? 

Only one of the two are me. Both of them are me. Meaning the space-time worm that was just one me has now split into a two me's, one in Iowa and one in Florida. Neither is me. 

I am currently watching the Yale open course "Philosophy of Death" with Shelly Kagan. So far he has made the case that there is not good enough reason to believe in the existence of an immaterial soul. Thus everything is now being argued mostly from a physicalist perspective. He is now discussing personal identity, specifically the perspective of personality theory of identity which says Your personality (beliefs, desires, memories etc etc) is what makes you you. Although your personality may change across space-time, the entire continuously connected space-time worm of beliefs, memories, desires, etc etc is your personality and forms your identity. We are presented with roughly the following science-fiction thought-experiment: Imagine I die and a scientist is able to copy the information from my brain that composes my personality and then is able to load (implement) my personality onto the brain of some other dead body, John Smith from Iowa. Certainly "I" would awake with my same (space-time worm of) desires, beliefs and memories but in the body John Smith. Based on the personality theory of identity, this person would be me. Now imagine the scientist loads my personality onto another dead body, Kris Kringle from Florida. Are the person in Iowa and the person Florida both me? We only have three options: 

As there is no reason to logically accept one as me and the other as not, option 1. cannot be the case. Option 2. directly follows from the personality theory of identity as stated above. Kagan immediately dismisses this as absurd and therefore appeals to option 3. (requiring a revision of the personality theory by adding a no-splitting clause). However Kagan does not elaborate on this dismissal. Why dismiss option 2? Edit for further simplification: 1st premise (soundness aside) Personality theory of personal identity: You := your personality (whatever that is) 2nd Premise Your personality is transferable and copiable to different objects in such a way that preserves it. 3rd Premise Your personality has been copied to two different objects A and B. Therefore You are A and you are B. (Option 2 and not option 1 nor option 3) What is wrong with this conclusion? Furthermore, what is so repulsive about the idea in general?