Ontology is not "theory of existence". It is the study of Being. Depending on the ontological paradigm, existence may or may not be equivalent to Being. The dichotomy of existence and essence is an ontological concern, and can be considered to be a part of ontology. Regarding Joseph's answer: Metaphysics is a very general term. Ontology can be considered a branch of metaphysics. It is inappropriate to consider metaphysics the "theory of essence", outside of a very qualified contextual usage. 

Utilitarianism, virtue ethics and deontological ethics draw their justification from consistency with our cultural values and/or intuitions. Kant's categorical imperative is the basis for one of very few moral theories that attempts to derive morality from purely logical means. (It is possibly the only complete theory to do so). It's power comes from its lack of dependence on unsound habits and unjustifiable intuitions. To Kant, an action is morally permissible if and only if its manifestation as a universal is not necessarily contradictory. The result of applying the categorical imperative to moral dilemmas often coincides with our moral intuitions. It could be argued that the "golden rule", (which most people would intuitively consider moral), is a dumbed down version of the categorical imperative. However, the categorical imperative arises out of logical necessity (infallible), whereas the "golden rule" arises out of intuition. The Groundwork is not an easy work to digest. The important thing to understand is that Kant was unsatisfied with a morality that depends on how people feel about things, and sought a morality which could stand on its own logical value. 

You won't find any of Epicurus's "books", because no full books have been preserved. The information we have on him is gathered from letters and fragments. You can get this content from various presocratic anthologies and dedicated collections of Epicurus's work. The Epicurus Reader is a good example of a dedicated collection and contains selected works. The Hellenistic Philosophy book in my comment on your original answer is a great anthology if you are interested in reading work by other Greek philosophers from that general time period. As you might expect, nobody really owns the copyrights for Epicurus' work and you can find his writings freely available online (at places like the links in Michael Dorfman's answer). 

Philosophy requires logic. It is very difficult to even conceive of how an idea could be expressed independently of logic. Most philosophy is written in language that uses logic implicitly, rather than explicitly/formally. The absence of explicit formulas does not entail absence of logic. Nietzsche's work is, at times, an extreme example of expressing logical arguments implicitly. However, this does not entail that his arguments were without logic. As @Joseph Wiessman commented, I think that you will have difficulty substantiating your claim that Nietzsche philosophized without or against logic, without concrete evidence from his work. Nietzsche did denounce formal logic, but: (1) this is different that denouncing logic itself; and, (2) his argument against formal logic was itself dependent on logic. You can read more about that in Stephen D. Hales's paper, Nietzsche on Logic. I think what Nietzsche was getting at is that there is a point at which excessive focus on the granular details of logical deduction is no longer beneficial. You can often arrive at an answer that is good enough, and you don't have to have a formal logical proof to know if an argument is right or wrong. You can, but since a man's time is finite, it is best spent moving forward with the knowledge you have gained rather than validating for the sake of validation. Further, Nietzsche believed in a constant flux, which entails that what may be true at one time is not always true in the future. I consider his views on the subject analogous to Einstein's views on relativity, although Nietzsche's conception was more abstract and conceptual and Einstein's work was mathematical. Since we know from Gödel that Boolean logic can be expressed as an algebraic system and that no axiomatic system can be both consistent and complete, it seems like Nietzsche's views on the limitations of formal logic were very much in line with knowledge we have learned since his death. 

If you are interested in learning about theories of sentience when divorced from their ethical implications, you will benefit from reading about Sellars' distinction between "sentience" and "sapience". This is summarized in section 7 of the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article on Consciousness and Intentionality. 

Descartes's "cogito" can be false, because there are conceivable and logically possible situations where there exists thought and no Self. Below you will find my argument for this contention. It is a paper I wrote for an epistemology class in 2005, entitled "No Cogito". The entire content of the essay is fully copyright protected. Also, some of the formatting was lost copying the text from Word to Markdown, so bare with me and pretend that anything in Latin that isn't in English is in italics. 

Intersubjectivity The analysis and arguments from IEP summarize the approach to the issue in analytic philosophy. [Continental philosophy], specifically phenomenology, addresses this skepticism by introducing the concept of intersubjectivity. Intersubjectivity is based on a phenomenlogical ontology, which "is the study of structures of consciousness as experienced from the first-person point of view". The phenomenological equivalent to "I think, therefore, I am" is "I apprehend myself as a subject of consciousness" (by contrast to an object). Intersubjectivity is basically the apprehension of an Other as a subject (like the self), and its existence is the refutation of solipsism. This refutation requires the acceptance of a phenomenological paradigm. Existentialism (based on phenomenlogical ontology) has sometimes been accused of espousing solipsism. However, Sartre argues that existentialism and solipsism are necessarily incompatible. The most concise and easily digestible instance of this argument can be found in the text of his 1964 talk, Existentialism Is A Humanism. In an effort to "to offer a defence of existentialism against several reproaches that have been laid against it", Sartre describes a common mistake about existentialism as: 

Below, I have included two passages from a paper I wrote in 2008. These passages contain a much more in depth explanation of Aristotelian eudaimonism and Epicureanism, as well as documentation and reference to primary sources. Excerpt from On the Compatibility of Kantian Ethics and Aristotelian Eudaimonism This content is fully copyright protected. The first excerpt is from the section explaining Aristotle's eudaimonism. The unspecified citations that appear refer to Terrence Irwin and Gail Fine's translation of Nicomachean Ethics. The second excerpt is a discussion of Epicureanism in contrast to Aristotelian eudaimonism. On Aristotelian Eudaimonism