You can conceive a universe where usual logic would not work, for instance, a universe where everything you believe or want or fear is true, or a universe where there is no logic, only some constant permanent sensation, but it will not be universe in the usual sense (it would not be possible to describe it in formal language). But if you take the level of the most abstract qualia, you can conceive a qualia flow that would break usual laws of logic. In a sense it would be somewhat similar to a sleeping dream or being under drugs. So, if you consider such deep modification of reality as modifying the basic qualia (and not just changing the physical laws), as a different “universe”, yes, it is possible. In sort, if we consider the universe as some kind of qualia flow, we can construe another flow with different logic. Yet we cannot construe a universe with different logic by just modifying the laws of physics. You should also note that this will require changing not only sensory qualia such as vision, but more subtle ones, involving thinking and memory. 

... ? ... Alright, let's start with the second half: We don't need a specific 'Theory of Reality' because Reality is what all of our scientific theories are trying to describe. Our current 'Theory of Reality' would be: While it may not be definitive (since we obviously don't know everything - if we ever did, science would stop), it's certainly quite comprehensive. Now back to the first half: Consciousness, or the perception thereof. We're at an exciting point in our investigations of the universe. We can honestly and confidently state that we've got a pretty good grasp of the fundamentals: we know the basic forces, we know the basic particles. From these basic concepts we get a lot of emergent behaviour - that is, phenomena that we observe at larger scales that are not apparent at the more minute scale. Physics, chemistry and biology are each very broad areas of study that are built upon or reduce down to each other, and at each level we see emergent properties or behaviours that are not obviously true when zoomed to a different level. There is no reason (other than hubris) to believe that our consciousness is something other than an emergent property of our biology, and plenty of reasons to suspect that it is. We know that different conscious states can be induced through specific chemicals or physical trauma; we know how hideously complicated a neural net can be; we know that there's no evidence for any new forces that could affect a physical object (such as a ghost/spirit driving your body as some separate thing). This is not necessarily a bad or scary conclusion, no more so than the discovery that, at the atomic level, solid objects are mostly empty space. We're not going to suddenly sink through the floor, and we're not going to suddenly stop thinking just because consciousness is emergent biology, biology is emergent chemistry and chemistry is emergent physics. 

It should be noted that there is a chance that can save the free will. A research by Thomas Breuser concluded that neither deterministic, nor indeterministic universally-valid theories are possible. That means that no theory can predict (even probabilistically) the future of a system which contains the observer himself due to self-reference problem. As such it seems that the free will of at least the observer can be saved while all other people will appear to him as following the laws of deterministic or random theory and as such, not possessing free will. Particularly, regarding quantum mechanics Breuer proves that a system which includes the observer has states in phase space which are in principle cannot be distinguished by observer himself however good measurement devices he would employ. Yes these states affect the future evolution of the system. This can be understood as that there is hidden information which real but unreadable by any physical device which affects the future behavior of the observer. 

The weak anthropic principle essentially states that when we observe the universe, we have 100% probability of observing a universe in which it is possible for humans to exist - because we already know that we do. If the universe is such that it is impossible for humans to exist, we obviously wouldn't be here to do the observing! This is sometimes important to remember when we're observing the universe that we're in - just because it is impossible for humans to observe a universe filled with 'Smergs'1 instead of galaxies doesn't mean that the alternate universe is impossible, just unobservable. Sometimes the answer, unsatisfying as it may be, to the question of 'Why do we observe the universe to be like this?' is that it's impossible for humans, specifically, to be in that different universe. So that said, Lee Smolin's mistake comes in at point #2. Smolin states: 

I think the answer to your question also depends on the definition of 'Falling' as well as the definition of 'Bottomless Pit'. If endless free-fall is your goal, pretty much any ol' orbit will do. You will be constantly falling, but barring a chance collision with an object whose orbit crosses your own at just the right time you would never collide with another solid object. If you want to be falling INTO an identifiable something, rather than simply being in free-fall at any arbitrary point of open space, see Joseph Neathawk's answer regarding black holes. If by 'pit' we mean something with physical walls surrounding the falling object, not just open space or a gravity well, we still have a few other options. One of the things to remember with a question like this is that there is no preferred 'down' in the universe - there's only 'away/towards' some other reference object. 

You are right. There is a part of universe which cannot be measured. The impossibility to measure this "last particle's" properties is known as subjuctive (de)coherence. In simple words, the observer can measure everything except himself. In each system that includes the observer there are states which the observer cannot distinguish however means he employs. You can see it as if the states were functions of themselves. This fact holds for any physical theory, but in quantum theory it is stronger than in classical. For more detailed information, refer to this paper: $URL$ 

We know that we can see distant galaxies only billions years before now. We can observe the nearest stars just several years before the present. Something on the Moon can be observed only some seconds in the past. Continuing this scale, is there an object in the universe that can be observed just now, at present, or at least closer to the present than any other object? I suppose such object should be located in the brain of the observer, but where in the brain exactly, given that brain has finite dementions. The question can be formulated differently: where exactly is located the center of the sphere of the cosmological event horizon for a given observer? 

The base position in a scientific endeavour is that we don't assume something to exist (or to have some specific attribute) until we have some reason to think that it does - i.e., evidence to support it. So yes: atheism is both scientific and supported by the current body of evidence. If you can design a proper experiment and collect data that casts doubt on the current atheistic conclusion, go for! Just know that your god-concept will not only have to explain your own experimental results but also the decades of null results. 

The short answer is: We cannot. Assuming that we humans have finite powers of perception, it is impossible to distinguish a being that exactly fills our perception window from one that extends beyond it. For example: 

So for human beings to be able to observe galaxies, humans need to 1) exist (to do the observing) and 2) galaxies need to exist (to be observed). If humans can't exist without galaxies, then anything that disrupts galaxy formation will thwart us humans from doing the observing right at that first step. Thus, once we have proved the necessity of galaxies for human existence we can conclude that the cosmological constant must be in the range of values that allow galaxies to form, thanks in part to the weak anthropic principle. 

Yes, you correctly pointed to the research by Breuer. In short, his result shows that it is mathematically impossible to predict own future, even if otherwise the universe is deterministic. Whatever you do to predict the future of a system where you are contained, your calculations will give a wrong result. 

It should be noted though that van Inwagen failed to consider a third option. A research by Thomas Breuer concluded that neither deterministic, nor indeterministic universally-valid theories are possible. That means that no theory can predict (even probabilistically) the future of a system which contains the observer himself due to self-reference problem. As such it seems that the free will of at least the observer can be saved while all other people will appear to him as following the laws of deterministic or random theory and as such, not possessing free will. Particularly, regarding quantum mechanics Breuer proves that a system which includes the observer has states in phase space which are in principle cannot be distinguished by observer himself however good measurement devices he would employ. Yet these states affect the future evolution of the system. This can be understood as that there is hidden information which real but unreadable by any physical device which affects the future behavior of the observer. 

ORIGINAL ANSWER Your quoted definition and subsequent question hinge on the answer to one specific (unstated) question: Are humans designed? If humans are the products of deliberate design, either humans are artifacts or (if we're sufficiently uncomfortable with that classification) the definition of artifacts needs to be revisited/revised. If humans are not designed, we cannot be artifacts. Fortunately for our egos, all evidence points to human beings being a current result of evolution, not of design (intelligent or otherwise). Intelligent Design Creationists have put a lot of money and effort into spreading misinformation, and a full takedown of all their claims would be to create an entire website dedicated to cataloging and rebutting ID claims. Such an undertaking is beyond the scope of a stackexchange.com answer, but fortunately others have already taken the time and effort to do most of the work for us already. With your edit, you add: 

Ah. Short answer: No, and a solid argument for the opposite. ASSUMPTIONS: First, by secular argument I assume that you mean one that does not include magic - i.e., that relies only on what we know of the physical universe, how it works, and some reasonable extrapolation from there into areas where the results aren't in yet. Second, be aware that you are taking as a given that something called a 'soul' exists. While the nature and properties of 'soul' are not well defined, I will assume for the sake of argument that by 'soul' we can mean 'some core aspect of self'. Third, we must assume that the 'soul' has some effect on/control of our minds/bodies while we are alive in order to meaningfully represent 'us'. This should follow fairly obviously from the second assumption, but it is a critical consideration to keep in mind. Fourth, in order for a soul to carry that core aspect of self into the future postmortem, we must assume the soul pre-death is largely the same as the soul post-death. 

In Russia there is a term "destructive sect" or "destructive cult". While many new religions often get labeled as such, there are people who are trying to give a strict definition of a "destructive sect". Particularly, some of the following criteria were suggested: 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

Human rights are not absolutes. Rather, they're our best attempt at expressing and codifying the golden rule. They are as imaginary as other ideals, laws, guidelines and best-practices - so again, whether they exist or not/are imaginary or not will depend on whether your definitions include other abstract concepts. Logically, it makes sense for humans to treat each other respectfully (so that we are treated respectfully in turn) and to protect vulnerable segments of our population (so that we too are protected during times of vulnerability). Scientifically, we can show that the ideals expressed by the golden rule translate to happier people and improved productivity and quality of life - and assuming those are values we collectively agree on, we can continue to study ways to improve the situation for as many as we can. 

Yes, in exactly the same way that law exists - that is, as a social construct that we human beings have come together to (mostly) agree upon. Declarations of human rights are living documents, in that they are open to interpretation when conflicts arise and are subject to change as we refine the language used to express the ideals behind them. Codes of human rights (or lack thereof) help shape the world, or at least in the places and aspects where humans spend the most time. If you mean 'exists' purely in a physical sense, then no - you'll never be able to pick up a Human Right and chew on it. Human rights are (often codified) ideas, and like other ideas exist in a more abstract manner. At its most basic, the social contract (explicit or implied) that we human beings have with one another implies there is some set of rules we should all follow. There are many different possible social rulesets, many at odds with each other. The concept of human rights forms the basis of one possible ruleset that takes fair treatment of all human beings as a core concept. In other words, human rights exist because we humans created them - in much the same way that art, music and philosophy exist because humans created those, too.