Should you not get any information on this person (even the information allowing you doing some research), be honest about it and ask them to tell something about themselves. You can do the same. 

Perhaps this is the reason for the meeting - to see whether this consultant is suitable for your problem? Do you have the name of this person? Can you Google/LinkedIn them? 

This way you won't mix irrelevant activities into your professional resume while keeping company A on your resume. 

One of the pitfalls in such a meeting is directly jumping to the problem the person is supposed to solve. You then tend to omit the human-level interaction. What greatly helps (and some consultants are taught to) is to build trust with the cooperant in the beginning, clear the air with even some chit-chat. Once it is achieved, the talks go much smoother. Long story short - treat this person as a human being, not as a problem-solving machine. If you get the click, you'll go a long way. If not, you can still achieve your goal, but it will be rough and bumpy. 

Why don't you have some sections on your resume, like "occupational experience" where you state company B, and later on something like "other activities / voluntary work" where you state company A, giving the time frames of the activities you performed. For someone doing an extensive background check this would seem as: 

Please take this F-16 and transport 500 People 2000 Miles away tonight. If you can't, that means F-16 is slow! Yeah right! That's the logic your boss is using. If transporting 500 people is so important to him, he should charter an airliner, if he refuses to do that and F-16 fails to do what he wants that doesn't make that F-16 bad. Find the most hardworking dump truck ( 10 Ton) driver ever and ask him to shift a mine load of coal (300 T) overnight in 5 runs 100 miles away otherwise you'll lose a deal; You sure will! Your boss is trying to use a Serial cable for Parallel output expectations, It's his fault his headache to deal with. If a boss is not willing to provide adequate resources to get the job done its him to blame regardless of what you're told. If the deals were so important, he should have arranged to gather enough resources to get it done. You can't go to moon on even the best helicopter in the whole world. It's his management that will cause the loss, not your work. Such a company is bound to go under, today or tomorrow, with or without you. Don't sweat. 

Note that employee shares can typically be beneficial from a financial point of view, but that you are putting all eggs in 1 basket. So if the company goes down the drain and you lose your job, this is likely at a time when the share value is also not strong. 

Create a password that is practically impossible to remember Give this to someone that you trust with it (For instance because they already have a way to access your account anyway). Whenever a colleague needs to work, let the trustee enter the password. 

Therefore, my answer would actually be: You are presented with a classical challenge, step back and decide how you want to deal with this. Options 

In the worst case he can get upset and tell 'your secret', but if he gets hired it is likely a matter of time before this comes out anyway. (And then people might start to gossip about how he got in.) If you get confronted with the situation, do not apologize or try to build a case based on 'detailled but soft judgement' but just stick to something like: 

It is of course possible to find ways around these measures, but unless someone is willing to make an effort it should practically stop curious colleagues. 

Ask your boss if there is/will be an NDA signed before the meeting. If so, you can share sensitive information. 

As I have been in similar situation, I can tell you what I've done then. If the offer seemed reasonable (work environment, industry branch, commute time) I had attended the interview, provided that it hadn't collided with my then current work and other tasks. I gained quite some interview experience, I also got an idea on what the employers (in most cases they were intermediaries) expect from software developers. After some time I knew that my situation was not that bad as I thought and possible gains of switching to the new employer would not pay off the effort of leaving the current (suddenly leaving the on-going projects, changing the retirement plan and insurances, etc. and starting off at the new project). Still, I managed to slightly grow my network, which paid off later. There is a saying in the country where I live - the neighbour's lawn is always greener. The offers you receive now may seem great on paper, but once you go through an interview, you get completely different point of view. But if you don't, you keep on living with the idea of much better position (though unverified) elsewhere. TL;DR; If you have time and feel like, attend the interviews (provided you don't sacrifice your current responsibilities). If you are happy with what you have now and you're not looking for a change, respond with "Thank you for your offer. I'm not interested in new challenges at the moment. Should my situation change, I'd gladly reach out to you." 

Be honest, but consider the easy way out It may be very simple: If you now ensure that you have other obligations on that day, you can mention them when people ask whether you may join. Unless they really dig, or focus on the causality, you can avoid awkwardness without a single lie. 

Yes it is acceptable, but that does not matter As you can see from the other answers, as a normal employee it is acceptable to quit at pretty much any time for pretty much any reason, however consider the following: 

This hopefully helps you to work on short and long term stuff in a good proportion. Even if it does not, then at least it moves the responsibility for the long term stuff off your shoulders. 

Before bringing this up make sure to consider how you feel about who should be paying for the cab in that scenario. In some companies getting money for a cab can be normal, in others it can be unthinkable. 

Recommendation: Preempt the question whether it is quick This process is mostly inefficient for short questions (as a significant percentage of time that it takes to answer the question, gets spent on introduction instead). Therefore I trained myself to get in the habit of phrasing things as such: 

That might serve as one of the reasons why you shouldn't try to be indispensable for any certain position at work 

Listen to this guy. 10 years from now on you will be thinking fondly of his advice and will be regretting not paying heed. In the present you are fresh, energetic, eager to work as fast as you can but slowly you will tend to find less energy to keep up the pace over the years. There will be a day you will start thinking I can take it a little easy I don't have to do everything yesterday but by that time you would already have gained reputation for getting things done yesterday and you will have to keep the pace up even when you don't feel up to it. I don't know or care about the motives of this person for telling you to slow down, but the advice itself is very good. Send me back 15 years I would take it. 

Set the alarm after the regular office time is over. Everyone who stays in office after that and has to go out must disable the alarm and then set it again before leaving. Following this protocol will ensure the alarm is always set and there is no guesswork involved whether someone else is still in the building or not. Yes it is a little extra hassle for everyone to do it but it ensures its set always. Neither does it cost you an extra dime nor does it rely on guesswork. 

Perhaps he could/should have expected them, but didn't actuactually think about it or just did not expect it. If you think this might be the case, you may still want to tell him what to do, but do realize that he will think you are asking unreasonable things. Perhaps he expected certain things when he signed, but now changed his mind. This is especially likely if he did not get travel requests for a while, or if you have been very accomodating in finding workarounds. The 'gift' that he got, may have been transformed into a 'right'. If you think that this has occurred, it might be a good idea to sit down with him and go over the basics of his responsibilities, before adding more emotions into the discussion. As some answers point out, perhaps this is not your problem. If you are not in a position/or do not have the desire to tell him to do his job, consider escalating. Depending on the tactfullness of your superiors this may sour the relation between you and the employee, so it is not a silver bullet. As other answers also pointed out: Is it really a problem? If you don't see any good scenarios play out if you take action, consider working around the problem and just burden his colleagues a bit more. Note that the further you go this way, the harder it is to go back. Basically you confirm to him that his priviliges have become rights and that you are willing to tolerate this kind of inconvenience from him.