I recently discovered (via a friend) that relative to size, kiwi's produce the world largest egg. I also found out that when the egg does hatch, the chick is practically an adult in its own sense. This made me wonder, could there be a species that never grows in size? To my knowledge this is rather unlikely, but theoretically it could be possible. Could a species come into being that does not grow (barring puberty)? How could such a species evolve and what would its evolution be? 

Now how you're going to keep a bat this size alive is another manner as it will need to almost always be eating food very high in calories and fat, but I'll let you save that for another question. 

We see a lot of movies and books with humans(or near human creatures) that live for hundreds of years. I've seen numbers for long lasting human ranged from 150 all the way up to 7000( and I'm sure that number is higher). Lets say I want to make an average human live for 200 years. What changes need to be met to allow this to work. 

Let's say that the most powerful nations on Earth (with a couple hundred billionaires) have decided to build a generation ship. The reason for them leaving is out of the scope of this question, but there are a few things you need to know: 

The Sleipnir is a Creepy Crawly The worlds fastest spider, The giant house spider, can run at speeds of almost 2 feet a second. Scaling this up we can assume that a spider the size of a horse would be able to run 177 miles an hour! 

We all like hexapods, from the Centaur to the Griffin. A large problem with the realism of the hexapodal body plan is that there are not many reasons for a creature to have them and is still worth the energy they put into using them. What evolutionary benefits does a vertebral animal gain for having a hexapodal body plan? 

Hippo's are one of natures most efficient food > weight animals, making them perfect for food. Additionally they are arguably the most dangerous land mammal, meaning they are hard to domesticate, very very hard. This, more so than other reason, is why they have never been successfully domesticated. But what if this wasn't the case? What can I do to make my culture able to domesticate the hippopotamus? If there is something that can be done, what is the earliest it can be done? If it cannot, how close can I get? 

No, sorry. France has always wanted the Rhine as either part of them or a protectorate of them. France even wanted a French protectorate after World War 1 in our timeline! 

In a world I am building, gods exist; they are extremely powerful, omnipresent and active. While thinking up some larger scale empires for the world, I realized that their gods would be so powerful that a theocracy would be the best government by default, whether it be under a God-Emperor or a High Priest. The problem is I still want other forms of government to be viable. How can non-theocracies exist in worlds with powerful active gods? 

Why would a creature that lives on the surface of a planet evolve limbs that can bend at many points (like a tentacle or elephant trunk) and still end in some sort of hand-like appendage? 

I imagine as long as it would take for blood to dry, half an hour-hour. A study published in the International Journal of Legal Medicine reported that a blood drop on a hard surface in a typical indoor setting at 20 degrees Celsius is completely dry in 60 minutes. Increasing the temperature to 24 degrees Celsius reduces the drying time to only 30 minutes. For Dummies says that deoxygenated blood enters the right atrium of the heart during circulation, at which point it is forced through the pulmonary valve and into the pulmonary artery. Here, the deoxygenated blood travels through the pulmonary artery to the lungs where it receives oxygen and becomes oxygenated blood again. From here, the process starts all over again, and the oxygenated blood leaves the pulmonary artery to bring oxygen to the cell membranes once more. 

Checkpoints have been a staple of video games for decades and are almost as old as video games themselves, but how? These little tiny features have made a huge difference in the way we play games, allowing us to restart at a fair point or reload a checkpoint if we so desire. How, using science, not magic, can I explain the existence of these leaps through time? 

Gliding is a relatively simple trait to explain in a species' evolution, much quicker than flight or becoming aquatic. But what environments support an animal in the evolution to flight? For example, are redwood forests better than jungles? Are mountains better than mesa? What environmental features help support the evolution of gliding? 

Our forces have surrounded the modern city of Vale; a large metropolis of over 5 million citizens who all have decided to try and rebel against us and form their own country. The city has large dams and industrial cattle farms; food and water are not concerns, nor is power as the city also uses the dams for water. In order to make an example of this kind of naughty behavior our king has decided to destroy the city. Before a heavy assault besieges the city, the king has decided to first send in a squad of 50 of his highest trained soldiers to do as much chaos as possible to the city first in order to cause as much chaos as possible. He has given them a budget of 10 million dollars and 3 months, they need to cause as much chaos to the Vale rebellion as possible. What actions can these soldiers do in the 3 months to cause the most mayhem? There are a few things to consider; 

I can see such a thing existing theoretically, but only because sugar is a type of crystal, such a creature would be very small, no larger than a mouse and would use its sail to store excess sugars, energy. These crystals would likely grow around long quills and theoretically speaking, a few quills could point up on their back. 

Well obviously you bath in rivers, if you can't even slow down for a bath, then you wade through the river along your path. sores, most commonly canker sores, will be uncomfortable but will go away on their own in a week or two, if not then a swig and spit of salt water will help. As for other miscellaneous issues you may encounter, simply pick up a copy of herbal medicines or survival guides for the area, they will likely contain information about how to fix infections and the like with natural supplies. 

Is the Quadcopter realistic? If not, what do I have to do to make it feasible? Why would a military use it over its counterparts? 

This follows from the blood test statement in Step 1. Imagine a new sensitive blood test which identifies your country of birth. The countries will small populations ike Andorra are the rare blood types, while the larger countries - any which have a population over 10 million - are the common blood types. STEP 3: Now imagine humans have already colonised other planets such as Mars. These colonies are just like new countries, except a little further away. So in line with step 2, we must conclude that: 

With Pokemon GO-ing viral, it only makes sense to write a question about the iconic game. Let's say that somehow, scientists decided that the Professor Oak style of research (giving a kid a pokedex and telling them to "Catch them all") was the way to go, they choose little 10 year old Billy, give him the new biodex and tell him to take a photo of all animal species on Earth. Does little Billy have a hope of ever completing the Biodex? If he does, how many years will it take him? 

They don't have gunpowder. In an Alternate History Hub video about gunpowder, or the lack there of, he points out that without gunpowder for bombs and cannons, walls around a city is still a good strategy. You can still have your world have advanced knowledge of chemistry, physics, medicine and mathematics. The can have democracies and vehicles, but without gunpowder to make things go boom, walled cities (basically a large castle) are still a great defensive strategy. 

During the medieval era of our world, weapons were getting pretty complex, but then gunpowder become commonplace and warfare was reduced to pulling a trigger. During the later end of this period, semi-automatic crossbows were being designed and used by the Chinese. Could a ballistic weapon be designed in the medieval era that is capable of fully automatic fire? 

In many sci fi games we see vehicles (or in halo 4 and 5 guns) that use hover technology. But how using technology that is scientifically realistic could we explain military grade hover technology? By hover I mean that when it is turned on the vehicle will hover off of the ground by around 1-2 feet. 

These are things that will be commonly looted but each group is unique. If there is a baby(or pregnant person) in the group then they will loot baby food and diapers. If someone has a limp they will loot walker or wheelchairs. If there is a sick person then they will loot more specific medicines. Not to mention that the kind of apocalypse will effect what they loot. 

The Governments have become desperate and are willing to spend whatever it takes to bring Alexander into custody. They do not want to kill Alexander, they just want to bring him into custody. The solution cannot result in any human casualties. 

In 1846, following reports of the annexation of Texas to the United States, settlers in inland Northern California formed an army and declared independence there as the California Republic. At the same time, the United States and Mexico had gone to war, and forces of the United States Army and Navy entered into Alta California and overpowered the Mexican garrison and Alta Californian militia units. The forces of the California Republic abandoned their independence and assisted the United States forces after their arrival. The California Republic was never recognized by any nation, and existed for less than one month, but theoretically speaking it could be independent. It has access to the ocean and plenty of land;