I bought this Pearl Izumi for 60$ and surprised now to see it almost twice as expensive. Just find a sale with a good discount. Considering that jacket, the hood is large to fit helmet, but without helmet it's much too loose. Also the hood looks ugly when not worn and just hangs on the back. Also you may consider wearing cycling poncho. I didn't like that hood on my poncho prevents me from looking backwards, but for off-road use it's not such a big deal as on roads with traffic. Since ponchos are made from non-breathable material they are cheap and sturdy compared to membrane jackets. 

I know aero bars are considered unsafe for peloton, does this extend to disc brakes whose rotors can be hot and sharp? I'm not talking about races, just casual training rides: is it reasonably safe for others in the group? 

I'm going to build a training road wheelset for my touring bike. I wonder what should be criteria for choosing hubs and rims and spokes. I'd prefer cheaper options as long as they are durable and not too heavy. Hubs: which are considered serviceable as opposed to disposable? And which require relatively little maintenance? My bike has 135mm rear dropouts, so I need MTB rear hub, but for front - search for MTB or road? Rims: there are many budget models with slight variations in weight and strength. I'd like to find one with maximum ratio, but how can I estimate the strength? Say, AlexRims DA22 is advertised as butted but it weights same as 1.5x cheaper Mach1 non-butted rims. Is butted any better if it's not lighter? 

There is a lot of good information about this here. One paragraph from the article outlines the basic idea of this: 

It goes on to explain the different types of technologies (with some links to scientific information) used in bike helmets. While your helmet survived all the falls, it was most likely offering you less and less protection from the falls. 

I'm fairly new to mountain biking and I was able to put in around 900 miles on my first set of brake pads on my Giant Anthem X2. At that point they started grinding metal on metal. I went and bought new Shimano pads (I have Shimano brakes) and after only 100 or so miles one of the front ones has already worn out. The last time I rode the bike was in rain and mud so I'm not sure if that contributed to it. How long do the brake pads typically last? Is there something else going on? 

The answer depends on the cyclist. Some cyclists are mashers and some are spinners. You are a masher if: - Lower cadence (70-80 RPM on flats) - More time standing on the climbs You are a spinner if: - Higher cadence (80-100 RPM on flats) - More time sitting on climbs I personally used to be a masher until I started mountain biking in the off-season. Now I'm more of a spinner. I think the way to become a better spinner is to learn to climb at a higher cadence. This is a lot easier to do if you have a cadence sensor on your bike, otherwise you are going more by feel. But it seems the approach is to stand up in a lower gear to get your speed up and then downshift and sit. It should tax your heart more than your legs if you are spinning. I think these same concepts apply to your other scenarios as well. NOTE: There is nothing wrong with being a masher either. Joe Friel suggests doing the same climb twice with the same conditions. Once with lower cadence and once with high cadence. You might be faster and more efficient as a masher. 

From my limited experience, soft tires feel more bouncy than hard ones, with same pressure. That is, if you lift and drop front side of unloaded bike, with soft rubber on front wheel it will jump like a bouncy ball (kind of). But with hard rubber it'll jump more like badly inflated football/basketball (at low pressure) or like a sack of potatoes (at high pressure). Other things being equal (size, tread, pressure), do you think soft rubber tire will provide better suspension than hard rubber? EDIT: made a test with Schwalbe CX Comp (soft) vs some Vee Rubber harder compound tire (same width) - dropped front side of unloaded bike from a small height. CX Comp definitely feels more bouncy and jumps more silently. But actually maybe they bounce with same rebound, since it's hard to measure precisely. 

(as long as pizza box is smaller than your handlebars). Plastic bag with pizza box is hanged on hoods, and the bottom is supported by shifter cables. If you don't have a plastic bag around your pizza you can hold it with your hands. You may somehow adapt the method for bullhorns and time trial bars. For flat bars you can hang the plastic bag straps on bars and put the rest on the stem. EDIT: Yes, this method isn't the safest for you and pizza if you want to employ it on regular basis. But it makes perfect sense for me as an ad hoc way to carry a pie from the nearest pizzeria. I only tested it on 5-minute ride with cheap thick-crust pizza, and it was in perfect condition when I opened the box. 

My Top Peak Joe Blow floor pump has been getting harder and harder to pump. I bought the high end model so that my 94 lb wife could pump up her own tires, but it has gotten to the point where I can barely get my own tires to 110 psi. Is there some maintenance that I'm supposed to be doing on the pump? I found a rebuild kit online, is that the ticket to making it work better? 

I had this happen to me a few weeks ago. I was on a downhill going very fast and caught up to two horses faster than I expected. I just slowed down when I was about 100 feet away and the horses heard me coming. They reacted just a little and so they riders looked back and saw me waiting. They both stopped and waved me to pass them. They both laughed when I went on the very far side of the trail since I didn't want to get kicked. :) I'm actually looking into getting a bike bell for my MTB for riders and horses. 

As some of the other comments have mentioned I got started by putting the rollers in a doorway and using that to get up on the rollers. Once I got the basic feel of it I moved the rollers to a spot where there was a full length mirror in front of me and put chairs on the side. The full length mirror was really helpful because I could look forward and see where my tires were on the rollers. I could see when I was drifting over to the side. Another helpful tip is to put lots of pillows around for when you fall. It isn't a question of if, it is a question of when. :)