So, to answer your questions. 1. Why are Vikings singled out for raids in Britain and Ireland when records may indicate most raids were by local rulers? While this is certainly true for Ireland, there is no evidence to suggest that "most raids were by local rulers" elsewhere in the British Isles. For the rest of the British Isles, it seems that Vikings were singled out for raids because it was actually the Vikings who were carrying out those raids! 2. Has there been a similar analysis of the Anglo-Saxon chronicles which will back up M & H Whittock's assertion that "We should not expect anything different for Anglo-Saxon England", and has there been any statistical analysis of the Frankish chronicles? There doesn't seem to be any evidence in the Anglo-Saxon chronicles for the seventh, eighth and ninth centuries to support that assertion. I'm not aware of any statistical analysis of the Frankish Chronicles for this period, but I couldn't find any evidence to support the assertion there either. Furthermore, the quote from M & H Whittock's book in regard to Abbot Aldhelm seems to be rather misleading in that context, as discussed above. I'm not at all convinced that the assertion stands up to scrutiny. 3. The statistics refer to raids on ecclesiastical sites. Is there any indication in the chronicles / annals as to whether non-ecclesiastical sites were more or less likely to be attacked by Vikings than by local rulers? For the most part, outside of Ireland, "Viking" attacks on non-ecclesiastical sites are rarely recorded in the rest of the British Isles in ninth century chronicles or annals. Bear in mind that the term "Viking" actually meant something like "raider" or "pirate". Clearly, Viking raiders would tend not to attack well-defended, or fortified sites. However, these sites might very well be targeted by local rulers intent on expanding their territories. Outside of monasteries, high-value items were likely to be held in well-defended, fortified sites, so Viking raids targeted monasteries for their wealth, and smaller undefended settlements for slaves. We have nothing in the chronicles to suggest that local rulers attacked monasteries, or that they raided neighbouring Christian kingdoms to capture slaves. When the Norse armies begin to arrive with a view to conquest, the term "Viking" is no longer really appropriate. It is at this point that we do begin to see attacks on non-ecclesiastical sites appearing in the chronicles. However, this is a very different situation from that in Ireland, where there are a number of Norse coastal settlements, but where there was never a concerted effort to conquer the island. 

which is transliterated as "htp-di-nsw" and translated as "an offering that the king gives". Although "nswt" is often read simply as "King", strictly speaking we should perhaps think of the title as "King of Upper Egypt" (i.e. the Nile Valley). Another title given to the King was "nsw-bity" () which literally means "lord of the sedge and the bee" and which we usually translate as "King of Upper and Lower Egypt" (i.e. the Nile Valley and the Nile delta). Another title which was given to Egyptian kings was "nb-twy" () which we translate as "Lord of the two-lands", again referring to upper and lower Egypt. In modern usage, however, people tend to use the term "Pharaoh" for ancient Egyptian kings of all periods. 

Following the attacks on Pearl Harbor, the United States government introduced internment camps for Japanese-American civilians in many states. Between 110,000 and 120,000 American citizens of Japanese ancestry were effected. They were motivated to do so by the fear of fifth-columns acting against the US on behalf of Japan. 

Sources Brinker, Ute, et al: The Bronze Age battlefield in the Tollense Valley, Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, Northeast Germany – Combat marks on human bones as evidence of early warrior societies in northern Middle Europe?, in the Proceedings of the XVII UISPP World Congress, volume 9, 2014 Brown, Tony: The Bronze Age climate and environment of Britain, in Bronze Age Review, Volume 1, November 2008, pp7-22 Curry, Andrew: Slaughter at the bridge: Uncovering a colossal Bronze Age battle, Science, 24 March 2016 Jantzen, Detlef, et al: A Bronze Age battlefield? Weapons and trauma in the Tollense Valley, north-eastern Germany, Antiquity 85 (2011), pp417-433 

EDIT One further source that has interesting source material and analysis that you might find useful is Lt. Col. John Larkins' An Historical Analysis of Port & Beach Operations in the European Theatre of Operations WW2, published by the US Army War College in 1983. Of particular interest is the discussion of the challenges experienced in opening the Channel ports to Allied re-supply operations. 

You can read much more detail in the record of the debates on the Marshall Plan in the US Congress in the Congressional Record of the 80th Congress (further volumes are also available on archive.org). This includes the observations and opinions of the senate members, which are particularly appropriate in the context of your question. There is a useful overview of the Congressional Record (and its predecessor publications) which may help you understand the structure of the publication. 

The penalty handed down to Oakey Ferguson in this case of "one year on road" meant serving a year working in a NC road gang. As I understand it, Fornication and Adultery remains an offence (actually a Class 2 misdemeanour) on the statute books in North Carolina. [If you happen to live in North Carolina today, and you are thinking about dating before you are legally divorced, basic legal advice is available from a number of websites.] 

[Arnold, 1996, p107] There are suggestions that the crown may be based on the Blue Crown of the king, or perhaps on an earlier version found in representations of Queen Tiye (wife of Amenhotep III and mother of Akhenaten). Tiye can be seen portrayed as a sphinx wearing that headdress in a relief from the Nubian site of Sedeinga and also on a carnelian bracelet plaque in The Metropolitan Museum of Art [Arnold, 1996, p107]. 

Now, most popular books on Egyptology will tell you this should be pronounced as "e" or "i" or "j". The truth is far more complex. One of the most common offering inscriptions from ancient Egypt is the, so called, "htp di nsw" offering formula. From the Middle Kingdom onwards this would take a form similar to: 

For your two examples. We know that Sumerian had an immense influence on the Semitic language Akkadian. Because Akkadian was a Semitic language, and we have a wealth of data about how related Semitic languages were pronounced, we can therefore deduce (by applying the regular sound laws) a reasonable approximation of how Akkadian would have been pronounced. Taking that back one step further, we can then use that best guess at Akkadian to approximate how we think Sumerian would have been pronounced. Happily, there are no ancient Sumerians around today to tell us we're wrong! 

As I observed in my comment above, this article on French Mapping of New York and New England goes a long way to explaining the situation in the years and decades before the Seven Years' War. 

Opiates were certainly very prevalent in the Eastern Mediterranean in antiquity. The earliest written source that I know of is Hesiod's Theogony, where Prometheus is supposed to have tried to use poppy juice to drug Zeus at the city of Mekonê ("poppy town") near Corinth. The earliest use of opiates that I'm aware of in Europe dates to the Bronze Age. On Crete, excavations of what appear to be "shrines" dating to the Minoan Post-Palace period (1,400 - 1,100BCE) have discovered figurines that Professor Spyridon Marinatos described as the "Poppy Goddess". A careful examination of the poppies confirms that they were the shape and colour of the opium poppy [S. Marinatos, 'The Minoan goddesses of Gazi', Journal of Archaeology (Greece) 1937, Vol. I, pp. 278-291]. The British Museum holds a number of small Cypriot base-ring jugs which have been dated to the Bronze Age and which are shaped like inverted poppy seed pods. This type of jug has been found in excavations across the Eastern Mediterranean. An archaeologist named Robert Merrillees suggested that the shape of the jug might have been a form of advertisement for its contents, and that the drug might have been exported across the region from Cyprus. Residue analyses carried out on one of the jars in the British Museum collection did, in fact, detect traces of opiates which appeared to confirm Merrillees' theory. However, subsequent analyses from other jugs excavated in the region failed to detect any evidence of opiates, and it has been suggested that the confirmed case was a result of the re-use of the jar. One note of caution though. Even if the use of opiates was fairly widespread in the Eastern Mediterranean in the Bronze age (and the evidence is inconclusive), we cannot be certain to what extent they were taken recreationally. The use of opiates for pain relief is fairly well known, but I also remember that my tutor (who was a big fan of the Minoan culture on Crete) was keen to point out that opiates can also be used as as an anti-diarrhoeal drug, and that (at that time) only one of the Cypriot poppy jugs had been found on Crete. (She also pointed out that the Minoan sites on Crete and Santorini appear to have had toilets connected to sewers with running water to dispose of the waste, and invited us to draw our own conclusions). However, if the drug was widely available, then it is hard to believe that it wouldn't have been taken recreationally.