I doubt that the sunk-cost fallacy was a major reason why the Concorde project was pursued for so long (approved by the UK government 1962, entered commercial service 1976). Any "emotional impact on British citizens" that it was feared cancellation would cause would more likely have been due to a loss of national prestige (this was a time when many in Britain still - unrealistically - thought of their country as a great power). An account of the project (Myddelton They Meant Well: Government Project Disasters pp 107-127) identifies the following factors which may have contributed to decisions at various times to keep the project going (see especially Conclusion p 127): 

If explanation consists in identifying causal factors and assessing their importance, much depends on how far back - in time, and in links in a causal chain - one is trying to go. If one looks for the proximate causes of differences in levels of economic development, considering only current or recent factors, then explanations in terms of inherited physical and human capital are likely to play a central role, with governance and cultural factors also important. Geography also plays a role, especially in enriching countries with large oil reserves, and acting as a constraint on development in regions of water scarcity. If one seeks to trace the causal chain much further back, then a case can be made that the role of geography becomes much more important. In his book Guns, Germs and Steel, Jared Diamond argues that the more advanced development of Eurasia relative to other parts of the world can be largely explained in terms of what can broadly be described as geographical factors. However, the factors he describes are not simple. He refers for example to the distributions of plant and animal species suitable for domestication, to the distributions of diseases, and - in respect of Europe's development in the mediaeval and early modern period - to the effects of geography favouring a division into relatively small nation-states, with the resulting competition providing a spur to development. Even if not every detail of his argument is persuasive, he makes a strong case overall that geographical factors should play a major role in very long-term explanations of differences in development. 

The supply of chips will probably decrease, although the situation is a bit more complicated than you describe. The subsidy will tend to increase demand for corn by ethanol producers, both existing producers expanding production and new producers entering the industry. Increased demand for corn for ethanol production may have two effects: 

You are right to be sceptical of this statement. Let's take it step by step. Will developments in biotechnology increase world food production? Almost certainly yes, provided other things are equal. But the reality is that other things are not equal. Climate change is likely, other things being equal to reduce agricultural productivity in some parts of the world. Whether the positive effect of biotechnology will more than offset the negative effect of climate change is unclear. If world food production increases, will prices of agricultural products fall? Not necessarily. Demand for food is rising due to rising population and to rising incomes in much of the world. Again, the net effect (of rising supply and rising demand) is unclear. If agricultural prices fall, could this increase hunger for some people? Yes, this is certainly possible. Those most at risk would be people in poor countries who have relied on farming for their income and, due to limited education and training and/or location, have limited opportunities for alternative employment or other income sources. The book is right to imply that hunger is as much due to low incomes as to food supply. But the argument that the overall effect of biotechnology will be to increase world hunger is unconvincing. 

What are other (and more recent) key papers on this topic? Addendum 31 May 2018 To give a simple example, suppose there are just two goods $X_1,X_2$ and utility $U$ is given by: $$U = X_1^{0.5}X_2^{0.5}$$ Suppose further that the respective prices and time requirements are for $X_1 (1,2)$ and for $X_2 (2,1)$. Thus the income and time constraints are: $$X_1 + 2X_2 \leq I$$ $$2X_1 + X_2 \leq T$$ where $I$ is income and $T$ is available time. If $T$ is much larger than $I$ (low-income person), then the income constraint will be binding, and the time constraint will be slack, and vice versa if $I$ is much larger than $T$ (high-income person). Over an intermediate range, including $T = I$, both constraints will be binding. These different scenarios have different implications for the effect of a marginal change in price. Perhaps time preference is relevant here but I can't immediately see how. 

Suppose a country which has been in equilibrium in a state of autarky opens itself to trade, with consequent specialisation in production of goods in which it has a comparative advantage. In moving to a new static equilibrium in which it achieves all the gains from trade that are available to it at the time of opening itself to trade, does it experience growth? Having achieved all available gains from trade as in 1 above, will the country be better placed than it was while in a state of autarky to achieve growth via capital accumulation and technical progress? 

This is an extremely implausible scenario. The conditions for it to work would be extremely demanding: 

Although it's often left unstated, demand for a good is measured as quantity per unit of time. Broadly, the longer the time period over which demand is measured, the smaller the (proportional) effect on demand of the initial endowment. Whether you have a soda in your fridge one morning may make the difference between your demand for soda that day being $0$ or $1$. But over the next year, if you often consume sodas, it may make the difference between your demand being $n-1$ or $n$, only a very small proportional difference if $n$ is large. For this reason, even at the individual level it can often be appropriate to ignore endowments as a determinant of demand for frequently consumed goods. At market level, a further consideration is that the effect of endowments may average out over many individuals. At a certain time, for example, A has a recently purchased washing machine, B's washing machine is in mid-life, and C's is old and needs replacing soon. In the absence of changes in income or major improvements in washing machines, it may be that in any year approximately the same proportion of people have a demand for a new washing machine, so that both the aggregate endowment of washing machines and the market demand for new washing machines are approximately stable. Again, therefore, it could be appropriate to ignore endowments. But there are also many situations where neither of the above apply and it is important to consider endowments as a factor affecting demand. These include: in consumer markets, take-up of goods embodying new technologies; in housing markets, the size and condition of the existing housing stock; and in commodity markets, stocks of for example wheat or copper held by commodity traders.