What other methods have been used to distinguish the text of the two strands of the story? (Answers from different translations, audiobooks, Braille copies, etc. are also acceptable, if that's OK without making the question too broad.) 

(all emphasis mine in the above quotes) I've looked through only half of the Sherlock Holmes stories to gather these quotes, and only glanced at the first few paragraphs of each one, but that was enough (together with the quote from your question) to find references to twenty-two "off-stage" adventures, only one of which is actually related in a later story. There are others mentioned in passing deep within the text of the story, e.g. the off-hand reference to the Conk-Singleton forgery case at the very end of "The Adventure of the Six Napoleons". There are also passages which simply reflect on the vast number of Holmes cases without mentioning or alluding to any of them in particular: 

Someone like that is usually not only capable of cooking their own meals, doing their own housework, and so on, but actively takes pleasure in it. Rat is not the sort of person who would be likely to employ a butler or housekeeper. In analysing this book, we must remember that it was meant to be a sort of parody of Edwardian England. The anthropomorphised animals can all easily be identified with particular types of people in that time and place in the real world. Once we can identify how a character was designed and whom they might correspond to, it becomes much easier to analyse their personality. 

kimchi lover's excellent answer goes into more detail on why this style might have been used back then. But for sure it's not a Jude the Obscure thing, or even a Thomas Hardy thing. 

William Blake's short poem "London", from his Songs of Experience collection (which you can read online), starts as follows: 

The short story "Seasons of Glass and Iron", winner of the 2017 Hugo Award for Best Short Story, may be read in full here. I just read it last night, and a single passage confused me, in the story of how Amira came to be on her glass hill: 

Having just had an exceptionally busy week, I've been trying to recall the details of a relevant short story whose name escapes me. I have the feeling it was a fairly old, 'classical' horror story - probably not by Edgar Allan Poe, but in his kind of style - and also quite famous and well-known. The central character is a lawyer, or lawyer's clerk, who is in the process of combing through some massive volumes in order to piece together enough evidence to implicate a particular person in a crime. I think he's working to a deadline; as the days drag on, he becomes more and more devoted to his search, and gets less and less sleep. At the end of the story, he finishes collecting the final pieces of evidence he needs, and promptly collapses from overexertion. In an epilogue, he wakes up in hospital days later and hears that he was successful in producing enough evidence for conviction. There is also a supernatural, and somehow parallel, element to the story. I can't remember the details of the demonic creature involved - I think it had a name, but like many of the best horror villains, perhaps its true nature remained insidious and unclear even to the very end - but somehow the revelation of this monster was intimately connected to the clerk's search for evidence. It was something like: the less sleep he got, the stronger the creature became; or the closer he came to finding the evidence he needed, the closer the creature came to materialising. In any case, the climax of the story was the climax for both parts: as he completed his search for evidence, the demon also reached some critical stage. It's possible that the demon didn't actually exist and was just a product of his fevered imagination, since I'm pretty sure he made a full recovery in the epilogue and was no longer plagued by it. Again, I think this is a pretty well-known story, and I expect someone else here will have heard of it. There may be some elements I'm not remembering precisely right, but hopefully this will be enough for someone to identify the story. Any clues as to what it might have been called? 

Because the poem was never intended to be realistic. It's a simple nursery rhyme, designed to amuse children and to have an unexpected answer. It's not a complex piece of literature with much thought put into worldbuilding, consistency, and realism. OK, so why do "wives" appear in the poem at all? Wouldn't it have worked equally well with, say, a man accompanied by seven servants, each carrying seven sacks, and so on? Well, not quite as well. "Wives" is a nice simple word - again, remember that the song is meant for children - and it also rhymes with St. Ives. "Servants" is a longer word, with more syllables (thus wouldn't scan as well), and I can't think of any place names that rhyme with it. For a child learning this rhyme, it's easy to imagine a man, women, sacks, cats, and kittens - why complicate it by saying they were his servants or his mistresses or his aunties or anything less familiar to a child than wives? 

Besides, the murderer is quite clearly insane. We are constantly reminded of this throughout the story by his wild protestations that, despite what everyone thinks, he is not mad. It was an insane decision to kill the old man in the first place - because of the appearance of his eye? what the heck? And this insanity comes out perhaps most strongly of all at the very end of the story, when he thinks he hears the old man's heart. Just look at the way he describes the noise and the reaction to it: 

What emotion is making her so speechless? Is she choked up at the thought of a gift from her father, angry at her mother for her presumption, or something else? This passage seems ambiguous, and I wonder if there's enough elsewhere in the text to make the answer completely clear. 

(emphasis mine) Why should being a teacher's cat mean that our unnamed hero is more blasé about human 'robbery' than cats belonging to lawyers or military men? I don't understand the connection here. Perhaps there's some Japanese cultural reference that I'm not getting? 

So it makes sense that he would choose this as one of the many topics and themes he wrote about, regardless of his own feelings. Good horror stories play on people's existing fears, and if taphephobia was a prevalent fear among his readership, then it's a good choice to write horror stories about. He even discusses, in the opening paragraphs of "The Premature Burial", why he chose this topic, and plays upon the fears of his readers while doing so: 

I think I got lucky finding this. When I searched Google for "rilke The purpose of life is to be defeated by greater and greater things", most of the results were lists of Rilke quotes including this as a platitude, like Goodreads and Brainyquote, but one or two hits mentioned this poem, including this blog post, which gave me the name of the poem I needed to search for to find out more. 

I heard this in audio form, probably on a cassette or maybe CD, borrowed from a public library in England in the early noughties (2001-2006). I don't know how old it was, or whether or not it was an audio adaptation of a published novel. Essentially it was a version of the Iliad (I don't think it also included the Odyssey, but I'm not certain) retold for a younger modern audience. 

You're misunderstanding the meaning of the phrase "go a long way to(wards)". E.g. see the Collins English Dictionary: 

No, there seems to be no evidence that Poe was taphephobic. This answer relies heavily on the master's thesis Taphephobia in Edgar Allan Poe's Collection of Gothic Tales: A New Historicist Study of 19th Century America's Most Prevalent Fear, written by Salma Layouni as part of her MA degree at the University of Sousse, Tunisia. If you really want to know more about taphephobia in Poe's work, this long and detailed study is worth reading. 

And if Ishmael really is Ahab, that would explain the first line of the story: "[My real name is Captain Ahab, but you can] call me Ishmael." 

Your intuition was right: it is a Somerset Maugham novel. I tried searching Google for and found the novel Christmas Holiday (1939) by W. Somerset Maugham. The description on Goodreads is enough to verify that it's the one you're looking for: 

I've found a few possible interpretations of these lines, each of which could make sense in the wider context of the whole poem and the emotions and attitudes behind it. Background information After war broke out, Edward Thomas spent a long time agonising over whether he should join the armed forces or emigrate with his family to the relative safety of America. Eventually, in July 1915, he joined the army (where he was later killed). This poem was written in December 1915, supposedly immediately after a heated argument with his father, who was more aggressively patriotic and demonised the Germans. We can see the emotions from that argument spilling over into the poem itself: Thomas clearly rejects the conventional patriotic instincts of hating Germans and "grow[ing] hot / With love of Englishmen", which he sees as being a farce "to please newspapers". Some have even interpreted the "fat patriot" line as referring to his own father. He is distancing himself from these zealous patriots, although by the end of the poem he has established his own, different, brand of patriotism. The choice between the cauldrons This is a tricky one. One possible reading is that the decision is, as you guessed, between two more or less equivalent choices - that choosing between two equally attractive cauldrons is similar to choosing between two equally unattractive patriots from different countries. This is the interpretation espoused by Martyn Crucefix's analysis: 

Unfortunately, Wikipedia neither goes into more detail nor includes a citation for further reading. What exactly was changed between the two editions of this story, and why did she change it? 

There are also some hints in the timeline of the story which suggest that his acquaintance with Milverton began not long before the story begins. After the encounter with Milverton at the beginning, Holmes puts on one of his disguises and spends "some days" out in Hampstead investigating Milverton. He needs this time to establish a contact in Milverton's household and to get to know the building well enough to successfully execute the burglary 13 days after the start of the story. If he'd already been investigating Milverton for a long time, it seems likely that he might have at least some of these resources already in place, rather than doing the entire thing in 13 days. Finally, I noticed this quote which I think really clinches the issue: 

I recently started reading C.S. Lewis's book That Hideous Strength, the third in his Space Trilogy (and I'm devouring it - what a story!) The following passage, from when Mark first meets Miss "Fairy" Hardcastle, isn't quite clear to me: 

... which confirms that Airstrip One is indeed the country we now call Britain or England. But very little is known about life in the world outside of London in 1984, beyond broad generalities, so it's unlikely that there's a canonical answer to this in-universe. 

I read this book as a child and thought it was nothing more than an amusing pun - the "left" wing being the right wing because it was the only one left. Years later, when I'd become somewhat more "spoiled" by life, I realised that it might be a political joke: when the political left wing and centre have disappeared, the right wing ends up being portrayed as the left wing. Is this actually a political reference, or am I reading too much into it? While I've read most of Baum's Oz series - albeit when I was probably too young to pick up on many political allegories - I don't know enough about his political leanings or other relevant surrounding context to be able to judge whether this reading is a valid interpretation or not. 

The central theme of "A German Requiem" is that the characters described, survivors of World War II and their families, are forgetting their experiences in order to cope. Forgetting is the key concept here. I think the following lines from the start of the third stanza are especially key to understanding what the poem is all about, because of their directness and transparency: 

As a verb, "palisade" is usually transitive (has an object), but in context its meaning as an intransitive verb is clear: the object is implied without being mentioned. We can get some idea of the usage of the verb by checking the examples on this Wiktionary page: 

This is just repeating what we already know - that his proof is non-constructive. He knows the set is "closed" (in whatever sense he's using that word), but he can't prove how it's closed, only that it's closed. 

This answer is primarily based on Ignace Feuerlicht, "Omissions and Contradictions in Kafka's Trial", The German Quarterly 1967, 40(3), pp. 339-350 - available here if you have Jstor access. All quotes below are from this article unless otherwise stated. As mentioned in the OP, there is little explicit information in the text indicating a precise location. However, there are various hints which we can piece together using close reading. First off, let's note something which may seem to be relevant evidence but actually isn't, and which is only apparent from the original German text rather than translations: