Learning Pali is indeed beneficial if you have a inclination to be a scholar or to teach. If it is your salvation you are after you are better off spending time practicing. But to teach others the bar is much higher than practicing on your own. This is also a worthy cause. 

(Tamo,joti) Puggala Sutta To make your future bright you should stop creating the unwholesome roots, i.e., reacting pleasurable experience with craving or unpleasurable experience with aversion. You should stop this pattern and practice equanimity knowing impermanence. 

In the arupa worlds you cannot hear the Dhamma as you do not have this faculty, also the mental process is too subtle making it not possible to meditate on it. But if you have experiences even the 1st state of sainthood you can progress from here to the final goal. 

According to Buddhism the enemies are within us in the form of defilements and hindrances. We have to actively try to conquer them. A military career is as as accepted profession. See BUDDHIST SPECTRUM. Major General Ananda Weerasekera (later ordinated as Bhikkhu Buddangala Ananda) makes the some further observation about the topic in Buddhism & The Soldier and suggests that a government should have a strong army and the qualities of the soldiers. Active resistance is inevitable in some cases. But this should be the last option. having said this our real enemies are within us not outside us. Also see: Can a Buddhist Join the Army?, Right Livelihood: The Noble Eightfold Path in the Working Life 

perhaps there could be some forgetting or setting aside. But when he left the palace I would expect he would have expected to be a Buddha otherwise he would not have followed through in renouncing to find the truth. 

Sacca Vibhanga Sutta Also the whole sphere of what is cognised, know or felt is suffering since when present changes it is suffering, painful is suffering on its own and neutral feeling is suffering also as ignorance is present and one is in a continual state of existence with opens up to possibility of unpleasant experiences. 

The Buddhas should do fulfill their Paramita to become Buddha. Also there cannot be 2 Buddhas at the same time. A Buddha comes when there is spiritual interest in the society and there is a balance of suffering and also comfort. So it is complex interaction of: 

The 12 links dependent origination (found in numerous Suttas like (Avijjā) Paccaya Sutta) you fill in specific cases and their resulting effects and how these affects in turn become a cause to create more effects. The most elaborate of specific cause and effect relationships are found in the Theory of Conditional Relations. This maybe above the head for many. Another rendering of this is the 4 Noble Truths. 

An ode to envy highlights some interesting perspective of jealousy. In a Buddhist perspective how can jealousy be viewed and analysed? What is the root cause and do we indulge in jealousy? More particularly: 

Is that an utopia? Because if one could tame his mind completely, there would be no need to abandon things as the way he relates to them would be completely free and detached. The mind gets generates 3 unwholesome roots, fetters, etc. based on materiality. E.g. you have a beautiful new car. You get attached to this. This creates negativity which means getting totally tamed is moving a bit further away. If material things have the potential to create problems, does it mean a full tamed mind is impossible? As long as you have attachment to materiality a fully tamed mind is not possible. Once you mentally get detached is only taming your mind is possible. Being meing attached to something translates to physically possessing what your are attached to. Physically letting go also helps being some what, but not totally, mentally detached. Practicing meditation and understanding now craving dependently arises from feelings and how feeling arises due to contact and how Ignorance of the 4 Noble Truths. This is what tames your mind fully. 

This feeling is Piti. It is also in sphere of the sensual world hence has the 3 marks of existence. It arises and passes away. You should try to look at it more and more closely until you see it. At some point this will also disappear and turn into either pain or a neutral feeling. When you get the neutral feeling you should be very careful as not to loose the balance of your mind as equanimity is easy in pain and pleasure but hard in this instance. If you examine closely this is also impermanent as you will see things arising and passing. If you see arising and passing of phenomena in each and every part of your body then you are experiencing bhanga-nana. You should see it in remote places in your body also like your earlobes. This can result either due to Jhana or that through Vipassana where you have either suspended or eradicated (in case of Vipassana) some of you bad Karma which might give you birth in a lower realm for that stretch of time. (In Jhana there is a temporary suspension of the such rebirth linking karma. If you dies with your Jhana you are born in a higher existence.) This does not mean that you can keep them suspended always in Jhana or other periods where some old residual Karma giving you bad rebirth linking result will not surface in the future in the case of Vipassana. Through Vipassana you can eradicate all rebirth linking Karma starting from the lower realms and progressing to higher realm. When you have eliminated all rebirth linking Karma and mind comes to a state it does not acquire any new rebirth linking Karma then you will enter Nirvana. Even when you enter Nirvana you can still have non rebirth linking Karma. Also the present feeling are associated with Karma which you have done with attachment. (Interpretation as per my understanding according of Ledi Sayadaw linage.) All being said don't get attached to it in any way nor wish for it to pass away. 

In certainty you cannot. But you can approach this in 2 angles by pointing out people are less likely to accept and deal with someone who do not have any scrules and also mention about the Karmic retribution 

In buddhism you perceive everyhit experience in 2 opposites may it be hot or cold, long or short, good or evil, etc. as simply: 

Action can be due to: Chanda which can be either wholesome or not. If the action is attached to either greed, hatred or ignorance it is not wholesome. Having desire to act on its own is not a bad thing. 

The wrong type of Mindfulness is supporting to stress people out. (If you do a course at: $URL$ this is covered in the instructions given.) In short right mindfulness is awareness of what is going on in the framework of you body and mind (through the 4 foundations of awareness) while being constantly aware of the impermanent and changing nature (at a deeper level arising and passing) of phenomena. All metal and physical phenomena has sensations attached. Hence being with sensations will definitely help. 

The 4 elements can only be sensed through the scene doors, hence in the stand point of a mediator the 4 elements are sensations too. Without a living observer there cannot be any scene of the elements, hence consciousness, faculty, contact, sensation are essential and any experience of the elements is always through sensations or the characteristics of the elements which are felt. As a side note, in case this question was motivated by trying to reconcile Pa Auk and U Ba Khin methods. This is one of the potential perceived differences between the Goenka/U Ba Khin meditation method and Pa Auk 4 elements meditation methods but at essence they are the same through 4 elements based method is slightly more granularity by further sub dividing the sensation based experiences based on the characteristics of the elements. Also see: The Dynamics of Theravāda Insight Meditation, The Ancient Roots of the U Ba Khin Vipassanā Meditation, The Development of Insight – A Study of the U Ba Khin Vipassanā Meditation Tradition as Taught by S.N. Goenka in Comparison with Insight Teachings in the Early Discourses for Bhikkhu Anālayo's perspective on the matter. 

This is not something that can be directly answered or rationalized through the way to find the answer is there. This is by walking the 8 fold path and getting deep penetrating insights through Vipassana, where by attaining at least the 1st stage of sainthood which would result in this doubt is broken as you have verified for your self. A loose analogy can be it is difficult to describe a hidden city / exotic treasure chest you have not being there perfectly to someone else but you can be told the route to get there so you can get there and see for yourself. If the route leads you to the particular city you know that the person has gone there. 

The key here is . In Buddhism this one one of the main points to be focused on. Though demand means that animals will get killed to supply the demand, for the person consuming there is not volition to kill. If any body wants to take a step further and become vegetarian / vegan then it is up to the individual. Here volition to feast should not be mistaken with volition to kill. If you have to complete the karma of killing: