I found Miskito by looking through the WALS map showing the overlap between languages with a definite article distinct from the demonstrative, and OV word order. 

Here is my interpretation of the relevant passage: The noun "system" is not a base in any general sense. The "base" is merely the complementary part to the "affix." To put it as a math equation: stem - affix = base base + affix = stem A base may be a root or a stem, and that root or stem may or may not be able to function as an independent word. On page 42, we have the following words that are composed of bases and affixes: 

What is the grammatical role of the PP "in his desk"? Is it an adverbial adjunct, or is it a complement? (Or is it some third thing?) Semantically, it seems to describe the location of the direct object, so the meaning seems consistent with its being an "object complement". However, my first thought was that it was an adverbial adjunct. I found a list of tests for finding out if something is an adjunct or a complement on the following page: "XBar Theory: Complements and adjuncts", Linguistics 522, Jean Mark Gawron, San Diego State University. But even after going through them, I'm not sure if "in his desk" is an adjunct or a complement here. My attempt at applying the tests: 

(p. 1) A few other related or just similar-looking, but distinct phenomena are sometimes also called "Suffixaufnahme". I think Valdeut gives a good overview in the following post on the thread "Basque's Surdéclinaison" at the Zompist Bulletin Board: 

The English "j" sound is a voiced postalveolar affricate, transcribed in the International Phonetic Alphabet as /dʒ/. It is indeed the voiced counterpart to the voiceless "ch" sound /tʃ/. The phones [dʒ] and [tʃ] are both fairly common, as far as affricates go. Voiced obstruents are generally less common than voiceless ones, and [dʒ] is less common than [tʃ]. I found the following article that describes some phonetic reasons for this tendency for sibilant affricates in particular: Phonetic explanations for the infrequency of voiced sibilant affricates across languages. Nonetheless, [dʒ] is still not really rare. In fact, it may even exist in several of the languages you mentioned, depending on the variety spoken, and how you define what you mean by "the English j sound." For German, Wikipedia says 

This seems to come from A collection of English proverbs digested into a convenient method for the speedy finding any one upon occasion : with short annotations : whereunto are added local proverbs with their explications, old proverbial rhythmes, less known or exotick proverbial sentences, and Scottish proverbs, by John Ray, 1678. The bit at the top is definitely in the Greek alphabet, and seems to be Greek. It uses a number of old-fashioned Greek ligatures, which are a pain in the ass to decipher if you're not familar with them. I think it is a (possibly slightly garbled) version of a line in Lysistrata by Aristophanes, 

"Universe" certainly might be pronounced with a syllabic r. Whether it actually is depends on your accent. Many American English speakers can have "syllabic r" in any position in a word, unlike other syllabic consonants, which must occur in unstressed syllables. However, because syllabic r in American English behaves similarly in terms of phonology to a vowel + consonant sequence or just a vowel, it may be transcribed as something like ər, ɜr, əɹ, ɜɹ, or ɚ, ɝ. (A transcription like er would not be considered correct!) But a transcription like [ɹ̩] is not incorrect. See the following handout from the website of Kevin Russell at the University of Manitoba: [ɹ̩] -- Syllabic [ɹ] 

The reasons I think it might be slightly mis-transcribed (take this with a huge grain of salt as I don't know any Greek) are the apparent absence of the "δ" and the apparent use of "θῆσαι" (which apparently means "suckle"; Liddell & Scott) as the last word instead of "θήσει." But maybe there is some reason for those that I am unaware of. The line in Lysistrata doesn't say anything about hunger or a horse, as far as I can tell. It corresponds to the part in Jack Lindsay's translation that goes "(great Zeus the Thunderer) Shall put above what was below before." The meaning of each of the words seems to be: 

IPA is not typically used for transliteration. It is often used for phonemic transcription, and sometimes for phonetic transcription. (Phonemic transcriptions are conventionally enclosed with slashes, and phonetic transcriptions are conventionally enclosed with square brackets.) I am not an expert on the IPA, but based on my experience reading linguistics articles and things like that, I would say that the symbol ∅ shows up mostly in descriptions of rules or sound changes (like "f > ∅ /V_V"). I have never seen it used in the context of phonetic transcription of an utterance. The symbol ∅ does not even seem to be part of the International Phonetic Alphabet, techncially speaking: I can't see it anywhere on the official IPA chart as of 2015. Wikipedia lists some other uses of the empty set symbol in linguistics. There is no IPA police that will arrest you if you transcribe the pronunciaton of light as "[ˈlaɪ∅t]", but I don't see the point of doing this. A phonetic transcription is not supposed to indicate information about the spelling of a word. 

As user6726's answer mentions, IPA letters (like [i], [e], [ɪ], [ɨ], [a]) refer to ranges of sounds (phones); for vowel letters, these can be thought of as regions of the "vowel space" (which in turn can be thought of as either an acoustic space (defined by certain frequencies), or a physiological space (defined by tongue position)). And phonemic transcriptions (conventionally indicated by the use of slashes rather than brackets) don't even technically use IPA letters to refer directly to the associated ranges of phones. Rather, traditions for phonemic transcription establish conventional associations between IPA symbols and particular phonemes in a language, regardless of the actual phonetic realization of the latter. If there gets to be too much of a difference between the conventional transcription and the phonetics of some particular accent, a new convention may be proposed/adopted, but often the old conventions still stick around for a long time. You can see some of the diversity in transcriptions of English vowels on the web page "IPA transcription systems for English" by John Wells. The phonetic realization of the phoneme /aɪ/ is variable between accents, and between different utterances made by a single speaker (some of the variation can be predicted fairly easily from the context, and some can't). Mark Liberman, a linguist, has a post on Language Log mentioning some of the features that may make a phonetic transcription like [aɪ] valid for the phoneme /aɪ/ in at least some contexts in some present-day accents of English: The rɑɪt sɑʊnz? But it isn't necessarily incorrect to use something like /aj/ as a phonological transcription. Geoff Lindsey, a linguist and dialect coach, transcribes the standard Southern British English "price" vowel as /ɑj/. In his blog post "The British English vowel system", Lindsey says: 

As with the "very" test, this only fails to show that "based" is an adjective here: it doesn't show that "based" is not an adjective, because not all adjectives can be prefixed with un-. (In fact, based on the results of a Google search, the word based followed by a prepositional phrase starting in on can be prefixed with un- in some other sentences, so it seems that based is an adjective sometimes; but I'm not sure what the criteria are for when it is and isn't possible to use "unbased on..."--it may be that only some speakers use this construction.) "seems" test "Based" in "based on a novel by Pat Conroy" might be able to pass the "seem" test, which is apparently considered to establish that something is not a verb/participle: 

Sorry, this is mostly not a direct answer to your question. (Skip to the end for the more answer-y part.) I'm posting this as an answer since it's too long for the comments. Speaking a previously unknown language is called “xenoglossy.” As that Wikipedia article states, there is no scientic evidence that this actually happens. Wikipedia cites a paper by the linguist Sarah Thomason that discusses cases of apparent xenoglossy like you have reported (i.e. cases where to certain non-linguist observers, it appears that a person is speaking in a foreign language); in particular, ones that have been reported by Ian Stevenson. Thomason found that none of the subjects actually showed the kind of linguistic knowledge that we would expect if they really could speak another language. In general, the person is actually nowhere near fluent and has extremely limited vocabulary. In many cases, there were plausible ways for the subjects to have prior exposure to the language or to related languages, picking up a few words or a general idea of the sound of the language. In light of this, I don't believe your friend is actually "completely fluent" and "can translate any body of text into this language." It may seem this way to you, but this really doesn't seem to be something that happens, and there's no plausible explanation for how it could happen. You should consider alternative interpretations for the sounds you’ve observed your friend making. Dan Bron's comment brought up the idea that she is "faking" it and you replied that you don't think this is true. Even if you think you can rule out this possibility, it doesn't mean that she can actually do what she thinks she can do (speak in another language). Thomason does not conclude that the subjects she discusses were all frauds. Stevenson apparently went to great lengths to show that this was implausible in most of the cases he presents, and Thomason mainly agrees with him about this. Your friend may not intend to deceive you; it's possible that this behavior is due to a mental condition that she doesn’t understand. For a case like this where it’s not even apparent what the language is, it seems quite likely that at least some of it is glossolalia where there is no actual structure or meaning. You say you’ve checked for the presence of “key words,” but even if you’ve found these, it doesn’t show that all or even most of what she says is meaningful. Another thing that seems to me indicative of glossolalia is that you say her “translations” are generally much longer than the source text. My advice for attempts at recognition Depending on how much this is glossolalia, there may be nothing at all to recognize. (The only evidence you have that it isn't all glossolalia are these "consistency" tests you say you've carried out.) If your friend has no prior exposure to Pali, I wouldn't bother trying to investigate that, as it's likely a dead end. You refer to Korean and Japanese: are these languages that she is aware of? I don't mean to ask if she's studied them or anything: Thomason mentions in her paper the possibility that people identify certain distinctive sounds and vocabulary items just by passive exposure to certain foreign languages (for example, I've probably heard enough Japanese to do a vaguely convincing imitation to someone who doesn't speak it). In particular, you and user6726 both mentioned that the recordings seem somewhat similar to Korean, so if she's had any exposure to that, it's possible that it influenced her current vocalizations. I don't really see any advantage to further investigating this possibility, though: at worst, I have an idea it might encourage delusional behavior or something like that. It doesn't sound like this phenomenon has been, or is likely to be, of any benefit to your friend. But I don't know your friend, and I'm not a psychologist, and you haven't asked for my advice in this regard. 

General Remarks Different languages have different sound systems. So no romanization system can be perfectly faithful to the native language, and at the same time perfectly intuitive to speakers of another particular language. There have to be tradeoffs. In general, any large language not written in the Latin alphabet will have accumulated multiple romanization systems, each designed with different goals in mind. Chinese, Japanese, and Korean all have more than one romanization system. Standard romanizations for Eastern languages are often designed more for native speakers or second-language learners than for monoglot English speakers. Why English speakers choose to use these standardized but non-intuitive (for them) systems rather than respelling according to English sounds is a different issue. (One factor that possibly contributes to the general preference for not respelling foreign words according to English spelling conventions might be that English spelling doesn't have a very straightforward correspondence to English pronunciation even for native English words.) The people who choose what system to use in English publications are probably the editors, so I guess you can blame them for these "odd English spellings." (In particular, I'd imagine the most influential editors in this regard are those of news media and dictionaries.) Standardized romanization systems are also used to some extent in romanization of personal names, in which case the individual might have a preference. But in this case, the preference actually isn't always for the standard romanization -- many Koreans adjust the spelling of their family name to match English better, as in "Park" or "Lee." Below, I'll discuss some specific languages. Chinese The Pinyin Romanization system is currently standard for Mandarin Chinese. Other systems have been used in the past, however. The Yale Romanization in particular is considered by some people to be more intuitive to untrained English speakers. In the Yale system, we write "feng shwei." But Yale was never very prevalent compared to other alternatives, such as Wade-Giles, that had different oddities of their own (most notoriously, the use of apostrophes to mark aspirated consonants). Pinyin does make sense, though; it just doesn't follow the same pattern as English sound-spelling correspondences. For example, in "feng shui," the "e" regularly represents a vowel similar to that in English "but" [ə] and the "-ui" regularly represents a sound like that in the English "sway" [wei̯]. Using -ui instead of -uei does seem a little unintuitive, but it saves a letter, and it is not ambiguous because [wi] does not exist as a sequence of sounds in Mandarin. Likewise, the -iu ending represents "yo" /jou̯/ rather than "yoo" /ju/. Korean Revised Romanization is mostly used, but there are also other systems of romanization for Korean. Japanese The system most used in an English-language context, the Hepburn Romanization, is actually based on English (Wikipedia says it was designed for use in an Japanese-English dictionary). That is probably why you as an English speaker find it the most intuitive. Some of the other romanization systems for Japanese are designed for native speakers or people familiar with the language, and look "weirder" to monoglot English speakers. Example: Kunrei-Shiki romanization. There are also historical systems that have been used by speakers of other languages, like Portuguese, German and French. Arabic In fact, romanization of Arabic is generally based on the sounds (transcription) as well as the letters (transliteration). Written Arabic normally omits the diacritics that are used to indicate many vowel sounds, but vowels are always included in the romanizations used in English texts. 

Östen Dahl, Viveka Velupillai. 2013. Perfective/Imperfective Aspect. In: Dryer, Matthew S. & Haspelmath, Martin (eds.) The World Atlas of Language Structures Online. Leipzig: Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology. (Available online at $URL$ Accessed on 2015-03-31.) 

How did a rough breathing develop before all words starting with an upsilon in Ancient Greek? This is a commonly noted fact about the distribution of these sounds (or rather spellings), but I’m having a hard time figuring out the etymological reason for it. In some words, it is easily explicable as the regular outcome of a word-initial *s- in Proto-Indo-European: *súpnos > ὕπνος (húpnos) But in other words, there is no *s reconstructed for the PIE form. Are there any historical linguistics hypotheses about the source of the rough breathing in these words (e.g. a prothetic *s- prefix that later weakened to a rough breathing, a shift [w] > [v] > [f] > [h], a sound change inserting /h/ before all word-inital /u/ at some point in Ancient Greek (that seems phonetically unmotivated to me, although I guess it's the most straightforward option), something like that). Some example words (I’m taking these from Wiktionary):