Chile is by far the world's largest producer of copper. Copper is essential for electronics - meaning that Chinese factories have been buying massively - and Chile has been able to use its natural resources to boost its own economy. Copper is also far less volatile in price than oil; prices have only begun to go down because of slowing growth in China. 

Should be no difference. You are either (1) buying USD by selling CAD or (2) selling CAD to buy USD. 

Stocks/shares are equity (a share is 'a part of' something) and are thus essential to ownership of a company. Owning shares means that you own part nof a company. The ownership, as a side effect, gives voting rights on the C-suite and dividends. Acquiring a company requires you to buy all of the shares of that company (so that you own it). 

If you have a pension or own any stocks (hopefully you do), you will have been negatively affected - even though you don't have any 'international' finances. Since the world economy is highly integrated, losses in the UK are correlated with losses in the U.S., Japan, and other world markets. For example, after the news of Brexit broke, the S&P (one of the US stock market indices) fell roughly 100 points. The markets tend to move together (the reason behind this is another question in of itself), so any changes in Britain will affect Americans as well. We're still not sure about the long-term economic effects of this, since we don't know exactly how/when/if the U.K. will exit, but the short-term uncertainty is causing investors to be nervous. British things will be cheaper! The pound fell, meaning that it's cheaper for Americans to buy British things, and more expensive for the British to buy American things. If you wanted to visit the U.K., it's going to be relatively cheap. The simplest effect is that the fall of the pound will positively affect U.S. consumers of British goods, and negatively affect U.S. exporters who export to the U.K.. There may be some effect on your work, but it's impossible for you to know (which is part of the problem. Although your employer may appear to be completely local, it's important to remember that since we're so globalized, there probably will be some effect at your company. For example, one of your company's clients may purchase services from a consultant in the U.K, and this might affect your client, in turn affecting you. It's this kind of domino effect and the uncertainty that Brexit has caused that has so many politicians and economists worried about what might happen. 

The effects can be quite different from a price (wage) ceiling. The baseline case where you have homogeneous, inelastically supplied labor that's free to move across different "types" of work produces no supply response in reaction to a wage ceiling, but leads to complete specialization in one type of labor or another in the case of enforced bounds on relative wages which rule out the competitive market allocation. For companies, enforcing internal wage ceilings may be a way of trying to address problems of corporate governance - the shareholders may be trying to address a principal-agent problem by getting such a policy instituted within the company. In that case, it may well improve efficiency, but it's hard to say if there would be a significant impact on the supply of executives available for corporate management. 

If it was not feasible, then the residents of the city would bid up the price of the services provided by the low-paying jobs until the induced rise in wages (and the fall in rents) would make housing affordable enough for people who are supposed to provide the "make the world go round" services. It's important to note that this process can't create housing units out of nothing; so the restricted supply of housing still leads to inefficiency - if no new houses are constructed, people who are dissatisfied with the lack of affordable basic services have to move out of the city until enough housing is freed up for workers who are going to provide these services. This leads to inefficient allocation of labor, etc etc. "Labor market corrections" or rent regulation don't solve the underlying problem, which is a shortage of housing units in areas which offer higher productivity to workers. Public transit could help, but how exactly do we make it "high quality"? The best way to improve the quality of public transit is probably to build more roads to alleviate traffic problems during peak times, and these construction projects usually run into the same barriers that housing construction projects do. The solution I would recommend is to reform some of the environmental regulation, zoning laws and the government's internal review processes which make it so hard to build new housing units, high-speed trains, roads, etc. If the problem is a lack of housing and transportation infrastructure, the correct response should be to remove the supply-side barriers which are contributing to the shortage. 

There will be many effects, but most of them are too small or too difficult to measure for you to notice anything. Some examples of the bigger effects: 

To the best of my knowledge - and I'm not an accountant, so I may very well be wrong: buybacks are not profits, but are instead considered as an 'investment' in Apple in its own company. Since they are not profits, they are not taxed. Apple using its offshore cash to buy back its own stock is changing the accounting balance rather than actually generating any profits. Consider the following balance sheet: 

This is honestly a pretty complicated question - it's very difficult to pinpoint any exact factors that have led to Chile being so successful relative to its Latin American counterparts. I'm not particularly knowledgeable on the political factors, so I'll focus on some economic ones. As a developing country, Chile has several factors that have really helped with exports. 

Since the seasons are swapped between the northern and southern hemispheres, Chilean farms can produce fruits and vegetables to sell to the Americans in the middle of winter. If you live in the States, go to a local supermarket in the middle of winter and look at the fruits. Some of them (for me, I see grapes) are from Chile. Chile also exports fish. It has the longest coastline in the world, and has had some success in fish farming; both of these factors help Chile sell a lot of fish. This is just part of why Chile has been successful (I haven't even mentioned government policy!) but hopefully it'll give you some background on why Chile has been more of a success story than other Latin American nations. Source: $URL$ 

You are mistaken. Economics doesn't actually concern itself with measurable quantities, but rather with the behavioral functions that give rise to measurable quantities (such as price, investment, etc). The most obvious example of this is the utility function, as they are unique up to scale – meaning that there are several (actually infinitely many) which nonetheless do the same thing. Consider the prisoner's dilemma, for instance: we might introduce for each player a scale factor which multiplies his whole payoff matrix. But no matter how we change those payoffs, so long as the structure of those matrices is preserved so will be the behavior of the prisoners. So nothing really changes. But that is fine, because what we're not interested in modelling is the value of the choices to each player, but how the players choose. So it isn't necessary to introduce any concept of the measurable economic value of anything so long as we might say that it is preferable to something else. Which is to say that we might model the behavior of any agent without introducing a cardinal measure: we can do fine if his choices are merely ordered (this is the idea behind Revealed Preference, which was initially formulated by Paul Samuelson as an alternative to utility functions, but which was later on found to be equivalent to them). But to answer what's bugging your mind: there isn't practically anything even mildly relevant to human life which economists won't deal with. Because in so far as people's choices are observable, they can be treated by an economic model. For instance, there's a chapter in the Handbook on the Economics of Leisure which is called The Economics of Sleep and Boredom. I've also seen a paper once on the economics of suicide (there's actually a small literature on this). Another example – though less odd and more important – is Becker's theory of crime, which takes crime out of the domain of other social sciences (which might explain it in terms of marginalization, poor education, etc) and into the domain of expected utility and choice theory (i.e. what are the odds the guy think he has of getting away given the circumstances). Contrary to popular opinion, dealing with money and crunching numbers is often the least important and most boring part of an economist's job. Most often economists are concerned with figuring out why people would do what they do. 

Retained earnings have not changed, the company's taxable income has not changed, and thus the company should not have to pay any taxes. This should be true regardless of where the money 'physically' is - in the U.S. or elsewhere. 

Producer surplus is calculated using the S(pre-subsidy) and the demand curve. You're probably confused because you think the surplus should be calculated using the new supply curve. However, the producer is actually still producing on the original supply curve. 

People on the highway are willing to pay more to stay on the highway (leaving to find another gas station will take time, they might not be familiar with the area, or other reasons). Since they're willing to pay more, the gas stations charge more. 

Debt is not exactly free money. It is 'free' money (apart from interest) only if you can be depended on to pay back that debt. In other words, investors are willing to lend money to a government if they are sure that the government will pay them back. Failing to pay back your debt would require your country to declare bankruptcy (or drop out of the global financial system altogether). The reason why governments like the U.S. can keep borrowing money is because investors believe that the U.S. can easily make enough money to pay them back in the future. This is based on the debt to GDP ratio. If your debt to GDP ratio is too high (say, 10 to 1) that means it might be quite difficult for the country to pay back all that debt. The current U.S. debt to GDP ratio is between 0.7 and 1.0, which is relatively high (a result of the Great Recession). Another smaller country might not be able to easily borrow with such a high debt to GDP ratio, but the U.S. also has credibility - it has not defaulted on its debts before, unlike some other sovereign states (Argentina). Combined with the fact that the U.S. has large financial clout and is relatively important, investors feel that the U.S. government is unlikely to default on its debts. If the U.S. government were to keep on borrowing money, eventually people would get a little concerned with the amount of debt it has taken on. It's possible to think of sovereign debt in a similar way to personal (your) debt. For example, if you own a credit card, you can use that credit card to get 'free' money and use that money to purchase things. The reason why banks are willing to lend you this money is because you have previously paid them back. If you were to (1) ask for a lot more money than you make (e.x. $100 million) or (2) ask for money after failing to pay the bank back at the end of the month, the bank would reject you. Investors, like the bank, require governments (and individuals like you) to meet some requirements before they are willing to lend you money. 

Falling oil prices may or may not lead to a lower price level depending on how you're measuring the price level and what measure of inflation the monetary authority is trying to target. Is the relevant inflation figure the GDP deflator? The PCE deflator? The CPI? The "core" CPI? Ignoring any nominal effects of falling oil prices if they exist at all, the mantra here is "never reason from a price change". Why is the price of oil falling? Is it because we've invented a new technology which allows us to synthesize oil at low cost, or is it because there was a recession in China which is leading to lower global demand? In the latter case, clearly the experience of the US and of China would be different. There's also the fact that higher productivity of the kind that would be caused by a new technology allowing easier production of oil may not necessarily translate into higher employment. In general, there are competing income and substitution effects in these situations - as you become wealthier you want to work less, but as wages are higher you want to work more. It's not clear a priori which effect would dominate. Finally, "unemployment" as used in "natural rate of unemployment" is meant to be a proxy for output gaps - if unemployment is higher than the "natural rate", then there's a negative output gap, and vice versa. In down-to-earth terms, we define "unemployment" as the state of not working but actively looking for a job, and the unemployment rate is the ratio of the number of such people to the size of the labor force. A change in the employment rate (the employment-to-population or employment-to-working age persons ratio) need not have any effect on the unemployment rate. Unemployment in a time of negligible output gaps is mostly the result of search frictions in the labor market. If a technological development made it easier to match potential employees with employers we would expect the "natural rate of unemployment" to fall, but it's not clear if or how an oil price change would lead to such an outcome. 

From a Coasian perspective, firms are created when the transaction costs involved in buying certain inputs or hiring certain services from the market are higher than the cost of producing that internally. For example: even though it could hire other firms to do that, a sufficiently large firm might have it's own accounting and legal departments because they can save on a few [million] bucks, even though the main good or service provided by the firm has nothing to do with any of these e.g. Coca-Cola. The issue with a lawn-mowing company, as I see it, is that it's not worthwhile to produce internally the inputs required for that service. To be able to produce a lawnmower at reasonable cost, you'd have to own a lawnmower factory. And in that case, you'd be better off selling the lawnmowers to people who do lawn-mowing service on their own. 

In a economy with an arbitrary number of agents whose preferences all satisfy the usual equilibrium conditions and with each starting with a random starting endownment, are there any two agents with the same income at equilibrium who might envy eachother? Please notice that not all agents have the same income. 

Habit forming models should work fine for this if you just switch the sign with which the habit enters the utility function of the consumer. The usual habit model looks something like $$ \Delta X_t = \phi (C_t - X_t) $$ with $ \phi > 0 $ where $ X_t $ is the consumer's habit at time $ t $ and $ C_t $ is consumption. Habit forming models usually take a standard utility function $ u $ and say that consumer's time $ t $ utility from consumption is given by $ u(C_t - X_t) $. For your purposes, assuming the utility from consumption at time $ t $ is given by $ u(C_t + X_t) $ will do. With multiple goods instead of one, you may specify a moving habit for each good and put each habit in the same way into the multivariate utility function. Habit models may also assume that habit formation is "external", i.e the consumer makes decisions without taking into account that consumption decisions affect the habit process. For your purposes, you want the exact opposite: the consumer should notice the effect consumption decisions have on habit formation and act accordingly. The point of this modification is that for large values of $ X_t $ it reduces the marginal utility of consumption, so (for instance) if the consumer has to work and suffer some marginal disutility to acquire income and there are no savings, they will work less in times of high $ X_t $ compared to times of low $ X_t $. If there are savings, then the consumer will still consume less in times of high $ X_t $, because the marginal utility gain from doing so is small.