According to the Weight Weenies.com web site listed weight can differ from actual weight by as much as 10-13%. One thing you should be aware of is there is some variations between identical frames due to manufacturing tolerances. Most weights listed in advertising literature are not for large frame sizes. Looking at the listings on the site it appears that a 20-40 gram difference between carbon frame sizes is about the average. 

There are numerous Vintage Bike Resource sites available. Old Roads.com, The Headbadge, are a couple I use. The Headbadge has a nearly complete list of Raleigh Catalogs for most years. It appears you have a frame at least similar to a Canadian Model 99 Gents circa 1954. It can be difficult to date a Raleigh bike visually as many models were made for decades with very few visual changes. The bolt-on chain stays aren't that unusual. I haven't found any definitive reason why they were used. Some feel it was just a hold over from the days of fully enclosed chain cases. It may also may have been to allow the chain to be removed without breaking the chain. For many owners a Raleigh was a once in a lifetime purchase. Hence the oiler port on the bottom bracket and wheel hubs. 

The cheapest solution is to try and remove the burrs or sharp edges that are cutting the tube. This can be done with a small file or a piece of emery cloth cut into a small strip and pushed through the hole. If the rim is double walled it will be difficult to get at the inner edges. The alternative is to purchase a set of schrader to presta adapter sleeves. While they are available on line a trip to your Local Bike Shop will verify that the drilled holes are large enough to accept the adapter. Then use Presta tubes and you should be trouble fee. 

Park Tool list the BBT9 as the tool to use for both Shimano and FSA external bearing bottom brackets. I would see how tight the wrench fits on your new Shimano bearings. If the fit is as loose as on your FSA I would replace the tool so you don't strip the notches off your new bottom bracket. While the type of wrench with the open side allows tightening the bearing with the crank in place it is more prone to spreading than the type that forms a complete ring around the bearing. 

The bike to use will depend on the reason for using the trainer. If your use of the trainer is for off season track training use the track bike, road racing use the triple,etc. If you just want some saddle time, the triple will simulate all of them to an extent, you can select the gearing of the track bike,the fixie or the single and leave it there. 

The new bottom bracket will fit as long as it is of the same thread and type. The Trek uses an English thread bearing. Shimano also says that you must use a mountain bottom bracket with a mountain crank. The new crank must be pretty close to the same tooth count as the original. The front derailleur is designed to work with a limited range of ring gears. If you are in the 40-44 tooth range you will be fine with the original derailleur. It may require some adjusting as the chain line most likely will be slightly different. I recently did a similar swap and I had to move around the bearing spacers to adjust the chain line. 

There a good chance that the combined cost of the parts you need will exceed the cost of the bike. The Next brand is a brand sold at discount retail stores. They retail for around $125. Many of the parts are not available as new replacements. The easy method is to say throw it away. There are some alternatives though. Many cities have programs called recycleabicycle.They teach youths how to repair bikes in an "earn a bike" environment. If you don't qualify for the program they make accept the bike. The other option is to contact your local bike shop and see if they have some used parts available. If you check your local Craigs list or similar listing you may find another bike that is free or inexpensive enough that you can put the one bike together with the parts from both. 

I would get a fork with a steerer that fits the frame. The expense and risk of modifying your existing fork won't be worth it. There were some mountain bike forks with replacement steerer tubes but they didn't allow for changes of size or type of steerer. They were 1 1/8" threadless and so was the replacement. You also want to match the fork rake/angle that the frame maker designed into the frame. 

You have an older pre-cartridge bottom bracket. The bottom bracket is the axle and bearing assembly for the crankset. Rather than sealed bearings it has either loose ball or caged bearings. While the bottom bracket is assembled the cup is adjusted to the correct preload. Preload determines how much movement there is between the bearings and the axle. It should be adjusted so there is a minimum free-play but still spins freely. Once the adjustment is made the ring is tightened to hold the adjustable cup in the correct position. 

While this isn't an exact answer to your question I felt it was too long for a comment. It will possible be deleted as your question is borderline off topic Your question as written likely won't likely get an informative response. We prefer questions that can be answered, not debated endlessly. While this is not a typical response I hope it will interest you enough to rethink you question. A google search led to JLA Forums.com It is listed as a 2007 and the specs appear to match your description. It was for sale in Jan 2014 for $695. While I admit the information is dated it is a starting point. Look for other Cannondales with similar components in your area that are for sale. When a bike gets to be 8 years old there is little value difference between individual levels (1.0 to 2.0 or sport model to comp) Regardless of any data base it's value is only what similar bikes in your area sell for. 

I couldn't find any images just a description. Apparently it is similar to a conventional skewer. The difference is, the skewer is removed to drop the wheel out of the frame. The nut that typically is not removed is captured in the frame. Some owners have complained it is difficult to line up the skewer with the "nut" 

The way many of these work is by controlling the movement of the oil by adjusting the orafice size that the oil flows through.Small holes restrict the oil making the shock feel firmer.Larger holes allows more oil to flow through faster making the shock feel softer.That is how turning the knob such a small amount can make such a big difference.