I am a blood donor, giving about 0.5L blood approx every 3-4 months. Last time I was in to give blood, I had a short chat with the nurse about Hgb levels in blood, recuperating after the donation and it got me thinking... I was out taking a jog the next day and it was MUCH harder than a couple of weeks ago, I was short of breath almost directly after 3-4 km. Since my O2 carrying capacity had decreased by a quarter or so, it was understandable. I know it'll take a bit of time to recover the iron that was lost during donation, and I adapt my diet accordingly. What I wonder is: Q1: is an optimal level of iron/Hgb that is dictated by my metabolism, or can I increase my Hgb level beyond what it was earlier by adapting a more iron-rich diet? To give an example, my Hgb levels are between 140-150 g/L normally. Having lost a quarter of that amount recently, can I go beyond that range by adapting an iron-rich diet, or will I just not take up more iron from my diet once I get back to my "normal" level? Q2: As a follow-up question; does more iron equate higher cardio capacity? I suspect that it's not that simple... Please note that I'm looking for information with scientifically relevant references and not urban legends or rumours that are perpetuated in gyms. 

I have heard from multiple sources that "no carbs in the evening" is supposed to be a good way of decreasing the fat buildup and facilitating weight loss. Now while I am aware that none of these sources is a nutritionist, but they are also people that work out a lot and read health and training magazines. So I wonder if there is any sound reasoning behind this statement, or if it is just an urban myth of some kind. I can imagine that unused carbs are probably processed into adipose tissue when the body is inert during sleep, so it kinda makes sense but I'd love to know more about it, since I normally have light breakfast and sometimes light lunch, train just before lunch or in the afternoon and finish it off with a proper meal for dinner. By proper meal I don't mean buckets full of food obviously but a sizable portion which usually includes some sort of carbs and proteins, and a sallad on a good day. Does it make sense to shift the main carbs intake to the mornings considering that my workouts are almost exclusively during lunch or afternoon sessions? If so what alternatives are there for evening meals, since pasta, bread and many vegetables as well as most fruits are out of the question? 

Well, as TonyArra says, these machines always overstimate the amount of calories burnt. Also, you have to take in account that if you start your workout with the elliptical, this is, you don't do muscle workout first, you won't start burning fat until the first 30 min. So if you workout for 60min, you will burn fat for 30min. So you will be really burning around 200 calories from fat. Edit - Calories meassurement First you should calculate your basal metabolic rate (BMR). This tells you how much calories do you burn just doing normal life (these values are just an aproximation). But this is a dificult value to meassure, as you need to be in a dark room, after sleeping for 8 hours, etc... So you can measure your resting metabolic rate (RMR) which will tell you almost the same and it's easier to meassure. You can use one of these 2 equations for male: Harris-Benedict: (13.75*weight(kg))+(5*size(cm))-(6.75*age)+66 Mufflin:(10*weight(kg))+(6.25*size(cm))-(5*age)+5 After this, you should apply the activity factor, which indicates your daiary activity value (not exercise): 

Then do: Diary activity cost = RMR * Activity factor And finally we apply the phisical activity factor in Mets: 

The natural testosterone level in male, is around 200-1200ng/dl, while in women is around 15-70ng/dl. There is a significant diference here, and this is the reason why women have it quite dificult to gain muscle. Anyway, using steroids as you say, stops the endogenous testosterone production. Here is where a woman has to consider if she wants to mantain some femininity, or if she doesn't care about that. Usually the steroids doses in women are much lower than in men, to not lose this femeninity, but you can also find women who look like real men. 

The comments/answers about excess stuff easily disposed of by the body are rather inaccurate; water-soluble vitamins will wash out as you mentioned, but excess fat-soluble vitamins will remain in the adipose tissue, and will be released into the bloodstream as fat is burned, overloading kidneys and livers. Also Ca/K/Mg ions are the driving force of the nerve and muscular (not the least cardiac) impulses. Without going into much details, it's the potential difference caused by differential ion abundances are the battery that drives the small but essential current in the human body. Admittedly most often, one would have problems due to a lack of these ions, but I'm pretty sure you do not want to mess with that system by overloading on a particular type of ion. As an example, consider that some of the most poisonous animals on the planet use extreme amounts of these ions in their saliva/poisons (of course this is not immediately relevant in your case, but I just want to stress the delicate nature of the ion balance in the body.) I would recommend structuring your diet so that you get most of what you need from natural products, and complement it where it may lack. If you need to take that many supplement pills, your diet must surely be lacking something. Finally, when in doubt, ask a professional ;) 

You should never ask for medical advise in such an electronic medium, especially when you have already gotten an advise from a professional. Even if there are/were doctors or physiotherapists here, they would not (and should not) give any advise without having examined you in person. You really should talk to a physio if you are serious about getting back on track with your training, and come up with a proper training plan. Keep in mind that early come-backs are among the most common reasons for serious injuries. 

First of all we should know what you workout looks like. The muscle recovery time depends on your genetics, your experience and your training program. Of course, a beginner will take some more time to recover from a workout. Also, If you are able to recover from a workout in 12 hours, for sure you haven't trained with the correct intensity. This doesn't mean that you have to feel muscle soreness, but you have to feel them tired. To have an aproximation of how much time does a muscle need to recover from workout, you first need to indetify your workout type, this is, you train at low reps for strengh, at middle reps for hipertrophy, or at high reps for resistance. Strengh: The usual workout program for strengh are full-body like programs, or programs where you train with basic exercises multiple muscles in a session. Here you could train each muscle 2-3 times a week, as the training volume for each muscle is low. The resting time for each muscle between session should be about 3-4 days, because in this type of workout you involve a lot the nervous system and it takes time to recover. Hipertrophy: Is the most common workout type, also known as the bodybuilder wourkout. Here you specialize more in each muscle, traning one or two muscles each day. In consecuence the training volumen for each muscle is higher than for strengh. This way you should only train each muscle one a week, maximum twice a week. As you involve less the nervous system than in a strengh routine, the recovery days for each muscle are less, so you should let each muscle rest for 2-3 days between sessions. So as you see, it basically depends on your workout type and how hard you train. 

At the risk of being a bit off-topic I have to say: Don't cut fruits off you diet to lower your carb intake. That's like putting sunflower oil in your engine, instead of the regular machine grade engine oil, because it's cheaper. You'll have seriously more benefits of consuming fruits over pretty much any other source of carbs, which you DO need do function properly. Besides clumping all fruits into one category in terms of their fructose levels is severely flawed. I suggest that you keep your fruits as a central part of your diet, no matter if you are trying to go down in weight or "beef up". The reasoning behind this is that you DO need carbs, and better get them of natural sources, with all the vitamins and fibers etc that come with it, instead of using some labtech formula which might in 20 years prove to be cancerogenic or something. That's of course my two cents... 

If you are gonna have a heavy night out, here are a couple of suggestions; do not work out in the morning after, especially if you are hungover. You'll end up feeling like crap and most likely mess up the recovering metabolism. In extreme scenarios you might end up fainting in a moment of intense workout (has happened to a friend of mine, he must have had a pretty bad experience as he's not had alcohol since that event). I'd suggest working out a couple of hours before you get in your party mood, you'll probably feel hungry when you start eating, but will soon get full especially if you drink a bunch of water after the training (which you probably should). I can not give a reference about whether or not it's a proven strategy, but all my friends who are into serious workout regimes skip the day after a party and continue with a heavy session the 2nd day. Besides as the others have mentioned, you will not gain much weight, if you do gain any at all, after a single night. Hope it helps