AD Authentication Document Management and Auditing Self Service it looks like office so users will use it! 

Vendors produce SAN equipment with their hardware because it works. Trying to build your own “SAN” is going to be a disaster waiting to happen. The reason HP, EMC, Dell etc have such a high price tag on there SAN hardware is because it is thoroughly tested, you get warranty (Normally 4 Hour Return to Service) You could never GURENTEE RTS if you used off the shelf hardware. I would persuade any person that tries to skimp on this and get the product that is proven. I know this isn’t always the best option for a business but can you cope with the downtime when you can’t fix it? 

VMware usually takes DHCP from the first nic. From the screenshot it looks like that the network cable is plugged into NIC2. Try NIC1 and it should work. From there you can set NIC bindings to be NIC2 etc etc. 

Ultra320 is a SCSI (Small Computer System Interface) technology. Most motherboards now have SATA or Serial AT Attachment. SCSI and SATA aren’t compliable. You could buy an add in SCSI card but if you are building a new PC it would probably be cheaper and better for upgrades etc to use a SATA drive. AS most motherboards now only support PCI Express and most older SCSI cards are PCI. 

We recently had an issue where a user brought their laptop in from home and plugged it into the network, attempting to get internet access. I know on a port level I could setup MAC restrictions, but I was wondering if there was a way that I could prevent a non-compliant machine from even getting access to our network in the future? We currently run all Windows 7 client machines and I'd like to simply tell it "if not Windows 7, no access", but not sure exactly how to go about that. We are running an AD environment, 2008 and above Windows Servers. I thought maybe NAP would work, and it appears to have a setting for WinXP (and one for Win7), but it allows me to disallow/allow access based on if it is up to date, if virus protection is on, etc, not if it's Windows XP itself. Is there a way that I could disable anything but what I specify from getting access to the network like this? Thanks in advance for your help! 

Network performance can be degrated during the snapshot process. But in my opinion a little bit of a perofrmance hit is better than losing data. Depending on how critical the data is I would maybe do one during the night. Unless your data is that critical that you must do Hourly etc. Only you can decied how much data you can lose should you need to restore. If you can live with a snapshot 24 hours old stick with it. But if you need your data no less than an hour old from a restore do that. We run snapshots hourly for our main database server as this changes hourly. But our Exchange Server is snapshotted every 12 hours. 

After doing a lot of research this is a new feature of Exchange 2010 SP1 and is referred by Microsoft as Additional Mailbox Auto Mapping in Exchange 2010 SP1. This is supposed to be a nice feature by Microsoft to stop Sysadmins needing to visit desktops to add additional mailboxes. To disable this you need to install SP2 and remove the full access rights of a user and add them back in. 

I'm slowly but surely perfecting a new user script. As it is, my script will do everything to add a new user to our domain, except one thing. We have an in-house program, webpage front end that connects to a SQL database. Typically I go to the webpage and open up a current user for reference, then add the new user with the same criteria (except name, email and username) as the current user. I was thinking it would be nice to add that into the script so that everything is in one location. And, I figured it would be easier to add the new user through the backend than through the webpage front-end (using PowerShell anyway). I don't actually have much SQL experience but I figured this would be a good time to learn some basic commands while learning PowerShell. So in summation, I'd like the script to go to the SQL server, look for the user I tell it (I already have a variable for current user for something else), create a new user just like that user with the exception of his/her name/email address/login name. There are a handful of fields that would be the same; department, groups, etc. Thanks for any pointers you can give! 

In Short your cant. :( Looking thought the Google Documentation, this is one of the features not available. There may be a 3rd Party add-on that Syncs the entries. However I cant see that there is. 

This is exactly why you have redundant power supplies and dual UPS’s. If power supply A fails instead of the load being spread over A/B it is transferred to power supply B. Also most UPS’s can isolate each output so if there is a problem only that output is affected. Without knowing what UPS you have I couldn’t say yes or no if it has isolated outputs. As for UPS configuration you have got it spot on. No point in having 2 power supplies going into the same UPS as then the UPS becomes a SPOF (or single point of failure) so many times I have seen people attached 2 power supplies to a single UPS. If you don’t have 2 UPS’s the best thing to do is put one power supply into the UPS and another into the mails via a surge protected power cord. 

I'm running into a problem here, and I'm positive it's simply that I'm not doing something correct (as opposed to it not working). I have a current Exchange 2007 server setup with a third party cert for it on TMG. I'm currently testing Exchange 2010 and wanted to test OWA and Activesync as well (I'm the only mailbox on the server so far). For the life of me I can't figure out how to issue a self-signed cert and install it on the TMG server so that when i go to "mail.company.com" it likes it. I've done quite a bit of looking online but so far have yet to get a working solution. My last attempt I did this: Open Chrome, attempt to go to mail.company.com. It sees the cert as not trusted, i then export that cert to the desktop (this was done from my PC). Copy that cert to the TMG server. Open up certmgr and add that certificate to the Personal/certificate group (via import). Import was successful and I now see that cert as well as the working Exchange 2007 cert in there that folder. Open Forefront TMG and go to Firewall policy, add a new Web Listener, require SSL, select All Networks, click select certificates and I see the current 2007 Exchange cert there from the 3rd party, but not the one I just imported. What am I missing here? I do see that the certs in there that are available (and currently being used) are all "Class 3 International Server" certs, if that is relevant. The one I imported is issued by our Domain Controller. I just want to try to use the self signed cert for testing, to make sure it all works before moving forward. We will eventually just edit our current Exchange cert to work with the new Exchange server. It's been awhile since I messed with this, and I'm obviously missing something. If anyone could point me in the right direction I would appreciate it. Thanks! 

I’m thinking that this is more a problem with the physical disk. Have you checked for Disk Fragmentation? Also have you run a checkdisk? This might shed some light any on physical problems. You say the website isn’t responding. Does it do this when you access the website locally? Or just external from this server? Sorry to ask more questions in an answer. 

The Cisco 877 only has a single WAN port. You would need Router with 2 WAN ports and 2 Termination modems (depending on your connection method) to achieve load balancing. So yes your ISP is right. But it is best to go with a device that is designed for a load-balancing application. 

This has to be rectified very soon! Those spade connectors are not designed for the amperage that could potently be drawn should all of the connected devices require full load. Also the earth will not be sufficient should there be an issue. Please please please plan urgent downtime NOW! Isolate the power to the PDU and replace with the correct cable. This is a huge safety issue and needs sorting, sod downtime. The cost of a law suit will be more. 

It works fine for putting them all in on file, but I can't tell who's email belongs to who. I also ran it on my mailbox specifically but I'd rather not run that manually on every user as that would take awhile! I'm not a Powershell guru but was hoping someone out there has a firmer grasp and can help point me in the right direction of the commands to help break it down a bit more. Thanks in advance! 

We currently have a pretty simple setup. We have a 2008 Windows Server using DHCP for our clients. We have a remote site that has 10 people. The remote site currently get their IPs from the router, but we'd like for them to get their IP from our local DHCP server here. From what i've read this seems fairly straightforward. On the remote router turn on Ip-helper x.x.x.x to point to the DHCP server back here. I guess my concern is, how will the transition go? If i enable that right now, will the users who currently have an IP lease from the router drop and acquire a new one, or will it just allow those leases to expire, then once they do, it will then look at the new IP range from the local DHCP server here? Just curious if this is anything i need to worry about or is it really as simple as it seems, just set it and run. I've configured RRAS on my side as well per several online articles discussing how to set this up. Thanks for any insight you can give! 

Google Analytics is based on browser scripts. You may find that certain browser add-ins may be blocking the GA script. Also some Corporations block GA at the firewall level. Also Google only tracks humans, (they do display web crawlers) Also things like external styles and scripts will show up in your logs. CloudFlare have a good article on this on how to integrate it using there built in APP. 

If you RAID is hot swap it will rebuild. Before pulling the drive check in the HP management agent and check it says that "HOT Swap" is enabled. Also what is the RAID Version? As pulling a drive that isn’t in a HOT Swap RAID will cause you more issues than it’s worth. 

For this you would need to do your own research we cannot even come to imaging your environment. What is it you’re looking for? Do you think going to the cloud is going to give your more DR/Performance/Capacity? If your looking for the above your Probbly just going there because it’s a buzz word. Without thinking about it you will not get the redundancy etc. For this you would need someone on site to look at your environment and needs so hire a consultant. You mention you have skills on site in VMware? Why put things in the cloud then?