When you go a whole day without any carbs or fats, your pancreas secretes glucogon which will burn fat. When eating just the protein sources and vegetables, the insulin never kicks in from six hours after your last indulgence to the next time you have carbs (over 24 hours later after you factor in sleep). You'll also naturally have a few less calories in that day. Add to that drinking plenty of water and you'll get rid of the excess water weight due to the over abundance of sodium in your system (I'm assuming you have a full four course meal and a decadent desert here). The combination of remaining in the fat burning state for over 24 hours and extra water are usually more than enough to properly compensate for a full free day a week. Some people argue (my dietitian being one of them) that it is not only perfectly healthy but preferred to have one indulgence a week. The problem becomes when you indulge every night of the week... Also assuming you are on a cruise, and you've gained more than one or two pounds over that time frame--you can compensate for that by as many no-carb/fat days as you need to correct. You'll find that you might be able to compensate in 2-3 days for a full week's worth of damage. You'll also find that after eating healthy 6 days a week you simply can't fit all the food in one day to truly cause serious weight gains. 

The physical dimensions of both of these lifters is the only thing that changed. They both deadlifted 250lbs, but Fred had to generate more force to do that because lockout was 7" taller than Joe's. In terms of science, physiology does in fact play a big role as to what is hard or not. However, lifting is as mental as it is a physical endeavor. The shear force of will needed to push heavier and heavier weight is what leads to recruiting more and more of your muscle to do work (central nervous system). So, for your female compatriot, her comment about science is wrong, but the spirit of what she was telling you to do (stop making excuses and get your mind in the game) was right. 

I train in my garage, so the only thing I have to worry about is humidity. On the eastern seaboard of the US, that's a big concern in the summer. So with that, I can say the following: 

NOTE: taking creatine as a supplement will increase the reserves you have, allowing you to train longer. The affects like most supplements are marginal, but present. If you have a creatine deficiency, more common in vegetarians, creatine supplementation will have a much more noticeable impact. The bottom line is that when you are targeting As Many Reps As Possible (AMRAP) in each set, your body can only recover so quickly. Even if you extended your rest periods to 2 minutes, you'll still lose reps from set to set. Fatigue as a training variable It's not uncommon to intentionally run fatigued in training. Some of the benefits include: 

Any time you change something fundamental to your form, you will have to go through a relearning process. When you are used to not having your heels lifted, a proper weightlifting shoe can throw you off. Particularly if it is a major change like over an inch lift. The Wei-Rui shoes have a 1.25" heel according to MaxBarbell, which is rather significant when you compare it to the 0.6" of the Addida's PowerLifts or 0.75" Nike Romaleos 2 shoes. It might be the size of the heel that is causing the bulk of the problems. Make sure you check your squat depth again with the shoes. I found I had to go a little deeper with my Addida PowerLift Trainers. The affect on my deadlifts was negligible with the 0.6" heel. Many Power Lifters opt for deadlift slippers, which have a flat, hard non-compressible sole. This gives you the stability you want in a good lifting shoe, but without any lift. 

In the article he has a simple set/rep progression for your first periodization. The idea is that you take a basic program like Greyskull or Starting Strength, or even the outline that @LarrissaGodzilla gave you. Basically, you change the sets/reps when you stall (can't finish the prescribed work). Then you change the sets reps to Greg's progression to help lay a good foundation: 

Beyond that your personal squat style is your personal squat style. Embrace it and get stronger at it. Subtle changes can lead to feeling substantially stronger and more stable under the bar. Those are the types of adjustments you'll want to make. Pursue better, ignore what everyone tells you is "best" or "optimal" since those are things that are impossible for anyone to truly know. Not to mention, "best" and "optimal" change as you get stronger. Just pursue better. Intermediate to Advanced 

Bottom line is this: both men and women's physiologies are fundamentally different. Women simply don't need the same amount of testosterone as men to function properly from a physiological standpoint. They aren't going to develop the same moodiness, lack of sleep, depression, and other ailments common with low testosterone in men. Also note that all a "natural testosterone booster" can do is bring low testosterone closer to normal levels. 

Sharp, intense pain is usually indicative of an injury. The most common form of injury on a program like this is tendinitis. Be sure to stretch and move your arms through their full range of motion when you are done. Dizziness or that blackout feeling can be indicative of improper breathing or dehydration. If your plan is to do 100 pushups or more in one set, you will have to learn how to breath during the set. The program helps build up the reps you perform, so you will be able to figure that out. Dehydration will be the biggest risk--particularly if you train outdoors in extreme temperatures (either hot or cold). Be sure to drink plenty of water. 

Now, you can always go with lower increments. This is called micro-loading. I had to do that for a while until I graduated to an intermediate program. 

There can be a number of issues at work here, and to really understand what's going on, you'll need to talk to your doctor. It's not normal to always be fatigued in the way you are describing. There are a number of things you need to be asking yourself: 

Defining How To Measure Your Goal Each sport has a set of measurements that make sense in the confines of that sport. Running, swimming, weightlifting, etc. all have different metrics. Get used to those measurements and use them when you record your work. This is all about tracking your effort, and measuring how that effort is helping you progress toward your goals. Express your goals (your reward) in terms of these measurements. Evaluate Your Effort Whenever you change your program (the way you organize your effort), see if you are progressing toward your goals more quickly. 

For people who don't train for a competition, they can be served very well by cycling between building work capacity and building strength. Doug Hepburn was a power lifter who had two routines that he used to get stronger, one was focused on adding more volume (work capacity), and the other was focused on getting stronger. His basic advice was to use one program until you couldn't make any more improvements on it, then switch and use the other program until your progress stopped. You'll notice that there is only mention of the weight, sets, and reps you need to perform. There is no mention of DOMS. This is because the combination of the training stress and recovery from the training stress is what builds strength and size over time. There's a pretty good treatment of the concepts in the book "Programming for Strength Training" by Mark Rippetoe and Dr. Lon Kilgore. Training with severe DOMS There is no reason to skip training just because you are really sore with DOMS. I've found that training even though I'm sore will help flush blood through the sore muscles and cause the DOMS to dissipate during your training (and sometimes afterwards). Many times I've had no loss of strength or ability just because I was sore. If you find your ability to do work is diminished, then your muscles are fatigued. This is related to the energy stored in the muscle being depleted or the muscle needing more time to completely recover. In this case, temporarily lowering the volume (called a deload) can help you get the blood flowing and keep practice up while still allowing your body to recover. "No Pain No Gain" This really came about as a rallying cry for trainers and coaches to get their clients to push through the way they feel and do the work they need to get done. It's more about motivation than any guiding aspect to know when you've trained hard enough. The problem with training until you feel pain all the time is that you end up compounding fatigue, which not only causes your technique to break down, but puts your body into a state where it is prime for injury.