How do I go about it and what all compound exercises do I incorporate for each body part ? That is simple. Choose a full body strength routine, SL 5x5, ICF 5x5, SS, PPL and etc. With that said, please continue doing your squats, lunges, leg extension and etc. Keep training your legs. Don't worry, your legs will not get as huge as those Mr Olympia. 

How to perform deadlifts? Jonnie Candito's How To Deadlift Jason Blaha's How To Deadlift Alan Thrall's How To Deadlift So, how do I know if I'm performing it correctly? 1.Record yourself deadlifting and watch the replay. Still unsure? Upload your video and post the link here. 2.Get a certified Personal Trainer to check on your form. How to foam roll? Alexander Kang's Foam Rolling Omarisuf's Foam Rolling If for some reason, your deadlifting looks like this :- 

Am I just being impatient? Well, to be strong, you need to eat more than you usual do (caloric surplus). It also takes time to become stronger, so long you are able to progress in weights / reps / sets, that will make you stronger. With that said, it could be possible that your form is incorrect. For example :- This is the incorrect form. Notice he is flaring his elbow ( in other words, elbows is not tuck close to his lats / back ) 

Just stand on a simple, cheap wooden block. Just that simple. You can make it out of several thick wooden boards glued together. 

Every strength routine includes rest days between workouts, so that the natural processes of tissue repair and muscle growth are allowed. I guess this process of repair and growth happens mostly between the first and maybe the fourth day after a strength workout. I am curious about any study that quantifies the amount of muscle tissue added as a function of time after a strength workout. Is there any such study? 

I suggest you build up strength gradually by doing leg presses but pushing with one leg only (of course, alternate legs, although the strongest one will not benefit much until the weakest one catches up). I mention the Leg Press because it is the closest thing there is to a basic, compound leg exercise like the squat, but with the leg press machine you can easily set the load low enough, so that you can work safely with one single side and gradually build up. There is a description in EXRX of the single-leg version of the leg press so it is probably not a bad idea (invented exercises can be dangerous, you know). One-sided exercises are usually recommended to athletes with lateral imbalances, and the typical example is the bench press and shoulder press with dumbbells, in order to force both sides to work equally and independently. Take this with a grain of salt because I am neither an experienced athlete, nor a physical therapist. And this answer is likely going to receive a shower of downvotes because I mentioned a gym machine (oh my God!) and the trend now is "either barbell or nothing". But I think machines can be very useful under certain circumstances, and yours seems to be the case. Since you cannot do a single-leg squat without pain, I don't think there is a better alternate than the leg press machine. Additionally, I guess you have already tried lunges, although they are not a 100% single-leg exercise. If lunges are painful, you may also try a reverse lunges, I have found them somewhat easier on my knees. In any case, I don't think it is a good idea to be messing around with lunges with knee pain. The leg press machine is safer because you can set the load as low as you want and build up from that point. And be sure to have your therapist clearance in order to attempt anything. 

With that said, if you really want to know more, you could try doing it to see if your body is capable of doing so. 

Does weight gaining workout stunt growth? No. Improper form causes stunt growth. You are only 16, you are still growing, so stop worrying about your height. I agree with rrirower statement, that is your height is determined by your genetics. Now, as for a home workout, there are probably a lot of routines on the net. Here are a few to help. Buff Dudes Home Workout Routine Barstarzz Home Workout Routine Nerd Fitness Home Workout Routine With that said, I highly recommend doing some sort of strength training routine to build up your strength. Once you are satisfied with the weights you can lift, either continue doing the same strength training routine or your own split or doing a different strength / hypertrophy routine. 

Is there a correct way to breathe? No. If you are doing heavy compound movements such as the squats and deadlifts, the valsalva maneuver is used to ensure a tight core so that you protect your lower back and able to power through when doing the movements. With that said, even the valsalva maneuver has its pros and cons. As for running/jogging, I would go by a tempo of inhale for 2 seconds and and exhale for 3 seconds. Basically, its to control my breathing so that I don't land on my heels and so that I can keep an upright posture. With all this said, if you are doing any sort of movement, be it lifting weights or doing your cardio, there is no right or wrong method to breathing. 

Do not program a separate shoulder day. Prefer push/pull split routines instead. Otherwise your supraspinatus and front deltoids will work twice (during chest day and shoulder day) and so your infraspinatus and rear delts as well (during back day and shoulder day). This reduces their recovery ability and increases the chances for injury. Prefer shoulder exercises that don't force your humerus to go overhead, i.e. prefer lateral raises with perfect form (see here or here and be sure to do the "Full Can" version, i.e. with thumbs pointing upwards) instead of shoulder presses. The reason being the reduction of the subacromial space during overhead movements. This is usually not a problem if you are young and have perfect form. But sooner or later this is an issue for many bodybuilders. Avoid behind-the-neck press and behind-the-neck pulldown exercises. There is little advantage and great risk of shoulder injury. Avoid keeping pullups unless you are a pro in great physical shape. Prefer the pulldown to your chest variation, and pullups with slow, controlled tempo. As for shoulder presses please see point 2 but, if you decide to do shoulder presses nevertheless, the neutral grip with elbows pointing forward is anatomically less likely to cause subacromial impingement. If you are a beginner, don't bench press until you are able to do a set of 20 perfect-form push ups in a row. Push ups work the same muscles and many more, in a more shoulder-friendly way. Only when push ups are too easy for you it is time to start bench pressing. If that is not the case, then forget momentarily about the bench press and start by doing pushups with your hands on elevated surfaces (on top of a bench, on the bar of a Smith machine...) until you are able to do them on the floor. Add some swimming to your regular training schedule. Yeap, swimming is great for your shoulder joint health. Sustained movement under low stress promotes blood flow into the muscles and nourishes your cartilages. Unluckily, many of us only follow this advice when shoulder problems appear after a lifetime of ignoring it. I am NOT saying "quit lifting" but only "add swimming sessions here and there in your rest days". Add internal rotations and external rotations with a rubber band AS THE VERY LAST EXERCISES in your workouts (internal rotation during push day, external rotation during pull day). These should be done with very light weights. They help keeping your rotator cuff tendons healthy. Never do them before any other kind of work: you want those tiny muscle fresh and ready to assist you with the big exercises. Finish your workouts with the infraspinatus stretch and the supraspinatus stretch. Not only they help keeping your shoulder healthy, but also they are useful indicators: If any of those two stretches is painful, then something nasty is probably going on inside your shoulder and it is time to examine carefully what you are doing and how to improve your technique/ change exercises/ introduce additional rest days before it is too late and you find yourself under the surgeon's knife. 

To gain weight you need to eat more than you usually do (caloric surplus). Hence, first off, you need to calculate your TDEE. Add your TDEE + 500 calories and you will be in a caloric surplus. For your protein intake, 1g per pound of bodyweight should suffice, as for your fat intake, 0.5g ~ 0.6g per pound of bodyweight and fill up the rest with carbs, vitamins and minerals. Next pick either strength training :- Stronglift 5x5 ICF 5x5 SS (The Original Starting Strength Novice Program) Or some calisthenics :- Baristi Beginners Workout Buff Dude's Punisher Prison BW Workout ---> Can't do one arm push ups? Just do close grip / normal push ups ---> Can't do handstand press? Do pike push ups ---> Can't do L-Sits? Do planks or hanging leg raises, follow the set and seconds provided Fortress Beginners Routine ---> Can't do pull ups? Do a negative pull ups or incline pull ups ---> Can't do a pistol squat? Do your normal squats ---> Can't do handstand hold? Do pike push ups Lastly, you may want to play around with your calorie intake since most calculator provide a rough estimation. You should use a weighing scale and a mirror (taking pictures also helps) to gauge your progress. Don't expect a huge difference in just a few months. If you don't intend to track your macros, that is also fine so long you are eating more than usual. 

First and foremost, you need to be sure that this pain isn't caused by some underlying problem that could result in injury. Does it only occur when you do a specific run at a specific pace etc? Does it feel like a 'pull' pain or just an overuse pain/ache? If in doubt, see a physio and get professional advice. If you are sure it's just a general overuse pain then try the below as well as strengthening exercises (which I am sure someone more knowledgeable in this area will be able to provide you with details of). I used to suffer badly with overuse pain in my calves. These couple of things made a huge difference for me and I no longer suffer excessively with this. Compression Socks or Calf Guards Try them. They help stimulate blood flow in your muscles thus (in theory) removing by-products of exercise away from the muscle more efficiently resulting in less discomfort in the muscle. I found these really helped for me and I almost never run without them now. There are lots of brands out there to choose from. I use both these compression socks and these calf guards and find them both very good value and good quality. Foam Roller The cheaper alternative to sports massage. Using a foam roller 3 times a week or so will give a similar effect to a sports massage and will help the muscle recover from running quicker than just resting. Have a read of this article for more detailed information about the foam roller and what it does. Hopefully this has given you some other things to consider alongside strengthening the muscles. I know how frustrating this kind of pain can be! 

Tips to improve frailty and an easily injured body? I presume going to the gym is out of the option after that accident involving the dumbbells. So lets start by doing some calisthenics. Here are some :- Baristi Workout Beginners Program Nerd Fitness Beginners Plan There is more out there then the ones I listed. However, once you are happy with your progress, you can choose to continue / change said routines or start doing strength training. If you intend on starting with strength training either from the start or after you are satisfied with the strength and muscle gain from the bodyweight workout, here are some of them : - Stronglift 5x5 Starting Strength (Original) Ice Cream Fitness 5x5 Do note that working out should not be a chore and takes time to progress. Also please eat more that usually do (caloric surplus). 

How alternating sets is best if you want to increase the weight you lift because you work more muscles at high energy. I believe progressive overload is the key to be able to lift more weight. Whether you increase the weight / reps / sets, that is progressive overload. With that said, to answer your main question :- Focus on body part hard on one day, or spread it over multiple days? This should depend on the user himself/herself. The reason is, some people prefers doing full body for 3 times per week and some prefers splitting up their work, doing legs on Monday, doing pushing (chest, triceps, shoulders) on Tuesday and so on. That being the case, you may want to play around and find which method suits you the most. 

This is not an answer to your question, but I have something useful to say for your situation, and it is too long for a comment. 

I am doing a simple strength training routine once every four days (Sxxx). I need to introduce a very low impact cardio day in this routine (e.g. SxCx). I would like to use the stationary bike (not the treadmill or elliptical machine) and I would like to keep it very simple, avoiding such things as intervals or HIIT. Just "classic" steady cardio on the bike. It does not need to be the most efficient program. I just want to be sure I don't do anything unhealthy out of ignorance. The bike has a built-in hear rate instant meter. How should I approach training my heart under that circumstances? Is the following naive program unhealthy or ineffective? 30 minutes at 60% of my max HR. The next session (four days later) I aim for 61% and so and so until reaching 30 min at 80% of my max heart rate (or until the month of June arrives and I switch to swimming). For those who are about to answer "it depends on your goals": well, my average resting heart rate just before quitting running was 53 bmp, and now it is 66 bpm. I just want to lower it down again. The strength training alone is definitely not training my heart. 

Your heart rate will stay quite high for a while after your high intensity interval, this is perfectly normal. The period of time it stays high will reduce as your fitness improves. When i do interval training I will be looking for my heart rate to settle back down to around 65-70% of maximum before starting another high intensity interval. Basically at the lower end of your aerobic zone. If I drop down any lower I find that i have effectively "warmed down" and too much of the high intensity interval is wasted getting my HR back up into the anaerobic zone. Hopefully this makes sense? 

The key thing here is your cadence - the number of strides per minute you are taking. To run for a longer amount of time then as well as your fitness level being the main factor, you can help this by running more efficiently. This can be achieved by running with a high cadence and shortening your stride length. Have a read of this article about cadence. A distance running coach I've worked with in the past used to stress the technique he called 'high hips, short levers' was key to having a high cadence. In other words, keep your hips high then at the end of your stride, rapidly bring the heel of your trailing leg up to your backside and rapidly follow through with your knee ready to take your next stride. In other words, spend the least amount of time possible between your trailing leg becoming your leading leg (I know it sounds obvious but try the technique. It keeps your strides relatively short and leg speed high). In relation to your question, this tends to lend itself to your thighs raising more but it also lends itself to your feet moving faster, so in essence, do both. Concentrate on running efficiently and you will start to see speed and endurance results. Hope this helps