“Women rate the strongest men as the most attractive” …or is it always so? No. We're done; move along. More detail ... The methodology is reasonably well laid out: the researchers objectively rated the men's strength based on physical exercises, they create a visual proxy for that strength by taking photos of their torsos and other people rated their strength and attractiveness on a scale of 1 to 7. The results are that they found "a linear relationship between a man's rated strength and his attractiveness". That is, when they plot the woman's assessment of strength versus attractiveness they are linearly related; from the abstract, the correlation was greater than 0.7. It is clear that they also rated "tallness" and "leanness" and when these three were used (presumably in a multi-regression) the correlation was 0.8. The only definitive thing that can be said about any scientific study, particularly in the social sciences is: at this time, in this place, under these circumstances, this was the result. Now, statistical inferences can and should be drawn, however, the limits of statistics and scientific publication should always be borne in mind: 

The proposition that because this person does not earn a lot and has little prospect of bettering themselves; therefore Australia is no longer egalitarian is riddled with logical fallacies, both formal and informal. 

There is certainly a lot of peer reviewed literature about it. This1 literature review's abstract says: 

From these, income inequality has increased slightly over the past 40 years by some measures but Australia was about in the middle of the OECD countries then and is still in the middle now. So it has changed but not a lot. The second article you cite is talking generally about equality of economic opportunity and specifically cites a paper by Dr Leigh which is at best tangential to the anecdotal case the article is about. That paper compares intergenerational income mobility between fathers and sons who were both born in Australia. It is worth quoting the abstract: 

Changing the circumstances may invalidate the statistical conclusions. As the article points out, the subjects were male college students (as the ratees) and female college/university students in one campus in the USA and one campus in Australia (as the raters). How far can the circumstances be changed before they are so different that the statistics are invalid? This is one study and random elements (a.k.a. luck) will play a much greater role than if this were a meta-study of 10 or 100 such studies. "Statistically significant" means "if we do this a lot of times then X% (usually 95%) of the times we do this the result will be the true result: for this one study we cannot say if this is one of the X% or one of the 100-X% of such studies." Journals overwhelmingly publish results that are statistically significant - this is known as the "file drawer problem" and "increas[es] the likelihood that published results are a reflection of Type 1 errors rather than true population parameters". That is, because of a selection bias in the way scientific journals work (even reputable ones like the Royal Society), the one investigation that shows a link is more likely to be published than the 10 that don't. 

Did you consider all of these in your idea of "medical error"? As an aside, if the data is correct, then many of the causes of death currently classified as heart disease or cancer should be reclassified as medical error (if for example the incorrect dosage of a drug caused a cancer patient to die six months earlier then they otherwise would) making those figures smaller. 

1 Yadollahpour, A., & Jalilifar, M. (2014). Electromagnetic Fields in the Treatment of Wound: A Review of Current Techniques and Future Perspective. J pure appl microbio, 8(4), 2863-77. 

Scope. These are young woman rating young men - we cannot say how older woman rating older men or older woman rating young men or young woman rating older men would play out. This is a limitation of almost all social science studies - the people who are available and willing to be research subjects are almost exclusively college students and are therefore not representative of the wider community. Extraneous Variables. You can tell a lot more than strength from a photograph. Ethnicity is apparent, as are any surgical or injury scars: how were these controlled for? Anchoring bias - I rate strength on a 1 to 7 - this is going to anchor my assessment of attractiveness for this subject and my ratings of strength and attractiveness for all subsequent subjects. Correlation is not causation. Strength and attractiveness are correlated - this doesn't mean that being strong makes you more attractive. It certainly doesn't mean that being more attractive makes you stronger. It is entirely possible that there is something else driving both variables which leads us to ... Overreach in the conclusions. Really? Strong=attractive because evolution? Could we have some evidence for this massive cognitive leap please? 

However, this long-term field study showed a reduction in the incidence of infant diarrhea when hands were washed but it was not statistically significant if soap was used. The case for alcohol First, alcohol sanitizers do not clean your hands, they kill germs - to remove visible dirt you need water and, preferably, soap. From the World Health Organisation: 

The paper the newspaper cites is in a peer reviewed journal and extracts its information from other peer reviewed journals. On that basis I have no reason to doubt the raw data they cite. There is, however, a strong possibility that your disbelief stems from a category error. The paper defines medical error as: 

This is not a claim being made about the findings - this is the researcher's anecdotal statement which presumably led her to conduct the study in the first place. This is how science is done: anecdotes are noticed that indicates that X goes along with Y and because of this, a researcher develops an experiment to test if X really does go along with Y. 

Your first quote and the first paragraph of the second quote appear to refer to "Australian egalitarianism" as a social construct - an equality of outcome in social interactions i.e. one person is not better than another because of distinctions in birth, wealth or education. The first article is clear and consistent and is to my mind, as an Australian, what is meant by "Australian egalitarianism". This is and always has been a relative measure - Australian interactions are less formal than European and even American - titles and honorifics (even Mr & Ms) are rare outside of very formal situations and anyone can be addressed as "mate" - regardless of sex, ethnicity or social status. I know this makes my sister-in-law (an Austrian) extremely uncomfortable. What we are dealing with here is a cultural identity or myth - like all myths it is about how should be - not about how they are or were. Just as Americans want to believe in "the land of the free" and the French in "libertie, egalitie and fraternitie", Australians want to believe that their society is fair and equitable - it isn't, never has been, never will be. However, the second part refers to an equality of economic opportunity and the article as a whole generally conflates these two very different definitions of egalitarianism. Equality of economic outcome is easier to measure than equality of economic opportunity so lets get that out of the way first, see 

However, just for fun, I downloaded the rainfall data for the Canterbury Racecourse Automatic Weather Station from the Australian Beureau of Meterology (here) and analysed just the rainfall data. There were 248 days where the previous days rainfall (yes/no) was the same as the current day and 101 that were different, an accuracy of about 71%. This only adds up to 349 not 364 because: 

January 1st has no comparison day in the data set There were 8 days when no measurements were taken - because these were scattered this led to 14 days where no comparison could be made. 

It is definitely worth bringing sanitizer on a hike Germ Longevity Bacteria and viruses die after a while on your skin - anywhere from hours to months according to the UK NHS. If you can keep your hands away from your mouth and nose for 5 or so months, good for you! However, this study shows the average time between hand to mouth contact is less than 2 minutes - the germs are very much alive. The case for soap Washing with water only is definitively better than not washing. Washing with soap is easier than washing without when removing visible dirt and soiling. There is conflicting evidence as to if it is more efficacious at reducing the transmission of disease. This laboratory study showed the number of exposed subjects who had pathogens on their hands was: