In formal logic this is called a Disjunctive Syllogism (sometimes called 'the process of elimination' in informal logic) - grandchild of the syllogism a la Aristotle you've got going on with the green man. As logically valid as they come, this one! Formally if one knows: 'X or Y' and 'not X', one may conclude 'Y' It's often difficult to find the premises in practice for anything non-trivial (it's easy with different colours of paint, but try listing different theories of electron behaviour!), but as with all logic the conclusions follow irrefutably from the premises if they are there. (Unless of course the propositions under investigation, like certain quantum properties, are not governed by standard logic: but that is another story...) 

I mean, is there a thought experiment that shows its ontological validity? Could it concievably, based on the data that we have, be merely an epiphenomenon of syntax and semantics? 

A philosophical project of mine depends on an assertion which at first seems problematic, but one that I believe is correct. Background Following Husserl, modern philosophy is in accord that the uniting reality of mental states is that they are intentional in the sense of being object-directed. Debates concerning the semantics of 'object directed', particularly concerning those attitudes that effect object-directedness, have represented a crucial battleground for the spat between functionalists and qualophiles concerning philosophy of the mind. But can one not describe intentionality better than simply as 'object directed'? Assertion If one follows Wittgenstein in assenting that there is no separation between an act and its apprehension, does it not follow that our thoughts about objects are to an extent as if in their presence? To put it another way, is there not a (necessary, non-zero) correlation of affect, attitude and (inner) perception between thoughts of an object and those that would be directly caused by the object's presence? Of course one distinguishes pictures of objects and objects. Absences are treated as a serial property of impresence at points of attention in an environment. Abstractions are seen to place oneself in the presence of exemplars, be they real or imaginary. So my questions: Are there obvious counter-examples to this assertion? Are there any philosophers who have explicitly dealt with phenomenology on these terms? 

Academic philosophy is open to discussing all sorts of questions. Your own question is of the form . However, this seems relevant only for theologians, generally not for philosophers. I'll cite just two of the many cases that discuss the . Should the baby live?: the problem of handicapped infants 

While one could say anything at all; neither was she, herself raised on any such tradition, nor did she try to mentor others into following such a tradition herself. Based on what I know of Rand, I'd say any such resemblance is only coincidental. From what I know about Rand, she does not seem to be a discursive philosopher. Her methods seem more like the methods of Marx or Nietzsche. 

The idea of like-minded people trying to start afresh is not really original either. But then, I don't see what this has to do with Italian Futurism. 

Robert Nozick, I believe, was the first to propose an argument for something like this, in his book Anarchy, State, and Utopia, pg. 169-172. I quote from pg. 169: 

I concur with Eliran H, so I'll answer mostly the second part of the question. First, I don't understand the pairing of Dawkins' "selfish gene" and Dennett's "consciousness explained". I am not aware of any collaboration between the two on either of these works. I know they did not coauthor the books, but I'm talking about collaboration for the concepts dealt with by them. I have read The Selfish Gene, but not Consciousness Explained. Because of this, if I am missing some connection between the two, please add an elaboration in the question for the benefit of all who have missed the connection, including myself. 

In the latter period of his writings, a chap by the name of Ludwig Wittgenstein looked a second time at his earlier work and rather drastically changed his mind. In his first book, the Tractatus Logico Philosophicus, he argued, among other things, that 

To put it briefly, you have told the logical system it is not snowing. Your statement (4) is just the principle of explosion in action: if it is snowing (and, as you have already told the system, it is also not snowing) then black is white, I am pope and, yes, it is also raining. If 'A is false' is taken as a premise then 'A-> whatever the heck you like' is a theorem, because the conditional is never satisfied. Edit: Here's a proof (1) ~A (2) ~A v Whatever the hell you like (By disjunction introduction) (3) A-> Whatever the hell you like (By material implication) 

First up, we need to correct a big difficulty, you seem to be conflating truth and provability. A does not imply □A. There's plenty of scope for contingent truth in system K- that is: there is plenty of scope for dealing with true propositions A which are true but not necessarily so- which just, as it were, happen to be the case. That Nixon was elected president, for example, is true in the actual world, but that does not entail that he was elected president in all possible worlds. Now we have that under our belt, why is modal logic significantly different from classical logic? Firstly, the modal operators are at least potentially very much world dependent (provided we do not include additional axioms such as S4- mentioned in the SEP article you linked). That is to say: from worlds which are possible from our point of view, we may be able to see other worlds as possible which were not possible from our original point of view. This fact (kept track of in the access relations between the worlds) means that we must do some extra work in evaluating modal propositions, chasing around a potential web of possibility. Secondly, things get screwy when we introduce quantifiers. Since necessity and possibility are quantifiers of a sort themselves, we might assume they commute, that is: 

No. The Big Bang has not been "discovered", almost all of it is just one theory on top of another on top of another. The only thing that is certain is that we have not witnessed anything that disproves the Big Bang. That is the nature of science. Until we disprove the Big Bang, it is a possibility. We can get ever more sure about it, but we will never know with absolute certainty. Every scientist underwrites that contract. The scientific method is about "formulation, testing, and modification of hypotheses". We can, by principle, never "prove" the Big Bang, we can only disprove it by witnessing something that conflicts clearly with it. Science has rewritten itself over and over again. Being 100% irrevocably sure of something is a clear sign of pseudo-science or religion. Specifically, while we are pretty sure that "something happened" back then, we also know perfectly well that our current mathematical model of the Big Bang is wrong (or at least incomplete). Not wrong in the sense of "false", but wrong in the sense that we need a much more complicated theory. Similarly to how Newtons laws are not quite false in everyday cases, but are patently wrong in the big picture. We are still thinking about it... 

I am not an expert, but if you ask "how can you understand why they acted the way they did?", that's beyond the scope of praxeology. I quote from Mises' Human Action: 

Epigenetics did not mean back then what it means now. Briefly, Waddington's "epigenetics" is roughly equivalent to the current word "phenotype". Far from ignoring it, Dawkins has written extensively on the topic. What is now called "epigenetic inheritance" is a very new field of study. I could expect a sequel to The Selfish Gene and The Extended Phenotype (by someone else) after the field of epigenetic inheritance and evolution is better established. 

This video gives a good overview of many kinds of implications. The source material for his lecture was mostly Jonathan Bennett's A Philosophical Guide to Conditionals. 

There is a famous, humorous resource for that, called Hundreds of Proofs of God’s Existence. Since you listed a few bulleted items, this page fits the bill quite nicely. 

The meaning is perfectly clear to the person who understood each of my words. It is true that I want espresso, in that context. It is false that I want sugar, in that context. 

Electronics: We use boolean logic at the level of predicates. I've not come across propositional logic here. Some of the advances in the field are from finding optimal circuits for complex tasks. Linguistics: A few different kinds of logic are at the heart of many grammar formalisms such as CCG and Logical Grammar 

That is true. Numbers in general are rule based, and well defined. There is very little "philosophical" in the number constuctions of Peano or the ZF/von Neumann variation. 

Simple - "X believes in god" is a statement/predicate about human X. For a non-believer, the state of believing in god is exactly as inconceivable as the state of not believing in god would be for a believer. Both need mind-shattering experiences to truly switch around, there is no way through simple logic to change that (proof: if there were a way - in either direction - the issue would be resolved by now, and we would not be having this discussion). Even indoctrinating gullible young humans for many years through childhood and adolescence does not with certainty work to instill either belief or disbelief in them, as demonstrated frequently by young adults switching to the "other camp" when out of the control of their parents or community. 

0 is not more abstract than any other mathematical term. There is nothing special about it - it is as abstract as 1, -1, infinity or whatever else you could think of. That said, in both Peano as well as ZFC constructions, 0 or {} are actually less abstract than any other natural number in the sense that they are the only natural numbers that are defined explicitely as such (without resolving to a successor construction). 

My rationale, very roughly, is that if processing is, so to speak, a series of monologues in diverse and disjoint tongues, this would be consistent with (imply?) the qualia hypothesis. For me this is the reason why massive modularity is untenable, as for various reasons I would not touch any qualia-driven theory of the mind with a barge pole. Is my hunch in any way tenable? Has anyone put forward such a contention seriously? 

Your second premise could be vacuously satisfied- i.e. there might be no illogical men in the world: without a witness (guaranteed only when you add the aditional premise ∃x~L(x)), the existential quantifier in your conclusion would not be true (in the sense of Tarski). As this remains a possibility, Caroll's argument is indeed not formally logical- this is, I suppose, what one might expect from someone writing 40 years before sentential calculus was formally axiomised. 

This, when one unpicks to a decent enough approximation what he means by the terms, seems to make some sense- after all, it seems we cannot think anything truly illogical*, and I certainly seem to have an internal model of the things I am thinking about. Indeed, if one hunts for the intuitive appeal in the claim "knowledge => knowledge of knowledge", one sees something similar, for: 

That is a weird way to put it, maybe I am just not understanding it correctly. The AoI closely resembles the purely mechanical way in which numbers are constructed in the von Neumann system. It puts forth that there is an infinite set containing all sets which represent individual natural number; it is necessary because no natural number is itself infinitely large. Maybe you are thinking about the Axiom of Induction, which constructively gives you all naturals? 

Quite literally, 0 is defined to be the first natural number. As mentioned elsewhere, there were earlier variants where Peano started with 1, and it did not change much. I guess it was changed to 0 later because of practical reasons, mostly. 

This is an at least ~2400 years old argument going back to Plato, Aristotle et al: do mathematical objects (numbers etc.) exist physically, or are they just constructs in our mind? A similar argument goes for language: does a word like "chair" exist, or does it not exist? I.e., does it have any physical meaning except for firing certain synapses in our head? Another example: There are people who deny the existence of infinities like irrational numbers because they could not be constructed completely; they go to great lengths to build alternate mathematical buildings from scratch which do not need infinity. See $URL$ for a nice introduction and links to further reading. 

To the extent that a philosophy of organism is required for a biology book, Dawkins already does that, with his (or Niko Tinbergen's) concept of "survival machines". 

By itself an utterance such as "Ouch!" does not carry a truth-value. Contrast "If I am experiencing discomfort, I will eat painkillers." with "If Ouch!, I will eat painkillers." That does not mean that a proposition cannot be derived from such utterances, the absence of any utterance, or utterances that convey the opposite of what is being stated (as is the case with sarcasm). But such things come under the purview of pragmatics, not semantics. This is why the following is plausible: 

Youth and technology have been celebrated by an innumerably large number of people, especially the former. Rand abhorred violence, except in self-defense. 

Most Indic scripts are not as linear as Latin scripts. Devanagari features compounds and conjuncts where some letters modify other letters from left, right, above, below, or within. But why is that relevant? Indian languages can be written in a linear form as well, commonly with IAST or ITRANS. The same goes for mathematical expressions. Your two-dimensional example is often written in a linear way in LaTeX or Mathematica. 

But this is not necessarily the case- the above argument schema would say (roughly) for example that "There is possibly a man in my closet" implied "There is a man who is possibly in my closet", which are very different things (the latter seems to imply that you know of a particular guy, which seems somewhat stronger). This (I would say metaphysically shaky) argument schema is a corollary of the Barcan formula, and has stirred up some controversy. If we introduce it as an axiom, though, that makes for some logical gymnastics that properly transcend those of simple in-world deduction. The above considerations point to the nub of the difference between modal and classical logics. In short: deductions occur not just in worlds, but between them, and that means weird stuff goes down... 

Any logical picture shewing my knowledge of p occurring in my mind must logically shew its own presence. As Wittgenstein demonstrated in his later work Philosophical Investigations, such accounts of thought are palpably false. To see why such accounts are false in full generality is rather a lot of work, so let's attack just the relevant bit of it. To adapt an example from section 60 (of PI): to bring a broomstick and brush attached as to make a broom, connotes a different thought than to bring a broom, although they are logically equivalent. That is to say exhaustive logical consequence is not a feature of thought. Though one may derive second order knowledge of p from knowledge of p, one need not in knowing p. To conclude, a thought experiment: In a world where knowing state secrets is punishable by death; a man discovers, while walking in the park, an official document declaring the location of his children's school to be a nuclear testing site- at the bottom of the page; the words [top secret], the government seal, and a reminder of the law. Is his first thought for his own life, or his children's? Suppose somehow, both the reminder of the law, the secret itself and that it is a secret were conveyed simultaneously (for example, if there were a single monosyllabic word in the man's language containing all this information); what then? *Although we may think plenty that is irrational or unreasonable. IMO the character Spock in the original Star Trek has a lot to answer for for confusing these three terms in the eyes of the public...