According to Eastern philosophy, the brain is an organ and suffers death just like the rest of your body. What carries over into a next life is 'impressions' - karma so to speak which happens until your soul escapes the cycles. Buddhists would say that the inertial force of a previous wave carries over into the next manifested wave. From a cosmological viewpoint, the universe is another wave that has it's ebb and tide. After the ebb cycle, a new universe starts. But the sequence of events in each new universe is like throwing a pair of dice. You throw them and get a sequence of 3,7,11 for example. After many more throws you get the same sequence. Maybe 1 time you have to throw 100 times to get the sequence, another time 560 times before the sequence reappears. But it eventually repeats the sequence. Same with events in a universe. Maybe after 5,560,431,280 universes (each lasting tens of billions of years, and maybe some of those universes had different physical laws so they were pretty messed up), the same sequence of events appears as now. Your physical body is reborn and goes through the same events. But, according to Eastern philosophy, another soul is now occupying your body [too long to explain this]. But to your body there is no sense of time between each, all those other universes never existed for it. So in a sense your body is eternal also. 

Here is an excellent article on the subject. It points out how the writing should be structured and gives some very useful examples. It summarizes with the following points: 

So the feeling that the Perceiver is outside is a creation of your mind. The Perceiver is your innermost soul, or the Atman, and that innermost soul is one with Brahman. 

Your view might hold to a narrow interpretation of logocentrism with a written and spoken word; Derrida, one may argue, is not so strict in his interpretation of what is the “text”. One of the ongoing problems with any interpretation/comparison with any Derridian concept is there are no exact meanings to Derrida. Derrida can argue that it is not the written word but the text. “There is nothing outside of the text”. A text for Derrida can be either written or spoken, it can be anything that conveys meaning. Jacques Derrida defines logocentrism as the belief in “perfectly self-present meaning” which exists in the spoken word between a speaker and listener. Robert Magliola (Derrida on the Mend) states: 

There is no universal answer to this. How bad is the most undesirable party that might win if you don't vote against them? If the consequences of them gaining power are dire, which they often are, there is a strong motivation to vote for the other "least bad" option. The question then becomes the exact nature of the motivation. Money in your pocket is clearly quite different to the undesirable party being opposed to your existence or remaining in the country, for example. This is an existential point that is difficult to generalize about because it depends so much on circumstance. 

Based on the assumption that nothing too terrible will happen if the most undesirable party gets in, you would then be more concerned with how well the democracy is working. It could be the case that the two mainstream parties genuinely appeal to the majority of voters, and yours is a minority viewpoint. In that case, and considering that you are not being oppressed or put in danger, you may simply have to accept that no matter what you do it is unlikely to have much effect. Given that there seems little point not voting with your conscience, so at least that can be clear. You could take action beyond just voting. Join your preferred party, campaign for it and try to increase its popularity. If the democratic system is broken and makes this unlikely to work you could consider fighting the system. Fighting can range from low level civil disobedience to a full blown civil war. You asked to add the assumption that the democracy was "western style" and therefore not too bad, but we have seen that even western democracies can result in extreme things happening. Staring or joining wars, or setting up a vast secret surveillance network, for example. One of the key ways that such systems avoid citizens rising up against them is by making life generally "okay" for the majority, so they don't feel strongly enough to act. With that in mind we come back to an existential problem. In fact Sartre mentioned a similar example in Existentialism and Humanism, where a young French man was trying to decide if he should look after his elderly mother or join the war effort (in the 1940s). Each individual must decide for themselves how bad things are, how much they care about what is happening, and what the appropriate action to take is. Sadly we have reached a point where mass protest is fairly ineffective, but on the other hand the rise of fairly far right parties in Europe (UKIP, Le Penn) and the US (Tea Party) suggests that movements can grow into influential political forces. It's notable that all these groups are based on anger and often hatred though. You could also decide to simply accept that you are a minority and that true democracy dictates the majority rules. This is rarely the case of course, otherwise we would suffer the tyranny of the majority. 

Stephen Jay Gould has an interesting article on twins - Living With Connections - in his book The Flamingo's Smile: Reflections in Natural History. He concludes the article with the following observation: 

There are several existing and past non-theistic or atheistic religions. Theravedic Buddhism, one of the 2 main schools, does not believe in any God. There are several old philosophical schools of Hinduism that are atheistic, specifically the Sāṃkhya, Vaiśeṣika, and the Pūrva Mīmāṃsā schools. 

"In the external world the idea of law is the same as the internal - the expectation that a particular phenomenon will be followed by another, and that the series will repeat itself. Really speaking, therefore, law does not exist in nature. Practically it is an error to say that gravitation exists in the earth, or that there is any law existing objectively anywhere in nature. Law is the method, the manor in which our mind grasps a series of phenomena; it is all in the mind. Certain phenomena, happening one after another or together, and followed by the conviction of the regularity of their recurrence - thus enabling our minds to grasp the method of the whole series - constitute what we call law." Swami Vivekananda, Complete Works, Vol 2, pages 94-95. 

There is no such thing as law or connection in this world, but we are thinking that there is a great deal of connection.When we see things happen a number of times in a certain sequence, we call it cause and effect, and say that the thing will happen again. James Gleick say in Chaos: Making a New Science - "There as a story about the quantum theorist Werner Heisenberg, on his deathbed, declaring that he will have two questions for God: why relativity, and why turbulence. Heisenberg says 'I really think He may have an answer to the first question'" in the footnote to this story he adds "Orszag cites four substitutes for Heisenberg--von Neumann, Lamb, Sommerfeld, and von Karman-- and adds,'I imagine if God actually gave an answer to these four people it would be different in each case.'" I also heard another variation to this in which God says to Einstein he'll answer the first question about relativity, but just winks about the second.