Let's take the most well-known alternative universe which involves magic: Harry Potter. What do people in Harry Potter do that we, as Muggles, can't do in the real world? 

It's well known that SpaceX has a long term goal of getting people on Mars. Let's assume some time has elapsed since humanity's transition to Mars. Due to lack of transport infrastructure and hostile terrain, humanity has settled down in separate zones set up in relatively habitable areas on the planet's surface. But now, it is observed that some people(scientists and such) will need to organize meetings for exchange of information. Due to vast distances between zones, planes are the only medium which can be used for transport. What will the planes on Mars be like? Will hypersonic planes be the norm? Travelling by air on Mars needs you to be fast: 

This led me to think: the first factor, $\Delta$V, is the main obstacle in being able to leave Earth. So, if we had a means to alter the rate of spin of the Earth using magic, could we defeat it? Or would we just get thrown out in a chaotic manner, to our eventual death due to loss of control? Note: Assume the magic is specific to the spin of the Earth and nothing else; i.e. we don't have generalized energy/magic of levels required to alter planets. 

I think that bacteria are intrinsically better-suited to such environments - by default, there really isn't a "metal-cycle" in the same way as a "water cycle" to supply the raw ingredients. But plants like this would be amazing. You could have junkyard-plants that grow in caves filled with rusty cars and turn them into...tomatoes or something. And heaps of rust. You still need sugar. Ultimately, your plants need carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. The exotic elements seem to come in along with one of those three elements. So to answer the question about environment: 

Prominence - the moon has to be bright enough that the phases are noticeable. (Have you ever noted what phase Venus was in?) You also need an object that reasonably large in the sky. Many objects have phases as viewed from earth, but most are very subtle. Regular change - if your days are too short or too long (on the planet), you won't particularly notice the moon. Phases are meaningful because we have a slowly-changing moon that goes through predictable phases that change subtly from night to night. If you have very low rotational speeds on your planet (long days and nights) and faster orbital periods, you'll see more changes during the course of a night, and the phase won't be as important for telling time. 

Apparent FTL might be possible if we master the science of getting anything close to the speed of light, and live as a complete nomadic civilization aboard a huge starship, similar to what they did in Independence Day. But that'll mean that we'll have to leave Earth behind, so some kind of 'life on Earth is not sustainable anymore' kind of scenario will need to happen. It's sad to leave such a wondrous planet behind, but it might come to that sometime. In that case, the timeline could be anything from 100 years to infinity, depending on the current rate of progress and humanity's natural resource drain. 

We could split the work of filtering blood in two hearts if need be, as we do with lungs and kidneys. In that case, it could even happen that we may donate one of the hearts if we could survive on the other(we can donate one kidney if they are in good health, and one is enough to sustain us). But since this is a hypothetical scenario, it would be speculation. It is said that dinosaurs used to have eight hearts. This could be due to their enormous size and long neck, so additional hearts would be needed to pump blood all the way to the head. Maybe after a few hundred thousand years, if humans needed long bodies or something like that, we may evolve to have extra hearts. 

I think you can look for guidance to the big cats of our own time, which do (infrequently, but more in the past) prey on people. In order to survive long enough for human sensibilities to want to "preserve the noble creatures," the species will need to have a few characteristics: 

The circulatory and even muscular systems could potentially be replaced given the technology. But there is some question whether consciousness can be replaced or emulated, and without the ability to reproduce it's just a matter of time. In any case, it will be overwhelming depressing. But what mass extinction isn't? 

Imagine, if you will, a world where aural communication is impossible. Everything is done through gesture - sign language and written language are common, but the spoken word is not used, and using any sound for communication is not possible. Now, the obvious solution would be to simply make everyone deaf, but that doesn't really sound like fun. I'd like environmental factors to make communication through atmospheric compression (sound waves) impossible. The environment needs to support human life. What atmospheric conditions could cause disruption to compression waves to the point where they could not be used for communication? 

Regardless of the size of the buildings, there has to be some basis on who actually lives in that space. In the Burj, no one lives in the tower, just the Y shaped base. If you're covering the planet with megastructures, and looking for the maximum number of people, you would use something similar to existing megastructures. The most populous metropolitan area in the world currently is Tokyo, Japan, with 37,833,000 people in an area of 5,200 square miles. This is approximately 7275.5769 people per square mile, which is a lot... unless you've got approximately 154 usable, habitable floors on the thing, which is a cozy 47 people per floor, per square mile. If you're going Coruscant-level construction, covering the entirety of landmass on Earth today (57,308,738 square miles), that will give you 4.169541303609522 × 10^11 people... about 417 billion Average Joes. 

It depends on how much you want to flesh out the world economy that you're in. If it's in a "world not that much unlike our own", there's going to umpteen bazillion little pawn-style type shops... however, there's only going to be one or two that will frequently have incredibly rare or extraordinary items (IRL, those would be the Pawn Star's shop, or the Antiques Roadshow type thing). The average Artie's Artifacts will have normal things, with a single rare tome hidden in a stack of mundane ones, or a sword that is really powerful, but the shopkeeper only knows it as John Peter's (you know, the farmer) sword that was passed down from his grandfather. Like a normal pawn shop, the original owners can be coming back to retrieve their wares at any point, be they fantastic or mundane. You can have the surrounding area with nonstandard currency, any travelling marketeers that have carts full of wares may rely on bartering supplies and other things rather than trying to keep track of how much each currency requires. That allows them to have a good reason to have whole bunch of random things of various power levels on hand. You can have a shop that can move by itself. You can use the Dancing Hut of Baba Yaga as a reference, or Howl's Moving Castle, or "the Barn" from Haven, or the Witch's hut from Brave, Or the town of Brigadoon, the eponymous circus from The Night Circus novel or from the 4th season of Heroes... the list goes on. It doesn't matter if it moves on legs, wheels, tracks, a stiff eastbound breeze in the form of a mist, or simply vanishes at the speed of plot. It will plunk down outside of town, near a main road or crossroads. Perhaps they collect the wares from the passers by before moving along, as mentioned above, perhaps the crafters contained within don't realize that their wares are enchanted when the customers leave (because reasons!). 

We use sea level as a base line. For the most part, there won't be much land below 0 long term. So sea level makes a nice point of reference. But inland (not near the coast) no one cares about sea level in daily life. While it's interesting to know we're 300 feet above sea level, real life calculations are more like "that house is 1000 feet above me." Eventually scientists will want an absolute measurement of height for comparing geographically displaced areas. I'm not sure how they would measure this accurately in the 1700s, but assuming they found a method, here are a few options they might consider. 

Scanning for life signs seems to focus on self-aware life forms, no matter how primitive. You don't usually hear "scanning for life signs...only deer and whales." In this answer I'm assuming we're reverse engineering already existing technology, not demonstrating feasibility. So from that we can assume that life signs use some form of brainwave sensing. Brain activity does emit some low level signals. Now, the feasibility of detecting such a weak signal from a distance would probably require some preliminary focusing, like heat and/or pulse to locate living things. The way I would design this system is to first do a low-resolution scan for heat, then narrow it by pulse. Finally run the brain waves from those pinpointed locations against known patterns to determine age, health, species, and gender. You could probably determine mental state with such systems. At short range the technology could replace betazoid empath skills. 

As we know, solar power is the ultimate source of energy for mankind, and it's the most abundant(I have read that we receive more than 1000 times the energy we currently use, if we were to have a way to utilize all of it). The power of solar is weakened because of the 93-million-mile distance between us and the Sun, so the energy we receive is very dilute and utilizing it is difficult. But what if we were to change that? If we send a satellite close to the sun(as close as it can handle), convert the sunlight that falls on the satellite into broad laser beams and transmit to receivers on the Earth, we could get far higher energy densities than what is currently being done(one could think of the Icarus from the Bond movie Die Another Day.) There would be losses, but I doubt they'd be higher than they currently are. Then once on the Earth, we could use large lenses to dilute the energy back to the level on which it could be fed to heavy-duty solar panels. Apart from the high cost of robust materials needed to sustain all that heat(we could use tungsten, for example, for the satellite body), what are the other considerations for this? Is there any obvious flaw I haven't noticed? 

My starting place was to determine what made a sentient plant different from an animal (maybe I'm dense? Took me a while). Here's a starting place for differences between the two. $URL$ Basically: A. Plants don't move B. Plants make their own food C. Plants give off oxygen and take in CO2 D. Plant cells have cell walls and other "planty" structures E. Plants have only basic abilities to sense Of course, I can think of exceptions, for example, some carnivorous plants don't make their own food, can move, and can sense objects pretty well. Because they're sentient, they need to be able to interact with their environment (smart, paralyzed races don't seem likely to last, and are unlikely to be intergalactic), so A and E are out. So let's say that to make a plant, we'll need them to make their own food from the sun, and they need planty-parts in their cells, viz. chloroplasts to make food and cell walls. So they're going to be a lot more animal-like than some animals, but with ability to make their own food. Plants (along with...pretty much any other life form) have 3 major needs: 

I don't know much about the specifics, but a setback is definite. If influential people who built Google, Facebook and Apple would be dead or in different circumstances, we'd have a world that'd be technologically much worse than the current world. Explanation for this is that these people dying doesn't automatically guarantee that in the near future someone is going to invent what they did anyway, which is saying that the future is set. We know that's not so. Of course, a counterview to this is that necessity is the mother of invention, and someone will come up with something depending on which way public demand heads to. But it'd be a bit of a long shot to say we'd be at the same level as today. 

Why has no one thought of heart attack? Having a high and then a low temperature induces a heart attack. When the owner's sleep is the deepest, set the temperature to slowly climb to 45C. Then, when he starts sweating, drop it suddenly to 5 C within three seconds. Boom. Heart attack. Unless the temperature of the house is constantly logged to a hard drive, I don't think anyone will suspect the AI. This assumes the AI cannot tamper with logs (which we'll assume as a failsafe for keeping the AI out of sensitive systems). 

Well, I think the "coolest" way to do this would be with a substance like rubbing alcohol that the creature sweats. Of course, having your sweat on fire would kind of defeat the purpose of sweating, which is usually to cool off. But a low temp. alcohol can sustain a flash point at room temperature, so they wouldn't necessarily need to actively keep an ignition source once the flame is lit, as long as they kept producing the fuel. I was looking for specific temperatures of rubbing alcohol flames and didn't see any from good sources, but I did find this article on a 75C flame - $URL$ (though that requires exotic chemicals). I've read/seen magicians perform tricks with alcohol and while it still gets hot, a thick skinned creature could definitely do it. 

Because you're beings are spread out over such a large area, external causes are really not going to be feasible on that scale, unless you somehow localize them (all within a galaxy, with no method of long-distance travel etc). The likely means of wreaking havoc on galactic or even cluster scale would probably destroy everything on seeded planets as well. So you're looking for an inexorable internal killer. You have a couple of options: Disease Your population unleashes a disease that is passed from mother to child, infects the population before it is identified, and is incurable. Maybe it's a side effect of a longevity drug that is taken by the entire race in hopes of attaining longer lives. It grows in potency with each generation, so that it is maybe 100 generations before the disease is identified. By that time everyone is infected, and they can determine the exact date of extinction. You're going to need a slow moving disease (unlike bubonic plague) so that they have time to contemplate really complex cures. But the slower it is, the more likely it is that a work around can be developed. Half a trillion years is on a stellar time scale - if something is impossible, throw enough time at it, and it can become a matter of probability. Genetic Factors It's also possible that extinction is implied in the very DNA of the species. This is not really that far fetched - for example, Y-chromosome degradation could feasibly have destroyed humanity if it had continued. Imagine a mitochondrial disorder that can't be checked, or something makes more and more anencephalic (warning:graphic) members. In either genetic or disease causes, you're going to be looking for something that affects a system that can't be easily replaced by machines, like: