The problem is that a scanned document saved as a PDF is stored as an image, not as plain text (which the PDF format is capable of doing). ATSs typically work by interpreting plain text, they do not typically have OCR (optical character recognition) capabilities, which is what you need to render text from an image. This is easy to solve. Sign a blank sheet of paper and scan it. Crop the scanned image so it's just your signature, and save it as an image file. Then, when you're writing your cover letter, save it in a text-based format (word doc, rtf, whatever) and paste the image file into it. 

The answer is the same as just about any resume-building question. Think about what the employer wants, and then emphasize that part of your experience/skill set. Employers who are likely to hire jacks-of-all-trades are likely looking for people who can understand technology AND business problems, and build an appropriate, sustainable solution. They're looking for problem solvers as much as technologists. So, instead of emphasizing development- and technology-focused elements on your resume, make sure you're explaining your success in solving problems. As a trivial example, instead of, 

In addition, there's a whole different factor here: Literally writing software isn't the only possible career choice you could make. There are all kinds of jobs that are closely related, but which lean very heavily on the exact scenario you're discussing - using software-ish skills to configure/extend/modify off the shelf applications - ie being a "Salesforce Developer" or "Sharepoint Developer" or "ERP Implementer" and so on. Often, these roles are in very high demand, since they require someone who can think in terms of manipulating a tool that results in software, versus directly writing software. (added this paragraph in response to a comment below). So: if you like the job, and you like the employer, and you feel like you're contributing and learning, be prepared to show those contributions and what you've learned in the future context of looking for your next job. Instead of being worried about how it will look, take action to learn from this role, and show off what you learned. 

It's not typical in the US for employers to "need" prior salary information (much less proof in the form of W2s or paystubs) in order to make an employment offer. In fact, it's illegal in some states for employers to request your prior salary, and as a result, many employers who used to ask have stopped, even if their state doesn't (yet) have a ban. The process of negotiating salary is like any other negotiation - both parties are trying to optimize their own set of criteria. Typically, the employer is trying to pay as little as possible for a given skill set (although some employers will interpret this differently, some will see the value in paying more for people they really want while others are just looking to pay the least to the cheapest person). Employers know that potential candidates are likely to compare any salary offer with the current (or most recent) salary. People looking for a new job don't like to feel like they're making LESS at the new job than at the old one. Therefore, if the employer can determine (and prove) what you were making in your last job, they know a theoretical "floor" of what you'll accept: If they know you were making $50k, and they had budgeted $80k, they may only offer you $55k instead of the full $80k, and tally a $25k annual savings as a result. Meanwhile, if they didn't know you were making $50k, and you pushed for $70k, they'd probably happily offer you $70k. In other words, they use the knowledge of your prior salary as leverage against you in the negotiation. So, what do you do when asked for this information? 

How do the changes to the code align with the company's strategy for Project A? How do they align with the company's strategy for software development processes? Sometimes a "good" idea isn't the "right" idea. Good ideas are only good in the right context. The New Programmer needs to make sure he is working within the boundaries of what is expected of him. If he has ideas for changes, he should make sure he is discussing them and promoting them through the right channels (leadership in the company) before implementing them. If the new programmer is aligning with the company strategy and practices, the relationship between him and A & B gets a lot easier, since he has that strategy as his backing. If the new programmer is simply trying to do things better all on his own, then frankly he should expect a long and messy battle, because he doesn't have much ground to stand on. To directly answer your question, 

Working on your presentation of yourself will be important as you apply for jobs, no matter what the challenge is. However, it's only half the battle. The other half is, applying for appropriate positions. If you only apply for positions that are looking for specialists, you probably won't be successful, no matter how well you present yourself as a jack of all trades. You're barking up the wrong tree. Step one is, apply for the right jobs. Generally, large well established employers are looking for specialists. A company that's built a foundation on C# is going to look for C# developers. On the other hand, smaller or newer companies may be facing a variety of problems for which they have no framework, or for which their frameworks are immature or incomplete. These employers are more likely to be looking for generalist problem solvers who can switch hats quickly and perform no matter what the framework. Assuming you're going to improve your approach to selecting opportunities, we can move on. In terms of your actual question, 

I can assure you, taking the time to get requirements upfront is going to ultimately make the process quicker. Sometimes there's the pain of delays/issues that come along with any process change, but once you get past that, things will likely be faster in the future, even if you're talking the "additional" time to do it right. 

Weigh the entire package when determining if you'll ask, or what the number you ask for should be. You don't need to make this about you potentially leaving - employers who only respond under threat are probably not working for in the first place. It should be about your value to your current employer, weighted against their entire value to you. I would consider the following factors: 

It's fair to say that there may be different models in different regions or industries, but every recruiter I've ever worked with has been paid a commission based on the position's salary, once they have provided a candidate who accepts and fills the role. In a shortsighted way, they are incented to provide a high volume of candidates in order to "spam" and hope that one sticks. However, recruiters with good strategy understand that employers will be more likely to work with them in the future if they carefully screen candidates and have a track record of providing high quality people. Some recruiters certainly use the tactics you're describing but it isn't universal and arguably isn't good for their long term success. 

So, it's your impression that the vehicle falls under your compensation package, and is not strictly provided for job duties. This means it's up for negotiation and/or should be stipulated under a job contract the same as any other form of compensation. Which raises the question: Does the vehicle provided count as "acceptable" compensation? When it comes to other forms of compensation, this is more straightforward: You agree on a specific number for salary, and it's obvious if you're getting that number or not. You agree on a certain number of vacation days, and that's the number you're getting. This makes it easy to negotiate: you can work with the employer on what the number is. It also makes it easy to validate: you look at your paycheck and you know if they gave you the right salary or not. For a vehicle, it's less clear. At least, it's less clear based on the information you've provided. You stated, 

This question is somewhat opinion based. That said, a typical approach would be to wait until you have enough details, in writing, to accept the new job, before you quit your current job. It's subtle, but "am offered and accept a job" can mean different things to different people. In other words, consider this scenario: 

Your second option, showing "April 2014-present" next to the company name, and listing the positions only with years (not months) doesn't leave the impression that there was a gap. While an 8 month gap may not be a critical issue with a resume, feeling like you were misled about a gap certainly is a critical issue. To put it a different way: As a hiring manager, if I saw: