Although any internet search for anything penis-related results in a deluge of useless adverts and claims, there are genuine studies which have concluded that traction devices have an effect. This study notes an average curvature change of 33% from a group trying the FastSize Penile Extender, this study found a lower proportion of success, with only 54% of participants responding to treatment of traction and verapamil injections, but those who responded achieved a 26 degree correction on average, which is not insignificant. All of these studies also find at least some positive affect of traction therapy for curvature. Caveats: 

No, not according to this study. I wasn't able to find enough study on this to form a real basis for a literature review, but the outcome of the linked study was that, when teaching speakers of a non-latin based language spanish, those who learnt French first did better than those who learnt latin first. The outcome is unsurprising in my opinion. Latin is indeed a base point for many languages such as French, Spanish and Portuguese, but none of these languages actually inherited such an extensive grammar, tense-structure or verb transformational system. Latin is complicated, and more complicated than it's 'offspring' in use today. Although Latin is still taught in many schools, and Universities, this is more an exercise in learning than in language (and IMO is somewhat tradition over education). The University I attended and subsequently worked for is very traditional, and viewed Latin or Classics study as an advantage, not because Latin was particularly useful - one can easily get by without it - but because excelling at Latin shows an ability to study a complicated thing successfully. To conclude, at least according to the referenced study, learning latin may help learn latin based languages, but learning a latin based language would too - and slightly better as it seems. 

The overall conclusion of the studies mentioned is that traction makes some difference, but no study could conclude a definitive and extensive long term result - the possibility of which seems more hit and miss according to the one study that addressed it. A Google Scholar search for 'Penile traction curvature' yielded slightly over 2 thousand results, so further literature is available for review, and a proper literature review may yield firmer and more definite results. 

No. The idea behind BRAT is that none of the foods included are not particularly harsh on the gastrointestinal system, and are low in fibre. This is mostly true, although intolerances and allergies to Apples are reasonably common. However, there's no particular evidence that this aids recovery. Patients should eat a diet that is gentle on the system and that they are happy with. The most important treatment from diarrhea is rehydrative treatment. Treatment in the main does not focus on relieving symptoms, instead focussing on preventing harm from dehydration, which is the biggest hazard. The actuality is that BRAT provides a far from balanced diet, and is more of a tradition than a scientifically grounded diet. Although the Carbohydrate content is adequate, as are some other nutrients like Potassium, it lacks in many areas, including fibre - and the basis of it was that a low fibre diet would help avoid further upsets. Whilst a weirdly unbalanced diet won't hurt for a few days whilst a patient recovers, it's not going to help particularly, although it is better than eating processed food. Most diarrhea is caused by either infection or food intolerance, and eating a fruit and grain based diet does not help with these. If infection is the cause, then a sudden change in diet will do little to stem the disease, and if the problem is a food intolerance, then only avoiding that food, and waiting for the disturbance to pass will suffice. Many clinicians claim that BRAT is unnecessarily restrictive, as with these sources. I'm inclined to agree. The last thing I'd want to do 

...all returned no relevant studies discussing any effect of this kind, suggesting that if this kind of phenomenon has occurred, no one has thought it significant enough to study. A search for 'driving pelvis' turns up one semi-relevant paper on the design of seats, according to the position of the pelvis. This paper, considering the ergonomics of driving position specifically related to the pelvis and published by a manufacturer of automobile and aerospace systems, doesn't specially address the supposed problems of women driving. Additonally, a Scholar search for "dislodged pelvis" returns exactly 0 results, although without the quotes you find a number of irrelevant articles. A Google web search for "Dislodged pelvis" yields 106 results, of which one is this very question, and the majority of others concern either a dislodging during childbirth (which is of course an outward dislodging of the pelvis) or a dislodging after a fracture, which is a high energy traumatic injury, not really the kind of thing one might encounter whilst driving an uneventful route! Finally, choosing a country in which women regularly drive (I've chosen the UK, because I'm used to perusing their health statistics, and with 30 million women, there's a decent sample size), there is not significantly high incidence of pelvic trauma at all regardless of gender. Code S33 of the 2012 Hospital Episode Statistics shows that during that year, 220 people were admitted with a dislocation, ligament damage or weakening, or strain to the the lumbar spine or pelvis, of which number 148 were male. From this, it's easy to see that, at least in the UK (where approximately 66% of women hold a driver's licence, around 80% of women under 50 hold a licence), approximately 67% of those presenting at hospital with pelvis injuries of this type are male. Taking into account that one cause of injury to the pelvis is giving birth, I think I can say with relative confidence that driving is very unlikely to cause injury to the pelvis of a woman in a significantly higher proportion than it does to men. NB: I would have liked to address this with statistics from Saudi Arabia itself, but I was unable to find such detailed information for the country. 

I'll be honest, this answer surprised me when I looked up the info about it. Anatomy and Physiology First off, it's useful to know that you actually breathe through one nostril at a time already, and this changes about once every 4 hours. This is called The Nasal Cycle, and basically put, your body blocks one nostril and clears the other, and swaps round regularly. There is no muscle to control which nostril you breathe through, so you can't independently decide to breathe through a selected nostril without manipulating the airway manually. This differs a bit from mouth vs nose breathing, as you can choose to breath only through your nose, even with your mouth open, using the Superior Pharyngeal Constrictor muscle. The major opposition to the claim that Yogis breathe through an selected muscle in order affect their state of mind is that you'd literally need to hold one closed, which doesn't seem too conducive with other activity that may be going on, however... Literature on the subject Despite my reservations, there is confirmatory literature on this subject. This study found that subjects tended to perform better at spatial tasks whilst in the left nostril phase of the nasal cycle, and better at verbal tasks during the right nostril phase, which aligns with the original claim you asked about. As further back up to this, this study took 2 groups of individuals, gave them yoga training for one month, and had one group concentrate on right nostril breathing and one on alternate nostril breathing, a number of times a day across the experiment. Both groups showed an increase in oxygen usage, but the right nostril breathing group showed a gain of around 200ml/min over the training, where the both nostril group showed an increase of around 100ml/min. Statistically significant changes were also noted in the change in galvanic skin resistance, heart rate, and respiratory rate. More recently, this study looked at physiological effects of left nostril breathing, right nostril breathing and any nostril breathing, and found that there were significant differences between each, finally concluding that there may be potential for use of this for therapeutic applications. I've looked through a few more studies too, and all have concluded that a physiological difference is observable. Those that have observed mental performance have also noted differences in ability at tasks, and those that addressed mental acuity have all concluded either that right nostril breathing performs better, or that right nostril and any nostril breathing performs better than left nostril alone. Literature critique Although, having looked at the evidence, I'm satisfied that there is an observable difference in several physiological signs, as well as in mental performance, I'm still not clear on how Yogis manage to 'select' a nostril to breath through. The studies I have read haven't explained anything further than to say that Yoga breathing techniques were used which involved concentrating on a nostril, and I'm unaware of a physical mechanism within the pharynx and sinuses that would allow this to happen. It's possible that Yoga techniques can allow a person to 'cue' their nasal cycle to change to a preferred nostril, but I've not seen a physiological study of the nose and sinuses during these activities, so I can't say whether that's the case. This said, it's therefore possible that simply concentrating on breathing through a particular nostril could make these differences. This would only be contradicted by the first study which found differences at different stages of the nasal cycle, and didn't attempt to manipulate which nostril a subject breathed through (they waited until the applicable nostril was in use, essentially). Overall verdict - It's possible, and there is some literature that backs it up, but a little more knowledge of what is occuring in the noses of Yogis is needed! 

'Cold' is just a name given to the rhinoviruses that cause cold symptoms, the idea that going out into the cold would cause a cold was just a traditional idea, not necessarily based on anything other than biased observations. Source All this said, it is true that colds, and more specifically flu, are more prevalent in winter months, and that this is true, even in opposite hemispheres of the planet, where winter occurs at opposite times of year. This provable seasonality of flu doesn't show that the cold temperature causes flu, though. It could be that cold weather aligns with flu season because, for instance, people stay indoors, together, incubating viruses during this time.