Cooking in the mountains can be very enjoyable. Planning not to cook eliminates an enjoyable activity (although cooking in downpours and high winds can be very frustrating). You might need a hot meal. A hot meal can really perk you up at the end of a long day when you're tired, or maybe feeling a little homesick. Your choices of foods/meals are a bit limited, which dampens the whole outdoor experience, unless your trip is a short one, or if you can conquer #4. To eat healthy while not cooking, you need to be more creative. Coming up with a list of foods that you can (and will) eat can be daunting if you aren't used to, or you don't enjoy, creating healthy menus. Unprepared. If you find that you do want to cook a meal (do you fish?), you will need to resort to using a campfire which may not be allowed at some places and times (some parks, fire season, etc.). Foods that are ready to eat are generally bulkier and heavier. Just imagine a couple peanut butter sandwiches next to a cup of uncooked rice. By the way, I don't advise carrying peanut butter sandwiches beyond day #1 :) 

Sometimes I hear that, when making camp in the mountains, a tent should be pitched so the door is facing a certain direction, usually downhill. I've repeatedly asked why I should do this, and the answers I've received are always "I don't know". Should I pitch my tent so it faces downhill - or some other direction? Why? 

Notice the list of items that Zeke carried after three days. Obviously, these are what he considered to be an essential equipment list. But he didn't start with them! He had the knowledge to make them from what nature offered. Mr. Olsen and Mr. Sanchez are modern survivalists who thrive in the outdoors. Other survivalists that immediately spring to mind are Hugh Glass, whom you already mentioned, and John Colter. Hugh Glass (The Saga of Hugh Glass: Pirate, Pawnee, and Mountain Man by John Myers Myers) was forced into service on a pirate ship, escaped off the coast of Texas around 1820, was captured by Indians, escaped after two years (he learned a lot from them), then hired on with a fur trapping outfit heading for the Rocky Mountains. En route, Glass was mauled by a grizzly and left for dead. (The company was in a hurry and two trappers were left behind to help Glass recover or bury him when he died. He wouldn’t recover or die, so the two trappers finally left him for dead. They took everything but his blanket.) He somehow survived, recovered on his own, and traveled hundreds of miles, alone, without supplies, driven by vengeance to find those who had left him for dead. He eventually explored all over the American west for about 20 years, almost always alone, before finally being killed by Indians. Hugh Glass had the attributes of a survivor in addition to knowledge of how to survive. Another explorer of considerable note is John Colter who first went west with the Lewis and Clark Expedition in 1804. (This expedition was well documented with at least three members keeping journal records throughout. Lots of mistakes, equipment failures, disasters, and lessons learned. Try The Way to the Western Sea by David Lavender.) He was an invaluable aid to the expedition, often hunting and exploring on his own. After spending two and a half years exploring the Missouri and Columbian Rivers, the expedition floated down the Missouri River, back to civilization, without Colter. He remained in the wilderness for four more years, sometimes alone and sometimes in small groups. His two most well-known expeditions include (see John Colter: His Years in the Rockies by Burton Harris): 

The army solution is to have two pairs of boots so that one pair dries while the other is worn (yes, even in the field). Another solution is to use goretex socks so that it doesn't matter what state you boots are in. I find wool socks keep warmth even when wet, and don't chafe or cause blisters the way cotton socks can when wet. You can air dry goretex (it's synthetic so dries faster than say cotton) and you can dry them near the fire, just don't get them too close. I usually take off my boots at camp and put on a pair of slippers/flip flops, as it's good to let your feet breath after being in boots all day, especially if you'll be doing the same thing the next day. I keep my boots in the vestibule of my tent. NEVER put your wet boots (even if they don't feel wet) in your sleeping bag, as the moisture will stay in your bag and can have significant negative effects in cold weather. 

But it doesn't happen every year, and it takes just one snowfall to ruin it. Larger lakes take longer to freeze, and some get enough wind that it clears off through December. 

In the Canadian prairies saskatoon and choke cherry trees were used to make bows by the first nations. 

A filter like that will will be good for 50 gallons even if it's used over two years. You'll want to make sure you dry it properly between uses, and some filters have boiling instructions (esp. those with clay ceramics) when they haven't be used for an extended period of time. 

The only retail folding skis are from Mountain Approach, and they are touring skis with skins permanently attached, so are more of a snowshoe than a ski, and only really for going uphill in the back country (you fold them up when you summit and then snowboard down). As for short cross-country skis, there was a fad in the mid-late 90s when 145cm skis became popular for a bit, but I haven't seen anything like that in ages. 

I live in Banff National Park and go backcountry camping on a regular basis. Peak season for Banff, Kootenay, Jasper, Glacier, Yoho, and Revelstoke (and really, pretty much any Canadian National Park) are July and August. That said, it's also usually the best time to camp, as the weather is mild, the trails are at their best, and there is less chance of rain. Before I answer your question, It's worth pointing out that of the 3 million that visit Banff, 80% don't leave the town. Most of the rest camp at the major campgrounds and visit the major sites. Not a lot of people do any backcountry camping and you can usually book your site without any problem 48 hrs in advance, usually on a first come, first serve basis. To answer your question, the best quiet time is shoulder-season, especially after Labour Day (first Monday in September). Tourists will all be back at work/school with the exception of seniors and families with small children, neither of which are prime backcountry campers. The advantages of September: 

A bowstring is brutal on the skin of your fingers. All the stored energy in a bent bow passes through the string - and your fingertips - when shooting a bow using just fingers (no mechanical release). Try shooting your bow with no glove. After a dozen shots or so, your fingertips will begin to sting. Another dozen and you'll have blisters. Keep shooting and those blisters will tear off. (Been there.) To protect the skin on your fingertips, just wear a glove. The glove needs to be a very good fit. If it is slightly bulky, then you will have trouble manipulating your arrow and the bowstring. Also, a loose finger-covering might move with the bowstring, upsetting your arrow. If the glove is too tight, you lose flexibility in your fingers, thus making it difficult, once again, to manipulate your arrow and bowstring. I first got a bow when I was a teenager. The best hunting seasons were during the rut - elk in September, mule deer in November. But those hunts were strictly archery only. So I got a bow. I shot so much that I wore out the shooting glove that I'd bought with my bow. Being just a poor kid, I started shooting with my work gloves, which were made of cowhide. My shooting didn't suffer a bit, so I never bought another shooting glove. The November deer hunt was always cold, so I switched to cheap, thin, cotton gloves that fit very tight but were very flexible. Once again, my shooting didn't suffer at all. When temps dropped down to -10 degrees Fahrenheit, which it does every year (in my part of the world) for a few days in mid-late November, I switched to a bulky, but snug, fleece glove. I had to go a little slow and be extra careful when nocking an arrow but, with practice, I quickly achieved a consistent, smooth release. I performed my daily shooting practice wearing the same gloves I hunted with - good leather work gloves, cheap cotton gloves, and bulky - but good fitting - fleece gloves. 

You have more time to spend doing other things. Meal preparation time can vary, for example, boiling water for some quick oatmeal is much quicker than making enchiladas or wild strawberry pie in a dutch oven (yes, I have known two backpackers that carry small dutch ovens and eat like kings). But still, it takes time to open your pack, set up your cooking gear, cook the meal, clean up, and repack. If you are busy doing other things, such as hiking or watching wildlife in the evening, then maybe this is a chore that should be eliminated. Not taking cooking gear reduces weight and gives you extra space in your pack for other things. However, this might be cancelled by the increased bulk and weight of the food itself, mentioned in con #6 below. Preparing your meals so that you can eat all day means you will be less hungry. Instead of having two or three big meals and a couple snacks, you can simply eat whenever you feel like it. Often, I feel a lot better when I simply snack all day. Buying a stove, and cookwear, and the just-add-water meals can get expensive. Not buying them and preparing simple foods at home can save a good deal of money.