I can't find any other posts, unless they are boutique and don't sell online. However it looks like Thomson, Fox, and Crank Brothers all have posts with 125mm which seems to be the next step down. From there, a few have 110mm and the rest are at 100mm. 

Depending on your ability level this might be noticeable or it might not. Pro racers are often able to tell when as little as 100g is added somewhere on the bike (or geometry changes by .5 degrees for example). With switching wheels the weight loss is felt in a couple different ways: 

As long as you're putting on the same size stem (steer tube size, not length), which you should be doing unless it came with spacers/shims, then yeah no problem. If the clamping area is taller, you may need to get a longer bolt to reach the star nut, but then you'll also have some stem above the steer tube and that's no good either. Odds are though that you'll be just fine switching over. 

Please don't go out and DH on this! The Y22 is a single-crown, 4" travel bike made for trail/XC riding. And better yet, it was made for that type of riding in 1996. Now, yes, you could take that down a DH trail, but don't expect it to perform like a brand new Demo or Session with 8"+ of travel, dual crown forks, reinforced wheels, and modern geometry. I would use this bike to learn how to ride and build up your basic skills. That means you can do small (2' or less) drops, small tables, and other technical features. From there you can upgrade to a bike that will fit what you want to do. Again, I'm not liable for anything you do if you take this bike off a huge drop/jump and it snaps in half. 

You've got super awesome bearings that have held up really well and still rotate freely. The bearings are actually really tight and not moving at all and the wheel rotates on the axle itself. 

You can use a vice-grip type wrench, but try to get something in between the wrench and the BB cup otherwise you risk damaging the exterior of the cup. I recommend ponying up the cash for a BB wrench, it's worth it. While cone wrenches are nice because of how narrow they are, you can usually get away with any type of open-ended wrench. I've used an adjustable crescent wrench to great success. This depends on the type of the headset, as noted in the comments. However, if you're looking to just pull bearings that's not too bad and you can probably tap them out with a screw driver, tire lever, etc. To pull the cups you can make your own tool from a piece of pipe by cutting some slits and bending it out. Might not be pretty, but it works. Chain tools are cheap, buy one. You could try to clamp the chain and drive out the rivet with an awl or punch but you probably risk damaging the chain enough to need to replace it. Here's where some searching will net you more. Check out BikeRadar, PinkBike, mtbforums, etc. for a lot of insight into homemade tools or alternatives. That's how I found out how to make my own headset press (granted I bent all the washers, but it worked and $15 of hardware is better than a $70 press). 

I think you'll be fine. You might experience some slip, but not enough to cause you to come off the bike or get stuck, etc. Three reasons I'll think you'll be alright: 

I had a similar problem with an old steel-frame bike that I "rescued." It had sliding dropouts so that the wheel could essentially be positioned forward or rearward as needed. What would happen is that the nut would come loose and one side of the axle would slide forward in the dropout causing the rub. My solution: A small lock washer or nut on the other side of the dropout and cranking the nut really tight. That worked, although it made wheel removal kind of a pain. I ended up selling the bike before I found a better, more permanent solution though. 

You've hit the major repair options in your question. I've heard of people filling in spots on a fork stanchion before and having it work OK, so I'd assume a rim would probably work too. The only difference might come from when the rim heats up due to braking, the filler could expand/contract differently than the rim material and get dislodged again. I wouldn't recommend sanding as removing more material will make the braking surface uneven anyways. If it were me, I'd leave the damage as is and only address it if it starts to cause the brake pads to wear very quickly. 

You could run a long mechanical disk/v/canti- brake to the rear wheel(s). It probably wouldn't be too hard to do since you can buy housing and cable by the length. As for making a flexible hitch, I can think of a couple options: 

It really comes down to your own cost/payoff evaluation. If you thought $7 for a lockring tool was expensive, you're probably not going to buy any bike specific tools. But you're also going to spend a lot more time cursing and nursing sore knuckles from having wrenches slip or tools break. Some tools will last a long time and won't need replacing (chain tool, wrenches) while some are only-if-you-want-it like a torque wrench. 

Since cycling is primarily based on leg strength, which is derived from all parts of the leg (including the glutes or butt muscles), then yes. Here's a great graphic that shows some of the muscles used during a typical pedal stroke: And basic anatomy tells us that the muscular system works together so it's virtually impossible to train one muscle exclusively without using others at least minimally. Now, if you want to specifically target your butt, I'd recommend some supplementary exercises like pelvic tilts/bridges or walking lunges. 

I've experienced similar setup difficulties with my rear derailleurs and my advice is to check your cable tension. There a few ways to do this (not all may apply): 

I'm not trying to hit WC status in a year or anything, but I feel like being proactive is better than the "look how good I am, now sponsor me" approach. 

Like many comments, it sounds like it's at least partially related to a change in tire pressure. There's also the external change in tire tread that could contribute to the sound change. If you listen to a large knob tire on a road versus a small knob one, they sound totally different. Your tread might be starting to wear, thus giving a different sound. The extra tube inside the tire might contribute to the height difference if some of that tube got stuck under the bead between the tire and the rim, though 3mm would be quite a bit; however, adding that bit of material plus the inherent tolerances in product sizing, it's possible. Lastly, as you mentioned, it could be due in part to a change in the riding surface. Hard pack will definitely sound different than gravel or soft sand. And wet or dry sand will handle differently as well, especially if you have a tire with limited tread. 

I would recommend an all-purpose cleaner like GooGone or Oops, but try it on a small spot first as it may remove the finish on whatever you're cleaning. Other than that, you can use a more abrasive cleaning utensil (pad, brush, towel, etc.) to scrape the congealed teflon off. 

From one tall guy (I'm 6'3") to another, I can say it's really down to riding style and feel. I prefer my XC hardtail to be a bit longer and taller so I can maximize my power size of my body. However, I did the same thing when I bought my full-suspension bike, I went a size down from XL to L. I really enjoy how easy it is to get my weight over the back of the bike and how playful a smaller frame can be. To some degree you can adjust the fit with parts choices as well. Adding a set-back seatpost and a longer stem will stretch out your body position for instance. Running longer cranks can help with a slightly shorter seattube length. Of course, this might also change the bike's handling characteristics, but at least it's easier to change crank arms than a frame! Now, if you ride it, or try a similarly sized bike and it's not comfortable, I wouldn't force it. There's always more bikes for sale and having one that fits you is way more important than saving a few bucks now. 

Park Tool recommends 8-10 Nm or 70-86 lb-in. You can easily measure this with a torque wrench, you can get a cheap one from a hardware store or go for a more expensive one if you want something that lasts. 

And that's more-or-less how it's done. Watch a bunch of Trail/AM/DH riders do it and you'll get a sense of where in the turn you should expect a plant. Last bit, as you get more confident riding push more speed into the corner. You'll find that some spots where you previously needed to dab, you'll clear no problem due to the added force keeping your tires in place. 

Each type of racing is able to take advantage of certain team dynamics, and a few things are common across all disciplines. Specifics: 

Lastly, what type of riding do you want to do? A lot of XC trails are relatively tame in regards to steep downhills because the bikes aren't really meant for that. But if you're looking to get into freeriding or downhill you'll need to get comfortable with this. 

Matching tires is great if you spend more time showing off your ride than actually riding it, otherwise mismatch to your hearts content! There are some effects of mismatched weight though. Bike handling will change slightly as more weight is rearward. Since your riding AM/DH, this is a good thing as it will give you a little more stability on the downs. On the other hand, it's going to mean that the front end will lift a little easier on the ups. Same problems will affect you in the air, though to what degree depends on your riding style. These both depend on your riding style and how sensitive you are to changes in your bike's weight/handling. As a side note, if you have problems with both pinch flats and sidewall/tread cuts, I'd recommend the dual tube/tubeless setup. This allows you to pinch a tube, or seal a cut and still have a tube for air. Also, look for tires with a higher durometer (rubber hardness) which should be less prone to punctures, cuts, and deformation. 

I never thought I'd be on the receiving end of a catastrophic failure, but I am and I am left with some questions. While reading on Wikipedia I noticed it says a con of magnetic trainers is that they are prone to breaking. During my training this morning, my trainer failed. And it failed hard. The flywheel shattered/exploded with a sound like a gunshot. A piece of it went through the wall behind my bike, while another shot through the front of my computer (playing a great training video of course). No injuries, but I can't believe this happened! I was in highest gear during a short sprint, so the wheel was moving at a pretty good clip, but I would have thought a trainer could handle that! The trainer is a Minoura Mag Trainer, not sure on the exact model, but it's a little older. That said, here are my questions: 

Like any antique, the closer it is to "original" the more likely the value will increase. However, in the case of many items, there are parts that wear out or decompose over time (rubber, wood, even metal) so they are expected to be replaced. Now, what you could do to maintain value or at least attractiveness to a potential buyer would be to replace the tires with newer versions of the same tire, or try to find ones that look similar to replicate the same look of the entire bike. 

While a "dab" isn't exactly the most graceful of techniques it's useful to save yourself from a spill or wipeout. What you need to ask yourself though is whether you leave a foot out because you're not sure what's going to happen when you turn or because you plan on going fast enough to slide around the turn. Sometimes the slide is unexpected and should just quick plant a foot and move on. On the other hand, you're going to get a bunch of trail builders and riders who say that any slide is unwarranted and damages the trail. Generally this is true, but hardpack trails with dust on top or a little gravel are very easy to slide on and don't damage the trail at all. Mud, loam, and other loose soils are more prone to being disturbed by excessive sliding. As for the proper technique for a dab, it's very dependent on your riding style. Here's a general breakdown of the timeline for a turn: 

As the comments have stated, wear is going to depend on a variety of factors. If you maintain your equipment it can last for years. Generally speaking, parts will fail in order of material strength and usage. Jockey wheels on the rear derailleur become rounded as they are made of synthetic materials such as plastic that wear much quicker than metal. Next up are the cables and hoses connecting everything (technically you didn't ask about this, but they run into all the parts). Fine parts, such as the springs/tensioners in the derailleurs will also be susceptible to mud and grime much faster than the stainless cages. A shifter would probably be the last to go as it's action is fairly well contained within the shifter assembly and isn't really prone to wearing out as quickly. Another important consideration is setup. If the cables are too tight or there's a misalignment and something is rubbing, it's obviously going to wear much quicker. If you follow the manufacturer's recommended maintenance schedule and regularly clean all the parts after riding in the rain, mud, or dust, you should be able to enjoy a long life on even bargain bin parts! 

Simply: no. Frames are like any other product where the visual inspection does not guarantee that the assumption is true. For instance, most tapered head tubes with fork travel X are probably stronger than a straight head tube with the same fork travel. The purpose of the bike will also determine a relative frame strength. A dirt jump bike with a 100mm fork will handle way more stress than a XC frame with 100mm fork. The trade off is usually flex, weight, or another metric. 

There are options. Some bike shops will still do frame repairs like this, but it will cost you. Replacing a rear dropout/hanger isn't too tough but requires a set of skills that is starting to become less and less common. The single speed option is, of course, still a viable option though. EDIT: Incorporating another answer: if it's a replaceable hanger, this is a really easy, minor fix. Just replace the hanger and you're good to go.