What is the nature of a refuge tree(s)? How does one incorporate a refuge tree(s) into their practice? 

The seemingly inconsistent points of view on zazen are generally utilized to help the practitioner's meditation from leaning too heavily in one direction or another. It is basically a corrective process to mentally stay on the middle path, not going off one tangent or another. 1 

There are many forms of meditation found in Buddhism. Zazen is possibly the most well know form of meditation in the West. However, in there are many different types of mediation. In Vajrayana there appears to be many different types and stages of mediation as well. One form is called "generation stage meditation" or also known as utpattikrama. What exactly is "generation stage meditation" and how is it practiced? 

In my area, there are many Buddhists centers referring to themselves as centers, meditation centers, or monasteries. These all seem to be various expressions of a Buddhist Sangha. However, being in the Mid-West one tends to expect the Sangha to be modeled on or similar to a church or synagogue. What are the proper expectations to have about being part of a Sangha? Should Westerns expect a sangha to conform to the Western notion of religious institutions? 

A friend of mine was practicing zazen for many years. They started to get discourage with their practice and started to explore transcendental mediation. Now, they claim their progress with TM is far better in a matter of weeks when compared to zazen. I was wondering if there is an equivalent to TM in any of the Buddhist traditions? If so, what are the basics and framework of the parallel type of meditation? 

Fudo (Acala) - The Immovable Radiant King, 7th day  Shaka (Sakyamuni) - Sage of the Shakya Tribe, 14th day Monju (Manjushri) - Bodhisattva of Beautiful Splendor, 21st day Fugen (Samantabhadra) - Bodhisattva of Universal Beauty, 28th day Jizo (Ksitigarbha), - Bodhisattva Storehouse of the Earth 35th day Miroku (Maitreya), - The Benevolent Bodhisattva 42nd day Yakushi (Bhaisajyaguru), - Buddha of the Master of Medicine 49th day Kannon (Avalokitesvara), - Bodhisattva of Compassion 100th day Seishi (Mahasthamaprapta), - Bodhisattva Who Proceeds With Vigor 1st anniversary Amida (Amitabha), - Buddha of Infinite Life and Life 2nd anniversary Ashuku (Akshobhya), - The Immovable Buddha 6th anniversary Dainichi (Vairocana), - The Great Buddha of Universal Illumination 12th anniversary Kokuzo (Akasagarbha), The Storehouse of Space Bodhisattva 32nd anniversary Garbhadhatu Mandala (Womb World Mandala) 

I cannot think of any specific references about consecutive human births in the Pāli Canon, but one may, given the appropriate conditions, e.g., having practised generosity, achieve their desires for some kinds of birth. So, it seems that one could theoretically be reborn several times in a row as a human if they desired it and accomplished the necessary conditions. (cf. AN 8.35) 

I am looking for a translation of the Suchiloma Sutta other than the one I have found through searching on Google or some insight into the Pali. In the story, the Demon Suchiloma wants to test the Buddha and 'strikes him with his body' whereupon the Buddha withdraws his own body. Here is the passage I am interested in: 

As I see it, if we assume a linear, unidirectional temporality, it is logically impossible that a prior human existence be necessary for a human existence since there could never be a first existence. Concerning the beginnings of existence, according to, e.g., the Assu Sutta: 

Buddhist master, Ajahn Brahm, answered a similar question as follows in an interview with Rachael Kohn: 

Concerning the final meal, the text says that the Buddha's final meal was 'Sukara-maddava'. The translators of the version I linked to have noted several possible interpretations of this phrase, including that it was a tender pork dish, a dish containing some kind of mushrooms that pigs find delightful, and a dish that has bamboo that has been trampled by pigs. 

Although not quite nibbāna, I will contribute a drawing inspired by the experience of the base of neither perception nor non-perception by Tina Rasmussen, student of Pa Auk Sayadaw. 

I'm looking for a sutta in which the Buddha is recalling past lives, including, I believe, lives as the great Brahma, and asks himself on account of what actions he ascended to a position of such great power; he investigates and answers that it was because of three things. I remember two--abstention and giving--but can't remember the third. If anyone knows what passage I am talking about it would be much appreciated. 

I am new to buddhism and meditation (I have been practising it for one month now), and despite finishing my fourth book on the matter, I am still very unclear about what a meditation session should look like when practicing either concentration or mindfulness. From what I understood, each of these practices are clearly differents and even have different pali names (Samatha and Vipassana if I am right ?). I can already tell that I can't differenciate concentration and mindfulness. When I focus on my breath, I am naturally distracted by all kind of things which I have to be mindfull of (the way my body feels, the sounds I ear, what I smell from the kitchen, my thoughts and emotions). And when I try to practice mindfulness, I can't help but focusing on my breath, because it is often the first thing that I can notice in that state, and it is always present. When I start my meditation I focus on my breath, then if something happens I try to be mindfull of it, and then I focus on my breath again until something else happens, switching maybe every 2 to 10 seconds. I am wondering why concentration and mindfulness are referred to as disctinct practices in the books I read, as it doesn't make much sense to me. At this point I am afraid that I may be missing something important. 

I just came to a very upsetting realisation : Almost all my motivation for the things I do in my daily life (mostly playing the piano and studying math in college) comes from bad things, such as ego, greed or aversion. Here a some examples : 

I also realized that it all leads to tension, pain and suffering. The problem is that I feel that just dropping these activities will certainly make things even worse. The question is how should I replace these bad motivations by more skillful ones ? In other words, how to stay motivated to do the things you love without causing you pain ? Is it even possible ? 

Also, here is an article on the benefits of lovingkindness meditation according to science that may be of interest. Not sure how I feel about all the scientific research on meditation to this point but worth a look. 

The Buddha's final days and death are described in the Maha-parinibbana Sutta I don't see anything there quite like the quote you mentioned. According to the sutta, the Buddha's final words were: 

Update: I purchased Clear Armor 34db Highest NRR professional earmuffs online and have been happy with them. They block noise very well but it took me a little bit to get used to them comfort-wise for long periods. I can definitely sit for an hour without any serious discomfort. 

According to tradition, as in the Nagara Sutta, Buddhas all discover the path to enlightenment and teach that same path to their followers: 

I am looking for a pair of earmuffs to wear while meditating that are effective at reducing noise and comfortable to wear for at least 2 hours. Does anyone have any recommendations of brands that they have actually used? Note: I would like to preemptively state that I am in no way interested in any answer that has to do with noticing my aversion to noise or doing vipassana; anything along these lines does not answer my question and will be down-voted. 

As I understand it, 'vedana' is used to denote the pleasant, unpleasant, or neutral aspect of some experience. The term most closely tracks with the English terms 'valence' or 'hedonic tone', rather than normal uses of the term 'feeling.' 

In the Aghatavinaya Sutta, there are five antidotes given for arisen ill-will(āghāto). I am puzzled because one of these is to develop equanimity ("upekkhā tasmiṃ puggale bhāvetabbā") and another is to reflect on ownership of kamma, which is used to generate (/is the cause of) equanimity as I understand it. I don't understand what is intended by having these separate. Full text follows. 

When I started meditation it was also a major problem for me. Just as you described, when you are unconsiously controlling your breath while trying not to, you either breath too much or too little. The sensation is really unpleasant as, in addiation to the bad breathing, it feels like you are not doing the meditation right. This is a good thing to realize, because you will know that you are controlling your breath as soon as these symptoms arise. So one of the reaction you may have is trying to force not controlling your breath, and to make all kind of mental effort. This is not a good solution, because it will create tension and hinder your concentration even more. What tend to work for me is the exact opposite reaction: just relax, take a step back Think that this meditation is a skill that needs a lot of time and practice, and that you are not supposed to do everything perfectely when you are beginning. Maybe take a little break from the breathing, switch your object of concentration to the sounds in the room, or the sensation in your feets, while your breath naturaly comes back to it's own pace. Then, rather than trying on the breath as one single entity, you may try to break it down in several parts: experience what sensations arise on the inspiration, the expiration, what you feel in your nose, in the abdomen, what is the quality of air in the room, it is warm, cold, etc. Rather than focusing on controlling or not controlling the breath, or trying to experience the pace of the flow of air, which can be very challenging at first, you might try to focus on other sensation that involve the breath, like those that I described above, which I believe are easier to meditate on at this stage. As you progress, you will find it easier not to controll the breath, remember that it is a skill that you do not need to master right now. It is really easy to make wrong jugement about yourself because you feel like you are not progressing quickly enough, or because you feel like your meditation session is not working as intented. I think what really matters at first, is sitting through all of this, no matter what happens. The key is to relax and let the problems arise, notice them and let them disappear by themselves. No forcing, no jugement. Good luck :)