There's nothing unique here. When you get your formal, written offer from Company B including the start date, you give your notice to Company A and serve out the notice period. This is the same as you would handle the case where you didn't have an internal transfer. You can't really back out of the internal transfer now - it's too late. It's just a matter of timing. Just handle it normally, in the normal manner, without regard to the fact that you are now in a new department and role. 

If being honest with Company B about your lack of availability doesn't help, then there is little that you can do, other than wait until your contract with Company A expires. At that point, I assume you'll have all day to go on interviews. You should call them directly (rather than email) first thing in the morning to explain your situation, and to explore other possibilities. Sometimes these things are just a matter of timing. Somethings things work out, and sometimes they don't. 

I'm not sure what you are expecting your company to do here. Are you expecting that they will say "Oh, you have this condition? Then, we'll let you climb the ladder without working as hard as others on the same ladder."? While many companies can easily accommodate all sorts of individual needs, that doesn't mean everything will be equal career-wise. What you deliver for the company is typically most important. If you can still deliver top performance despite your condition, then you will likely be in good shape. If you cannot (for whatever reason), then you can't expect to be rewarded as if you could. That doesn't mean just because another manager works 60 hours per week, that you must also work 60 hours. Perhaps you can perform equally well on just 45 hours (because you work smarter). There are many ways to achieve your results. 

You were right to meet with your boss first, before a grand meeting of all three. When you go talk to your boss, have clear in your own mind what you want to do with your team member. Tell your boss the problem you are having with this person (not a list of grievances, just a general problem) and more importantly tell your boss what you want to do about it (fire her, per her on a Performance Improvement Program, transfer her, etc.). Then ask your boss for support. If you want your boss to reject her appeals to your boss, then indicate that. (That would be my preference, but you need to decide.) If you want your boss to tell her to stop going over your head, then make that clear, too. You shouldn't make this your bosses problem if at all possible. This person reports to you. Instead, make it clear what your plan is and tell your boss that you need support in order for your actions to be effective. You are the manager, so you should manage, not just list problems and dump them off on your boss - that's not what being a manager is about. 

You simply ask for what you feel you are owed, and provide the documentation which backs up your claim. Assuming you are in the US, I believe you are entitled to back pay, if all of your assumptions and interpretations are correct. If you are not in the US, consult your local labor laws. Whether you will actually get this back pay may depend on your boss, the company, and your willingness to fight for it. It's unfortunate you waited so long. That fact alone may make it more difficult for you. 

It's not at all uncommon for a company to blame current problems on "that guy/gal who used to work here". If it happens, it happens, and there's little you can do about it. So yes, your manager could make a case where they blame you for other resignations. But, let's be realistic. It's exceedingly unlikely that others are resigning because of you. Almost certainly there have been resignations before you gave yours, and there will be others going forward. One person is seldom the trigger of a mass-exodus, and when it does happen, it's usually a top-level manager, and not a specialist like you. It's normal that folks are talking to you about their dissatisfaction with the company. They know you are leaving, have probably asked why, and you are probably throwing off vibes. As to your boss micro-managing you, that too is a natural reaction. In other questions, you indicated your unhappiness for quite a while. I believe you even indicated your desire to leave immediately, without a notice period. Once you gave your notice, it's normal that they would try to manage your remaining time there closely, so as to get what they can get before you check out physically or mentally. It might feel that way, but this isn't so much about you. Try not to obsess. Just finish out your notice period, leave, and put this company in your past. 

Again it depends. (I'm not a doctor, but it's my understanding that there are varying degrees of dyslexia with varying symptoms. I do know that some dyslexics have a lot of difficulty reading. But you are mentioning only spelling, so assuming your only issue is spelling, it seems unlikely you need to ask for any special work accommodations. Other dyslexics might choose differently. For the purpose of this answer, I assume you are simply a poor speller with no special accommodation needs.) If your spelling seems to be important for this particular job, you should tell the interviewer how you overcome your dyslexia by careful use of spell-checking tools and Google searches. Otherwise, it might be best to leave the topic alone. Note: You must make sure your resume and cover letters are fully checked and contain no spelling or grammar errors. Cases where you have the time and resources to get things right will likely be viewed poorly if they aren't perfect. 

When a company is acquired, all bets are off. The acquiring company may or may not honor your job offer. I've been in companies that were acquired. In each case, all reqs were frozen until they could be reviewed at a later date. And every time I've been involved in a acquisition (either as acquirer or acquired), at least some people lost their jobs. That's just the way it goes. Now often an acquiring company will just let things proceed as before for a while, and that would mean your offer still exists. But you'll just need to wait to find out for sure. 

Not likely. Unless this hiring company is performing some sort of scam, I can't see where the recourse would come in. Perhaps you'll find out soon if it turns out that there is no real job. You could notify the HR department and see if they can speed things up so you won't miss any more paychecks. But I can't see it going any farther than that at best. My company has a pretty extensive background checking process. Recently I lost a good contracting candidate when something happened and it took over four weeks. As can be understood, the contractor chose not to wait that long. I expressed my displeasure far up the management chain, but I can't see where it mattered enough to any of them that I can expect changes to happen. Note: I'm not a lawyer, and you could certainly choose to consult one. First, you would have to determine who to sue - your new employer (not usually a good career move), or the company performing the background check (unlikely you have any standing with them). A lesson to others: try hard to wait until everything including background check) is in place before giving your notice to the company you are leaving. 

Yes, that's very reasonable. Just indicate that you are busy Thursday afternoon and ask if Thursday morning would be acceptable instead. Most employers will understand and work with you to find a mutually acceptable time and day. 

You think your boss conned you, but don't want to seem ungrateful. One of those two seems off - only you can decide what really happened. If you want to stay in spite of being conned, then just talk to your boss. Something like "Hey, boss. I really appreciate getting the job here, but I feel like I can do lots more than I've been doing so far. What do I need to do in order to do some real programming?" should work. You can also ask about training. "What's the best way for me to get up to speed in xxxx?" If you want something, you'll have to get over your nervousness and ask. With time, it will get easier. 

Sure. Put it somewhere near your other skills, perhaps under a heading of "Self-Taught Skills". That way, you indicate all these things you have studied on your own, apart from the other more formally-attained knowledge. However you express it in your resume, make sure you don't write it so that it looks like you have actually attended a training class, certification course, or college course. You don't want to mislead the resume reader - that could lead to outright rejection if discovered. Nobody wants to hire someone who is lying or trying to mislead them. And of course be ready to answer questions about the courses. An interviewer will likely want to probe the depth of your understanding, since "studied on my own" could mean anything from "skimmed a web page" to "spent 52 weeks in intensive study". 

It's not rude - but don't wait that long. Ask now. Since you know you will use it, and have some concerns about early expenses, ask about the terms of the relocation allowance before you join. That way, you can understand what they will and won't do, and have a chance to modify your accommodation plans accordingly. 

There's no benefit to worrying about that now. Try to be patient. One way or the other, you'll know soon enough. 

I knew of one small high-tech company that divided up a significant bonus pool during an open year-end review session that lasted a 3-day weekend. If I remember correctly, they all gathered offsite, went over the significant events from the year, went over all the numbers for sales, new customers, etc, and then discussed bonus allocations. I believe they started with the premise that everyone gets an equal bonus, and then each person in turn talked about the accomplishments of the others (not themselves), and put in a "pitch" for why others should get more than an equal share. Presumably, at the end of the weekend, people would end up with unequal shares - based on how much they contributed to the success of the company over the preceding year, as judged by everyone else. I remember that they were quite pleased with the results of the process the first two years. I sort of lost direct contact after that, but I heard through the grapevine that it didn't go quite as well in subsequent years. I don't know the details, other than the fact that some partners felt cheated. This isn't something I would ever advocate for, but I suppose it could work.