Regular aerobic exercise is definitely of value for preparing for a big ride. Spin is a good preparation in conjunction with some outdoor rides, but it is not a substitute for riding your bike on the road. The feel of the bike, the balance, the momentum, and the environmental and traffic factors will have an effect on your fitness as well, some of which may be purely mental. If time is limited, try spin 2-3 days a week, and build up your endurance, but also do at least one longer outdoor ride each week. If you're riding 50 miles, you need to plan to be on the bike for 3-5 hours when you do the actual ride. Build up to where you can handle 3 hours on the bike easily, and you'll do fine. 

While normal braking does transfer some pad material to the rotor, regardless of whether the appropriate procedure is followed, that does not mean the brake is automatically bedded correctly, or that the procedure has no point. Bedding in the rotor is intended to apply pad material to the rotor in a continuous and even layer. This is best achieved by bringing a bike up to speed, and then applying the brake smoothly and consistently to slow the bike, releasing the brake without actually stopping. Normal braking, which for most people does include actually stopping, if done on a fresh rotor that has not been bedded in, will apply pad material in an uneven layer. Stopping during the bed in period creates a patch of material on the rotor which can cause the brake to pulse or grab during braking. Uneven braking is the second consequence of failing to bed in the brake. This is relatively long term, lasting at minimum until the rotor is cleaned of the pad material, new pads are installed, and the bed in procedure is performed. The first consequence, which is short term, is the lack of braking power and control. On a new set of Shimano Ultegra hydraulic discs, until the brake bed in procedure is performed, the brakes essentially fail to stop the bike. While they create some drag, the wheels do not lock up, and there is no modulation. After the mechanic installing the brake performs the bed in procedure, their performance is quite good. The difference is quite obvious to anyone who has ridden these brakes in both states. This is unlikely to be an issue in the long term, unless the bike is ridden in a location or at a speed which puts the rider at risk, prior to bed in. The third consequence, reduced pad/rotor life, is minor, and not typical, though it is mentioned by the manufacturer as a possibility. One additional benefit of bedding in a brake is that it "trues" the mating of pad and rotor, causing the alignment of the pad to the rotor to be more precise. This has 2 primary benefits, that of silencing the brake, as the "squeal" that is typical on a new disc brake is usually caused by vibration due to the minor misalignment between pad and rotor causing "chatter" between the 2 surfaces. This portion of the bed in process does also occur through natural braking, and is the source of the fallacy that bed in will happen naturally. The second benefit, increased brake modulation, is the result of this trued mating allowing finer contact between brake pad and rotor, due to finer tolerances in the mating of pad and rotor. This is not to say that bedding in a brake is a life or death issue. Many people have ridden new brakes without setting them up correctly, and been just fine. But that doesn’t mean that their experience with their brakes gives them the best possible performance that they could have gotten, with just a bit more care and time during setup. As for the idea that a BSO with disc brakes not being properly set up should set the standard that all bikes are built to, that’s a false argument. In fact, I guarantee you that the owner’s manual for that BSO says that the bike must be assembled and tuned by a professional before riding, and that the professional in question must follow the manufacturers’ recommendations when building the bike, including those for brake setup. The fact that it is not cost effective to have a professional spend $100 worth of his or her time on a bike sold for $100, doesn’t mean that it shouldn’t happen. 

First, not all full suspension bikes use bearing for all pivot points, and some bikes don't use them for any. They use bushings instead. That said, assuming you have bearings at all points on your bike: There are 2 types of bearings damage which require replacement in a suspension system. The first, bearing play, means lateral movement inside the bearing cartridge itself. This occurs when the ball bearing wears deeply enough into the bearing race that there is space between the 2 races which is larger than the ball itself. In a suspension system, this often presents as clicks or creaks in your suspension. It can be mimicked by loose pivot bolts, so the first check is to remove, grease, and re-torque all the bolts in your system. If the play persists, you may need to replace bearings. The second, rough bearings, is often caused by extended use, or heavy impacts in the course of the use of your bike. The ball bearings or races get physical chips or divots in their surface called pits, and thus no longer roll smoothly. The presentation is often the same as with bearing play, clicks or creaks in the system. The good news is that the diagnostic for both types of bearing issues can be done in one go. Once you have pulled, greased and re-torqued the bolts in your system, disconnect the shock from you system, remove your rear wheel, and move the swing arm through its travel by hand. You should be able to feel any roughness in the bearings. Repair in both cases requires replacing the bearings. This sometimes requires or at least strongly recommends tools specific to your brand or model of bike. 

So, I'm a US Expatriate. That is, a US citizen, living in Dubai. We travel. And we travel with our bikes. There is no need for stress regarding traveling with a bike. It just requires preparation. When you buy your tickets, tell them you will be checking a bike case. It legitimately falls under the sporting goods exemptions for oversized luggage. Most airlines have a flat fee. American, who we're flying with in 2 days, charges 150 USD each way. Print the airline policies regarding bikes to take with you to checkin. Many airlines employees don't know their own policies, so you need proof for their sake. Use a hard case. Some airlines require it no matter what, and others won't guarantee the condition of your bike without one. S&S couplers are a good idea, and the electrical issues can be worked out. A 62cm frame will fit most boxes, especially if you have couplers. And if you're unsure, look at B&W Bike cases. Good quality, plenty big, and airline safe. As for losing or breaking your bikes, nothing to be done there. Except check the bikes thoroughly before you leave the airport, and make them pay. They must replace or repair a damaged or missing bike. While it will be unpleasant, it won't be the end of the world. Mostly, it's not too big a deal. Delta's policies state that their 200 USD fees are not supposed to be for each leg. It's supposed to be for The whole distance, city to city, unless you booked each leg separately. That's the average, about 200 each way. Be prepared, and don't back down. You'll be fine. 

SRAM GXP bottom brackets can be user serviced, but it is usually unnecessary. To service your BB bearings, first remove the crank arms. Then place your thumb in the BB spindle hole, and bend the joint enough that your knuckle makes firm contact around the entire ring surface of the spindle hole. Pull outward using fairly firm pressure, and if necessary, rock your thumb side to side. This will pull free the outer, plastic shield, and expose the inner rubber bearing seals. Then take a scalpel, or a sharp awl, and use the tip to gently pry up the edge of the bearing seal. You may need to lift it at more than one area around the edge, but it should pop free with a little force. Once the seal is removed, clean and degrease the exposed bearings, replace the grease with fresh grease, then replace the seals. Repeat on the bearing on the opposite side of the BB. One word of warning: while this is possible, and not likely to cause any issues, it is not intended by the manufacturer, and will not be covered under warranty, should you damage the BB in the process. 

A new chain has factory installed lube inside on the bushings and pins. It is a thicker, stickier lube than anything you can put back on the chain after a cleaning which is that thorough. I love that you take time to maintain the bike. Definitely check your chain checker, as Daniel said, but on your next chain, try relaxing the maintenance a bit. Clean the chain by spraying a light citrus degreaser on a rag, folding the rag in the palm of your hand, and running the chain through the rag. This will clean the exterior and the accessible bits without soaking away the internal factory lube. Once clean, lube the exterior of your chain with a quality lube (I like Boeshield T-9 or Dumonde Tech yellow) and wait 15-20 minutes. Then wipe off all excess lube. Starting with your new chain, do that for the first 6 months, or until your fresh lube job sounds unlubed again within a few on the bike hours. Once that is not working, go back to your current method. I'd say do the complete strip and relube once a month, with the process described above on the in between weeks. After your next chain, let us know if and how your mileage changed. 

You can use a BMX chain tensioner, like this one, reversed, on some dropouts, but you will need to find one that works with your particular frame and dropout. There is nothing designed for that purpose which I am aware of. However, If you are using proper torque, and proper track nuts, or nuts with washers, your wheel should not move in the dropout, with or without a tensioner. Tensioners are designed to make it easier to align the wheel, and get proper tension on the chain, not to keep the wheel from slipping in the dropout. If your wheel is slipping in the dropout, then there is something else wrong, in my opinion. 

Look at Power Cranks. They are a crank set with the ability to freewheel independently of each other. It allows a slow build to fully articulated movement if additional rehab is still a goal, and using each crank independently means using a bike is still possible, even if doing so uses a pedaling motion which would be awkward for someone who had an option for full movement. They also have adjustable crank lengths on each independent arm, which would allow you to use a shorter crank on the leg with the limited movement. They are often used as a rehab tool, are a real, readily available, and not ridiculously priced product, and are install-able with normal bicycle tools. One caveat: They are shifting to a new poly carbonate fixing cap. If you order, I recommend requesting the old alloy fixing caps. The last set of poly caps I installed broke easily. FTR, I have installed and used this product, and have no relationship with the manufacturer, nor will I be compensated in any way for this post. 

A properly aligned TS-2 truing stand will show dish, as well as alignment. You rarely need additional adjustment after using it. However, if the stand is out of alignment, you may need to re-dish the wheel. The easiest and most accurate check for TS-2 alignment is a properly dished wheel. The best way to ensure that the wheel is properly dished, and thus an accurate alignment check, is with a dishing tool. Bottom line, if you can afford the TS-2, a dishing tool shouldn't be a major expense, and is worth the cost, even if you only use it as a final, double check of the truing stand. 

Yes, your bike can be fitted with pretty much any saddle. The (metric) allen key on your new saddle is a 6mm. If you're using Standard Allen wrenches its probably a little larger than 7/32". The seat post needs to fit your frame. So you will need to mount the new saddle on your old post, or buy a new post that exactly matches the size from your original one. It does sound like you've disassembled the guts of your suspension seat post, so if you can't get it back together, you're probably looking at a new seat post. There should be no problem mounting that seat on any post that fits your frame. I hope that helps. 

Be very careful about making leg length adjustments on your bike. There are several red flags about this. All of which you may be aware of or may not. 1st, a leg length difference is very difficult to diagnose, ecept with an experienced physio, or an X-Ray/MRI. Most good physios will send you for an X-ray if they suspect a leg length difference is causing you an issue. 2nd, The body will naturally compensate for up to a 2cm leg length difference with pelvic tilt, and while that is less helpful on the bike, you don't automatically need to add stack height if you have a leg length difference. And last, a 1cm difference in length does not mean a 1cm compensation, even if you do need to compensate. It is something that needs to be looked at professionally, and any compensation needs to be worked in slowly. Generally, adjustments in the 2mm range in one go are considered appropriate. More than that can(not always, but quite often) cause bigger issues than they solve. Long story short, be careful what you do, go see a professional medical bike fitter, preferably a physio with extensive bike fitting experience, and follow their instructions. Oh, and be prepared to pay for the privilege, while realizing that it will take time to sort you out properly. There is no magic bullet fix here. Look up the Boulder Center for Sports Medicine. They specialize in issues of exactly this type, and they designed most of the equipment to diagnose and correct them. Like the 3D bike fitting camera systems.