No matter how you spin this, it will leave a bad feeling. You need to both do damage control and address underlying issues. 

Feel free to add "I feel honored you think so highly of me" as appropriate, without crossing the threshold into sycophancy - you know your old boss better than we do. And do think about accepting some of these engagements once in a while, especially the ones that do make you more visible. It seems like your ex-boss has a high opinion of you, and that can't hurt, so try to stay on his good side. 

Paul sounds, from the description you give, like a possible case of Adult Attention Deficit Disorder: 

It might actually be worthwhile to address the dirty dishes in the kitchen sink, which I would argue are a problem all by themselves - at the very least, they are unhygienic. Alternatively, you could also address the cleanliness in your restrooms. Do you have a cleaning service? If so, and if you can't bring yourself to brush your teeth in the restroom after it has supposedly been cleaned, I would say that the cleaning service is not doing its job. If neither of these approaches work, you could maybe go outside with a bottle of water and rinse your mouth (discreetly) near some bushes. Or you could chew sugar-free gum. 

No, you should not bring this up. You are correct that it could be an issue, a liability, but it's never good form to be intruding into your co-workers' habits. You don't know if he has an arrangement that allows for this, and you are not his boss. It's offensive when employees try to clock other employees. It's never productive, and it puts you in the position of judging someone else's work habits. Unless it -directly- affects you, stop watching the other guy, and just make sure you do what you are supposed to do. 

Your odds of getting a job that would bring you to the US are pretty low. But if you are already in the US, you have a few options. First, I'd suggest substitute teaching; it doesn't pay great, but technical types are always needed badly, and it would give you an entry point. Second, internship or entry-level jobs may work out if they're for an organization that will eventually have a paying job up your alley. Third, you really need to get back to school and refresh your background, if you can possibly afford it. There may even be special scholarships or funding for someone returning to school at this point in life. The most important thing I'd stress is that you need to show that you are keeping up with the times and are eager to learn. I'm older than you, but I get along with my highly-technical colleagues because instead of thinking "I'm too old to learn all that", I am eager to learn the latest technologies and hone my expertise. The hard part for you, I suspect, is that what you did academically is irrelevant, as is the last 20 years. It's going to be all about what you can do now, what you can contribute and what you can learn to do well that is relevant to today's world. Use all your energy to get started on it right away. If you need to go into a new field, well, there are a number of areas of software engineering that are always short of capable people; there are especially areas of web development that involve programming that's in demand. But don't go to a community college for "web design"; that will be useless. Instead, find a way to develop websites, even if you have to do it for free for a while, just to show off skills, and focus on programming -- Java first, PHP, Ruby on Rails, etc. -- see what's in demand. Thanks to the fear that companies have about discrimination lawsuits, if you can actually do the job, you are likely to land an interview if only as an "alternate" candidate. But you can't do it based on your past; you have to become a "now" person who is useful in 2013. Short of that, you probably could get a job at McDonald's, or something even less desireable. 

You should really have discussed a potential counter-offer from your current employer before accepting the new offer. Give them a deadline if necessary. "I need to accept or reject the offer from the potential new employer by Friday. Please think about whether you can and want to give me an attractive counter-offer in writing by that time." Accepting an offer from a new employer and then deciding to go with the counter-offer is unprofessional, there is no way around it, and you won't be able to sugarcoat it very much. If you did immediately request a counter-offer from your current employer, but they were late about making it, the unprofessionalism lies with them. In this case, you can tell the alternative employer that the counter-offer was late in coming. (Without badmouthing your current employer.) 

There is not as much to expose as you think there is. You are too close to the situation to see it in a detached way. "Whistleblowing" is all about companies doing illegal and/or dangerous things; this is about the simple art of deception, which many people feel is part of being a manager. The press is not going to be interested. Even your co-workers in other departments aren't going to pay attention to it. They will all assume that it's just "sour grapes" for you, and part of being in the business world. The reality, anyway, is that it's all about who you're listening to, who is making the statements you suggest were made. That's not the "company", it's individual managers who clearly can't be trusted. But you don't even know what pressures those manager were under to cut the people they cut; all you do know, at this point, is that they said they were sure that certain people would be retained who were not, in fact, retained. You don't even know for sure whether they believed themselves what they said at that point. For your own sake, just let it go and start looking for another job. No job is safe at that company, from what you describe; even your boss's boss may end up being replaced in such times. Get your mind off it and get your life away from there, because clearly anyone could be let go, and if the company is possibly on the verge of shutdown, it's going to be one of those that doesn't say so, that you'll find out on the day you come to work and all the doors are locked. 

We can't really answer that question. It depends on the amount we are talking about, how important using this company as a future reference is, how good your legal position is and so forth. 

It's often hard to know that a management decision is wrong. I have pretty often butted heads with my Product Owner about the "right" way to do something, with explanations, presentations and examples, only to see him decide on doing things differently. And he always had a good reason to go against my recommendation. The problem here is that we only know your point of view, not the one of the people who decided against your recommendation. It's rather likely they did have a reason (otherwise, why go against what appears to be a carefully researched recommendation?). Off the top of my head, I can imagine a lot of reasons not to go with the subject matter expert's opinion: 

The intent of your contract is to keep your work efforts solely focused on your job, even if it's off-hours. That way, there is no question that anything you develop, during that period of employment, no matter what day or time it may have been done, belongs to the company. You can volunteer, part-time, elsewhere, as long as you aren't given a regular job role. You can play sports and even be captain of the team, as long as you're not paid for it and you don't hold a business-related position in the organization. It's not all that fuzzy. If you want to sell your hobbycrafts on the side, you're breaking your contract as that is a side business. It's not about how -small- the business is, it's that you've agreed that you will have only one job, one occupation, and work for only one business. Period. And even if others get away with breaking their contract, you still would be risking your job if you do the same, and violating the terms to which you agreed. Here is an example from some slightly clearer language in a standard contract; it allows one area of exception that your contract may not spell out: $URL$ 

This may backfire badly. People who find both profiles (with pictures of the obviously same person - even if you put up different pictures of you) may be even more certain that you have something to hide. If you do set up different profiles (is that even allowed by LinkedIn's terms of service?), I'd at least prominently link them so nobody can accuse you of hiding something. However, it sounds like you will just need to establish your credentials and reputation for both fields separately. This should only be a problem for people that do research you, after all. My first reaction on meeting someone is not to search him on LinkedIn, find that he is a champion mud wrestler, and subsequently discount his statistical skills. So you wouldn't need to fear people like me. 

This is not "discrimination based on personal belief", so your question is moot. Companies are allowed to try to find the best fit for their organization, and one way they do so is to assess whether they think the candidate is a good fit with their company philosophies. Even if your friend had said exactly what they wanted to hear, you have no way to know if he would've actually been hired. It's perfectly legal and acceptable (and normal) for the interviewers to prefer candidates with whom they feel a good "mesh". This is often about personality, but it can extend to interests, philosophies, and any other areas that might affect day-to-day interactions. Virtually nobody is hired purely on technical skills alone. If they were, most in-person interviews would be unnecessary. 

As the comments make clear, we are not qualified to give you legal advice, so I'll stick to non-legalities. 

Freelancing seems to be the logical answer here. As a freelancer, you can easily decide after a project ends that you'd like to tour the world for a couple of months. Theoretically, that is. In practice: 

Basically, going the freelancer way may be the thing for you if you have a strong network and are recognized as an expert in your field. If there are clients calling you specifically, and if you can actually tell them to wait for four weeks while you recuperate on Hawaii and they actually wait for you, you are probably all set for this type of career. 

Many companies in the US do not freeze hiring. 1. Well -of course- hiring varies by industry and arena: You don't really think that construction is busy hiring in December, or retail sales in March, do you? Take a look here for historical numbers by month: $URL$ The differences are easy to spot when you look at, say, Jan 2012 vs Sept 2012, even though the general patterns are similar. There's a nice analysis on monster: $URL$ 

In this specific case, I'd suggest avoiding taking it on yourself. Instead, simply acknowledge that it needs to be corrected. 

No, it is not common. But the reason for it is that it costs the company money to put together an offer, and they have to also inform other candidates that they have chosen someone else. The purpose is primarily to cut their risk. I'm not sure I'd be too thrilled with a company that played that particular game, though, unless they had at least outlined the potential offer to me ahead of time, so I could compare it with others and decide if they really -were- my first choice.