Not at all -- interviewers typically like to see more years in each job. The employer is more likely to make an investment in someone who they think will stick around. 

To some degree the value of your skills is based on your employer, and how much they need a particular skill. AngularJS development, for example, is an in-demand skill, but if a company already has many developers with that skill, yours may not be worth as much. There are resources and guides out there (e.g., The Robert Half Salary Guide) that take national averages for skill sets and convert them to percentage to add to your desired salary. Any given skill's value is going to depend on the company and region, but guides like the one listed above can give you a starting point. 

Of course he may think of you as a little of all three of these things, so pick a line that feels to you like he'd go for it: if he values your opinion, tell him you're wasting your time there; if he values your prioritisation, tell him you've got something more important to do; if he values your well-being, tell him you don't have time to do it all. If he values none of these, find a better boss ;-) Whatever you choose, do it politely and present it as an unavoidable fact of life that just has to be dealt with. 

If you're looking for a clever trick, I'd suggest keeping a text file or something in which you track what you're currently doing. Then it's perfectly natural that when someone comes to talk to you at your desk, you maximise this window and type a few words to remind yourself what was interrupted (or note the time you switched to this new conversation, if you need to timesheet which customer you're working for). Keep anything sensitive out of this file, and just leave it on screen while you talk. I basically discovered this tactic by accident. Actually the window mine is in, isn't maximised, but it is quite big and it does hide most of my screen when I bring it to the foreground. If you always do this (or, if you feel confident enough not to need a little trick, if you always lock your screen when you turn away from it, even for a minute), then someone still might get the impression you're hiding something. But at least they won't get the impression you're hiding something specific from them on that occasion, they'll merely think you're over-cautious in general. Which basically is the truth of your actual beliefs compared with those who are happy for their colleagues to shoulder-surf. Someone who thinks you're too private might even decide to spy on you, which is definitely their bad but nevertheless a problem for you. If one of your colleagues basically will not give up until they've seen a screenful of your private email, then they're going to catch sight of it eventually and the only way to stop them is to avoid putting it on a screen when your back's to the room. Most people are more decent (or more afraid of getting caught). For that matter, politicians like to put about the idea that if you don't go out of your way to pay them to snoop on your phone calls and emails then you must be hiding something shameful. If some like-minded colleague, who is not authorised to monitor your computer use, explicitly challenges you on this, there comes a point where you just have to say "yes, of course I'm hiding something. I often view confidential information on my machine: email with HR; company and client documents that are access-controlled; discussions with my boss and people who report to me; my payslips and bank statements. Live with it." But I wouldn't do that just because someone is idly looking at my screen -- this is only for if they claim they have the right to do so or that you're wrong to obstruct them. 

The situation as you describe is not uncommon -- the beginning of a partnership that does not work out for personal or technical reasons. Unless your mentors provided direct negative feedback, I would not assume that the bridge has been burnt. The best way to resolve this is by contacting your mentor directly, if you are still able to. Say you are planning to apply to work at the company, and ask what your mentor's experiences have been, and what the culture is like. I would not ask for a recommendation or anything else at this point. If your mentor replies positively, you can ask about including as a contact. If there is no response, it probably makes sense to leave the contact section blank. 

Firstly, accept positive feedback. If you're praised for something, with no caveats whatever, then keep doing it! That said, the main thing you can do here to avoid causing offence or discomfort, is to be prepared for the possibility that the person making the decision doesn't really know why they prefer A to B, and might not care to be rigorously challenged on it. This comes up especially in cases where: 

It doesn't really matter whether it's new or old, that's just what happened to make you suspicious. And it doesn't matter whether you're certain or not, because it's not your job to decide whether to fire him. Therefore, if you're going to report it at all then you should merely report what it is about the machine that makes you think it's not the one he used the company credit card to purchase. Don't say "it's not the same machine", say "I think it's an old model, and I am telling this so you can look into it if that troubles you". Report this to the person who's responsible for deciding whether this is worth further investigation, or to someone else who can report it them: whatever structure your company has in place. If you need more detail about your company's arrangements consult staff handbook, your line manager, etc. You may be able to report anonymously if you're concerned about retribution (in which case, you also need to figure out how without asking anyone). A lot of people are very hostile to informants, even among those who directly benefit from the information. There's probably no need in this case for your testimony of what you've witnessed, so a completely anonymous tip-off might do the job. Either it's the right computer or it isn't, and that's established by comparing the object to the receipt, not by what you've seen or your knowledge of Macs. Frequently a company will have a not-really-anonymous procedure for reporting suspicions of wrongdoing, where the person you report to promises to keep your name out of it, but they know who you are. In that case you should also consider whether you trust that person. As to whether to report it at all: this really depends whether you feel that part of your job is to protect the company's property in general as opposed to only following direct orders. This depends on company culture. There are companies where everybody's either thieving or turning a blind eye to it, and there are companies where taking a computer is the kind of thing employees would be willing to help prevent. I'm used to the latter, but not every company inspires much desire in its employees to look out for it. Think about what kind of company you're in, and where on the spectrum you want to be, and act accordingly. Ethically the issues are whether you feel a responsibility to your employer, and whether you feel a responsibility to your colleague (or if not personally to that colleague, a general responsibility not to make accusations). And if both, which outweighs the other. Very few people have sufficiently simple responsibilities either to say, "I would always report suspected theft no matter the cost", or "I would never report suspected theft under any circumstances", and so you need to make your ethical consideration on the details of the case. One possible alternative to reporting it, is to take the matter into your own hands by challenging your colleague with what you've observed (some of the answers offer indirect ways of doing this rather than a direct accusation). This might be enough to prompt him to bring the real machine in. However, I don't really recommend this firstly because it opens you to retribution, secondly because it involves making a threat to report him, and thirdly because it involves offering to keep the matter you yourself provided it's settled to your own satisfaction. Any of those might be justifiable to give your colleague a chance to be honest, but it puts you in rather a difficult position. There may well be no need to do anything even if you do feel a general responsibility to the company rather than your colleague. Someone told him to bring it in. They are presumably already on the case, and will be taking steps to figure out for themselves whether their instruction was followed or not. You might reasonably decide that they don't need your help to do their job, and leave it to them to do whatever checks they feel are appropriate. They have eyes, they can see what you can see, but they have more information than you: they know what he claimed to have bought. So, you might reasonably say there's a difference between this case, where someone else is already dealing with it, and a different case where you caught him loading a truck out of the company warehouse and you're the only one who knows he did it. Whatever you decide, you should not investigate this yourself, or try to chase up whether the computer he bought was supposed to be new or old. What you observe with your own eyes is potentially yours to report. His expense receipts are not your business even if he really is stealing. For that matter, even if the machine isn't the right one, it's not your business why that is. For all you know he has confessed confidentially, the books have been balanced, and the matter is already dealt with. In which case even if you're correct, you'll report it and never hear anything more about it. Finally, it's just about conceivable, depending on jurisdiction and the details of the case, that you could be committing a criminal offence of "accessory after the fact" by choosing not to report it. I'm not saying you certainly would, just that it's a possibility. In your defence, the fact that you don't know what computer he's supposed to have bought means you don't actually know he's done anything wrong. And, while the law is not the same as ethics, you still in my opinion have some right to include in your consideration the weight of the consequences for yourself of what you do. You should at least think about whether you would be fired if, somewhere down the line, this guy gets found out and fired and somebody figures out that you knew what you know and chose not to report it. This is just the flip side of considering the retribution you might face if you do inform. 

It is never rude to negotiate, or to communicate what it will take to hire you. If you've received a higher salary, it's only natural to notify the recruiter, if that in fact changes what you are asking for. Don't just say you received a raise -- be clear what that means for the offer you seek. Make sure that you are negotiating in good faith, however, and not just fishing for a better offer that you have no intention of taking. By the way, it's never a good idea to tell employers or recruiters your current salary, no matter how hard they press. If they don't know your current salary, you are free to negotiate your true market value, independent of what you've earned in the past. 

True, but unless they only ask for the absolute minimum they need/expect, it's possible to respect their actual needs by paying them a little less. 

By all means discuss them if you think it will help your boss, especially since you've mentioned them before. If your boss wants to know the real reasons it might be for two purposes: 

This part I can answer: where BYOD policies exist, the employee is not customarily compensated for providing an existing device they have lying around. That absence of payment is the "YO" in "BYOD" ;-) Employers aren't interested in hiring equipment from their employees, they're only interested in permitting employees equipment to be used. If the BYOD policy is instead of the company providing computers, so that your only work machine is the one you buy, then sure, the company might provide money for that. If not then they'll compare unfavourably with a competitor that doesn't make you drop a couple of grand on kit your first day of work. But that's not the same as renting kit from you, and I don't think it's very common, so I doubt your employer will see temporary use of your Mac in this light. Also don't be fooled by (especially) small companies that don't actually have a formal BYOD policy, and they do provide you a machine, but they don't particularly notice or care if you sign your own devices into a work network. That's not "proper" BYOD, you shouldn't take it as evidence of "BYOD being common", and you can be sure the employees aren't being paid extra when they do it Provided you have a decent relationship with your boss there's no harm in asking, I suppose, but do beware that by saying you're willing to do it in return for some compensation, you close down your option to say that it's not possible for you to do it at all. Since you think you should not do this for free I think you should brace yourself for the likelihood that you'll either be doing it for free or you won't be doing it at all. Either do it as a matter of good will, or else prepare an explanation that it's just not convenient for you to re-purpose your own device for work use -- the hassle and risk of bringing it to work are too high for you. If you were going to press for "compensation", I would restrict it to your actual costs. You might perhaps say that if you're bringing it to work then you need it to be covered for loss or accidental damage while at work or en route, and if left at the office overnight. If the company doesn't have budget to buy you a machine to work on then I suppose it doesn't have budget to self-insure this. Personal properly likely isn't covered on their existing office policy, but they could purchase a separate policy for you. Be prepared in the UK that this might not be an allowable expense and if not then you'd need the company to agree to pay income tax and NICs on it in addition to the basic cost. 

There is free filtered water on my floor available from a 5-gallon water dispenser unit. The replacement water bottles are about 30 feet away in a storage room. As it would happen, I tend to find the water fountain completely empty more often than I would like. In the perfect world, the person who takes the last of the water would go and fetch a new cartridge, or if the person does not have the strength then he or she would ask someone else to do so. What should I do? Put up a poster saying "Thank you for drinking from this fountain. Are you doing your part in making sure we can all enjoy to drink as well?" 

I would not say "dismisssed" or anything negative -- the new company will likely imagine the worst, and may not even call you back. Say something simple, general, and neutral. You're probably feeling bad/guilty right now and in a confessing mood, but that will work against you. I've been fired twice, and got new jobs by explaining it simply, and not dwelling on the past -- most companies are far more interested in your experience and what you can do for them, as opposed to what happened with your previous employer. People make mistakes. Do not say anything about it unless asked, and if asked, explain it as you do here, indicating that you have learned from your mistake and will be extra careful in the future. Do not blame your old company -- on the contrary, say you understand completely their actions. Use your mistake to your advantage as much as possible. Convince your new company that you never want to make a mistake like that again. 

Does this cost money? Of course, and one of the reasons your lightweight agile startup company is undercutting its heavyweight enterprise-grade competitors is that so far you haven't been providing or charging your clients for 7 day coverage, whereas big suppliers pay support staff the going rate to work weekends. Can you reasonably expect to get 7 days of work for 5 days of pay just by being upset? No. It's very difficult to persuade your employees that something is important, if it isn't worth money either to your or your clients. Apparently the CEO feels it is worth wrecking your employees' private lives for: if that's less important to him than money, then your employees will pretty quickly figure him out. Find out where your mouth is and put some money there ;-)