If we take a look at a logarithmic scale of the Solar System, there appears to be a large gap between the heliopause and the Oort cloud: 

According to this paper, within 1 billion (short scale) years from now, the ever-increasing luminosity will have made Earth nearly uninhabitable. The average temperature will have reached 47°C, compared to its current 15°C. Essentially no water will be left either, except at the poles. This may allow for simple life to survive for a while. By 3.5 billion years, Earth will no longer resemble its current self. Its oceans, magnetic field and ozone layer and plate tectonics will be no more. Its surface temperature will skyrocket to roughly 1,330°C, hot enough to melt surface rock. No longer will our planet resemble a pale blue dot, and it will be more like Venus. Our planet is officially dead, along with all life on it. (Source) ~4.5 billion years from now, the Sun will become a red giant and possibly consume Earth. However, according to this paper, it may heat up potentially habitable bodies like Triton, to the point where they would support life. Unfortunately, the Sun won't remain in this stage for long enough — life usually takes billions of years to develop. 

The x diameter is 587 pixels and the y diameter is 575 pixels. If you draw a blue circle with a radius averaging Mercury's semiminor and semimajor axes, you get: I'll leave it to the reader to decide if Mercury's orbit does or does not look like a circle. 

when the local sideral time is almost a minute ahead of the sun's right ascension. What's going on here? Since the Earth is an ellipsoid, and not a sphere, it turns out that "up", the direction perpendicular to a location on Earth, is NOT directly away from the center of the Earth (it turns out gravity acts in a direction that is neither towards the center of the Earth nor perpendicular to the surface, but that's not relevant for this question): see $URL$ for details. If you want really accurate calculations you'll have to use $URL$ 's $URL$ function. Although this doesn't cause the discrepancy above, another consideration is a location's elevation above the surface of the Earth, which can also have slight effect (since "up" isn't always towards the zenith). Happily, one thing you can ignore is refraction, since refraction at the zenith is effctively zero. My $URL$ is a very approximate representation of where the Sun is overhead and is generated by $URL$ 

You can see how objects are drifting apart from each other, due to the expansion of space. Thus, your question doesn't make much sense; the Universe is all of space and it's contents, so how could it move through more space? 

Globular clusters lie in the galactic halo, outside of the disc. However, galaxies are more or less a collection of material and objects — why is it, then, that most stars form a plane due to the angular momentum, but some patches of stars do not? In fact, globular clusters often contain some of the earliest stars formed in a galaxy, right? How come they do not flatten, yet a lot of the older stars do? 

Besides all the obvious properties (size, distance, central body, etc.), there are a few other differences between the two. Firstly, planetary rings usually have a clearly defined boundary. This is because rings usually have shepherd moons — small moons that orbit near the inner or outer edges of rings or within gaps in the rings. The gravity of shepherd moons maintains a sharply defined edge to the ring; material that drifts closer to the shepherd moon's orbit is either deflected back into the body of the ring, ejected from the system, or accreted onto the moon itself. Circumstellar disc boundaries can be more complicated. Usually, planets play a similar role to shepherd moons in ring systems, so we can define an inner and outer edge for the asteroid belt. However, discs that lie beyond the planets are trickier. The Kuiper belt's outer edge is approximately 47.8 AU from the Sun, at the 1:2 resonance. However, some objects have been detected up to 55 AU from the Sun. Meanwhile, scattered disc objects have extreme orbits and the disc's outer edge is not clearly defined. Distant SDOs have been proposed as Hills cloud objects, causing a vague ambiguity between the two. In addition, rings are much denser than circumstellar discs. As a result, collisions are relatively common between ring debris, while they are very rare in circumstellar discs. 

At 87 degrees south latitude on the prime meridian (0 degrees east longitude), the moon set at 0121 UTC on Nov 22 2012, and didn't rise again until 2356 on Dec 6 2012, for a total moonless period of 14 days, 22 hours, and 35 minutes. See caveats below. You can "verify" this calculation by visiting $URL$ and entering these parameters: 

I read this as "Benenaim" (another name for Alkaid) too (not Etamin, which is another name for Gamma Draconis), and that star does indeed transit the meridian near midnight on April 4th (12:44am to be more precise). Note that the hour angle is 0 in the Stellarium screenshot below, and the star is only 35 minutes from the zenith position: 

Many years ago (early 80s or late 70s), I bought a cardboard "device" which I think was called "Planet Timer" and I think was sold by Edmund Scientific. Does anyone have any information on this device? Google was unhelpful. The device had concentric revolving circles around a fixed Sun at the center. By revolving the circles to the current time (via tables provided with the device), you could presumably see what constellation each planet was in. You could also use it to approximate planetary conjunctions. The circles were equal distance from each other, so I'm pretty sure the device couldn't actually have worked, but I'm curious to see if I can find out more about it. Note: this is not a "planisphere" device, which did work, and for which I can still find plenty of information. 

First, we have to clarify what the Big Bang was. The name is a misnomer, as it was neither loud nor an explosion. All we know is that the Universe is currently expanding — that is, space is literally being created between all matter. We have plenty of answers here explaining this more intuitively, such as mine (which also answers your question about its implications on special relativity). Anyway, if we were to look further back in time, we'd expect there to be less and less space between matter. Our equations tell us that at 13.8 billion years in the past, the amount of space in the Universe should have been zero. This is a problem. In general relativity, you can't have a metric with zero space. Thus, we know general relativity is incomplete. It cannot explain what happened at the moment of the Big Bang. 

I think you misunderstanding an important concept. There are a finite number of atoms in the observable universe — that is, the part we can see (notice the lower case "u"). When people say "the universe", they can often refer to the observable universe. Sloppy, I know. The whole Universe (notice the capital "u" here) may be infinite. Also, don't know where you got the idea that the Universe has an infinite number of dimensions. 

@Dario_Panarello I think what you're saying is correct for a non-rotating geocentric observer, but the earth's radius is fairly large compared to the orbit, so I don't think the geocentric approximation works well. I don't have an answer, but I think the solution looks something like this: 

You'll notice the local sidereal time jumps from being 0.82 seconds behind the sun's right ascension to 0.18 seconds ahead of the sun's right ascension in the one second period (showing the two matched sometime within that second, probably at 00:00:00.82 or so). However, the Sun's highest position (noted by HORIZONS as 't' for transit) occurs a little later: 

This suggests NASA isn't confident enough of Mercury/Venus (and Earth/Sun) positions to predict that far in the past or future, so my results may be fairly inaccurate. 

What resources are available to find the positions of planets, stars, moons, artifical satellites, asteroids, and other heavenly bodies? 

We'll now find Mercury's position at all of these perihelions so you can see how the perihelion position changes. To find Mercury's position at these times, first click on "State Vector", which will take you to a form. Fill out the top half of the form as follows: 

If I understand it correctly, the apparent horizon is the boundary between where light directed outwards will move outwards, and light directed outwards will move inwards. Even if light is moving away from the black hole outside of the apparent horizon, it will not escape to infinity if it is within the event horizon. The event horizon is essentially the apparent horizon in the future, if the apparent horizon continues growing. Theoretically, the two horizons should eventually meet up...again, if I understand it correctly. My confusion is with how the two form. According to Wikipedia, 

General relativity predicted that our universe was dynamic a decade before the first observations of redshift confirmed it. A static universe is a physical impossibility; anything, from the tiniest thermal fluctuations, would send it perpetually collapsing or expanding. 

Why is that? There are some objects in the gap, but why are most of the Oort cloud objects in one area? Shouldn't it also fill the large gap in the picture just as much? 

This describes how the observable universe will evolve. The Hubble sphere defines the area in which objects are receding from us at or below the speed of light. Beyond this, objects are far enough to recede from us faster than light. The light cone is the region of the Universe capable of influencing us today. Essentially, it is the observable universe, and its boundary is clearly marked. It is, as you mentioned, growing at the speed of light. The light cone does not contain the entire Hubble sphere, since photons from many objects receding faster than light cannot reach us yet. Conversely, the Hubble sphere doesn't contain the entire light cone. This is because photons emitted by objects outside of the Hubble sphere can crawl into regions of space that are receding from us a bit slower than the one from which they were emitted. They can then crawl into regions that expand slower than the last one, and so on. Eventually, the photons will reach regions of space that aren't expanding faster than light, and they can reach us. Now, there is a distance beyond which space expands faster than the light can traverse it. This distance is called the cosmic event horizon. Light from beyond the event horizon will never reach us. Our observable universe grows because more photons come into our view. However, the observable universe will infinitely approach the event horizon, since light from beyond there can never reach us. Thus, after an incomprehensibly long time, the observable universe would stop growing. At this point, it may finally be possible to travel through space beyond the observable universe. 

$m v_b+M v_t=50 M-30 m$ $\frac{m v_b^2}{2}+\frac{M v_t^2}{2}=450 m+1250 M$ There are only two solutions to the equation above, one of which is the initial conditions. The other is: $ \left\{{v_b}\to -\frac{10 (3 m-13 M)}{m+M},{v_t}\to -\frac{10 (11 m-5 M)}{m+M}\right\} $ Plugging in 0.0585 kg for the mass of a tennis ball and 640000 kg for the train, this becomes: $\{{v_b}\to 129.9999854,{v_t}\to 49.99998538\}$ effectively confirming the calculation. I'm not convinced this is a good analogy, however. Gravitational boost occurs when a planet's gravity almost captures a spacecraft, thus nearly making it a satellite, and giving it the same revolution velocity around the Sun as the planet itself. The wikipedia analogy bears only a passing resemblance to this. 

which suggests the calculation is being done in arcminutes, not degrees. Unfortunately, this doesn't help, since the result is 76.5283 arcminutes, which is nowhere near 2 degrees 19 minutes 28 seconds (which is 139.467 arcminutes). 134*sin(0:32) may refer to 32 seconds of arc, and the result is 0.02 which is 1 minute or arc (0:01). Terrible use of notation here if that actually is the case. 

Indeed, the problem stems from the ambiguity when one says "universe". In this case, they're referring to the observable universe, which is actually spherical. The observable universe was indeed much smaller near the time of the Big Bang, compared to its radius now. This is because its radius actually depends on our Universe's scale factor*, which means that at the moment GR predicts the scale factor to be zero, it also predicts the size of the observable universe to be zero. Obviously that can't be the case, since as we've explained above, it shouldn't be possible for the scale factor to be zero. However, we can say with reasonable confidence that the observable universe was likely the size of a grapefruit at one point, if not smaller (although "grapefruit" seems an arbitrary choice for comparison. I can't actually find the paper that first uses this analogy, so what they originally meant is a bit unclear). *Measuring distances is actually a bit tricky in cosmology; in some cases, we want to talk about distances or motion of objects while neglecting the Universe's expansion. To save you the need to learn a lot of terminology, I'm right now taking into account the expansion of the Universe when talking about the observable universe's size. The observable universe also grows due to factors besides the Universe's expansion, i.e. light from further and further galaxies reaching us. 

This shows the Sun crosses the equinox point between the 8th and 9th second of 14:21 (which is 10:21 your local time). HORIZONS will even let you compute at half second intervals but not beyond that. If you use the $URL$ library, you can compute the time down to the nanosecond or better, but this doesn't really help because we don't know the Sun's position, the Earth's position, or even the direction the North Pole is pointing to that level of precision. So, not an answer, but some hopefully helpful comments. 

I wrote $URL$ to solve this with the full results at: $URL$ As viewed from RigelKentaurusB, the Sun has magnitude 0.48, and is the 10th brightest star in the sky. This is the only star system with known exoplanets where the Sun even makes the top 10. From EpsilonEridani, the sun shines at magnitude 2.37, making it the 79th brightest star in their sky. Things go rapidly downhill from there: 

Stars do not change their right ascension or declination values as the Earth turns. The position of the stars in the night sky (called azimuth and elevation) will change, but that's because the lines of right ascension also move. However, right ascension and declination do not uniquely define an object. Over time, stars move with respect to the sun (called "proper motion"), and the direction of the Earth's north pole (currently pointing near Polaris, the North Star) also changes (called "precession"). 

This is a basic question, but I may as well ask it. I had always thought that the core of a main-sequence star is defined as the part hot enough for nuclear fusion. Some dictionaries seem to agree with this. However, many books say that protostars and pre-main-sequence stars also have cores, though they are not undergoing hydrogen fusion. So what exactly is the definition of a stellar core? If it doesn't necessarily have to be hot enough for fusion, what separates it from the rest of the star? 

Absolute magnitude can refer to either the absolute visual magnitude (which is measured by visible light) or the absolute bolometric magnitude (which is measured by light of all wavelengths). You're thinking of visual absolute magnitude; how bright an object would appear to our eyes if the object were 10 parsecs away from us. However, you must remember that stars emit a wide spectrum of light — much of it isn't visible to the naked eye. Luminosity is a measure of the total amount of energy given off by a star (usually as light) in a certain amount of time. Thus, luminosity includes both visible light and invisible light emitted by a star. Because luminosity measures all emitted light, while absolute visual magnitude measures visible emitted light, we can't accurately relate them. We can, however, use a different measurement for absolute magnitude: absolute bolometric magnitude. This takes into account the entire spectrum of light emitted by the star, and measures the amount of energy emitted by the star, rather than its intrinsic brightness from a human's perspective. Keep in mind that ABM numbers shouldn't be compared to AVM numbers. The formula relating absolute bolometric magnitude with luminosity is as follows: $$L_\text{star} = L_0 10^{-0.4 M_\text{Bol}}$$ where $L_\text{star}$ is the star's luminosity, $M_{\text{Bol}}$ is the bolometric magnitude of the star, and $L_{0}$ is the zero-point luminosity (the luminosity of a star with $M_{\text{Bol}} = 0$). The zero-point luminosity is $3.0128×10^{28}$ watts. According to the IAU, this value was set so that the Sun's luminosity ($3.828 × 10^{26}$ watts) corresponds closely to absolute bolometric magnitude of 4.74, which is an arbitrary value that's commonly used in modern literature.