You cannot assume he knows you have no work to do. You cannot assume that there isn't work he could assign you if he knew. I have rarely worked anywhere where there wasn't some work that we could never get to due to time pressures. Now before you go tell him, think for a few minutes about what are some projects that could help the office out (and perhaps give you a chance to shine or play with some new technologies). Things that aren't client-driven. Then go to him and propose to do one of them during the slack period if he has no other work to assign you. And these things don't have to be software projects, they might be preparing a training session on one of the new things you have learned, setting up an onboarding system for new employees, cleaning up and restructuring a source control system that has gotten out of hand, updating documentation. It is almost always better to go to the boss with a plan for what to do in the slack period than just to go tell him you have no work. Even if he has other work for you and didn't realize you were free, he will appreciate that you are thinking of productive things to do rather than just slacking off. 

You know in the past I have had the most success by simply finding out the process to buy new equipment or furniture and filling out the form and handing it to my manager. A good part of the time, we think something will be harder than it is. The reason you have bad furniture may be as simple as no one has requested better furniture. Now timing is everything of course, you don't do this when they have just announced a layoff or a bad quarter finacially. But really most managers don't want to have to do the research to determine what kind of chair and where to get it and don't want to have to spend time filling out the paperwork. If you do all that before you make the request, you make it much easier for him to say yes, if he has the budget. All he has to do is sign the request. If he doesn't have the budget this year, you can ask if he can get some budget for it next year. That's why the last quiarter of the year is often a good time to make the request - there may be unspent budget they want to spend it so they don't lose it next year or they can find a way to finance the equipment in next year's budget before it is all spent. 

Usually when HR goes cold like this, it means they have made a decision and are not wasting time on candidates they have rejected. However that usually does not involve not showing up for a scheduled interview without cancelling it. What may have happened is that someone had a family emergency and forgot to cancel. It may be the tone of your contact concerning the cancellation that caused them not to respond to you further or they may just be busy with higher priorities than that particular job. Sometimes it means that the person who was handling it has left the company and no one else is even seeing your emails. Things get dropped through the cracks sometimes in large corporations. Sometimes they stop all hiring for budget reasons or because of upcoming problems such as a layoff in the planning stage. Yes, they should have contacted you to tell you the interview was cancelled, but as I said, sometimes things get dropped through the cracks. Assuming an honest mistake is always more productive than getting mad. In any event, you have contacted them as you should have done, but no one can force an answer. If you have a second contact name, I would try that but make sure your tone is not negative. You are perplexed at what has happened and perhaps the email got mislaid, not mad at the whole thing. Attitude in an email like this is critical. Since you have another job offer, I personally would just move on. 

That doesn't sound like bullying to me. Certainly someone who this happens to should not be considered a victim. Maybe he should just remember to bring a notebook to future meetings as it seems a valid criticism. Not all criticisms are bullying. In the workplace, there is no time to coddle people. The "victim" needs to get a thicker skin. The victim also should try to produce less stuff ofor him to criticize. If the person this was directed to was not you, you can usually let them handle it. That person may not have felt bothered. And if they did, working people are adults, they need to be able to handle such things on their own. Kate's advice is good. If you feel as if it went over the line and has happened repeatedly (and I personally would set the line a lot farther out than this), then just speak up at the time it happens and say, "That's out of line, Joe. You need to apologize to Sam for that statement." But really only do this for something truly nasty that clearly made everyone uncomfortable from their body language. Otherwise, you look like the jerk. If the guy goes over the line repeatedly even after being asked to stop, the team's manager needs to have a chat with him about his behavior. If his behavior is making you feel uncomfortable, you need to then discuss it with your manager. 

The only time to disagree with your manager is before the decision has been made. Even then it is providing a professional opinion not a disagreement. If you don't like the decision after it has been made, that's tough but it is your obligation as an employee to try to the best of your ability to implement it nonetheless. There are many factors besides technical that go into management decisions and you are not privy to all of them. The manager is paid to make the decision and is the one responsible for the ultimate outcome. There are very few occasions when a manager makes a decision that makes 100% of all subordinates happy. Also do not ever disagree publicly with your manager after a decision has been made especially if there are clients or other outsiders present. 

Generally, in most workplaces where I have worked, if a person is working completely through lunch (When the other attendees are not or lunch would be provided), the other meeting attendees will be understanding if you eat your lunch, but only if you explain that you have had back to back meetings and ask if it is ok. I have seen a lot of people do this through the years and have never seen a group say no. If you don't mention it and just pull put your lunch and start eating, that would often be considered rude. It is also a good thing to ask if you have to eat your lunch during a conference call. In general though, I do not accept meetings that are during my lunch hour, I suggest a different time unless the issue for the meeting is quite critical. If you block off lunch as a meeting on your calendar, you will get far fewer meeting requests at that time. 

You are the main part of the problem here. No you should not think that they will magically get back to you if you are managing a project. You have trained them that they don't need to by forgetting about it. You need to to keep a list of who is assigned to what and what the due dates are. Then you need to check on progress daily. There is a reason why Scrum calls for a daily stand-up and this is it. It brings out who is making progress and who is not. It brings out roadblocks. You get what you expect and you, frankly, are expecting nothing as far as your team is concerned. If you aren't going to be concerned about the deadline, neither will the team.