@Dhammadhatu, I can't comment at your answer. What I know is Everyone here keeping rebirth cause from kammas. Kammas effect you not even rich, poor, high, low, killed or raped. But it's also cause you big/little sadness, fearness, happiness everything you found today is from your kammas. Suppose someone bully you that's because your old kammas, But if you revenge at him, fight him or shoot him. This action will cause you a new bad kammas. You have to take it maybe this or further birth. This is why you have to keep meditate to control your spawn of new kammas. If your bad kammas are very big or accumulated it may cause you to hell instead. If you want to know your kammas. Practice until you reach 4th Jhanas, Then practice a little more about divine eyes. P.S. "Do good may get bad". Yeah It's right because It's bad from your old kamma. "Giving make people love." Yeah It's common senses. But incomparable with series of kammas. Giving help you to get rich rebirth. It'll help when you are cornered (If others kamma not taking on you). Giving also one of kamma path to Nirvana because you practice to reduce your grediness. 

This person had long way to complete all the paramis to become Buddha. Not a single life, not 100 lives, not 1000,000 lives but uncountable lives he strived for being Buddha. 

For everyday mindfulness, you need to focus on your movement (physical) and your thoughts, the ability to know (mental). For the example you mentioned, you need to focus on washing dishes in every details states (as much details as you can). Below is some details you can watch and know yourself you are doing (not limited to this level of details, if you can do concentration on much more details). 

solidity - the state of being solid with hardness and softness. Heat - the state of getting heat with hot and cold both identified as heat. Force - the state of pushing and pulling, or state of supporting and pushing Liquidity - the state of coagulating and flow or dripping 

did mention Buddha stayed more than four(4) weeks probably made the best timing for five foremost monks for first discourse. If found about this more details in any sutta, I'll update here. 

Yes. Most Mahayana schools posit the one final vehicle (ekayana) and posit that everyone, in time, will become a fully enlightened buddha. As to the so-called Hinayana arhat, it is said that he has to enter the Mahayana path from the path of accumulation and go all the way to the path of no-more-learning, buddhahood. He has to go through the Mahayana path of accumulation, preparation, seeing, meditation. According to Mahayana tenets, by way of generating bodhicitta, one enters the Mahayana path, whether one is established in Parinibbana (because the continuum is not severed), or abiding in nirvana with remainder, or an ordinary being. Geshe Jamphel Gyaltsen's commentary on Shantideva's Bodhisattvacharyavatara says: 

There is karma that is intention (an omnipresent mental factor) and karma that is intended actions. Intended actions are defined by Je Tsongkhapa as: 

It is a sentence that is repeated throughout the MN. The Acchariya-abbhuta Sutta (123. Wonderful and Marvellous) also says: 

Prasangika say, on the other hand: (1) there is no such thing as conventional analysis (2) inherent existence is utterly non-existent even if its absence is found only by a mind of ultimate analysis, because inherent existence and its emptiness are opposites. It is important to understand what conventional valid cognition and ultimate valid cognitions are to understand what their respective objects are. In the introduction to Mipham's commentary to Shantarakshita, it says: 

From DN Book 3 8:265, Buddha said 25% is to be consumed, 50% is to be in investment/trading, 25% is to be in keep for retirement or emergency safe. This does not include donation reserve to answer your question but by doing justified modification of above dividing, 20% should go to donation if we have to calculate proportionally. 

The question is asking about Bodhicitta (Mahāyāna Buddhism), Confirmed Candidate of Future Buddha (Theravada). I would like to explain Striving to attain the Nirvana with an example flying with airplane. If you offered more money, you can get more luxurious class or seat. 

Clinging to rites and rituals It is mis-belief in something miracle and shortcut. It is mis-belief in worshipping the creator or god can bring the worshipper's liberation/salvation. It is something one is throwing away own efforts and nurturing own knowledge and wisdom. It is just mis-belief in some powerful beings (god) or some powerful things (fire [in some india place people worship to fire]) that ultimate liberation/bliss can be offered/transferred from it. It is mis-belief that the manners, habits and practice of dog or cow(bull) can cleanse one's impurities in mind. Noble Eightfold Path Noble Eightfold Path is one needs to practice oneself. The practitioner of Noble Eightfold Path never expects the salvation from anyone/anything. The very first of the Noble Eightfold Path, Right View already gets rid of the idea of "Clinging to rites and rituals" and so the two path clearly opposite to each other. Vinaya Vinaya is set of rules to monks. The tipitaka indicates that it is purely from Buddha's authoritative order (there is no one who defined Vinaya and only Buddha did). The purpose of Vinaya is clearly stated by Buddha in Vinaya pitaka as follow: 

Now, while Madhyamika posit that apprehended object and apprehending consciousness are different substances, Cittamatra assert that apprehended object and apprehending consciousness are the same substance. According to Cittamatra tenets, the apprehended object and the apprehending consciousness both arise simultaneously from a seed that lies in the mind-basis-of-all (alaya vijnana). The mind-basis-of-all being a type of consciousness (the 8th) that is neutral and acts as a repository, and is the object-possessor of the seeds that are "deposited" in it. Even from this perspective, there isn't anything like a notion of "oneness" similar to that of some Hindu systems. Especially, even in the case where phenomena are not established externally (to consciousness), persons are different from each other and do not emanate from a common ground. As to Buddha Nature, without going in the details, Karl Brunnholzl gives a decent list of what it is taken to be in different scriptures. It is in 'When the Clouds Part: The Uttaratantra and Its Meditative Tradition as a Bridge between Sutra and Tantra'. 

Because the question is supposed to "point directly at your mind" like the finger pointing at the moon. The answer could not do better. In fact, you learn more from trying to solve an apparent contradiction. If anything, you learn at least that you are frustrated over not getting it. What matters most is not the object (a koan, a hua tou) but how you hold it in mind, what it does to your mind, how you try to make sense of it, etc. The funny thing is that we are so habituated to run after external objects and dive into them that it is difficult to look inward. A proof is that we are more concerned with the object (the koan) than we are with our mind. We forget to pay attention to what our experience tells us, not of the object we experience, but our mind that experiences. Because of this, we know little of the mind, including our own. It is easy to recognize a tree when we see one; it is way more difficult to recognize attachment, anger, belligerence, spite, etc. when they arise in our continuum because we seldom look inward, we are not familiarized with it. As far I understand, the point with Hua tou and Koan is rather to stay with it and learn from how you relate to it. For instance, why is it that contradictions make you unsettled? How do you relate to frustration? Does frustration even arise when you try to solve a case? What makes you think it has to be solved? How do you try to make sense of things? In Vipassana, some do what they call "meditation with an anchor" (the anchor often being the breath). Here, it is quiet similar. You learn a great deal by trying to stay with an object such as a Hua Tou. You learn why it is difficult to stay with it, why you lose it over and over again, etc. So it is not the answer that matter much. Kazuaki Tanahashi 's introduction to Dogen's Shobogenzo is quiet informative and very enjoyable. But then, I am not that qualified when it comes to anything different from Tibetan Buddhism. 

There are many more; colors, four elements, and 10 anusati including Marananusati. All are for people with different hobbies, attitudes and inclinations. I hope you could find your most suitable techniques of meditation by consulting a good teacher in meditation center and make progress in meditation. 

From this teachings, you can depict not doing any bad deed (Akusala/Parpa) is not necessarily you are doing good deed (Kusala). For example, when we are talking about five precepts, 

Gautama Buddha did not include Six bases in Maha Nidama Sutta because Venerable Ananda was already Sotapanna person and he had no self view on all six bases. And Gautama Buddha did not totally exclude six bases in this Sutta. When Gautama Buddha explained Phasa section, it said 

I would like to follow the practices, rules, dos and don'ts said by Buddha or Buddha's teachings or from Sanga or from a Buddhist monk. The goal I like to achieve is to live longer and heathy (practically live much more longer than current generation like 100 years, 90-100 years). Is it possible instance that I can achieve if I am passing my teenage years? Or If I am not, is it possible for age of child or new born baby by applying teachings, guidance, practices and care by Buddhism, he/she can live longer and healthy for the rest of his/her life? Can you point me out any reference about living longer and healthier from Buddhism teachings, book of monk, audio/video recording, web link or Suttas? 

In the Majjhima Nikaya, there are mentions of Bodhisattvas. For instance, Bhayabherava Sutta (4. Fear and Dread) says: 

We also have a longer (clearly Mahayana) version. It is the one we recite every day before the communal lunch: Om Ah Hum (3x) Compassionate Lord, All-knowing Guide, Field of merit and ocean of qualities, Tathagata, to you I pay homage. Through purity free of attachment, Through virtue free of the lower realms, Uniquely ultimate supreme, Peaceful Dharma, to you I pay homage. Showing the path which frees those seeking freedom, Well established in the trainings, Pure among fields possessing qualities: To the Sangha, I also pay homage. To the principal Buddha homage. The Dharma, which protects homage. To the Sangha assembly homage. Homage to the three always. The qualities of Buddha are inconceivable. The qualities of the Dharma are inconceivable. The Arya Sangha are inconceivable. Through generating faith in the inconceivable, The karmic ripening result will also be inconceivable: May we be born in the pure realm. To the precious Buddha, peerless guide, To the precious Dharma, peerless refuge, To the precious Sangha, peerless liberators: We offer to the three jewels of refuge. This food with a hundred of flavours, Which is mouth-watering and well made, To the Conqueror and his children we offer with faith. By this, may all migrators become wealthy, And enjoy the food of concentration. Seeing this food as medicine, We eat it without attachment or hatred, Not to have an enviable body, not out of pride, Not to look strong, only to sustain the body. Through the connection of making charity To the sentient beings living in my body, May they become human beings and I will reveal to them the Dharma and lead them to enlightenment. For this purpose I am going to enjoy this food. 

Nose tips or everywhere else is ok. But when you found an obvoius point to observe. Use that single point your entire life, focus on that, And don't try to move to everywhere. We do sammadi to make Janas. Janas means become firmillar. When you become firmillar with that point, Your mind will automatically observe that point without thinking of it or taking any effort. 

No buddhism didn't teach it. But by the path it self are conserve enough. Industries happen by greediness of people. If you look carefully you'll see it's the starting point of every environmental problems. 

My rep not enough for comment, So this is not an good answer because I've no reference for you. Everything that have soul are the same. Animals, people, human, monk, angel etc. However, The basic precept for every human to close the hell was 5 percepts because these percept make you not exploit other's and your's life. But for monk there where 227 percepts, This make lay buddhist and others can worship them. Monk are so much much bigger chance to go to hell. But also much bigger merit for him if he was good. 

If breath is your object of concentration, drawn you awareness to the manifold features of your breath (its warmth, its arising as one, its falling as another, its trajectory, and so forth) so as to (1) stimulate the mind (2) familiarize with your object and make it clearer to you. This exercise is called “expanding the object”. The Compendium of the Perfections states: 

Although the Svatantrika definitions differ, these two help understand the issue at hand. The definition mentions what consciousness has one or the other truth as its object: in one case, "a mind distinguishing conventionalities", in the other "a mind distinguishing the ultimate." It is important to understand what a conventional valid cognizer and an ultimate valid cognizer are, because they apprehend different objects. A conventional valid cognizer apprehends conventional truths while the mind analyzing the ultimate apprehends ultimate truth, the lack of inherent existence. Nihilist think that, since a mind analyzing the ultimate does not find conventionalities (i.e. all it finds is the absence of inherent existence, emptiness) then conventionalities are utterly non-existent. This is the reason why Khedrup Je reminds us: not seeing sounds does not refute the existence of sounds... in the same way, not finding conventional truths with a mind of ultimate analysis does not refute the existence conventional truths. It is not because an Arya in meditative equipoise on emptiness does so in a non-dualistic manner, not apprehending any conventionality, that conventionalities are refuted. Conventional truths and ultimate truths are just the objects of two distinct cognizers, just like smells and sounds are the objects of two distinct consciousnesses. Both Svatantrika and Prasangika assert that ultimate truth - the absence of inherent existence - is not found by any conventional valid cognizer: it is found only by the pristine wisdom realizing emptiness. This wisdom is a mind that we also call "mind distinguishing the ultimate", "mind of ultimate analysis", "mind analyzing the ultimate." Svatantrika posit that phenomena are empty of inherent existence ultimately because the mind of ultimate analysis apprehends the lack of inherent existence, but they are not empty of inherent existence conventionally because such emptiness is not found by any conventional valid cognizer. Khedrup Je says: 

The answer should be - In Buddha's teachings there are only Sankhara Dhamma are occurring. There is none can be given to possess/control to be taken ownership. There is nothing a single person can possess (can tell this is mine, I am controlling it, I am taking it with me indefinitely, I have power to control/manage how it behaves...). 

I like to suggest the book Models of Brain and Mind: Physical, Computational and Psychological Approaches page 249 and onwards. There you can find Awareness of sensation, mind or consciousness, mental contents. The four domains of Satipatthana The awareness flow in Vipassana For a practitioner of Satipatthana, one should have prerequisites before doing any Satipatthana, then one should sit in quiet place and do practices of Awareness of body (Breath or Kaya Cinkhara). After enough of practicing Awareness of body, the practitioner can have strong concentration to continue Awareness of mind or consciousness(Citta Cinkhara). This is recommended practice because Breath is comparatively slower in sequence than mind or consciousness. Any practitioner without properly trained Satipatthana of Awareness of body cannot practice Awareness of mind. Awareness of flow is process in Awareness of mind or consciousness. The essential part of awareness of flow is the practitioner must not stimulate or initiate any feeling or thought. It is crucial the awareness (Sati) must be quick enough to catch up when there is any change of the state of mind/consciousness. Train of thought, feeling or sensation is not allowed to happen because it is required the effort or attempt to make this happen. At least, when feeling or sensation is happened awareness is quickly followed and the feeling or sensation is ceased to continue to be mature to train of thoughts. By mastering this technique, awareness of flow is obvious in practitioner's mind. Any state of change of mind can come and go and awareness is always in between of the flow. The result is mind is clear and free from craving, anger and other hindrances that make one's mind to pollute. The above explanation is very succinct note and details studies of Satipatthana is required to practice it in real world and it'd better join long retreat to Vipassana meditation center to seek correct guidance to do so. The below references are recommended details of Satipatthana and you are free to adopt any practice preferred or comfortable for you. References 

Thus, the question is: Do Cittamatra / Yogacara explicitly refute the existence of an external world? Or do they simply "not admit, not take into acount" the existence of an external world? References are welcome. 

It is most honorable to do whatever you can so that people who take what you give take it smoothly. However, what you can do in this area is limited. To paraphrase Lama Tsongkhapa, if he who receives what you give is like a vessel turned upside down (not open to listen, to receive) nothing will enter; If he is like a leaking vessel (forgetful, not paying attention), whatever will enter will not remain; If he is like a dirty vessel (having a faulty motivation) the pure nectar you will pour in by way of teaching the Dharma will turn to mud. However, there are things you can do to make sure people listen to you with an open mind. For instance, one is likely to be open if you are an example. If a beggar was to tell me the same thing my teacher tells me, it would not sink in in the same way because I would not be as open as I am in relation to my teacher. This is because I have more respect to my teacher, I trust him and I trust his words, his guidance, his intentions. Therefore, that your reader trust you is important. If he does not trust you, his ears will be closed. And in order to be trusted, you have to be trustworthy, you have to be exemplar, for instance in showing respect for others and other traditions. Maybe you can include Links to websites of other traditions on your blog, as a sign of openness, and interest from your part. Moreover, I noticed that in the West, many people prefer being told that "it is a method, it is a practice, it is a path among many others, and it works in this and that way" as opposed to "it is the truth". We like being right, we hate being wrong, we dislike being proven wrong. So, if you emphasize (1) the practical aspects and (2) contexts, that might help not dwelling to much on the 'right or wrong' type of approach. Finally, I visited my teacher recently. I also, tend to be a bit corrosive with regard certain topics and debating with him showed me that it was due to my own pride, my own arrogance. It's always the "I know, others do not" tendency, or the "How could anyone even think in this or that way?" tendency that tends to take over. If you reduce your pride, you will naturally be smoother and more respectful.