The idea of an "earthquake storm" has been around at least since 1970. Ambraseys (1970) describe multiple "earthquake sequences" lasting around 40-50 years with "quiet periods of more than a century in a nearby fault system (the Anatolian fault zone). In a study preceding the Nur & Cline work, Nur (1998) provided a possible explanation to connect earthquake damage with civilization collapse: 

Climate change has the potential to increase flooding by hurricane intensification (magnitude and intensity) and by sea level rise. Many communities around the world are already exposed to coastal flooding from tropical cyclones. How much will the changes associated with climate change enhanced coastal flooding? I know this is largely region specific, but I would like to know of studies that quantify these effects. 

$M$ is the forward model you are using. It is the dynamical model used to solve whatever discrete equation evolves the field ($d?/dt=$). The best way to start with data assimilation and understand its nomenclature is to read Ide et al. (1997). In their work, they explain it as: 

My personal best is the Emery & Thomson "Data Analysis in Physical Oceanography". You can find some used versions of the previous editions for a much cheaper price. If you are able to manage the methods described in that book, you will be in good shape. The only one of your requirements it doesn't do is the coding part. If I had to choose one book, I would definitely buy this one and then search for code elsewhere. If you want a book that provides some code and explains some of the analysis, you could try the Malek-Madani "Physical Oceanography: A Mathematical Introduction with Matlab". It is theoretical rather than focus on data analysis. A relatively cheap book with some useful codes, not specific to Oceanography is Middleton "Data Analysis in the Earth Sciences using Matlab". Some of it might be slightly outdated, but still useful. 

Once again I don't have a specific answer, but I can offer a good guess: Most of it. After all, native forests will continue to shrink, while tree farms will continue to multiply. Sorry to be so negative. I actually believe there is hope, but things aren't going to change without a massive change agent. 

What do you mean by "datasets"? Are you simply asking about the sources of research/information regarding polar ice? I worked on a bowhead whale study in the Arctic Ocean for a couple seasons. One of the guys running the project was a retired U.S. naval officer. I remember him commenting on the research done by Germans - WWII era Germans, to be precise. As near as I can recall, he suggested that the Nazis were responsible for the bulk of the early knowledge. Then again, he may have been referring more to underwater acoustics than to the actual ice conditions. Native peoples have long had extensive knowledge of polar ice conditions, of course. There was a guy who was born in Greenland but educated in Denmark who became one of the most famous explorers. I believe he wrote a book(s) that was considered he Bible of all things Arctic. I think the person I'm thinking of is Knud Rasmussen, though I haven't actually read his book and can't remember the title offhand. But I suspect you could find a lot of general information about polar ice there. EDIT: Sorry, wrong guy (though his works might still be worth examining). I was thinking of Vilhjalmur Stefansson's book "The Friendly Arctic." I believe it was long considered the Bible of everything Arctic. 

Lets consider as a first cut the two tide producing forces associated with just the Moon and Earth systems. The two are the centrifugal force of Earth from the center of mass of the Moon-Earth system and the gravitational attraction due to the Moon. For the point closest to the Moon: $$ Force = \frac {GM_1M_2}{(R-r)^2} - \frac{GM_1M_2}{R^2} $$ where R is the distance between Earth and Moon and r is Earth's radius. It gets a bit more complex for other points on the surface because instead of R you have to use $$R\pm r cos(lat) $$ for the gravitational force. Ultimately, it comes down to a set of horizontal forces that tend to concentrate water in two theoretical points: one, the closest to the Moon and two, the farthest from the Moon. An equilibrium state would be reached, called equilibrium tide, that results in an ellipsoid with its two bulges directed toward and away from the Moon. In practice, this equilibrium ellipsoid does not develop because of the rotation of Earth, the Coriolis acceleration and the fact that the tidal wave feels the ocean bottom and it is subject to friction. Going beyond the equilibrium theory of the tide, the dynamic theory of tides (developed by Euler, Laplace and Bernoulli) includes all these concepts (friction, inertia, Coriolis, land masses,...) and provides a better approximation to the observed tides. My recommendation to understand tidal constituents is to use some decent tidal harmonic analysis package like t_tide for Matlab, which is likely to be the tool that NOAA is using to generate their harmonic constituents in the first place. If you really want to get into the details, then the best option is to go to the still likely best source available. That will the 1973 book "The Analysis of Tides" by G. Godin. Pawlowicz, R., B. Beardsley, and S. Lentz, "Classical Tidal Harmonic Analysis Including Error Estimates in MATLAB using t_tide", Computers and Geosciences, 28, 929-937 (2002). Godin, G. (1973). The analysis of tides., by Godin, G.. Liverpool (UK): Liverpool University Press, 264 p. 

Again, that's very hard to answer. Forest destruction is an ongoing process around the world. Forests in the most remote regions are typically the safest, but they will become more vulnerable as surrounding forests are felled, new roads are built, more people move into these remote areas, etc. Another factor to consider is war, or political corruption in general. So many governments have been destabilized (primarily by the U.S.), and so many governments are grappling with economic woes or fears of invasion. Not surprisingly, they're going to emphasize security and survival over the environment. Of course, war itself can take a toll. Consider Vietnam, where the U.S. used Agent Orange indiscriminately. I believe the Soviets similarly wiped out much of Afghanistan's montane forests. 

I doubt that could be answered with anything better than a rough guesstimate. We would first need to know how much land is OFFICIALLY/LEGALLY protected. Then we would have to subtract acreage to allow for illegal logging or general environmental destruction. There are also areas that aren't legally protected but nevertheless aren't logged simply because they're very remote, the terrain is too rugged, etc. In addition, it's a moving target. Various governments around the world continually modify their environmental management policies and practices. A forest that's protected today might fall prey to a bribe from some giant oil company tomorrow. 

Are you asking how the land area that is devoted to tree plantations compares to the land area covered with wild forests? Again, I don't know the answer, but please note that there are vast differences between plantations and wild forests. Plantations may be preferable to barren earth, but they don't begin to compare to "natural forests" in terms of biodiversity. Tree farms are to Nature what fast food is to cuisine. I fear for Africa more than South America. The Amazon is obviously a cause for concern, but there is some political stability in South America, and there are environmental activists there. In comparison, Africa appears to be lost. How many acres have been converted to genetically modified food? I've read about thousands of traditional African farmers being replaced by GMO, though there isn't much information on the subject. Libya's destruction by NATO was an enormous blow for Africa (and the world). And for whatever it's worth, I believe Colonel Gaddafi was generally regarded as an environmentalist, at least in comparison to other African leaders. There have long been predictions that the next cold war will be fought between the U.S. and China over Africa's natural resources. In fact, the U.S. has troops stationed in just about every country in Africa, and I just read that China is building a military base there. In summary, forest loss is a huge problem in South America, but there is at least some hope. I predict that it will be a much bigger problem in Africa in the long run. 

Hurricanes backtracking and looping seem to be quite common in the Atlantic (Nadine, Jeanne, Alberto, Dennis), and West Pacific (Ernie, Nari, Fung Wong, Parma, Roke) but not so much in the East Pacific (where the tracks are way more linear, with much less latitudinal change). In general, tropical cyclones are steered by the global wind field. The environmental wind field (winds that surround a hurricane) guides a cyclone along its path. Hurricanes are steered predominantly by winds in the upper atmosphere, especially winds from about 3000 to 10000 meters above sea level. High-pressure and low-pressure systems often cause cyclones to divert from their initially east-to-west movement. When a high- or low-pressure system is located to the west and extends far enough latitudinally, storms are blocked and a change in direction may occur. In the case of Tropical Cyclone Nathan, there seems to have been a stationary high over southwestern Australia on 12 March 2015 that connected with another high to the north and prevented the movement of the cyclone. The presence of Tropical Cyclones Olwyn and Pam probably influenced the change in path. . Nathan started to move north as Pam was moving south (13 March) and then went east without that much obstruction (14-15 March). As the high pressure to the south moved east, there was a clear path for Nathan to continue moving west (18-March). 

For a general view of the surge in the region, the maps in u-surge give a pretty good idea of numbers and more affected regions. The USGS provides a comprehensive view of High Water Marks (HWM) in the entire region. If you are looking for observations, then the HWM database gives you the best spatial coverage. While HWM do not provide surge information per se as it includes multiple processes (like ocean surge from the storm, waves and wave run-up, and flooding from rivers and precipitation), it gives an idea of the extreme values of water level in many locations. It also shows the large spatial variability of the effects of the storm. There are also tide gauge and rapid response stations in the area as part of the USGS database that provides more information of the temporal evolution of water levels. Part of the problem is that storm surge is only the result of two processes: 1) wind piling water against the coast and 2) low atmospheric pressure that causes ocean level to go up. Additionally, you have many other processes affecting water levels during a storm or hurricane. The tides are still there as always and that adds complications because if the storm surge peak occurs during high tide, then the impacts are much worse. Tides in the Gulf of Mexico are not that high, but they can be a much larger factors in some other areas. The combination of storm surge and astronomical tides is often label "storm tide", which is a very poor name choice and leads to much confusion, as clearly the storm does not cause a tide. Another impact is that associated with the high winds, you have large wave heights. As these high waves approach the coast, they cause higher water levels as a result of wave run-up and wave setup. The magnitude of these wave effects can be pretty large in some locations especially in ocean-facing locations. The last main impact on water level is precipitation and the resulting increase river discharge. Clearly, Harvey had a catastrophic amount of precipitation and its impacts were much larger than the purely oceanic-driven storm surge in this storm. Many agencies are working on developing a measure of water level that includes all these processes. For instance a good example is the USGS effort to develop Total Water Level measurements and forecast.