Additional sources for interesting information: Disappearing Sparrows:Common Bird Goes Uncommon House sparrow listed as endangered species Citizen Sparrow. This is an interactive site with opportunities to help keep track of sparrows. It has reports of sparrow sightings all over India, with maps and other fun stuff for sparrow-lovers! Sparrows of India 

Hobby and kestrel are among the 60 varieties of birds of prey in the falcon family. Similarities in their body shape and color make it hard to tell them apart, especially without binoculars. I tend to leave mine at home, or lock them in the car, where they do me no good at all once I'm off wandering through the woods!! There is one glaring difference you'd find if you were to travel to an area where both birds were common, which is their eating behavior. Kestrels spend most of their time hovering or resting at roadsides. They generally spot their prey on the ground and stop to eat. Most of the similar looking birds you see hovering are either kestrels or something in the same family. Hobbies, on the other hand, are mostly unable to hover. Constantly on the move, they grab smaller prey, such as dragonflies and other insects, with their open beak. Larger meals, including small birds, are caught in their talons and transferred to their mouth as they fly. Pairs of hobbies can even be seen feeding each other at great heights. Hobbies are found primarily in Europe, Asia and Africa. Unfortunately for people in the United States, including me, they don't tend to live or visit here. However, a small falcon called the American Kestrel is extremely common throughout the North America and parts of South America. It lives year round in many states, and spends warm months in the Northeast, where I live, so I'm putting it on my list for next summer's viewing! 

This has been an especially prolific year for ticks in the northeastern region of the United States. We've had so many in our yard that I've given up gardening and switched to planting in pots! We find them on ourselves frequently after filling our large number of bird feeders and bird baths. I think they're mostly in the tall grasses, wildflowers, other plants, and the regular lawn. I don't think they live in trees, though I'm not sure. Perhaps they're in the lower sections, near the grasses and vines. There are very few deer in this neighborhood, but I know dogs and other animals, like the fox that's been wandering through every once in a while, leave ticks here for our enjoyment! It only recently occurred to me that birds might be affected. We can clean up most of the obvious places where the ticks hide in our yard, but that doesn't mean the birds are safe. Obviously we can't clean up the woods or water sources inhabited by the wild birds. I don't recall hearing that birds are affected by ticks, but I've never studied it either. Do ticks like birds, whether in the yard or in the wild? If so, do they bite them as they do with humans, or do they hang on and use the birds as carriers? 

The dove generally perches in a conspicuous place about five feet up or higher, where he can be easily seen by female doves. The most common spots are tree branches and power lines. If a male finds a perch he likes, he'll return there throughout the season and defend it from other males. From that position, the sound carries a far distance through the open air. There are times when they'll perch lower to the ground, and call out from there. These perches include fence posts and other man-made structures, usually not lower than a few feet off the ground. According to my research, they don't use feeders or the ground for this behavior. Other mating behaviors take place in these areas, but not the perch call. Here are some sites with videos showing good examples of the perch coo in action. Bird on wire, YouTube Lonesome Dove Blog Birdnote.org Bird on fence post, YouTube Bird in tree, YouTube For further information about the birds, including recordings of this and the few other sounds they make, I recommend All About Birds, and Audubon Field Guide. 

There are over 200 species of squirrels broken down into three categories: tree squirrels, ground squirrels, flying squirrels. Since the most common variety is the tree squirrel, that's what I'm discussing here. It's also the kind from the source in Charlie Brumbaugh's answer, Squirrel Refuge. I had lengthy discussions with Wildlife Rehabilitators at Cummings Veterinary Medical Center of Tufts University, Wildlife Clinic, Squirrelmender Wildlife Rehabilitation, Squirrel Lover's Club, and did some online research. From what I learned, the answer to your question is, in almost all cases, no. If a tooth has been completely removed, including the root system, no new tooth will grow in its place. As with other animals, and even people, the heart of the tooth is its root system. A squirrel's two top and two bottom incisor teeth (the pointy ones) never stop growing. The average is up to 6 inches per year. Teeth are needed to break nuts and eat other things, and as they eat, the teeth can grind down. Constant growth keeps the squirrels alive. They can't eat without all of their incisors intact, pointed, of the proper length and functioning together in perfect alignment. Under any other conditions, the squirrel will die of malnutrition. The most common conditions I'm referring to are malocclusion, cleft palate, or a broken jaw. In rare instances, teeth that have been broken off can continue to grow. If it has a full healthy root system, and no other mitigating factors, there are times when growth will continue. Unfortunately, without treatment, the broken tooth doesn't grow back normally. It also doesn't grow back fast enough to keep the squirrel alive. A squirrel on its own with a broken tooth will die in the same way as if a tooth is gone. However, in very rare instances, and with many months of constant treatment by a trained professional, broken teeth can be shaped as they grow. Eventually the squirrel can have the ability to eat on its own. This has pretty much only been proven successful with baby squirrels, especially those with normally shaped mouths that have had a tooth broken due to injury, not disease. A squirrel whose teeth have been compromised in any way must be immediately brought to a wildlife rehabilitor. Squirrels without a tooth will usually be humanely euthanized. If teeth are present, and one is broken, the vets might perform the medical treatments needed to enable it to eat normally again. A squirrel who has had dental repair, even successfully, is never released. It won't survive. Sometimes wildlife centers will keep them and they can have a decent quality of life. There's a place near my house which has a re-habbed squirrel living in a large enclosure designed to match outdoor conditions as closely as possible. He's been there for a few years, and is used to teach people how to appreciate squirrels. No matter what, never ever remove a tooth yourself. If it's a pet squirrel, which is highly discouraged, and in some places illegal, always monitor its teeth. They can be trimmed if healthy. Frequently they get caught in the cage, which causes problems I won't mention in detail. In the yard or wild, if you ever see a squirrel that has a broken or missing tooth; a face that appears deformed; is having difficulty eating; or is much thinner or smaller than normal, take it immediately to a certified Wildlife Rehabilitator. Those can be found by calling your vet for a referral, or in the phone book. Many websites list ways to find a Rehabilitator in your area. I know this answer is more than the question you asked. I just thought it was interesting, so maybe other people will too. For people who love squirrels, The Squirrel Lover's Club has a link to sign a petition against Squirrel Slaughtering. The picture is of a mom cuddling her baby, not of hunters or anything violent. WARNING: The petition page has links to some graphic hunting images. I don't know how bad they are because I didn't look at them!