First, emptiness is not nothingness. Depending on the school of Tenets, emptiness refers to the absence of true existence, or to the absence of inherent existence, or to the absence of self-sufficient substantial existence, or to the absence of external establishment. Second, emptiness cannot be a cause because a cause must preceed its effect, while emptiness and its basis (i.e. the object that is empty) arise, abide, cease simultaneously. Third, emptiness cannot be a cause because emptiness is permanent and permanent phenomena do not perform a function. The only context I know of where we find the expression, "phenomena arise from emptiness" is Tantra. In such a context, emptiness does not refer to emptiness itself, but to the mind realizing emptiness. This mind arises in this or that aspect. 

With respect to the Advaita Vedanta, I assume your question relate to the idea that "All is one, one is all" which expresses non-duality (hence the tag 'nonduality'). From there, I assume you have in mind that the Advaita Vedanta posit this 'oneness' (or one primordial ground of which varieties are a manifestation) as something akin to Buddha Nature. If it is what you have in mind, that is not Buddhist, and it is not what Buddhist have in mind when they speak of Buddha Nature. In addition, the Buddhist conception of non-duality is different. From the Madhyamika perspective, for instance, there are three types of dualistic appearances: 

The virtuous imprint that is left in the mind A non-associated composition factor (like karmic imprints, so it stands to say they are the same in general) A cause of the Form Body [whereas the collection of wisdom results in the Truth Body] 

Gorampa is known for criticizing Tsongkhapa's positions: he goes as far as to say that Tsongkhapa is in fact a proponent of Svatantrika tenets. Thus, studying Tsongkhapa in order to know what Gorampa refutes would be most relevant. In relation to studying Tsongkhapa, I advise you to read Tsongkhapa along with his main disciples: Gyaltsab Je and Khedrup Je. Khedrup Je is usually easier than Gyaltsab Je. Tsongkhapa's commentary to Candrakirti was translated by Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, I will thus not expound on that. Also, from a Geluk perspective, we do not usually study Tsongkhapa's (or any Prasangika commentery to Candrakirti). We study Svatantrika commentaries to Candrakirti's Madhyamakavatara (i.e. Haribhadra, and so forth). Our gateway to the Prasangika system is other. It is Tsongkhapa's commentary to Nagarjuna (the Ocean of Reasoning), it is the Special Insight chapter of the Lam Rim Chen Mo, along with Tsongkhapa's Final Exposition of Wisdom, Gyaltsab Je's commentary to Shantideva (Shantideva also presented as a Prasangika himself). Having studied them, having understood them thoroughly, you could go a step further and read Candrakirti's root text (Madhyamakavatara) for yourself, and also read Gorampa's positions and his followers. In relation to studying Gorompa, you may read Ju Mipham, whose presentations accord with Gorampa's. Ju Mipham's commentary to Chandrakirti's Madhyamakavatara is most relevant. 

Pron.: gakja Wil.: dgag bya Unicode: དགག་བྱ། Usually translated by Jeffrey Hopkins as 'object of negation'. Although the object of negation is twofold: (1) the objective aspect (true existence) and (2) the subjective aspect (ignorance), 'object of negation' usually refers to true existence. 

I do not think it is related to the Dharmadhatu, but simply to the notion that eating meat amounts to eating the flesh of a sentient being that used to be one's mother. If anything, it is related to karma, rebirth and compassion. It is because the seven-fold training to arise the mind of enlightenment - bodhicitta - includes remembering that all sentient beings have been our mother, remembering their kindness, wanting to repay their kindness, generating compassion, etc. Although Mahayana tends to encourage the stoppage of eating meat, several Mahayana practitioners do eat meat in fact. For instance, there is a great practitioner who eats so much meat that, when she approaches our area, we say the cows are crying. Khenpo Sodargye Rinpoche gives his view on vegetarianism. 

An example of natural misdeed is killing. An example of proscribed misdeed is for a monk to eat after mid-day. According to the Lam rim, a natural misdeed is a non-virtue regardless of perception, attitude, affliction, and conclusion. However, a non-virtue can be more or less heavy, depending on (1) perception, (2) attitude, (3) affliction, and (4) conclusion. For instance, Killing unintentionally... or under duress... is not as heavy as killing willingly, intentionally. However, in any case it is a non-virtue. Here, with respect to perception, Je Tsongkhapa says: 

There is no unchanging awareness. When he speaks of "unchanging awareness", Mingyur Rinpoche does not mean that there is an awareness that does not change. He means that all consciousnesses have characteristics in common. The more we understand (Mahayana) Buddhism, the more we are able to understand this and not take things literally. Generally, when Mingyur Rinpoche says that awareness does not change, he refers to the nature of consciousness. He means that consciousness is clear and knowing by nature. Whether we speak of anger, attachment, mindfulness, joy, an eye consciousness apprehending blue or an ear consciousness apprehending a birdsong, we speak of phenomena that (1) are not form (2) are clear and knowing. Even anger has the nature of clarity and the function of knowing. Mingyur Rinpoche is a Kagyu and mainly practices Mahamudra, concentrating and analyzing the conventional and the ultimate nature of the mind. Contemplating the analogy of the mind being like the sky is a way to get at the conventional nature of the mind (clear and knowing) that all instances of consciousness have in common. The idea is not to dive in the object of consciousness, but to find that which characterizes all instances of consciousness and to concentrate on that. It is an object that is always there, at reach, just like the breath, because we are always aware of something. If only we could find what is common to anger, desire, pride, an eye consciousness apprehending shape and color, etc. we would find the conventional nature of the mind. If we look for it and know how to find it, we will. On the other hand, if you were to focus only on, say, anger, then it would be different because there is not always manifest anger arising in your continuum. 

Prasangika claim, however, that the object of negation asserted by Prasangika is not the same as that of the Svatantrika. Asserting that anything exist inherently in any way (as the Svatantrika do) is untenable. Therefore, according to Prasangika, only a proponent of Prasangika tenets is “in possession of the wisdom of the Aryas”. Indeed, we often believe that all Superiors (Aryas) must be Prasangika by tenets. The thing is that Svatantrika posit a conventional analysis while Prasangika do not. Since they posit the entity of conventional valid cognizer differently, what these cognizers apprehend must differ as well. Prasangika argue that no conventionality is an object of analysis, but an object apprehended by a conventional valid cognizer that does not investigate the mode of existence of anything. The introduction to Mipham's commentary to Shantarakshita reads: 

According to Yogacara, buddha nature is a seed in the mind basis of all. According to Madhyamika, buddha nature is the emptiness of the mind of a sentient being. It is not the dharmakaya. Dharmakaya is divided into two (sometimes three): 1. the wisdom truth body, which is the omniscient mind of a buddha, and 2. the nature truth body, which is the emptiness of the mind of a buddha. We also call the nature truth body: 'emptiness [of the mind] without defilements' while buddha nature is 'the emptiness [of a mind with] defilements'. Just like the emptiness of the table is not the same phenomena as the emptiness of the cup, the emptiness of the mind of a sentient being (i.e. a non-buddha) is not the same as the emptiness of the omniscient mind of a buddha. Therefore, we can not say that buddha nature is the dharmakaya or that an arya buddha possesses buddha nature. Moreover, in no traditional text have I seen the dharmakaya qualified as 'transcendent'. 

I encourage you to read the following: Bhikkhu Sujato & Bhikkhu Brahmali. The Authenticity of the Early Buddhist Texts. In this work, their project is to investigate the question of authencity systematically. In that, the approach is quiet academic and might be to your liking. Page 7, they state a feature of the early Buddhist texts: 

In relation to the five aggregates, the consciousness aggregate solely refers to main minds, such as the eye-consciousness, the ear-consciousness, and so forth. This excludes mental factors. Mental factors are consciousnesses but they are not included within the category of consciousness aggregate. Except feelings and perception (or 'discrimination', etc.) mental factors are included in the category of compositional factors. Because perception is a consciousness, it is clear and knowing. It means that it has the capacity of taking the aspect of the object it apprehends, and it knows/apprehends its object. According to Mahayana Abhidharma, perception is one of the five omnipresent mental factors. It means that perception accompanies every single main mind. Here is an example: an eye-consciousness seeing blue takes the aspect of blue, and that aspect is apprehended by the perception factor that is in the retinue of the eye-consciousness as well. A main mind and its concomitant mental factors share five similarities that are explained by Yeshe Gyaltsen in his Necklace for Those of Clear Awareness Clearly Revealing the Modes of Minds and Mental Factors. Regarding the entity of perception, the Compendium of Knowledge says: 

the resultant perfection of wisdom the path perfection of wisdom the scriptures perfection of wisdom the nature of the perfection of wisdom. 

If you want more on this topic such as exposed by Tibetan Geluk scholars, I suggest The Mind and Its Functions, by Geshe Rabten. 

This is because conventionalities – conventional truths – are just that: conventions. They are not to be refuted or investigated. Once, in a class I was attending, a student asked our teacher “Since I only see John's body, and the person is not intrinsically one with her body, then it means I have never seen John, doesn't it?” It is due to this type of misunderstanding that Prasangika refute any conventional analysis. It shows just how important it is to understand how conventional truths are objects of conventional cognizer, not of minds analyzing the ultimate. As soon as one engages in analysis, he leans towards the direction of realizing emptiness, and the mind realizing emptiness does so in a non-dualistic manner, it does not apprehend conventional truths. On the other hand, Svatantrika posit that one can analyze the mode of existence of phenomena by way of a mind of conventional analysis, and thus refute that phenomena exist in certain ways conventionally. For instance, Svatantrika-Yogacara posit that external establishment can be refuted with a conventional analysis. Thus, they claim that phenomena lack external establishment conventionally, do not lack inherent existence conventionally, lack inherent existence inherently. They lack external establishment conventionally because a conventional valid cognizer can refute external establishment; they do not lack inherent existence conventionally because the emptiness of inherent existence can not be found by way of conventional analysis; they do lack inherent existence ultimately because the emptiness of inherent existence is found / realized by way of a mind analyzing the ultimate. The introduction to Mipham's commentary to Shantarakshita reads: 

From a Madhyamika-Prasangika viewpoint, when I see your body, I see BlackFlam3. When I hear your voice, I hear BlackFlam3. When your body is unwell, you are sick. When anger arises in your mind, you are angry. Yet, your are neither your body nor your mind. You depend on them, though, for you would not be who you are if t was not for them. You even depends on what is not even in your continuum, such as external objects that you apprehend, and so forth. As a person, you exist conventionally. That conventional object, the person, is an object apprehended by conventional cognizers. The person is seen, heard, touched, smelled, being remembered, and so forth. That person is an object of pride, anger, jealousy, desire, and so forth. Yet, that person which is loved, hated, seen... is not intrinsically one with any of its aggregates. In the same way, I see your hand, but I do not see the whole of it (back and front and bones, and so forth) and your hand is not intrinsically what I see of it. The problem is as follows: as soon as you engage into analysis, wandering whether the person is intrinsically one or intrinsically different from its aggregates, you engage in ultimate analysis. And what the mind of ultimate analysis finds (realizes) is the ultimate truth which is the absence of a truly existent person. So, of course, when you ask yourself "but am I that feeling? or this body? or am I my flesh? but if I was, I could not say 'my' as if there was an I possessing it, and so forth" you take the direction of ultimate analysis and you will not find the person. Identifying the conventional objects as objects found by conventional valid cognizers (eye-consciousness, ear-consciousness and so forth, that do not engage into analysis) is of utmost importance. So, yes, conventionally, it is enought for me to see your body to see you.