This way, you're turning a negative into a positive and instead of worrying about why something may be perceived poorly, you're taking the initiative to show that the very thing you're worried about is actually a good thing with respect to your fit for a particular opportunity. In terms of your other question - what to tell your current employer about why you're leaving: as with any case when you're giving a reason for leaving, keep it brief and generic. "I don't think I'm a good fit." Don't elaborate. 

Instead of coming across as a risk (someone who might not get along well with team members) you're now coming across as an asset (someone who is driven for their own numbers but also willing to help others). And that's exactly the impression you want to give, because it's honest, it shows the value you're bringing to the table, and it shows you're able to learn. 

And that is hard for us to answer, since it is highly company-specific. Some employers publish this information to all employees (or even to the general public). Others will only tell you the range for your current band, while others keep it entirely private and won't even tell you the range for your own band. All that said, it's always a good idea to understand your own financial future, so the key here is, start having a discussion with your manager or HR about your future - how raises work, what band you're in, what the company does to encourage growth (could be financial compensation or otherwise), and so on. 

This is a hard question to answer on-topic here, since it is dependent on that specific company's policies. However, there are a few general trends, at least within the big-box-chain retail sector: 

When dealing with perceived problems with coworkers, It is important to make a distinction: Separate your problems from their problems. Once you are able to do that, you can handle the things you have control and responsibility over, and work on ignoring those you don't. Work with your manager on your problems: 

Does it help show the timeline of your overall employment/work history? Would there be a void for those three months otherwise? Does it emphasize your skills in a way that the rest of your employment history doesn't? Does it give you an opportunity to show the specific things you learned while doing that work? Does it give you a good storytelling opportunity during the interview process? 

You're asking a lot of questions, and it's always hard to guess at answers for posts like this because we don't know the specifics about the recruiter's message or their tactics. That said: 

The challenge you're facing is balancing stability against "best" practices. There's a difference between trying to determine "the best" programming language, in a vacuum, versus determining if a given organization can be successful with any specific language(s). An organization can be comfortably successful with C#, VB, FORTRAN, whatever. Rather than make this about the language, you need to make it about the organization, the impact of the change, and the sustainability of whatever language you select. Some thoughts to raise during your discussion: 

If your coworker's criticism is bothering you, ask your manager to clarify the standards you're supposed to be aiming for, and then make sure you're meeting those standards. Being clear with your boss about development standards will give you a filter through which to ignore the misplaced feedback the coworker is giving you. If your coworker's poor performance means you need to pick up the slack, make sure you work with your manager to clarify their expectations of your workload and priorities. This way, your manager has the opportunity to clarify how you should be spending your time: working on your "own" work, or focusing on issues with your coworker's code. If your team is poorly represented in meetings, mention to your manager that you are worried about the impression others will have and ask for clarification on how you should behave in these meetings and/or if the team should have additional representation. 

...and from there, you can proceed by describing the factors you consider important - whether it's challenging assignments, a collaborative team, a certain level of structure, advancement opportunities, etc. Ideally, if you've done your research as a candidate, the company you're interviewing with (the one who posed this question) would be a company that possesses these traits, so this question will help reaffirm for them that you're an ideal candidate - if they hear your answer and think, "wow, Preeyah is describing our company!" then obviously that will reflect highly on you. However, if they think, "we can't offer those things" then you may not get an offer from them, which - based on the scenario - is probably a good thing, since you're dodging an environment that doesn't have what you're looking for. 

Does your employer have an official leadership development program you can refer your staff to? If not, does your corporate HR have a channel you can suggest and develop one though? 

The best approach is to divide and conquer. Joel needs to understand that an issue with a specific employee doesn't invalidate an entire service model. He will understand this if you reinforce the service model and also address the employee issue. Do what the other answers suggest: remind him of the procedure and why it's important, and redirect him if he tries to skirt the procedure. The redirects can be soft at first - take the call, help him with the problem, but indicate that you're recording it in the ticket system for him - and you can help him enter it correctly (or call the right number) next time. Then follow up and do that - transfer him the next time he calls. And so on. But - don't stop there. You are Rick's superior. Outside of the fact that Joel is skirting policy, you've had a complaint against a member of your team. I'm sure your corporate policy or culture has a method for handling that, regardless of the job position. If there is nothing formal, there's plenty in terms of best practice available on the web. It's hard to give specific advice about how to address the conflict without a lot more background info. It's fair to point out that any complaint handling process should include validation of the complaint. You don't want your current impression of the employee ("this is the first time I have heard any complaints") to predispose you towards dismissing the complaint, and of course you also don't want the fact that there was a complaint to cause you to assume there is an actual issue. In summary, you're more likely to achieve your goal of getting Joel to follow policy if you also address his (totally separate) issue with your employee - instead of making this purely about him following policy. 

Skill set. The theoretical knowledge relevant to the job: Knowing how to develop software with a specific tool in a specific language, for instance. The ability to execute. Being able to take initiative and complete a task with an outcome that fulfills the requirements. 

Regardless of what you want your career to be in, a good skill to have is being able to look for the opportunity to learn and grow in any situation. Regardless of the specific tasks you're doing in this current role, you still (pretty much always) have a chance to improve yourself in a way that will look attractive to future employers. In other words, to answer your question: Instead of wondering how badly a future employer will think of the work you're doing, look for ways that this can help you improve. Writing pseudo-code in a tool that (eventually) generates software isn't - in the literal sense - experience in traditional software development. However, it can be a valuable exercise for a software developer, for a number of reasons: 

Is it right to include it? Assuming the answers to some or all of my questions above are "yes," then yes - include it. Should you point out that it wasn't paid? Rephrase the question: does pointing that out have any advantage for you being able to sell yourself? Probably not. So, no, don't point that out. 

on a resume, I would assume you had worked there continuously from April 2014 until the present date. A resume is a sales tool - you want to present yourself in a way that makes you attractive to the employer, but you never want to put yourself in a position where you may be misleading an employer. In other words: while you don't want to emphasize the gap, you don't want to act like it didn't happen, either. This makes the first option you presented the most attractive - you're showing the correct employment record, but you're not emphasizing the "issue" of the gap. You'll likely be asked about the gap in an interview, so have a good answer ready. 

What's important to you about your (potential) job? Interviewing needs to be a two way street. The employer has skills/qualifications they need, and they have a culture they need to fit you into. The employer knows these factors, and chooses their questions based on them. Similarly, you have career aspirations, and skills you need to be compensated for. You may also have very practical concerns: work hours, dress code, etc. You can't decide what questions to ask until you know what you're looking for. We can give you ideas, but ultimately the questions will be wasted unless they're meaningful to you. The practical questions (hours, pay, dress, etc) are probably the easiest to think up. Career path questions may take a little more thought. How do you see this internship fitting into your overall career path? Frame your questions around that. Assuming this internship represents a stepping stone into your desired career, and you like this employer, you may want to ask things like, 

Your resume is your representation of your work experience and skills, for the purpose of marketing yourself to potential employers. It should be truthful, of course, but it should also be easy to understand. Your situation is a little outside the norm, so I don't think there is a precedent. As such, I'd format the resume with an emphasis on readability. This would lead me to arrange it based on the content of the work, not just on the name. For instance, if the content and structure of the work did not change - just the name I would just list it as a single position, with an acknowledgement to the name change. Something along the lines of, Company A (DBA John Doe prior to 2015) with the relevant names and year. If, however, the content or structure changed - for instance, with the name change you hired a team. Or, you switched from doing freelance work for other contracting firms to contracting directly with clients. Or you switched the actual subjects, i.e. the name reflected a change from one type of engineering to another. In any of those situations, I would list the work as two separate positions with appropriate descriptions/details for each, and no specific indication that they were related. 

You've stated that Company Y is unlikely to pay for a return flight. You stated that the interview schedules can't both happen on Friday. You've also stated that you're willing to pay for any cost difference yourself. I think this leaves one obvious answer: Pay for the one way return flight, or the cost of altering the original return flight, yourself. Company X's travel office will provide you with your itinerary, which will have a confirmation number/confirmation code on it - typically in the US, this is a combination of 6 letters/numbers. With that code, you are free to contact the airline yourself (outside of X's travel agent, without having to involve them). You can ask the airline what the cost would be to rebook the return flight, at which point they'll ask you to provide payment - you can give them your own payment method. During that discussion, you can also ask about the cost of booking a one-way return flight. Depending on the cities, in the US, it is sometimes possible that booking a separate return flight would be cheaper than paying the change fee on the original ticket. You can do this any time, up to the point at which you're checking in for the return flight. It probably makes sense to do it as early as possible, as fees may go up and/or the cost of the one-way return flight may increase - not to mention that other return flight options may become booked and unavailable. good luck in your interviews! 

The manager's job is to manage, your job is to perform according to his direction. I don't think it'll be a winning battle to try to "manage" him in the sense of directing/changing his behavior. Which leaves us in a fairly classic case of misunderstood/poorly communicated expectations. Luckily, there are some tried-and-true steps you can take to handle this: 

I see one obvious alternative: Speak with the manager. Ask him if he'd like to have a separate meeting (with a smaller audience) to address the concerns he brings up in your team meeting, in order to allow you to keep your meeting focused on the agenda. 

Tying a leadership development program to a (temporary) change in position/responsibilities is a bad idea. Even if you solve the above issues by choosing the person yourself, or using some specific criteria to choose them, I don't think the rest of your plan is very sound, either: 

Being honest about how you made a specific accomplishment in a "bad" environment is a good thing, because it shows you know how to perform under sub-optimal conditions. Good hiring managers know that every environment has something less-than-optimal about it. Hiring a candidate who can only perform when everything around them is perfect isn't as useful as someone who can do good work even in less than perfect conditions: that is, someone who can upgrade an old system, add a feature to software that isn't up to date, etc. So, if your goal is to: 

There are lots of ways! Some of them will come across as deceptive. Others ways may just raise questions, but not necessarily make you look bad. Let's look at a few potential ways you might incorporate that experience in your resume: 

It makes sense to carefully read and understand the language an employer uses on their website, job descriptions, career page, etc. It can provide you a glimpse into the culture of the employer and the specific type of person they're looking for. Mirroring the same voice, vocabulary, level of complexity, and overall style in your correspondence (without going overboard or stepping outside the norms of formal communication) can help you show that you understand and fit the profile they're looking for. To answer your specific question, 

Your skills really aren't worth what you're asking for. Your skills are more valuable, but the employer can't or won't compensate you for them. 

Gonna skip this one, since "what would you do" questions are not usually helpful in the context of this forum. You need to figure out what YOU would do, not what WE would do.