If the injury happens in a game being played in a competition organised by a specific cricket board or organisation, that organisation MAY have insurance for this sort of eventuality, or they may not. You'd need to enquire with the organisation in question to get a specific answer. 

No - the batsman can only be out if he hits the ball with the bat, or a hand holding the bat, whilst in the commission of a stroke. If he is not holding the bat, and the ball strikes the bat, it's not out. See section 8 of the relevant law - $URL$ Depending on the circumstances, it could be obstructing the field, for instance if he throws the bat at the ball to prevent it striking the stumps for a runout. This would need to be a deliberate act. 

Based on your comments, nothing happens. The ball goes dead, he walks out and gets the bat, and the next ball is bowled. Simply losing control of the bat does not cause a dismissal. And even if the ball hits the bat in the air and flies to a fielder, he is not out, as he needs to be holding the bat for it to be a dismissal. 

"Umpires Call" is a way of saying the decision made by the on-field should stand. The rules of the referral system say that there needs to be a clear mistake by the on-field umpire to reverse the decision. "Umpires Call" is a way of saying that there isn't a CLEAR mistake, and therefore the decision should stand. 

Law 24 covers no ball - section 16 states that a batsman can only be out in the following ways off a no ball: 

This is covered under Law 42, section 3 - $URL$ It says: (a) Any fielder may (i) polish the ball provided that no artificial substance is used and that such polishing wastes no time. (ii) remove mud from the ball under the supervision of the umpire. (iii) dry a wet ball on a piece of cloth. (b) It is unfair for anyone to rub the ball on the ground for any reason, to interfere with any of the seams or the surface of the ball, to use any implement, or to take any other action whatsoever which is likely to alter the condition of the ball, except as permitted in (a) above. So polishing the ball on clothing, or using sweat, is perfectly ok. Other types of tampering are not permitted. 

The simple answer is - it depends. For a lot of matches, the commentators will be in the ground, but for others they won't be, for a lot of reasons but usually for financial ones - it can make financial sense to have commentators operate off a TV feed rather than send them thousands of miles for what might be a single match. My experience of cricket broadcasting is European-based, and Sky always appear to have a studio-based analysis team (for intervals) and a ground-based commentary team. The BBC radio coverage is always from the grounds too. The questions on the standard of commentary are different, and I'm not going to get into that as it's totally opinion-based. 

According to the Guinness Book of Records Shoaib Akhtar is the bowler who delivered the fastest recorded delivery. 

Have a look at the ICC regulations on Duckworth-Lewis - available as a PDF from here. There's also a FAQ, although I haven't read it, available from the same site, here. 

The entire sport of curling is an example of Newton's first law of motion - "An object a rest tends to remain at rest, and an object in motion tends to continue in moving in a straight line at constant speed unless an outside force acts upon it." The sweeping action is to smooth out the ice, and prevent the friction from the bumps in the ice slowing down the stone. Hence sweeping at one side will only smooth out the ice on that side, causing the stone to curve. A proper discussion of these things are available here, and here. I'm not sure you could exactly quantify the effectiveness of the sweeping action - it would depend on so many variables, such as initial bumpiness of the ice, strength of the sweeper, abrasive quality of the broomhead, force exerted on the broom etc. 

This is the overriding factor - the batsman can't rely on a technicality to reprieve him or her if they've faced the ball. I can guarantee they'd pitch a fit if he or she spanked the ball to the boundary and the ump then declared it dead! 

The host broadcaster is trusted with that responsiblity. There have been instances of errors in replays, such as this case recently, but there's no evidence of cheating - it would involve collusion between teams, broadcasters and boards. Frankly, there's too much money involved for all of them to start that sort of messing. 

There's more than one question here. Normally I'd point you to Cricinfo, where you could work this out, but here goes: What percentage of test matches end with the team that won the the toss winning the the match? Win toss, win match - 34.8043% - source: totals from Cricinfo Statsguru query Lose toss,win match - 31.2556% - source: totals from Cricinfo Statsguru query Win toss, draw match - 33.7579% - source: totals from Cricinfo Statsguru query Lose toss,draw match - 33.7579% - source: totals from Cricinfo Statsguru query From the same queries above, the average score for sides winning the toss is 31.71, which for sides losing the toss it's 31.9. 

This is covered in Law 41 section 3. It states: *If a protective helmet belonging to the fielding side is on the ground within the field of play, and the ball while in play strikes it, the ball shall become dead and, except in the circumstances of Law 34 (Hit the ball twice), 5 penalty runs shall then be awarded to the batting side, in addition to the penalty for a No ball or a Wide, if applicable. Additionally runs completed by the batsmen before the ball strikes the protective helmet shall be scored, together with the run in progress if the batsmen had already crossed at the instant of the ball striking the protective helmet. See Law 18.10 (Runs scored when the ball becomes dead other than at the fall of a wicket).* This means that if the batsmen crossed for a run, they remain in their positions as of when the helmet was struck. So, to answer your specific question, rotation does take place, if it's required. 

This site gives a description of throwing technique for a cricketer: $URL$ It describes the side-on technique, where you point with your non-throwing arm towards your target and you then can use your weight to provide impetus to the ball. For a different, front-on technique, have a look at $URL$ 

JP Duminy is from the Cape Coloured ethnic grouping (see $URL$ hence is not considered Black African. Note: I'm not commenting on whether these ethnic groupings are appropriate or even palatable. They're what's in use in South Africa today. I'm not South African, or resident there. 

This is not permitted, under Rule 14-3. The rule states that a glove must "consist of a fitted covering of the hand with a separate sheath or opening for each digit (fingers and thumb)", and also must not have "features, other than visual aids, designed to assist the player in placing his hands in a consistent and/or specific position on the grip". 

The T20 international regulations are quite clear about this: Section 41.2.2.c says that "During the Powerplay overs only two fieldsmen shall be permitted outside this fielding restriction area at the instant of delivery. " Section 41.2.2.d says that "During the non Powerplay overs, no more than 5 fieldsmen shall be permitted outside the fielding restriction area referred to in clause 41.2.2 (b) above." 

The specifications of a cricket ball are covered in Law 5, and are the same for all varieties of cricket (ODI, T20, tests etc) The colour used is a matter of regulation, so the ODI regs specify a white ball, the tests a red ball etc. Therefore a ball that is red in colour is identical in specification to a pink or white one, just the outer leather covering is dyed a different colour. 

The time limit for a limited-overs innings will be specified in the regulations covering that competition. The T20i regulations are here, and they state that each session should be 1 hour 25 minutes in duration, with a minimum over-rate of 14.11 per hour. The ODI regulations are here, and they state that each session should be 3 hours 30 minutes in duration, with a minimum over-rate of 14.28 per hour. Umpires are permitted to extend the allowed time to cover things like delays due to injury, lost balls etc. 

He can continue to use the old ball until either he chooses to take the new ball, or until it's declared unfit and is changed by the umpires. However, it's supposed to be changed for one of similar age, so that will complicate things. See Law 5. In practice a captain will use an old ball if it's working for the spinners, but eventually it will go out of shape, and it will be worth it to take the new ball, if only to give the spinners a rest. 

People in the stands do occasionally get hit by the ball - as they do in soccer, baseball and any number of other sports. Accidents are rare because it's a big hit to land a ball into the stands, although it's by no means unusual. When it happens it's a big deal, and so yes, people are more aware of the ball. The cricketer who died was Phillip Hughes - he was hit by a bouncer bowled at him, not by a ball hit at him by a batsman. 

The team with more players nominates someone not to take a kick, thus ensuring an even number of players taking kicks. See slide 28 on this PDF from fifa.com 

It depends on the level of cricket you want to play, and on the regulations of the individual organising committees who administer the level you wish to play at. In general, there's usually no issue in playing at a social level, and as you rise through the ranks more restrictions are in place. To play international cricket for another country in general requires four years of residency in that country, but there are many twists & turns to the regulations. I'd suggest you go through the various documents on the ICC site. 

In cricket an appeal covers all forms of dismissal, so even if the bowler appeals for LBW, the umpire can give the batsman out caught if he's happy the conditions for that dismissal have been met. (Law 27 section 4) In the same fashion, one review will cover all forms of dismissal. The Third Umpire - Decision Review System rules explicitly state this in section 3.3 point f: 

There's no limit - a bowler can stop in his run-up as often as he likes, and a batsman can pull out of a delivery as often as he likes. In practice, the umpire will have a word if he feels the players are messing about, and it doesn't happen too often. Note, though, that if a batsman pulls away, and the bowler actually delivers the ball, if the batsman plays at the ball it's considered a stroke, and he can get runs or be out. When umpiring a 20/20 game here I gave out a member of our international team when he slashed at a ball having pulled away, and guided it onto his stumps. He wasn't happy, but he was told by his coach that he was out! 

The ODI regulations specifically prevent a side from declaring, so the option of just stopping batting is not present (see section 14 of this PDF). In theory, they could simply walk off the pitch and forfeit, but would be subject to sanctions if that happened, making it incredibly unlikely. In short, even if you know you cannot win (barring Philip Kendall's scenario in the comments), you play the game to it's conclusion.