Yes, that will work just fine. I have a similar setup on my touring bike, Tiagra shifters and an LX derailleur. 

Personally, I think that good cycling helmets are beautiful. The lines are elegant. The transitions between the surface of the helmet and the vents are graceful. The way that the helmet increases in size from front to back is reminiscent of the wind. They're really quite astounding pieces of technology, if you really look at them. On the other hand, cheap bicycle helmets just look bulky and blunt. And the type that most people seem to be linking to, the "brain buckets" that look like skateboarding or horse racing helmets, are just hideously ugly. I know that doesn't really answer your question, but as you mentioned ventilation is a big issue and I really think it's worth it to have a good cycling helmet. And there's a big difference in ventilation between a $40 and a $100 helmet. I think if you drop the money on a good cycling helmet, you'll be much happier with it than you will with a "fashion" helmet. 

Neither the frame nor the components drive the chainline individually. Rather it's a combination of the two. Let's assume for one second that there was only one type of frame. That is: bottom bracket shells are all the same and rear triangle spacing is all the same. That's not true at all, but let's pretend for just one second... If that were the case, a crankset that were slightly wider than other cranksets would pull the chaineline outward in the front and a narrower crankset would pull the chainline inward in the front. (Essentially the width of a cranskset is a function of the bottom bracket and the spindle, but when you throw in different manfuacturers it gets messy.) The same would be true of the rear hub. A narrower hub would pull the chainline inward in the rear while a wider hub would push it outward. Now, as I indicated previously, frames are not all the same. On the flipside of that, let's forget everything I previously said and pretend for a minute that all frames are the same and all hubs and all bottom brackets are different. Conversely to our previous make-believe world, a wider bottom bracket shell would pull the chainline outward in the front and a wider rear triangle spacing would do so in the rear. It should be obvious at this point that either one of these things would have to be compensated for by wider corresponding componentry. So, to reiterate the answer to your specific question: Neither the frame nor the components drive the chainline. Rather, it is a combination of the two. Whether or not proper chaineline can be achieved through spacing out the rear axle depends at least partly on the frame material. I.e, steel can be spaced out more than aluminum and carbon. More specifically, carbon can't be spaced out at all and spacing out aluminum isn't recommended (although I've heard second and third hand of people making it work, no personal experience though). However, if your frame spacing is too wide, you can always add spacers to the hub/axle. To answer the question that I think you mean to ask: you can almost always (especially on a geared bike) achieve proper (or at least acceptable) chainline, either through spacers in the crankset/bottom bracket or spacers in the hub/cassette. Where you decide to put the spacers is ultimately a product of your specific frame/component combination. 

You need it to work with your chain. If you have a 9-speed chain, you want to get a 9-speed crankset. If you're not sure what you have, count the rear gears. You probably want the same number of gears. It's possible to switch to a two-speed crank, but since you mention that you're a newbie, it's probably more hassle than you want to get into. Single speed may be possible too, but it's even more of a hassle. You want approximately the same number of teeth. Derailleurs have a minimum and maximum chainring size that they'll work with. You'll have some range though and if you decide to change to a bigger or smaller crankset you'll probably have to move the derailleur up or down. You need it to match your bottom bracket spindle. It looks like those are both square taper, so you should be good there. If you do need to replace the bottom bracket as well you'll want to make sure that the one you get is the right size for your bottom bracket shell. They're usually 68mm or 73mm. Some bottom brackets will fit either size. You'll also probably want the same spindle length. You have some leeway with a geared bike, but it's easier to just make sure it all matches. 

I know you asked for a single part answers but since the parts work together and one choice influences another, I don't really see how that can be accomplished in a useful manner. So I'm going to outline it all. I'll start with the items that you need for any build. 

A place where two things connect An independent section of chain The smallest section of chain that can be removed or added to an existing chain and the chain could still be rejoined. 

Your new crankset will have new chainrings so you'll be set on that front. It's also possible that you need to change your chain, cassette, or both. Generally speaking, as a chain stretches the cassette stretches with it. The chain rings on the crankset can stretch too but they take longer due to the stress being distributed across more teeth, thus less strain on any one tooth. You can get an estimate of how much your chain has stretched by measuring a full link (which consists of two half links, an inner and an outer). They should measure exactly one inch. A tenth of an inch longer means it's worn and should be replaced. There isn't any really foolproof method that I know of for checking the wear on the rear cassette other than try it and see if it works. You can try to eyeball it, but that's not entirely accurate even if you know what you're looking for. For all you could ever want to know, check out the always helpful Sheldon Brown. $URL$ 

Under the both the first and second definitions, chain A in your example has four links and chain B has eight links. The venerable Sheldon Brown seems to subscribe to the third definition. He refers to a single set of inner or outer plates as a half link. A set of inner and outer plates constitutes a full link. This is because (barring non-standard equipment like half link connectors) it is impossible to join two ends of the chain if they both consist of inner or outer plates. You must have inner plates on one end and outer plates on the other. By this definition, chain A in your image has two full links or four half links and chain B has four full links and eight half links. Personally, I prefer the third definition because it is the smallest functional piece of chain. 

There's one size of bolt that's used all over modern bikes: water bottle mounts and the braze-ons for racks leap to mind. Whenever I need a few, I take one to the hardware store and sift through the boxes of bolts until I find one that matches. I foolishly never write the size down. What size are they? I'm only concerned with the width and the threads, not the heads or the length. 

If you were to rephrase the question "could I be suspended...?" then I think you'd have your answer: Absolutely. The wording of the rule is clear and unequivocal. But as you phrased it "will I be suspended...?" the answer is it's possible, but not very likely for a Cat 4. The vast majority of USAC officials are merely cycling enthusiasts who work part time as officials. Most of them have full-time jobs and officiate on the weekend because they like to do it, not because they get paid to. Until an official gets near the level that they're officiating pro races, the pay averages out to less than minimum wage. That being the case, you can pretty much bet that they don't have the time to comb through the results of every low-level racer at every race all around the world and compare them to the races that they've officiated. Then again, they are cycling enthusiasts. There's always a chance that they'll be reading results for the fun of it and just happen to notice your name somewhere that it shouldn't be. Especially if you're racing sanctioned and unsanctioned races in the same area. Officials travel a bit by necessity, but usually not too incredibly far. Addendum: Having gone on to read the full text of the UCI rules, 1.2.019 states that: "A national federation may grant special exceptions for races or particular events run in its own country." What those exceptions are, and how and when USAC might apply them is not clear. 

I'm assuming that when you say the "wheel" has a size of 622x15c listed on it, you mean the rim and not the tire. As others have mentioned, the tire size is what you need. Almost any 700c tire will fit on your rim, assuming that your frame has the clearance to accommodate it. Once you've got your tire on there, check the size listed on it and match it up with the sizes you've listed. It's worth noting that any 700xwhatever tire will not necessarily be exactly the same size as other tires with the same size listed on them. The size is an estimate. If you want the most exact measurement possible, or if your tire size isn't listed, you can measure it yourself like so: Put a chalk mark on the ground. Position your front wheel directly on top of the chalk mark with the valve as low as it will go, which means it will also be directly on top of the chalk mark. With the chalk in your hand, roll the bike along one full tire rotation until the valve comes to rest at it's lowest position. Put another chalk mark. Measure the distance in millimeters. Use that number instead of whatever the chart tells you. And, if you want the most precise measurement possible, sit on your bike while you roll it along and get a friend to do the marking. This wall account for the way your weight distorts the tire. Incidentally, this measurement process is all explained in the manuals of most cycle computers, page 24 of your particular manual. $URL$ 

I have an aluminum single-speed frame that was marketed as a fixie. I'm wanting to convert it to a single-speed commuter. (I'm getting older and the fixie doesn't agree with my knees anymore.) It has enough clearance in the rear for 700x35 tires. It has a brake bridge but it doesn't have posts to mount v-brakes or cantilevers. Is there any kind of adapter that could make that work? 

TL;DR - Just about any square taper bottom bracket that has a 68mm shell and roughly 116mm spindle should work fine. You should be able to find one for very little money at either your LBS or online. As far as I can tell, the derailleur mounting to the bottom bracket doesn't make a lick of difference in selecting your bottom bracket. I've never actually used one, but from what Sheldon Brown says and the images I've found, it seems like it's just a ring that is held in place between the bottom bracket and its shell. There are four things to worry about when replacing your bottom bracket: 

I'm going to go ahead and be the dissenting opinion in this discussion. Personally, for anything other than racing, I think that the clipless shoe and stiff sole combo is pretty overrated. I've switched from SPD's to regular tennis shoes for my tours and have never regretted it. I've never used the Merrills specifically, however I own and have toured (and commute daily) in the New Balance version of this shoe and they're great. And my girlfriend prefers low-top Converse. Pedaling in a stiff-soled clipless shoe definitely does offer some mechanical advantage. However, in my experience it's not enough to notice when you're touring with a loaded bike. And the trade-off of being able to just hop off the bike and wander around in shoes that are incredibly comfortable is more than worth it. I also have less foot pain and numbness in regular shoes. I'm not 100% sure this is the reason, but I think it's because I'm able to move my foot around on the pedals more, kind of like having more hand positions on drop bars. 

You appear to be assuming that the rider is on flat ground but neglected to mention that. The assumptions that the rider is traveling at high speed with few corners and stops doesn't reflect real world conditions. 

Insert one tire lever underneath the bead just above the spoke that is most directly opposite of the valve. The tire will be a little looser (more loose?) directly across from the valve and thus, easier to remove. Pry it up and hook the other end of the lever on a spoke. Check to make sure that you've only got one side of the bead under the lever. If you've got both sides of the bead, the rest will be somewhere between very difficult and impossible. Repeat step four on the spoke to the right of the one you just hooked, and then the spoke on the left. At this point, the tire bead may be loose enough that some of the tire levers fall off. If so, great. Pry it the rest of the way off with your finger. If none of the levers has fallen out, it's ok. You just have a tire that fits a bit more tightly. You should still be able to get your finger in just to the outside of your three spokes and slide it along to pry the tire off. As I mentioned before, I have never had to use a fourth lever. By now, you should have the bead completely removed on one side. You can remove the tube by reaching into the tire opposite of the valve and just pulling it out. You'll reach a point where the valve is the only thing holding it in place. Push the tire out of the way and remove the valve. If you''d like to completely remove the tire, you'll be able to just yank it off the rest of the way with a firm grip. 

A buddy asked me to fix his bike. The shifter is broken. It's an older bike with a Sram SRT300i-71 shifter. I found an exact match on that is fairly cheap on ebay, but I also found a similar model on REI for even cheaper. I was wondering if this or any other newer 7-speed Sram shifter would be compatible. I'm not super familiar with older model shifters like these. 

I too own a Trek 520 and the bike does indeed come with 700C wheels and has for quite a number of years. The labeling of a 700C tire is somewhat misleading due to historical reasons. Originally, tires were sold in sizes based on the outer diameter of the tire. 700A, 700B, and 700C tires were all 700mm in diameter. However, the 700C tires were the thickest and the 700A tires were the thinnest. This difference was made up by using a smaller diameter rim for 700C tires and a larger diameter rim for 700A tires. Nowadays, all tires labeled as 700C mount on a 622mm rim. Most tires will have both labels on them. 622 is the size recognized by the International Organization for Standardization, or ISO but 700C has become so common that it is the de facto industry standard label and is how most people will refer to that size. Tire widths are (sort of) an additional complication. This page has a chart showing what widths tires are compatible with what width rims. However, I have run all sorts of widths on my 520, have never worried about rim compatibility, and have never had a problem in that respect. (I have mounted one brand of 700x35 that was big enough to rub on my frame, even though lots of others worked fine.) All of this information and more is available on Sheldon Brown's tire sizing systems page, which is a fascinating read if you want to dork out over tire sizes for a while. The following is in response to your edit: It is not correct that you can mount a 26" or 27" tire on your 622mm rim. 26" and 27" tires are two different entities and each mounts on a different size rim. A 26" tire mounts on a 599mm rim and a 27" tire mounts on a 630mm rim. Also be wary of 28" tires. While some mount on a 622mm rim, others mount on a 635mm rim. When in doubt, trust the ISO number and stick within the widths on the chart mentioned above. 

You need to make sure of two things: your chain line must be ramrod straight and you must have some way of making sure that there's tension on the chain. Let's talk about tensioning the chain first. There are three basic ways to tension a chain on a fixie. You can use an eccentric hub, an eccentric bottom bracket, or horizontal dropouts. Horizontal dropouts are by far the cheapest, easiest and most common. An eccentric bottom bracket requires a frame that is designed for one and thus, is less common and more expensive. An eccentric hub works just fine if you have to use a frame with vertical dropouts, but it's easy enough (and significantly cheaper) to find an older frame with horizontal semi-horizontal dropouts. Now, for making sure that chainline is stright. The only way I know of to do it is trial and error. Build the bike up, and then sight along the chainline. You'll be able to see whether or not it's straight much the same way you can sight along a pool cue and see a curve in it. If it's not, you can sometimes move the front chain ring from the inside to the outside of the spider. Spacers on the rear hub may get you somewhere too, but you can't go too far with those. If none of that works, you'll have to try a bottom bracket with a different spindle length. Optionally: a front brake is highly recommended. In some places, at least one brake is required by law. If you have rear facing dropouts, a bmx style chain tensioner is really nice to have.