I have had this problem a few times, and found it was due to my stress. After thinking about it, I decided if the stress was cycling related, or external to cycling. When I decided the stress was external to cycling, I made an effort to focus completely on the ride, and on longer rides. I was ignoring the destination and any cares that may be there. At one point I decided that the numbers on my bike computer were causing stress. I was struggling to maintain the average speed I'd targeted, or my cadence had dropped below X, or ... you get the idea. I solved this by taking the bike computer off the bike, just riding by feel. In another case, I had been increasing my training load, which is also a stress. My shoulders are hunched right now, thinking about it. My solution was to back off the training a little, and enjoy it more. Hope that helps. 

No, there are no problems with doing this. Bike shops frequently hang bikes in a similar way. And when I lived in small house in the inner city, I hung all of the family bikes in a similar way for years, without observing any problems. It's remarkably easy to get the bike up onto the hook or peg, when you learn how. Those in the picture don't look as easy. The rack I built used big butcher's hooks. Edit: Bike wheels are designed to carry the bike's weight plus up to 100 kg of rider. They work by the spokes being in tension, with the load distributed around the wheel. This Cyclingnews Maintenance & repair article shows the tension of the spokes for various rims. The minimum spoke tension from all the wheels in the list is 51 "kg force" (500 N). The maximum tension described is over 175 kg. Conclusion: hanging a 20 kg bike by the wheel is a non-issue, even if the load is carried by a single spoke. 

There are several ways of solving this problem; different shoes is certainly one way. I recommend shoes such as 

With these updates, the answer is simply that people rarely race on ideal equipment. Most people I know who race Crits do it either on the same bike they use for road races, Gran Fondos, or other big rides, because they don't have a more suitable bike for the purpose. Those who can afford to drop $5K to $10K on a specialist bike usually don't see Crits as the target: too many crashes, and they tend to see Crits as training rides. Regarding the bikes you mention, they both appear on a quick glance to meet the USA Cycling Rules 2017. I was initially concerned that the curved top tube was non-compliant, but this guide and the rules already mentioned show that concern to be unfounded for racing in the US. I suspect the FM098 would not meet UCI standards, but that's irrelevant to you. The earlier version of this answer follows and may be useful for international readers ... 

I'd change it for a better tire, one that's much tighter on the rim. You inflated out to only 15 psi over its maximum. That kind of force could easily be generated in a quick turn with the brakes on. If the tire blows off in such a scenario, then you'll be underneath the vehicle you were trying to avoid. Go to your LBS, and explain that you want a tighter tire. They should know which tires are tighter. Don't let them argue with you, this is about the safety of your life. (While tires and rims are supposed to be a nominal size, some are slightly larger and some are slightly smaller. Having a large tire on a small rim makes changing tires easier, but at great risk. Hence my advice to find a tighter tire). 

Find such a sports medicine specialist, and work with them as they evaluate your options and manage your progress. Following your edit here are some additional points 

As other answers and comments have indicated, you can successfully ride a road bike on loose gravel. There are five main factors, and they are all interconnected: 

This all confirms your suspicion that it's due to the rules. The Peoples Classic was 50km, and was not a time trial, so it couldn't be part of the TDU. As you say, it was good for attendance and marketing (and publicity). 

Six days is not enough time to do much about your aerobic fitness, but you can stimulate your muscles with a couple of solid rides. At 15 years of age, your body responds faster than a person 5 to 10 years older. You don't say anything about how far you usually ride, so I recommend that you do two rides of 30 to 40 miles to prepare. The main purpose of these two rides is to prepare yourself mentally, and practice 

Everything is relative. For 99% of the population 30kph for 3 hours would be amazing. For a male A grade club rider it would be an off day. For a female A grade club rider it's not bad for a solo training ride. About bunches Sometimes an ad hoc bunch forms in a popular road. These can be dangerous - you don't know the experience level of these people, and a mistake from anyone in front of you can bring you down. If you get dropped from such a bunch you can be sure they will not care. It's best to avoid these bunches. Join organized rides, where people know you are a new member of the group and will teach you bunch riding. Even if they do like to ride flat out, organized group rides usually wait for stragglers at various points of the ride. Rides are often organized by clubs or bike shops. Ask at your LBS; they'll probably have some suggestions. With the strength you are showing, you'll probably be able to stick with bunches that ride in the 35-40 kph range, or maybe faster. Remember to do your share of the work, and don't try to impress anyone. Enjoy. 

A lot of mystique grows up around the regulation of many sports. The key (as Neo says) is to get to the source ... UCI regulations say 

From the link you posted, the Giant PSL0s wheelset look like complete DT Swiss wheels, using 240S Straightpull hubs and RR 450 (click "Rims Road") hubs. The DT Swiss site has a spoke calculator at the bottom of the page. If you are a very experienced wheel builder then go for it. If not, get a pro to do it. Asymmetrical wheels are a whole new level up from "traditional" wheels, with higher tensions, and often blade spokes. From my reading, Sheldon is no help here. They are nice wheels. Enjoy. 

I think your greatest challenge will be keeping to only 10 miles (16 km) per day. You do not mention 

After the discussion in the comments, I suspect that the rim is deformed. This can happen if you hit a pothole or kerb too hard, especially if the tires are not pumped up hard. If the rim is deformed then you may be able to see patches where the brakes have worn the rim more. It's the brakes grabbing on these that create the feedback you are feeling. There is not much to be done about it. Some people try to straighten them using a wooden mallet, but the success rate is low. Often the wheel is worse rather than better. To avoid this kind of damage in future try to get your weight off the wheel as it hits the bump, by getting out of the saddle and moving back as the front wheel hits, then moving forward before the back wheel hits. 

You don't mention your fitness level, or how hard you are riding. Riding 10-15 miles (16-24 km) straight away sounds too much for you. I recommend you aim for 5 miles, every second day. While riding, consciously change your hand position between the tops (the straight part of the handlebars), the hoods, and the corners of the bars, with an occasional stretch down to the drops. Stop a little after you feel those muscles getting tired. The reason for riding every second day is to give those muscles time to recover and respond to the demands you're putting on them. They will grow stronger, if you don't over-stress them and give them time. As they get stronger, you can increase the distance, by say, 10% until you are comfortable with the new distance. Don't over-do it. If you injure yourself then your whole cycling plan will get set back by months. So do monitor how you're going, talk to the people at the shop, and definitely see a doctor or physiotherapist if you think something more serious is happening. (Of course, none of us here are doctors, so don't even imagine that this is medical advice!) In a couple of weeks you should be back to 10 miles again, and be ready to ride further or faster or every day. 

The two rides I suggest should be two days apart, leaving a three day gap to the big ride. These gaps will allow your body to recover, and indeed, your muscles to grow in response to the new demands you're making of them. My final advice is, for any big ride, take it easy for the first hour. Settle into a steady pace, at which you can talk out loud easily. You'll be able to sustain such a pace for a long time. Beware of taking long breaks; your body can cool down and make it hard to get started again. Enjoy the adventure! 

Was the bike from a shop and did the shop staff help with bike fit and saddle comfort? If the answer is yes, then it's a matter of building up those bottom muscles by having a similar ride every couple of days. After three or four rides she should be ok. If not, go back to the shop and seek their assistance. If you already spent money there, then fixing the seat problem should be free. If the answer is no, try the same approach, but if it doesn't improve your next option would be to visit you local bike shop and see if they can sell her a more comfortable seat. 

The correct seat height is also dependant on your strength. As you get stronger the seat can begin to feel too low. If this occurs, raise it by very small amounts (1 or 2 mm). Be vigilant about any knee discomfort or pain; it's a sign that the seat is the wrong height for you. Talk to your shop guy about it immediately. 

The other vehicles must not slow the buses down. The other vehicles must also make more efficient use of road space than cars. And the message should be consistent. 

As for the front tire coming off the rim, several years ago I was in a bunch and some of the bunch were swerving around in the buildup to a sprint. To avoid crossing wheels with the guy coming across me (who happened to be my brother) I had to turn sharply. We were doing about 35 kph at the time, and the cornering force rolled the tub off the rim. If you think it through, losing grip on the road is nothing compared to what happens when the tire that is now not on the rim gets to the top of the forks. The wheel stops rotating. So I was suddenly flying through the air, sans bike. To answer your question how likely are you to die? Yes it's possible you'll die, if you hit a rock, tree, or oncoming traffic. That possibility depends somewhat on your bike control skills, and also on luck. But it also depends on where you choose to ride and in what manner. Hairy descents are not for busy roads. 

These tags enclose the whole GPX Route. After the tag comes the name. You can put what you like in between the second [ and the ]]: 

@hillsons has already pointed out that one key is to find your ideal cadence. Totally agree, but lets unpack that a bit more ... You don't mention how steep these hills are, how long they are, or how your weight and size compares to these riding buddies. Assuming the hills are longer than can be overcome by a good run up, what gear you need depends on many factors 

I believe that this item is not fit for the purpose of a bicycle wheel. It should be returned to the place of purchase on those grounds and a replacement or refund sought. 

Certainly, more independent validation would be good, and in future better designs could appear. At present MIPS seems to set the brain protection benchmark. 

As @Batman said in a comment, the main thing is to get the spoke count right. So count how many spokes each wheel has (they could be different). Next, measure the width of the rim. You'll need to take the tires off first. And look at the tires to see what dimensions they say they are. Next, you'll need to make some tentative decisions. I recommend keeping things as they were, unless you have a good reason to change. Do you want similar width rims, or wider / narrower? Do you want deeper profile rims? Do you want to use a similar lacing pattern? Are you going cheap or $$$? Now take the mangled wheel(s) to your Local Bike Shop and see what rims they have that match your criteria. Get them to double check your spoke count, and to recommend what length spokes you need. Finally, since you mention getting rims and spokes, who is going to build these wheels? Building them yourself is not hard, but it can be a slow job if you haven't done it before. Most people just pay an expert.