Silly answer alert... You can also get a Dahon folder where no tools are needed to take bits off the bike. Make sure it is looking well past its sell-by date and then you can park it anywhere, locked or unlocked. Nobody will touch it. There may be good reason for this - what can you do with a 3 foot long Dahon seatpost? It is not really worth having unless you have plans to take the seat off the top of it, but, if that is scuffed up, why bother? Then the wheels, they won't fit on anything else. Hence, somewhat bizarrely, the bike best suited to being parked indoors, e.g. under a desk, is safest from thieves when parked up in public places. Maybe you need to go for some non-standardness? A bike with no commodity parts and perceived lack of functional utility for the bike as a whole? 

Sounds like you have not put the wheel back in properly and have somehow managed to over-tighten the freewheel/freehub, causing it not to spin freely. You will have to take the wheel out and check that the axle nuts are done up properly and that the freewheel/freehub works. At a guess you are not using a quick-release lever, with nut-style axles you must tighten up each side gradually - 1/2 a turn each side once the wheel is in place or else you can tighten the axle (instead of putting the wheel in). Do check for 'play' in the wheel once it is back in, if there is any then you will need to get it adjusted - wheel back out time... If you cannot work out what is going on with it, visit a friendly LBS during a quiet weekday to see if they can put it right for you whilst-you-wait. 

Let's try to steer this into some kind of sensible question with the perspective as seen from a typical bicycle shop workshop and what is on the road. In a bike workshop you can find yourself working on bikes that can be up to fifty years old with a large quantity of them being more than ten years old. Some of these bikes have not been out of the garden shed for the last five years and have suddenly came into use because the owner's son or daughter has started riding. Therefore this question very much depends on how often the bike gets an airing, how it is stored and how much it gets maintained. For the person using their bike every day for commuting, the lifetime of the bike is an economic question. After five years or so, even with brake block changes, new cables, maybe the odd new set of sprockets, new tyres, replacement chains and plenty of t-l-c, the bike will suffer all-over wear that costs almost as much as a new bike to put right. Wheel rims will wear through, saddles will get torn, bits of 'Shimano plastic' will go missing and the whole drive-train will get worn. Fixing these problems will typically necessitate another round of consumables, e.g. chain, cables, brake blocks and tyres. All of these are more expensive as spares that you have to put time into fixing or pay a shop to fix. Meanwhile, at OEM prices, pre-fitted to a new bike, a better deal can be found. The existing bike has 'depreciated' to become a liability much like how an old car does. If you look at the cars people drive you will notice that there are not too many 'Ford Cortina' models on the road. (UK) There are not too many 'Ford Sierra' models on the road either. Yet, there was a time when every other car was one of these models. There are one or two of these left and you do see them once in a blue moon, so clearly it was possible to service them and keep them on the roads forever. However, that did not happen for 99.9% of these once popular Ford cars. Now have a look for what people actually ride. There is a reasonable selection of twenty year old models on the roads used by people on the commute or taking the dog for a walk. However, depending on where you live, the majority of bikes are recent, i.e. less than ten years old. Half of those are very new, less than three years old. Most of these 'daily riders' are well on their way to being used up as a 'mechanical resource'. As for your point 2), in the UK many bikes get abandoned by their riders when they take up driving. Before people get to that age they do go through a series of bikes that they grow out of. Competitive riders are different again, typically they have a fleet of bicycles and a ludicrous amount of spare parts left over from upgrades. To summarise, a bike will have a lifetime of approximately five everyday-riding years before it gets shot to pieces. This lifetime can be extended indefinitely through new components and diligent maintenance (or instantly shortened in the case of a crash). In reality people can ride bikes long after the bike is past its best, they can also put the bike into storage for long periods of time and they can also get into the sport (to purchase many bikes that don't necessarily get worn out). 

These were available in black. Another beauty is the 605. This one does not have the hex-bolt exposed to aid centering, but I don't think you can beat the combination of short reach and tyre clearance: 

I used to despise the antiquated look of sprung saddles - then I got one on my retro-bike. Despite all of my preconceived opinions I immediately took to the sprung seat. Clearly not for the road-racer, the sprung saddle has its place in regular riding, where roads are not exactly smooth. Given the choice of a couple of springs in the seat or a Kona-tractor-style-rear-suspension setup, the couple-of-springs has elegance in how it delivers comfort. Energy lost through compressing the springs is actually returned with marginable 'pedal bob'. The weight of the springs is negligible, your back wheel will thank you for them, even though only you and not the bike is being suspended. Given the roads you describe I would definitely recommend a sprung saddle. You would not drive those roads without the weight being suspended, on the bike your legs are the suspension, it would be nice to give them a break after a hard day's work, so why not go with the sprung seat. 

Best case is in a workshop, surrounded by all required tools, with a showroom full of every conceivable 'Shimano' spare next door, this is a ten minute job. That is with pressure on (customer getting while-you-wait service for some reason) and a simple swap-over of new parts. This used to be a fairly common procedure in the early days of mountain-biking before cartridge bottom-brackets became available. Inevitably this would be nearer half an hour if time is taken into account for customer service, i.e. extracting money from customer's wallet, allowing them time to decide whether or not they wanted the XT bottom bracket and so on. I would not be surprised if it took seconds rather than minutes (or even hours) to put the original bottom bracket in. So the best-case workshop time is slow. As for one's own bike, even with extensive workshop experience, give it a whole weekend. And maybe the next. First you have to get the parts off with tools that you have lost somewhere. This means a major clear up. Then the tools (if they fit) don't work too well as something on the bike has corroded. A sit down with a cup of tea (maybe watching the Grand Prix) later, they still don't come off, but perhaps enough bits come out for a visit to the bike shop to get the right spares. It being a busy weekend it can take a long time to be served and with parking, another hour goes by. Finally, after much physical effort the parts come out. Then it suddenly makes sense to tidy all the components and frame to pristine, as-new condition. Obviously this is needed, isn't it? Then you find that you read the axle length correctly but the one in the box differs from what it says on the box. Another trip to the bike shop. Because your bike is different, a special order has to be made, or you are forced to buy the deluxe version, perhaps with a whole new chainset. Finally it takes five minutes to put the part in, another twenty minutes of ride to make sure the front gears are working properly, another ten minutes of tweaking and another quick polish of the bike, perhaps taking time to touch up the paint from where it got brutalised earlier.