When hiking, I often find myself in areas where cell phone reception is poor or intermittent. Sometimes the signal is not good enough to make a call, but it is still possible to send text messages (SMS). I have often wondered how I could use this to summon help in case of an emergency. I'm in the US, and as far as I know, it isn't possible to send text messages to 911. The only idea I've come up with is that I could send a text to a friend, and ask them to call 911 or the local authorities in my area and relay the information. This is inefficient, and requires that I find a friend who is by their phone. Is there a more direct way? I'd prefer answers that don't require special equipment or pre-arranged services other than a standard cell phone. 

One approach is to use a GPS device that has a map database and an electronic compass. You can sight on the distant mountain, and the device will draw a line on the map along that bearing. Then you just have to look at the map and see where the line crosses a prominent mountain. 

Have you considered the Finger Lakes Trail? It's certainly long enough, and has lean-tos along most of its length. There aren't a lot of loops, but you may be able to arrange a one-way with return by car or public transport. (In particular, the section around Ithaca crosses county bus routes at several places.) 

Make it hard/impossible for mosquito to bite? Are the fast hand/leg movement more important factor than the core speed? To leave mosquitoes behind, assuming they are willing to pursue you (if you go from shadows into full sun, they probably aren't)? 

Ukrainian Gorgany. One of the most wild places in Europe. Mieczysław Orłowicz has written almost 100 year ago about one of the peaks, Popadia, that from there no place inhabited by men is to be seen. According to people that were there, this sentence is still true. You will not see any artificial lights from houses, streets or cars. Unfortunately, I haven't found the translation from the tourist guide of Orłowicz, but this is very beautiful fragment describing how wild that mountains are. 

This is an extremely long trail. Very good walkers are able to do 30-50 km (depending on weather and terrain) each day for a very long time. But for seasoned (though physically very fit) walker a realistic estimate is on avg. 25 km/day. So for 7000 km you would need 280 days. According to the article on outdoorseiten.de the trail part in Romania is not done yet, it means, you would have to plan it yourself, according to general route description. You will need precise maps of this terrain. The mountain terrains are one of the most wild in Europe, so you'd need tents as well, and you should expect to be able to buy food only in bigger cities, so you'd have to take a plenty with you. In the Carpatian part of Poland/Slovakia/Czech you could sleep in mountain huts. The prices shouldn't be more than 10 Euro/night. However, not everywhere you'll have electricity in rooms, so you can rely on maps in GPS receiver, but you should have a few of them (since you plan a group trip, it should not be a problem), and prepare mobile chargers as well. In Western European part, the prices would be higher, but you should expect not to have problems with electricity and food, so you would not need to take so much with you. --edit-- My acquaintance has just made a way from Warsaw to Santiago de Compostella. Here is the original article with statistics, quick translation follows: 

Forget the DEET. That's for mosquitoes, and it's not a repellent, but rather it interferes with their sense of smell so since they can't smell you (food) they don't bother you. It's also toxic. Citronella is not a repellent of any kind. Smoke from Citronella candles is a repellent (downwind from the candle). Smoke from ANY candle is the same repellent. There have been many, many studies on this, but the legends live on. What I use is Permethrin. This is an insecticide (meaning it's designed to kill) but works good as a repellent as well. It's a synthetic copy of a natural compound, ‎Pyrethrin, found in marigold flowers. It's mostly used to spray orchards. It's also used a lot in dog flea control medicines. The stuff binds to materials, so keeps working even when dry. When sprayed onto clothing, it will continue to work for months, even after washing. The military even washes their uniforms with it. Once dry, it is odorless, colorless, and doesn't effect the feel. Basically, you won't know it's there. It will leave a residue on glass though. Safe for clothing & gear. I spray all my outdoor clothing and gear every spring, then need to reapply it in the fall. You can find it in cans at REI and other outdoor stores. I buy the concentrated stuff off of Amazon, then dilute it and apply it with a garden sprayer. I've been using this for years and am very rarely bothered by bugs. Btw, if you spray the perimeter of your house, it's pretty good at keeping bugs out. WARNING: While it's still liquid, this is very toxic to cats and fish. Once dry, it's safe. 

I didn't know this, but in fact, the ability to send text messages to 911 is being developed and could be ready within a year or two. $URL$ The four major US wireless carriers expect to be ready to route text messages to 911 by May 15, 2014. However, it may take longer for local emergency dispatch centers to be able to handle them. The system will be rolled out gradually; starting September 30, 2013 (June 30, 2013 for the major carriers), you will at least get a bounce-back if the system isn't available in your area. 

Another brand is Platypus. I have their "Hoser" line, which has some differences from the models you show: 

First of all, check the label for directions. I have a synthetic bag. I take it to the laundromat and wash it in a sufficiently large front-load machine, using cold water and somewhat less detergent than a normal load. I put it in a large dryer set to low or no heat until it seems mostly dry. Then I hang it up indoors for a day or two to finish drying. This seems to be pretty effective. 

I suppose the answers may differ between different countries or regions (I'm in the US) or between land and sea emergencies (I'm usually on land). 

Suppose I am out in the wilderness and an emergency arises. I have an accurate fix on my location (from GPS, map and compass, astronomical observation, etc...). I manage to get in touch with emergency services and need to tell them where I am. But there are many different formats I could use to report my position. 

You're talking about 2 extremes: very cheap sleeping-bag from supermarket and very expensive down sleeping bag for freezing temperatures. I've bought myself the synthetic sleeping bag, which was about 4 times cheaper than proffessional down one. However, I've bought the sleeping bag in proffessional outdoor store, made by known outdoor company. Find the synthetic with possibly lowest comfort temperature and it should be OK for the temperatures you've mentioned. I've slept with my synthetic in temperatures about 0(C). 

You shouldn't place a cache on someone's property without permission, that's for sure. But when the property belongs to me, I can hide cache on my own backyard. However, what should I do to assure safe searching for geocachers? Strange people walking at the night through the door and sniffing around the fence are looking quite suspicious and they can alarm local police or neighbors. I don't want, however, to inform anyone around about that cache - I want to keep it secret only for 'chosen'. Is there something I can do, for example some 'camouflage' giving excuse to strangers to visit my backyard? 

I prefer taking light trekking shoes and sandals. Sandals are very light and take little place, and they are perfect when it's very hot and terrain is light. I often get blisters when my feet are sweating and it's hot, especially when walking on asphalt. In the winter, however, I take heavy trekking shoes. But I have also running shoes - but I use them exclusively for running. If I would have to decide for only one pair, I would choose light trekking shoes. 

As @wedapashi already stated, permethrin is a very good choice. And even though it's an insecticide, I find it works well as a repellent also. I treat all my clothing (even socks and underwear) and gear. I can't even remember the last time I found a tick on me. Even keeps the mosquitoes away. Once dry, it's safe for all animals (except insects). Permethrin is not new. It's a synthetic version of what's found naturally in marigolds (pyrethrin). It's currently used by the military when washing uniforms, and also sprayed on orchards and farm livestock. You can buy it in small aerosol cans ($$$), or buy it concentrated on Amazon ($) and use a garden sprayer to dilute & apply it. I would avoid using DEET if at all possible. DEET is toxic even to us. If you do use DEET, don't use anything greater than 20-30%. Higher concentrations DO NOT provide more protection, but may melt any plastics you have on you, and/or remove any paint (latex) that may be hit when spraying. 

You can make your own easy enough. Just print onto a clear transparency (used primarily in overhead projectors). Tape that onto some clear plastic (can purchase at Home Depot and maybe art store). 

Most small tents these days are pretty easy to set up, but you will have to do a little more than just "throw it at the ground". :-) In the US, we have a retail chain called Walmart that sells pretty cheap stuff. This is where I would go. I don't think they're in the UK. Maybe you have something similar. Some things to look for: 

When hiding something in the forest on the surface, there's a great practice called UPS (Unusual Pile of Sticks, the German version is very sweet: Hasengrill). They prevent people from boaring a few acres of land and are great replacement for spoiler photos. However, snow makes them invisible. How should I build my UPS to make it visible even in winter? Well, for 2-meter thick snow nothing would help, but it's usual, at least in Central Europe, that snow has 10-20 cm. 

Is there any special effective technique (parkour or something similar) for crossing very high and dense mountain pine? Those ones can be really dense, and sometimes the only possibility to cross them is to walk on the top of them, and crossing it is usually very slow and tiring, especially with big backpack that likes to hook the branches. 

A skin is a skin, so there's no difference if you take off your T-Shirt or your pants first time in the season. The less the body part is used to the sun, the more protection it needs. Well, the only difference is the skin on the penis, which is usually naturally a bit darker, so it already has more sun protection (which doesn't mean you can't get sunburns there). For the first whole-day trip I'd take 10 for the parts that were already exposed to sun in the season, and 30 for the rest. After getting used to the sun I'd leave 10 for the parts most exposed to the sun, such as shoulders. When hiking, I never use sun-lotion to my forearms and calves, except the very beginning of the season. I sunbath occasionally, but from my experience the most endangered parts are breast, shoulders and the back of the knees. If I get sunburns, it's usually there. 

Just saying what time you're expected back isn't enough. If I'm going in an area that has any level of danger, I tell people when I expect to make contact, and when to call 911. 

All 4 major carriers have either implemented or are implementing text-to-911 service. U.S. mobile providers commit to emergency texting service In the event that this doesn't work, you can always text a friend or family member. They can then call 911 for you. If they are in a different area, then they will be transferred to the correct area. 

If it's honeydew, then soap & water should do the trick. Do not use harsh soap. An alternative method is to use a gritty, oily mixture to rub it out. I'm thinking maybe baking soda & vegetable oil. The grit helps break up the sticky substance, and the oil keeps it from re-sticking. Similar to using peanut butter to get gum out of your hair. Then use a soap & water solution to wash the oil out. Good luck, and let us know what ended up working. 

You asked about equipment & training. What you didn't ask, but may be useful is where to hike and who to hike with. There are hiking & outdoor clubs all over the place. Most of them will accept beginners. Start on easier hikes and work your way up. You'll also get a chance to ask others on their equipment choices. To find these clubs, just do a google search for outdoor club and your city, or try meetup.com Have fun!