First, you should be accurately reporting the hours you work. Depending on where you work, falsifying a timesheet (even if you're underreporting) could be illegal, and if nothing else you're currently not giving the company an accurate picture of what you spend your day doing. You shouldn't go to your manager and just say you don't like this work. Everyone has to do some stuff they don't like doing, and the response will probably be "Too bad." What you should do is tell him that you're concerned about your ability to give your best effort towards productive work on the project when you're spending so much time training new people. If you start accurately reporting your hours, even if you're salaried exempt, you can point to these reports and say "I spent X hours per week doing training over this time period, which lead me to do Y hours of overtime. I appreciate the trust you've shown in me with this added responsibility, but I'm concerned about how these extra tasks are affecting my productivity on the project. Is it possible to get someone else to help out with training new recruits?" However, if your timesheet shows that you're getting all your work done in the normal number of hours, your manager will probably ask why the timesheet says one thing and you're telling him another. Also, this is based off the assumption that you're okay with doing the work, but it's just taking up too much time. If you're actually just uncomfortable with training people period, that's a different discussion that needs to be had, but it will probably have implications for your future and advancement within the company if you're unwilling to take on this kind of added responsibility. 

I had a similar issue when I was searching for work. I don't know your personal situation, but I had a solid explanation for why I had bad grades, and was able to show that after taking some time to address it, I turned that around and had a GPA over 3.5 my last few terms in school. As has been suggested in other answers, use your resume to highlight the other accomplishments that show your grades don't paint the whole picture of your capabilities and accomplishments. If they give you the opportunity to write a cover letter, you might quickly address the poor grades, but don't dwell on them; the cover letter should talk about reasons why they should hire you, not be an argument against the reasons why not. For future applications, I would also leave out your GPA from your resume. Obviously still list your degree and graduation date, but there's no need to put something that you're not proud of right in front of them. If they need it, they'll request it, but at least it won't be the first thing they see about you. Lastly, you lose almost nothing by sending him the transcript and resume. Maybe they're okay with your grades. Maybe not. But if they aren't, all that happens is you don't get the interview or the job. If there's a position you want, go ahead and apply. Let the company tell you they don't want you for it. No one has ever thought "Well, this guy isn't great, but he applied, so I guess we have to hire him." 

A few things you should consider. First up: absolutely everyone is replaceable. From the CEO on down to the janitor, everyone can be replaced. So the idea that they "can't fire you" or that you are "indispensable" is provably false. What do you think they'd do if you just suddenly didn't show up to work anymore? They'd hire a few people to come in, clean up the mess and get things back on track. Second: if you are the only developer who has knowledge of a particular system then it is highly probable that the system isn't quite as "mission critical" as you believe. Further, there are smart developers everywhere who know how to jump into a code base and quickly pick up where the previous owner left off. Will they make mistakes? Yes. Will it matter? No, because people have a lot of patience when new people join a team. Third: People who are willing to share domain knowledge and have a track record of helping their coworkers are highly valued by any competent business manager/owner. Conversely, people who hoard knowledge and are unwilling to teach others how their stuff works are viewed with suspicion and often find out that they aren't as "indispensable" as they thought when management walks them out the door. Fourth: Any relationship that is held together by fear or threat won't last. The day you ever indicate to your manager that you believe they can't fire you will likely be your last (or close to it) at that company. Point is, your concept of the position you are in isn't conducive to long term employment. 

I've personally been in the boss's shoes when we had a slow sales cycle. I gave everyone 30 days notice of when the money would run out and let each of them decide if they wanted to go to the end. The end being the last day I had money to make payroll. Some did, some didn't. In our case, it worked out as we had a few very late paying clients whose checks finally showed up with a couple days left in our "Startup death clock". I would never have asked people to work for free in the hopes of getting a future check. Never mind that it's illegal where I'm at, it's just unethical. So if we wouldn't have finally been paid by a few clients then I would have closed the whole thing down. 

This I don't have much of an answer for. In general, since your manager has low availability, I would plan to handle most things yourself, and keep him in the loop on the team's day-to-day activities via an email status. Other than that, try to keep your plate clean by assigning work out quickly and not getting caught up in any one item for too long. As a software developer, you may find value in reviewing recent code changes the team has done; read over the problem statement, then look at what was done to fix it, and that can help you get familiar with the code. If necessary, find a developer to walk you through some of the messier parts of the code. 

This is important - if the opening comes available very shortly, and you're able to meet with her and say "I'm sorry, but I told you this was important, and you're not making [any/enough] progress in this area, so we're unable to consider you for promotion at this time", she should understand that it's due to her own actions. Perhaps the opening won't be for several months. You should still have these meetings very soon! She should get frequent updates on how she's doing - this shows her that you're very invested in her progress at the company, but that you're very serious about her correcting these flaws. (Additionally, you don't say a lot about whether Jeff would want the position - if so, I'd have a very similar meeting with him. Tell him that his distaste for management is showing through, and that he'd have to work on that before he'd be considered.) In the meantime, I would consider promoting Gary (and possibly Gordon) to "upper peasant" shortly, if they merit it. That way, whenever the Master Chief position becomes available, if you rule Jennifer, Jeff, and Joe out, they're at the same level and could be considered equally. I would also sit down with George and explain what he needs to do before he'll be considered for promotion (to upper peasant, as well as Master Chief). Also tell him that his negative attitude has been noted recently and needs to improve in short order. Finally - sit down with everyone else too! Talk about where they see themselves within the next year or two, and what they need to do to get there. If they've got sky-high dreams, you should be able to help them build a path to get there. 

Before you do anything I think you need to determine whether there is an actual "issue" here or not. The situation seems to be: small company, laid back owner, has been in business for at least several years and is obviously capable of making payroll. Dev team isn't doing much and owner is apparently unconcerned. Some businesses simply aren't destined to grow. The owner is happy with the way things currently are and has become complacent. This sounds like that type of situation. Now, the "issue" you are talking about is simply that dev isn't making progress. Unfortunately, that's not your call. Point is: if the other devs are pretty tight with the owner then it will be unlikely that whatever you do will improve things. Which means you have a choice: enjoy the "vacation" so to speak or move on to a faster paced environment. 

Maybe. I write just about everything down, that helps me remember. Also, I create checklists when I can't remember all of the steps involved. For example: 

Now, to the more important aspect here. You have a very nice situation. While getting your degree you are free to work or not as you wish. As such you have very little risk at this time. The company, on the other hand, takes all the risk with whether or not you can deliver. Which means you are likely working on smaller jobs. Smaller jobs generally have a much higher overhead, as a percentage of job cost, than larger ones. Someone is billing the client, someone is managing the relationship, someone is getting paid for selling the deal, etc. All of these come out of that hourly rate that they charge. That said, you could likely work out a deal where you made more money. It's just not going to be 2 or even 3 times what you are making now. The main question you have to ask yourself is if this is even worth it. If you ask for more then there is a possibility of them deciding that these small jobs aren't worth it to them. Considering your situation my advice would be to not bother and instead keep focusing on completing your degree. Once you are in a position to take on full time employment THEN approach them with how much you actually want - while interviewing around. The reason for this advice is simply that there aren't many jobs like the one you described and the consequences of potentially losing this far outweighs sticking it out until you are ready to pursue full time opportunities. 

As has been noted already, there are plenty of different ways to go about this. My boss has "Thanks, [his name]" at the end of every email. I've seen people who default to Regards, Best Regards, and sometimes even just "BR" as well. If I'm sending an email to people in my office, who I see every day, usually I put "Thanks," above my standard signature. Emails that are a matter of record, e.g. notices of changes to drawings, usually include the PDF and my signature and nothing else. When I email colleagues in my company but in another office whom I don't know personally, I usually use "Regards,". What this really boils down to is, no one cares that much. If you're seriously in doubt, I would err on the side of being more formal and ending everything with "Regards". However, it's unlikely that the word you pick to end your emails will affect your career and peoples' image of you unless it's a profanity or exceedingly rude. 

It seems that you actually have two problems here. First is an internal issue, that the support team is directing problems to you when you don't have the time to address them due to the new projects you're working on. You need to work with your manager to identify who internally can handle questions from the support team if that's something you don't have the time to deal with. As far as addressing your unavailability to your clients, I think you just need to be direct, but then also help them direct their issue to someone who can assist them. It doesn't have to be long or overly apologetic. Something along the lines of "I apologize for the problem you're having [if that's appropriate] and I value the relationship we have. Unfortunately, my time is currently consumed developing new projects, and I am not able to give your question the dedication it deserves." Then, depending on how your support system works, either CC a support representative and introduce them to your client, or provide them with the relevant info for how to file a ticket. My last bit of advice would be to try and keep them in touch with a real person during and after that hand-off. Think about how many commercials there are with people frustrated about dealing with an automated system. If they get the idea that they're sending their support issue into a this mysterious automated system, they'll reach out to you because they know you're a real person and have helped them in the past. If you can say "I know Bob in support, Bob is a good person, he's knowledgeable and helpful, and I trust him. I've told him about your problem, and he'll take care of you." that's going to make them feel a lot better than "Please send this e-mail to support@company.com instead." The feasibility of this may depend on the size of your company, but if you're filling as many roles as you say, I imagine you at least know a few of the people in the support department. 

I know you may not want to take any action, but I would bring it up to HR. This is the kind of thing that could get your company in legal trouble. Someone in HR should be able to go by his office and say something like "I heard you're holding guys-only get-togethers after work; that's not acceptable. You either need to be sure to invite women or you need to halt the get-togethers altogether." (If they're talking about it at work, they can claim they heard the story second- or third-hand, and keep your involvement out of it.) 

The common response I hear is similar to yours ("be vague; don't give them something to write down later in case you apply with them in the future"), but I see a benefit (to the company) to telling them "I'm sorry, but your offer is below market rate for my services, so I'm unable to accept it". If the company gets enough similar responses, it could give them the bargaining power to go to the higher-ups and say "we're getting a lot of push-back on this offer, saying it's too low. We need to reconsider improving it, or at least opening negotiations if it's the right person". (The fact that it's a pay cut opens that door to a slightly different answer as well - "I'm sorry, but your offer would be a pay cut for me, and I'm not in a position to accept that." The effect is the same ("we need to offer more money to attract the right candidate"), but it's even more understandable - "this person's not even necessarily looking for a pay increase, just to not have a pay decrease".) However, as you say, there's the risk of upsetting them if they're not happy to hear what you have to say. In the end, the answer is up to you - if you don't feel like risking it, there's nothing wrong with giving them the polite answer. (Considering you've discussed the benefits and salary enough that they told you "HR tied our hands", they'll probably at least infer that that's part of the reason, even if you don't mention it.)