Hard to tell but that is a carbon fork A rear rack would require a bigger seat stay. I think they could but it just does not made that much sense. If you want to carry a load then go steel or titanium. 

If it did not come with a manual you can get one online MERIDIAN OWNER'S MANUAL Page 12 states how to install the secondary chain It states the secondary chain should have less than 5 mm of play up or down 

Heat and temperature are related but not the same. It takes a pretty long decent to over heat brakes. By pumping the brakes more heat is released to the air. Even on disc brakes a small gap is way bigger than no gap. It does not take much air flow to carry off the heat. On a hot day even the slightest breeze makes a difference. Radiant heat will find its way out with no air flow. Under harder braking you will generate less heat as it wears the brake down more and that absorbs some energy. As the brake gets hot it has less friction so more of the kinetic energy goes to heat then temperature. Alternating the brakes allows you to pump the brakes and maintain a constant speed. You could pump both at the same time for equal cooling. A slower decent will have less temperature because the brakes have more time to cool. And the heat is generated at a lower rate. There might be window were medium braking is more than light but if you slow it down then you can pretty much always control temperature. I loaded truck will creep down a long hill. If you feel a brake starting to fade (less friction) stop and let it cool off. On rim brakes you can heat up tires. On disc brakes you can boil the brake fluid. Naturally a bigger disc will have more cooling. I will use the rear on a longer decent as the primary to have some reserve in the front. Don't go into an aero position so more air drag. 

Pull the tire. Don't just clear it of substantial debris - clear it of all debris. If there is something in there it will work though the cords. If you are into the cord then still do not give up as that is a decent tire. From the inside if you can see damage to the cord then time to get a new tire. While you have it off pull the front and rotate. Front tire takes less abuse and less weight. If I have the rear tire off, it is more worn than the front, and run same tires front and rear then I rotate. Another opinion is to put the best tire in front. SheldonTireRotation For me I get a new tire and save that as an emergency spare. Don't do an insert - that is just what you do to get home. It will shift and wear out a tube in no time at all. 

But you don't know your bike would handle any better with 650. In an earlier post you said you liked your wife's bike. Wheel size is not the only difference unless they are otherwise the same bikes. Put your wife's wheels on your bike and try for yourself. My 29er is better than my old 26 is every way. The clearance is only 1/2 the difference so a change of about 2 cm. But 2 cm is enough to notice. Not just clearance you change geometry. But that may be a good thing for your supertanker. Also the weight of the wheel and tire will effect the performance. Even how easily it turns Angular_momentum. A lighter wheel and tire will be more nimble to turn. A lighter 29er might give you (a bit) or what you are looking for. In the end a different frame geometry may be what you need. I think you are putting too much on wheel size alone. 

I ski patrolled and carried toboggans up a lift like that all the time. A toboggan is bigger and heavier than a bike. No you cannot drop the safety bar (on that type of chair). Ideally would haul up with two but I was strong enough to haul alone. If there was tail wind it could be scary even with two. Sit back and suck the weight (top tube) into your chest to get your weight back so you don't go out the front. When you disembark I would think run it out rather then try to mount the bike immediately. 

You need a kit to bleed that brake. Disc Brake Bleed Kit It is one of those tools/kits that as an individual it is not worth buying. Even on Amazon the kit it $40. A (quality) bleed replaces the fluid. 

As for threads when you have the bolt out then grease the thread before you put it back in. I never pull a bolt just to grease the threads. If you have a lot sulfur in the air then don't feed it with water to create sulfuric acid unless you are going to protect it. 

A comment asked about -40 F. Would it seal a puncture? I don't know. I imagine you can go a bit past -30 F and sealing performance would degrade. At some point it would out right freeze and then for sure it would not seal. According to the MSDS the freezing point is -20 F. Which does not make sense with the -30 F use. MSDS As for appropriate for winter. If you want to ride at low pressure then yes. Your winter riding may differ from your summer riding. Rock gardens may be covered in snow. Swapping out tires on a tubeless is a LOT more more work. If you ride different tires from summer to winter then factor that in. 

It is not like you go the shop and buy a specific size so I have never found a need to know the number of lengths in my chain. 114 and 116 seem to be common packaging. If you have a touring with a long chain stay or tandem then you would have some custom length chains. I suspect they just buy multiple packages and some extra connectors. You can buy spools of raw chain. Every manufacturer seems to count chain length the same in chain packages. Here is a safe definition if you want to remove the possible confusion of plate, half, or full. On the connected (or a configuration that will connect) chain count the number of rollers 

It is a Gitane touring bicycle. By searching you should be able to match a year. Probably from the 90's as threadless stems came on about 2000. If is rolls $100 is a good price. 

There a a lot of bikes that will take fenders and a rack. Including but not limited to: touring, lite touring, expedition, some cyclocross, city, and hybrid. I would look used for a used bike that will take fenders and a rack. May include criteria will take 32 mm tires with fenders. Spend like $400 used and have money left over for fenders, rack, and tune up. Even new you can get decent bike with with fenders and a rack for $600. 

New you can't do it for less than $200 unless it is off brand (not Shimano or SRAM) Shimano does not offer 1x11 in the lower end groups. It would be like 1/2 the value of your bike. Not using the smallest up front is not a big deal. I would just keep what you have. You can remove the smallest and adjust the range if you want to. Or you could swap to double crank. Not sure if you can still use the same shifter or front derailleur. Not seeing many used 1x11 yet. Maybe look for a used 1x9. I don't think there are any true (narrow wide) 1x8. 

I have never raced but there is a cyclocross race at a park near me next weekend. All it said is some sand and some drop offs. I would like some advice on selecting a bike and setting it up. I have Bianchi Cylcocross Concept and Salsa La Cruz Ti. They are both Ultegra and greared the same 48/39 12-28. Both cantilever and weigh about the same. The concept is my workout bike and the Salsa by daily banger / commuter. The Concept feels faster but the Salsa feels more stable. I also feel like the Salsa can take a crash better. So my thought is the Salsa. I take it they race with cleats? For a first race should I cleat. I am comfortable with cleats. I have touring tires on them now but I have some Conti 32 Twister. Would they be OK? Would I run them at max pressure? I weigh 165. I also have a Niner Air 9 Carbon single speed mountain bike with carbon fork, disc brakes, and tubeless. I am not comfortable on big drop off on my cyclcross. I rode the park on four set ups. With 32 mm it was just too fast for me. There are some downhills with rocks that I would need to run at max pressure and even not in a group picking my line I was not comfortable. The Air 9 was super stable but not very fast. I rode the park 15 minutes each direction and if the long hill is uphill then the single speed is not geared correctly but I am pretty sure they will have us ride down that hill. The Salsa with 38 mm small block at mid pressure felt stable but still has a speed. As far as cleats. I would not want to ride the downhills without em. Getting bounced hard enough that need bike attached. 

Stable and non-reactive. Oxygen, nitrogen, are water are all relatively stable and non-reactive. Oxygen is a stronger oxidizing agent. Nitrogen oxidizes the rubber at a lower rate. Better PVT characteristics. Nitrogen does not change pressure with temperature as much as air. You don't want the pressure in your tires to change. Storage and transportation There are some of rent a bike racks the use nitrogen because it is easier to get a storage and transportation permit. Oxygen alone is not combustible but it supports combustion. Nitrogen is not combustible does not support combustion. 

Did you like the CitiBike? If so look for a bike like that. A commute bike will normally have slightly larger tires - 28mm-35mm. If you want fenders then get a bike with fenders or at least will take fenders. If you want a rack then get a bike with rack or at least will take a rack. Many manufacturers now have lines called City/Hybrid/Mulituse/Urban (or to that effect). Kind of need to decide if you want flat bars or drop bars - you can get commuter type bikes both ways. In NYC a single speed might be enough. A lot depends on what you want. Also how well can you lock it up? If you have to leave it out then go cheap. After I first answered you added that you like the CitiBike. Look around. Fender and basket are going to be pretty easy to find. Internal hub is not going to be as easy. A nice internal hub is more expensive but a lot of people like them. My neighbor got a cheap internal hub and has trouble with it. If you go the internal hub route then get a nice bike. Hopefully you will get some specific recommendations. 

I seriously doubt the axle is slipping in the frame. So a tighter quick release will not help. The frame will flex a bit under load. That is natural. I assume you have checked the wheel is true? I would not rub on an expensive frame. I would not rub on even a cheap frame. Look for a thinner tire. Not all 25 are the same. Limited but there are some 24. Or drop down to 23 like batman said (+1). If you try other 25 mm the good news it you can still use it as a spare front but you already have one spare front. Something like a Continental Grand Prix Force 24 mm? Can you tell if it is rubbing on both sides? You could mount a camera. 

I take road bikes off curbs. Up is different - hop up. If you bent a rim you would most likely heard a ding and then felt the rim wobble. 

But you do see it in BMX, track, and fixie You don't see it in narrow chians as have a derailleur to take up slack 

You want to stay centered. Don't push the bars down. But don't wait to kicking downwards when the bike is just about to land. Extend in air smoothly so you have room to absorb and get ready for landing. On a hop you are trying to get air so you will be extended. If it a jump you are tying to absorb you will be compressed so you will extend in air. If you are not in the air very long it does not matter much - no kicking - smooth motions. 

Shimano, the distributor, and the retailer can pretty much set the price they want. It is common for older components to be more. Clearly the distributor and retailer are not going to take a loss. The marginal cost to Shimano is pretty low. Most of the cost is R&D, tooling, and branding. Shimano wants you in their higher end stuff to promote their brand. Once Shimano has machining set up the cost for them to produce one versus the other is the same. And they may have some innovation that the new is actually cheaper to produce.