Finally, while baseball is definitely easier to track statistics on, it's also the first sport where it was tried. Baseball stats (box scores) have been around for a century, with fairly detailed statistics for much of that. The sabremetric movement began in baseball in the 1970s, and thus it's more advanced than it is in other sports regardless of difficulty. It's possible it stared in baseball because of the simplicity, but it's also possible it simply was first because baseball was the most popular sport for decades and thus had the most detailed statistics. 

You don't specify what rules your league operated under, and I don't know high school girl's basketball; but if they use FIBA rules or a modification thereof, there are specific procedures for correcting errors. In the FIBA Rulebook: 

The owners would implement a salary cap in a New York Minute if they had the opportunity. The players, however, would not agree, and because MLB is so successful monetarily even without one, and also has one of the most powerful players unions, the owners don't have the power to force it on them. It's not hard to find articles about how the MLB owners would like a salary cap and the MLBPA refuses; see this one, this one, Why is that? Because a salary cap is not intended to create parity. The primary function of a salary cap is to reduce player salaries, or at least keep them from escalating too quickly. Salary caps reduce the maximum a player can earn - either directly (NBA-style) or indirectly (NFL style) by simply reducing the total amount a team may spend on salaries. The problem with MLB being uncapped (particularly pre-recent luxury tax rules) was that player contracts simply escalated as new owners came in and decided to spend a lot. That escalation was not necessarily related to total income of the league. NFL and NHL, and to a lesser extent NBA (which is a softer cap closer to MLB's current system) have direct ties between revenue and player salaries - which mean you can't have player salaries escalate dramatically, unless the total revenue for the league is very high. Look at the following chart of post-1994 strike revenue vs. player salaries: 

Most of the time, the teams don't actually "move" around, per se. Minor League teams are usually separate corporations from the major league team, and form affiliations with major league teams, via the Player Development Contract. This affiliation allows the Major League team to have control over the players and coaches of the minor league team, but the other elements of the team (the stadium, ticket sales, administrative details, etc.) are managed by the Minor League franchise. That said, it's certainly possible for a Minor League team to relocate physically (as well as change affiliation, or not) - usually for the same reasons as Major League teams might relocate: attendance, stadium conditions, etc.; and occasionally also as a result of a player development contract - but often not. MLB.com has a fairly detailed section on the business of Minor League Baseball and covers all of this in much more detail. In your specific example, the New York Mets ended their relationship with the Norfolk Tide after 2006, and changed to the New Orleans Zephyrs for two years, then the Buffalo Bisons for four, now the Las Vegas 51s since 2013. All of those teams are still in existence, and have relationships with other teams (Buffalo is now the Blue Jays AAA team, for example). As to how frequently it changes, well, the Mets were affiliated with the Tides, originally the Tidewater Tides (originated 1961, affiliated with NYM in 1969) from 1969 to 1990. The Tides then moved to Norfolk, remaining affiliated with the Mets until 2006; at the time the second longest affiliation between a AAA team and a Major League team (the Atlanta Braves had the longest) at 37 years. They then changed teams three times in less than 10 years. So - certainly it happens from time to time, and 30 years is a "long" time to have a single affiliation. I would say it is a fairly common occurrence overall; most years it seems a couple of teams change at least. My team (the White Sox) hasn't changed any of their main affiliates (Charlotte, Birmingham, Winston-Salem, Kannapolis) since 2001 , but who knows when that might change... and they change their rookie league teams pretty frequently (those are much higher turnover, from what I've seen). 

It is not specifically enumerated in the list of unsportsmanlike actions, although the list is not intended to be exhaustive. I would surmise if this actually were to occur, it might be added to the list the next year. Alternately, it's possible it would simply not count and they would lose the opportunity to re-try. Personally, that feels like the better option: the rules don't allow for a kick from the 2, so if you want to kick from the two, feel free, you just give up your point. 

(2/3A are referring to specific problems with lighting or injuries, and not relevant here.) As such, it's permissible for a runner on second or third to attempt to advance during a pickoff play, assuming the pickoff play itself was during a live ball situation (otherwise it's pointless, as runners are not liable to be put out during dead ball situations). It isn't a common occurrence at the major league level, but it is certainly possible in the case of a double steal (where both runners are attempting to advance, and the pitcher guesses correctly and tries to pick one off). At lower levels, it may be more common as pickoff plays and subsequent throws carry more risk of overthrows or players not paying sufficient attention. 

I would argue that suggests that the appeal play is permitted after the substitution assuming no pitch or play had occurred in the intervening time period. (And I think warmup tosses are permitted.) I do think this would be, at least, frowned upon by the umpires, though, as there's no reason to do this (I guess, the team might have been tipped off in the intervening time that the runner left early and they didn't realize it earlier as you say, but really they should just appeal if there's any possibility - no cost to an appeal, as opposed to a review). 

Assuming you're talking about the 'armor' some batters wear (not a purely supportive brace made out of terry cloth or similar), the leg brace is usually to shield the batter from a ball striking his leg, often caused by a foul off of a ball in on the hands. Those balls can come with substantial force directly down into a player's ankle or calf (or higher occasionally), causing potential injury. The batter would remove the brace once he becomes a runner (and can do so without risk of being out), since it hinders his ability to run. Odds are he was injured at some point and decided to wear the brace to protect his leg. I believe Pena had a hamstring injury last month, perhaps that is vulnerable to re-injury due to this sort of thing. 

The significance of the timing here is that players must withdraw from draft eligibility prior to the draft, which takes place in June. A player who remains on the draft eligible list but is not drafted may not return to NCAA competition; often these players will leave and go overseas. This is a relatively new rule (2011); prior (2009) it was in mid-may. It is largely to allow coaches to better plan scholarships, since the spring signing period is when they go recruiting. You also may not have retained an agent, although this may change in the future; one of the major problems with the NBA draft is players feeling they are ready and then not being drafted because they get bad advice. Agents would have an incentive to encourage entering the draft, so allowing agent contact would be fairly complex. 

Hockey Reference was able to at least partially answer this; I only searched on goals=3 and goals=4 (so a 5+ goal game wouldn't show up). However, it seems to be a very common occurrence. For example, it happened 7 times so far this season; Shawn Matthias (of Vancouver) scored 3 goals on 3 shots on 2/13 versus Boston. According to my Hockey-Reference search, it occurred 233 times since 1987 (when their database begins keeping track). It also showed 10 4 goal-4 shot games. I didn't look beyond that. 

Largely, because of how sports statistics were created. For a long time, statistics tended to be results oriented. Football statistics came from play by play, which went something like (below is my approximation, not actual PBP): 

All Major league baseball players are paid at a daily rate equivalent to their annual salary; that daily rate is calculated based on the Championship Season, which is defined as the time from Opening Day to the final day of the "regular" season (so, usually around Sept. 30). It is between 178 and 183 days in length. So, if the player is paid $1MM, and this year has 183 days in it, they are paid $5,464 per day. This distinction (between "days" and "games") is important both for players traded (who might play more than 162 games) and suspended (you lose your salary for the duration of the suspension, based on calendar days). The rate is regardless of games played; you get paid the same for being on the bench as on the field. In fact, if you have a Major League contract (and not a split contract), you get paid the same even in the minors. (Most players in their first six years are on effectively split contracts, as are many players who are either not good enough to make the majors as a regular ("AAAA" players) or who are no longer good enough may also agree to split contracts that pay differently based on whether they are on the Major League 25 man roster or not.) That payment is then made in semi-monthly installments during the championship season (ie, as opposed to many teachers and some other similar professions, baseball players receive all of their salary during the six or so months they play - they don't have to wait six months for the rest of it.) This is spelled out in the Uniform Player Contract. 

This query pulls up approximately the desired specifics - Walk-off win, RBI>=1, PA=1, PH position, finished game, didn't play any other position than PH. That's almost always going to be the exact specifics - occasionally you might have a PH in the final inning with a non-winning RBI of course, but usually it's not, and the distribution for that particular should be approximately consistent. I'm going to just list what year is on every 250 rows: 2014: 0 2003: 250 1992: 500 1983: 750 1976: 1000 1968: 1250 1958: 1500 So 11,11,9,7,8,10 years between each 250 rows. Sounds like it's slightly less common nowadays, if anything, assuming this query is correct; you'd have to be a Baseball Reference PI subscriber probably to verify this with any reasonable degree of certainty. Overall this is a pretty reasonably random distribution. 

To specifically answer the question, if the conditions are as stated, in scenario 1 the ball is out of bounds and reverts to the team who last possessed it (regardless of side). In scenario 2, the ball is also likely out of bounds, but not definitely (as the player is not "out of bounds" until some part of him actually touches the ground), and the defensive player could theoretically touch down in bounds. NFL does not consider a player touching another player to be out of bounds: 

A spike is indeed typically assigned to the "team". For example, you can review the play by play of the 9/23/17 game between Kentucky and Florida, and you'll see at 0:21 left in the 4th quarter this play: 

Assuming games are purely random chance, and assuming there aren't major external factors such as the second team having a single ace starter that there is a huge advantage to avoiding, C is favored. Chance of winning, assuming home team is 54% road team 46%: A: .54*.54 = .29 B: .46*.54 = .25 C: .46 = .46 A and B are splitting almost-evenly the chances of the home team winning, while C gets the whole road chance. A much better odds indeed. As such, I'd always choose C, unless I were facing a team like the White Sox or the Indians, who have a single starter who is so far above the other starters on the team as to justify avoiding playing that starter. Even then, their #2 (Quintana and Carrasco) aren't exactly rubes. 

The major reason players pitch on four days rest is that they are better pitchers when they do so. They are able to throw harder, throw more pitches, and throw more difficult pitches (with more spin/etc.) than they would if they had less rest. They are also less prone to injury. Some evidence exists that pitching on three days rest in the postseason (where it's somewhat common); for example, this article at BleacherReport finds pitchers pitching on three days rest (who are usually the ace or #2 pitcher of a team) have a 4.48 ERA and win less than 40% of the games they pitch. Some of this may be pitchers being unused to pitching in those circumstances (and pitching against fairly good teams, it being the postseason); but it does seem logical that pitching on short rest is somewhat harder. The other major factor is the fact that for most teams, the fifth starter isn't all that much worse than the fourth starter. While a few teams might have four great starters and then a poor fifth starters (the 2014 Tigers post-Price trade for example), the large amount of starting talent plus the ability to use multiple relievers means you wouldn't lose much by starting that fifth starter, particularly if it allows you to have better performances on the other four days. If the question is what's the difference between then and now, you'll probably find that the major difference is in modern strength techniques allowing pitchers to throw that much harder; this both increases the number of pitchers who can competently pitch, and increases the benefit from rest - I'd rather have my starter hit 94 on most of his pitches every fifth day, rather than throw at 92 every fourth day. 

In last night's Scotland-Sri Lanka match, Scotland lost their last wicket after 43.1 overs, 363/9 to 215/10 (43.1). At that point, averaging just under 5 runs per over, Scotland would have reached a point around the 47th over, where it would have been no longer (realistically) possible to win the match. For example, say they had not been dismissed in 43.1, and instead scored 5 (more) runs in that over, leading to 220 at 44.0. They then scored 5 more runs for the next several overs; at 47.0 they have a score of 235. With 18 balls remaining in 3 overs, they now trail by 128; but even if they hit sixes on every single ball, they could only score 108. Yes, there might have been extras, but hardly twenty of them. Had this happened, would they continue to bat (pointlessly)? (I realize that in some circumstances, total runs scored might factor into tiebreaks for going on, but clearly not in Scotland's case.) Would it have been by choice (similar to declaring an innings at end in a Test match, though that is usually for the opposite reason) or by rule? More generally: In a limited overs match (an ODI or similar), is there a criteria for ending a game prematurely when it is determined to be no longer possible that the team batting second can win?