I think the reason you were marked wrong is because your text book is using the term "climate" loosely. The deterioration of vegetation will result in desert encroachment ... which in turn can cause a change in local climate. After all, if you create more desert, you have changed the local climate, right? However, it takes many years to define a climate period, whereas desert encroachment can happen year to year. So, eventually the local climate can change... but not if the desert encroachment reverses for some reason. It's a very fine line, but answer #1 will most certainly occur while #2 may occur afterward if #1 is sustained. 

The continued trend of a warming climate that is expected due to increased GHGs will lead to a net increase in total moisture, since the atmosphere can hold more water vapor at higher temperatures. In general, the equatorial zones and poles will have a net increase in precipitation while lower mid-latitude zones will have reduced precip, with the rain belt moving poleward. Climate models generally show a pole-ward shift of extra-tropical precipitation because the increased heat energy allows convective systems in low latitudes to loft the convective air higher up, which in turn leads to greater horizontal transport (generally poleward) before air completely descends and contributes to the development of an associated storm system. You can also expect the poleward shift since cold temperatures accelerate the precipitation process, and since systems will have to travel a little further poleward to reach those cold temperatures. A 2014 IPCC Technical Summary figure (below) shows change in precipitation forecasted ~65 yrs into the future. The image on the left represents a best-case scenario if we reduce carbon emissions while the right represents more of a business-as-usual scenario. 

Looks like a shell from a bivalve of some kind, that has been worn presumably by wave action. You may want to update your question with more context. Where did you find it? Also, your photos are all out of focus and some are overexposed, so you may want to re-take the photos. You might also want to try asking on a biology or zoology site. 

21.7%, by my calculations (338 / 1556 holocene-active volcanoes). I calculated perennial snow by combining 6 weeks of MOD10A2 data from winter and summer weeks in 2014 to figure out which pixels had snow both in the summer and the winter. My source code for that is available as a gist (an older version accidentally classified cloud as snow; that's been fixed). Then I checked if these pixels fell within 10km of the volcanoes in the Smithsonian Institution's Global Volcanism Database. I also plotted the woefully incomplete Global Land Ice Measurements from Space glacier polygons. There are clearly a few false-positives on ocean islands... I think this is due to MOD10A2 marking choppy surf as snow. Looking into that. I intend to publish this and will put a reference here if it is published. Here's what the map looks like for part of Alaska: 

Because of the Coriolis Effect, the prevailing winds on the earth between about the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer go from the East to the West (knows as the Trade Winds). To get to the west coast of a continent within those latitudes, an air mass blowing from above an ocean must cross the entire continent. Along the way, the air mass causes precipitation (rain, snow, etc.) and loses water so by the time it reaches the west coast the air tends to be very dry and average annual precipitation will be very low. "Rain shadow" is a related effect in which the lee side of mountain ranges are dry because air masses experience orographic rainfall when they encounter the mountain range. This causes the Atacama desert to the west of the Andes, and the Mojave to the east of the Sierra Nevada. Note that the Mojave is east of the Sierra Nevada rather than west because the prevailing wind direction is westerly (from west to east) because it is north of Capricorn. Bear in mind that this explanation is extremely approximate and oversimplified, and that your assumption of deserts on the western side of a continent should be reversed north of about Capricorn and South of about Cancer, where the Trade Winds are replaced by the Westerlies. 

I think there are a few more options than bedrock/loose. But I owned a house 3 miles from the San Andreas fault, and a geophysical engineer explained it to me like this after telling me earthquake insurance would be a waste of money. The worst situation is landfill, like the Marina district in San Francisco that took much of the brunt of the 89 quake. That is just loose sand and gravel, and when shaken it acts like a liquid - in fact, they call it liquefication. The foundation shifts and sinks in it, like if you had a jar of sand and gravel and put a heavy rock on top and shook it. However, if you are on bedrock - or something tightly bound above it (like Franciscan shale), you get all the shaking transmitted, but the earth stays in place under and around the foundation. Earthquake damage can happen a few ways: from shaking up and down as well as sideways. The Mendocino quake in the 90s (I think) had more side-to-side movement than ever seen before, and house held together but slid off their foundations. After that they upped the degree to which house are bolted to the foundation to avoid lateral shifts. I am not sure soft soil 'amplifies' the shaking. There are a bunch of failure modes in buildings: they can come off the foundation; the foundation can shift and sink; the shaking can cause framing to collapse (which is why they put in shear walls); etc. Incidentally, wood structures often do better because they can flex. You'll never see a real brick house being built in a seismic zone anymore. In the end, it is about making the building live through the accelerations, and the hardest thing to deal with is loose soil that itself moves and flows under the structure. 

Looks like a chunk of quartz. Please re-write the question following A guide for asking "Identify this rock" questions? . 

On p. 6 of this article: Bliss, A.K., Cuffey, K.M., Kavanaugh, J.L., 2011. Sublimation and surface energy budget of Taylor Glacier, Antarctica. Journal of Glaciology 57, 684–696. There is an expression for sublimation rate as a function of latent heat flux $L$ and (specific) latent heat of sublimation (of water ice) $\lambda$. 

The Glen flow law for glaciers is a common relationship linking stress to strain. At its simplest, $\Sigma = k\tau^n$ where $\tau$ is stress, $\Sigma$ is strain, and $n$ is roughly 3. I understand that $k$ depends on temperature and material properties of the ice, and that it can vary over two or three orders of magnitude. I have been searching the literature to find some example values of $k$ (also called $B$ and $A$) but so far I've had a surprisingly hard time. Is there somewhere that has a compilation of $k$ values from various studies? 

Together, these two claims seem to imply that if it's not thicker than 30m, it's not a glacier. Are either of these claims correct, and do they indeed imply my conclusion? N.B. The question arises because I've been working with some literature and databases that refer to things less than 30m thick as glaciers. Update: looking closer at GlaThiDa, I notice that it contains 490 glaciers listed with mean_depth less than 5m. However, all of these are from a single article (Cogley, 2008) and some of them are apparently only centimeters thick. Something must be wrong with this data; I'm looking into it. 

Well, I think if it starts at T=30, and the dew point is T=15, then once it has dropped 15 degrees clouds will start to form. The DALR is about 10 degrees/km. SO, first, I think you need to solve for the altitude at which T will have dropped from 30 to 15. 

Take a look at this: $URL$ You can see a large spike in CO2 beginning with the Industrial Revolution. Now, the earth has natural cycles. But this is a very rapid change. And, we know that coincident with this, (1) the population grew a lot on earth, and (2) humans did a lot of things (mostly burning fossil fuels, but also burning wood, deforestation, out-gassing from coal seams, etc.). We can, in fact, estimate the amount of CO2 production caused by humans by looking at oil and coal production - and the amount line up between what we probably have produced and how much we see. And don't forget other gases are even more powerful (like methane). A large part of that comes from agriculture, particularly meat for human consumption. Animals that eat grasses can't digest the grass. Rather, they are really walking fermentation units, with bacteria that breaks down cellulose - which the animal can digest - but which give off methane as a side-product. So another approach is to use what economists call "instrumental variables": by looking at global GDP, for example, as a proxy for human 'production', we can see that changes in these gases has a high correlation with human activity. One thing to note is that it only takes a small CO2 (or other greenhouse gas) change to drive a big temperature change. CO2 is only a few hundred parts per million of the atmosphere; methane is even less. The 'natural' greenhouse gases keep earth as warm as it is to allow life as we know it (by about 30 degrees Celsius) by reabsorbing long-wave radiation from the surface (hence the name greenhouse gases). SO, it only take a small change in those to drive a relatively large effect. People often don't know that. I often compare it to 'sterile procedure' in medicine. You won't get a surgical infection if a few bacteria get into the wound; you need to have a small colony enter (hundreds or thousands) to get a foothold. But, once you cross a threshold, the problem grows fast. 

Neither displacement nor acceleration; most seismometers measure velocity. If you want displacement, you integrate the output over time, and if you want acceleration, you differentiate the output over time. Check the datasheet for the instrument you are interested in. For example, the Guralp 3T datasheet says that it outputs 1500V m/s, so for each meter per second of ground velocity the output increases by 1500V. (It also says it only outputs from +20V to -20V, so this means ground velocities greater than 20/1500 = 0.013 m/s will be "off the chart" i.e. saturate the instrument). Actually, the voltage output from a seismometer is not exactly proportional to displacement, velocity, OR acceleration. The actual output is the input displacement convolved with the impulse response of the seismometer. It's just that the impulse response is designed such that it will have an approximately linear response to ground velocity within the corner frequencies. In the 3T datasheet we were looking at, they say it's within -3 dB of linear as long as it's measuring ground that's not oscillating faster than 50Hz or slower than 0.0083Hz for one version of the instrument. Measuring displacement directly is known as geodesy (as opposed to seismometry) and the tools used for those measurements include GPS, lidar, and radar. To measure acceleration (strong motion), as Jay says, you can use an accelerometer. Or, precariously balanced rocks for the palaeo case! 

The authors attributed these effects to decompression melting. If you remove a weight from above a magma chamber, the pressure in the chamber is reduced, and the melting temperature is lowered, causing an increase in the amount of melt available for eruption. (Personally, I suspect that it's not really decompression melting causing the change in eruption rate but actually just fractures opening and closing.) The Tolstoy paper claims that if you look at seafloor topography, you see bumps where more lava erupted and piled up higher. Further, it says those bumps correlate with the 100,000 year Milankovitch global climate cycle. So, orbital eccentricity --> sea level --> midocean ridge eruption rate --> seafloor topography. This is a brand new idea and needs much more testing. (Personally, I find the topography thing hard to believe because that topography is probably more fault-controlled than eruption-rate-controlled.) Tolstoy even claims that low tide causes eruptions! She uses a Schuster test to say that the majority of seafloor eruptions occur during neap tide. However, we don't observe seafloor eruptions very often, so she is making this claim using only 9 data points. It's currently unknown whether these unloading / loading effects are important at subduction zones or LIP. You've asked a difficult question which volcanologists have been attempting to understand for decades and will continue to work on for the foreseeable future. In summary, my answer is that cutting-edge research suggests that global eruption rate fluctuates in response to climate via changes in the masses pushing down on magma reservoirs.