This, of course, should not imply that that there are no other possible predictors, e.g., the economic inequality as expressed as, e.g., Gini index, is probably positively correlated with crime, while general wealth negatively. 

Of course, the "rank and file" Old Bolsheviks (the definition changed in time - from joining before 1904, to joining before 1917, to having been in the party for 18+ years) suffered less than the top crust (just like in the military: 60% of Marshals executed, but fewer than half the Comandarms). The point is that everyone who had their own opinion instead of being Stalin's puppet was killed, and those on the top are also more likely to have their own opinion. 

When Hitler declared war on the US, he mentioned that "they are already fighting us anyway". Constraints on FDR As an extended reply to a comment 

US underestimated the importance of the space race and the Soviet commitment to it. This is why SU beat the US to Sputnik and Gagarin. Nevertheless, by the early 60-ies, the US was pouring resources into its space program and the SU just could not compete (this is somewhat similar to the Star Wars episode in the 1980-ies). Note that it takes time to build up the momentum in such a program, similar to, e.g., battleship/carries building in WW2. 

Such a ship would have to be sail-only (a row ship would have to carry too many people to have a sufficient range). This means that it has to carry several different sails - and managing them is a very non-trivial art. Also, building a big ship which does not capsize in a rough sea is another highly non-trivial exercise. So, until caravel ocean crossing was not feasible. Navigation Navigation was less important because travel around Africa to India can "hug the coast" and traveling between Europe and America is East/West, so as long as you keep your latitude (which can be measured relatively easily) you will hit your target eventually (and one can even estimate ETA using dead reckoning). Thus ocean crossing became feasible before the problem of longitude was resolved. Note that a big sailing ship "can afford" being lost at sea: it can carry plenty of water (and food) for the sailors and it will not run out of fuel. This means that not being able to reliably determine one's location is not such a disaster as for a modern steam ship. Naval Lookouts were always on the lookout for land and other ships though. 

Ceylon was, indeed, an important island, but it was far beyond the effective reach of the IJN. The raid was just a raid - a successful attempt to 

I don't think it would be possible to produce a "day to day" statistics. One datapoint is Order No. 227 (1942 July 28): 

These appear to confirm that the actions of the nurse in question were a violation of the rules of war. Her mitigating circumstance is the lack of premeditation (i.e., she went to battle without prior intent to lead the final assault). 

Communism has always been buttressed by force. In Eastern Europe it was either actual Soviet troops (Germany-1953, Hungary-1956, Czechoslovakia-1968) or the imminent credible threat thereof (Poland-1980). Local troops has never been particularly reliable. You need to look at the context. Communism was crumbling everywhere. By 1989, Gorbachev made it clear that USSR will not intervene, and it was perfectly clear that the communist power could not be kept. The choice was not "keep power by force" vs "relinquish power" but "relinquish power peacefully" or "be forced out". 

Working hours By 1942, over 10% of the Soviet workforce was under 18. The official working hours for children was at most 6 hours per day, for adults - 10-12. The actual was 12-16 hours per day. Vacations (12 days per year) and days off (1 day per week), while mandated by law, existed only as irregular and exceptional extra prize. Food Food was rationed, upwards from 125g of bread per day for non-workers and 250g for workers in the blockaded Leningrad. People grew potatoes in their CFT, and sold family heirlooms (if they had any) for food in neighboring villages. The "norms" (how much food one was entitled to) depended on the personal productivity. E.g.: 

The only real question is not why but why now. This is explained by the general cooling off of the relationships between China and Vietnam, following the end of the Vietnam war. 

It's hard to prove a negative (outside of math, of course), but let me try to show why this would be extremely rare (and mostly exist in legends). The institution of marriage exists to protect the woman and to seal a family alliance. Neither reason would apply to a marriage of a high-born and a low-born: 

making it impossible to prosecute Nixon in an ordinary court. This leaves a "possibility" to impeach (in the Chamber of Representatives) and try (in the Senate) the resigned private citizen. This requires overcoming two hurdles in both chambers: the Representative voting to impeach / the Senator voting to convict must believe two things: 

Since history is commonly used to justify politics, it is extremely prone to ideological biases. You cannot trust even the primary sources - things written by the event participants. E.g., if you read the Soviet press on 1941 June 20, you will learn that the main war monger is Churchill, and if you read it on 1941 June 25, you will learn that the main war monger is Hitler. You have to don your Sherlock Holmes cap and figure out who is lying where, looking for small discrepancies and inconsistencies. All evidence can be interpreted multiple ways and one has to create a theory consistent with the majority of the evidence - which is a non-trivial task. 

IOW, it is "Revolutionary" as a reminder of the Mexican Revolution and it is "Institutional" because it operates in such terms as "L'état, C'est Moi" or "What's good for General Motors is good for the America" (both quotes false!) In other words, it is "Партия власти", i.e., the party whose function is not so much to express and represent certain political views but to support the state. In a way, such a party becomes a state institution. Historically, CPSU and NSDAP were other such examples (no, I do not consider PRI to be a criminal organization, unlike CPSU and NSDAP). 

A tribe is a single social unit. They hunt together, they eat together, they starve together. Remember, they cannot store food! Yes, some have a better teepee or moccasins, but not food. A neighboring tribe might fare better (unlikely, but possibly), but the distance kills cooperation. They are not likely to be bosom buddies (they attack each other to kidnap women all the time), and transporting food is very hard. Agricultural Societies These fared better, but not by much. They did not have high-yield crops and draught animals (and thus the wheel). The first meant that they still lived hand-to-mouth (even though sightly better than hunter-gatherers because grain store better than meat) and the second meant that a local crop failure (due to, e.g., a drought) could not be mitigated by import. See Guns, Germs, and Steel for details. Food Storage Effective food storage is a relatively recent invention. Pre-industrial societies did not produce much excess food for storage and could not store if very well. E.g., GurvenKaplan2007 mention 

It is easy for an "armchair general" to criticize an actual general who was fighting a war without a benefit of a 20/20 hindsight. Both sides made numerous mistakes, and the the Entente's victory was not assured until the very end. There are two basic ways to win a war: 

Hiroshima During the First Sino-Japanese War, the Japanese government moved temporarily to Hiroshima. Nagasaki The center of European trade from 1543. 

There are no reliable records (as @Joe indicates in comments: no records from the locals, unreliable information from the colonists), so I have to resort to "educated guesswork". Population density is a function of food production. Hunter-gatherer tribes in North America required more territory to support their lifestyle than agricultural societies in Central and South America. Thus I think it is plausible that the densities were, indeed, very different, with the latter's being closer to European. However, the percentage of arable land in Europe is much higher than that in Central and South America (mountains and jungles) so it was still lower. 

Nazis Yes, of course - during WW2 German intelligence (Abwehr and SD) conducted sabotage operations against the USSR. They were largely unsuccessful, in part due to general ineptitude of Abwehr, but mostly due to the overwhelming power of the Soviet security apparatus. One such operation was sending Russian adolescent boys across the front lines with explosives shaped as coal lumps with the task of adding them to the piles of coal for use by railroad steam engines. Most of the kids surrendered right away, the few who did not did little damage. There are plenty of references in Russian that allege that this was managed by the Abwehr Group 209 "Bussard", commanded by Hauptmann Friedrich Bolz (Абвергруппа 209 «Буссард», капи­тан Фридрих Больц). Others Highly unlikely. Hard to prove a negative, but given the aforementioned overwhelming power of the Soviet security apparatus, probability of success was so low that any attempt was a waste of time. I am not sure this will be excluded by the next question edit, but what support the West gave to the Anti-Soviet partisans was trivial and quickly compromised by the Soviet authorities. The West did provide (mostly moral) support to Soviet dissidents, but those were decidedly non-violent. But this is straying from the question too far. 

This was kept a secret for the same reason that FDR "was careful never to be seen in [a wheelchair] in public. Great care was also taken to prevent his being portrayed by the press in a way which would highlight his disability" - the severely ill heir subverts trust in government. This is especially true of the Russian monarchy, which claimed divine right. 

The above was, in fact, the official USSR position throughout its existence, I shit you not. PS. When I was in college, our informal term for Marxism was "Mraksism", from "Mrak" - darkness. PPS. One my favorite jokes: a guy comes out of the oral exam on Scientific communism with a huge smile on his face. 

other rationed products included salt, pepper, potatoes, tea, sugar, "fats", "meat and meat products", "fish and fish products" etc. If a product was not rationed, it meant that it was only available "commercially" (i.e., at the exorbitant market prices). Not all rationed products were always available at the distribution points though, and one could not get a double portion the next day to compensate for the missed food. 

Assuming the cost was comparable to both sides, and taking 1 pound to be 20 francs, Louisiana Purchase was 68M francs ~ 3M pounds - at most 1% of war cost. The sale of Louisiana to the US was a strategic move (the only good strategic move that Napoleon, the great tactician, has ever made) as opposed to a financial one; in that respect it is similar to the Alaska Purchase. Napoleon could not defend Louisiana against either Britain or US, and by selling it to the US he ensured, that when the US was deciding who to fight in 1812 (both Britain and France were nasty), there was little to gain from fighting France, so the US declared war on Britain. PS. It has been argued in the comments that war was cheaper for France than for Britain. While the French 2.5M-strong army was conscripted, the 250k British army was volunteer. A British private was paid 7s/week, which amounts to 7s/week*52week/year*20years*250000men/20s/£ = £91M - about 11% of the total cost. Even if we assume that the war costs half as much for the French as for the British, still Louisiana purchase was only 6% of the war cost. PPS. There are many side issues here: Britain subsidized other countries' armies, maintained a navy, fought on the perimeter, incurring higher transportation costs. France had a larger army (which had to be fed and clothed, and early industrial Britain got guns and clothes cheaper), and fought more countries. However, the central point remains that the value of Louisiana was two orders of magnitude lower than the cost of the wars. Even if creative accounting reduces the difference to a single order of magnitude, that is enough to see Louisiana purchase for what it was - a political and strategic move, rather than a financial one.