Col. Peter R. Mansoor, author of the well-regarded book "The GI Offensive in Europe", offers this extensively researched and well reasoned conclusion in a lecture on the topic - 

Also, in addition to the excellent answer above by ihtkwot, be aware that the Coast Guard now performs many duties the Navy formerly did... during the height of the First World War, they only had 44 cutters. Today, the USCG has 325 or so combat-capable Cutters of 85' or larger (I didn't count the tugs, icebreakers or buoy tenders.) 

As noted on the Wiki page, grass seed was imported to the new world to improve pasturage for livestock. A kept lawn is, in its conception, a decorative pasture - a marker of status. So the best grass for pasture was the best grass for commons and household yards where a sheep or goat could graze... which became the standard for purely decorative lawns. As stated in the wiki article, Kentucky Blue Grass and Bermuda Grass are the most productive pasturage in their respective climates - and it's worth noting they're the most prized for lawns and landscaping in those same regions as well. 

Ancient Romans used the word Aethiops/Aethiopem which was derived from Greek Αἰθίοψ ‎(Aithíops). But the other answer isn't right when it says that the word Aithiops had no meaning except for the land of "Ethiopia". Instead, the word is a combination created from αἴθω ‎(aíthō, “burn”) + ὤψ ‎(ṓps, “face”). So the Greco-Roman word for the blacks was basically a "burned face". The name of "Ethiopia" was derived from "burned face". In the Greco-Roman world, "Ethiopia" was believed to include the whole non-Roman Africa. It was the universal word for that vaguely known part of the world. The idea that old nations didn't recognize races is absolutely preposterous from a historical viewpoint. On the contrary, it's just the last 30 years when it became fashionable for some people to deny races and their importance. This denial has absolutely no precedent in any historical epoch. The original meaning of Aethiops was purely racial. This is demonstrated by dozens of proverbs and important texts. For example, the Bible's Jeremiah 13:23 

Well, there are two problems - the first is that we don't know where Abaskun actually is. It was purported to be in the area of the mouth of the Gorgan River, which brings us to another issue - there are numerous sandbars in the region, which come and go with the weather over a span of years. The "island" may have been a vegetated sandbar (also known as a barrier island) that has since been subsumed by the sea, after a storm or a flood or just centuries of erosion, forever lost. No-one knows exactly where the island is, or even if it still exists. 

If anything, their choice in names indicates they were good New England protestants. When you see hoofprints, think horses, not zebras. Likewise, Bampett Muhamed and Yusuf ben Ali (formerly Joseph Benhaley) are also freed slaves, and while they undoubtedly indicate an Islamic heritage, without firm evidence it's unknown if they were practicing Muslims or simply Christians or agnostics who took back their family names upon emancipation. The historical record of Islam in Colonial America indicates only captured slaves were (sometimes) permitted to practice Islam, and they were usually subject to attempts at conversion by the slaveholders, as was the case with the famed author, scholar and theologian Omar Ibn Said. So, while it's plausible, there isn't enough of a record to say for certain. 

These questions are nicely answered in various historical books, e.g. Political Legitimation in Communist States. The short answer is that he didn't. If you click at this link, you will be told that first of all, contrary to an uninformed claim by another user, Lenin has never been considered a charismatic man during his life – simply because he obviously wasn't one. He didn't look like a leader, he was short (165 cm), he didn't have a haircut of a supermodel, and his voice was uninspiring, too. Also, if his political influence is subtracted, he was no influential star in philosophy. Intellectually, he could have been considered a marginal annoying mediocre bookworm. Lenin was never considered a natural leader of peasants or workers during his life. And those weren't really searched for in the socialist movement, anyway. The socialist movement didn't respect any Führer Prinzip, unlike the nationalist movements. Those who were building this Marxist paradise were supposed to believe that it was a historical necessity, not that they were lucky to be given an exceptional leader. He was just able to perform effective political steps at the right time. He threatened the founding of a new party and weakened his foes when it mattered, and actually founded the new party when it was optimal, and so on. It was a modern political strategy building on the example of people like Bismarck – except that his goals were very different. At the end, he got to the top. But the idea that Lenin was charismatic or had a cult of personality is just a posthumously fabricated fairy-tale of his ideological soulmates. Even Stalin who can be said to be much more charismatic wasn't really naturally charismatic. Just like Lenin, he was short, around 165 cm, had a bad skin, some scars from the smallpox during his childhood, and so on. These men just managed to accumulate a lot of power which allowed them to fabricate a virtual reality as well. And when the regime worked, many ordinary people only had the access to the virtual reality. During Lenin's reign, it was only the artificially invented idealization of the leader that had some cult of personality, not Lenin himself. 

The Marine Corps is the United States' expeditionary force. As such, it must work in close concert with the Navy, which provides logistics and seaborne support for expeditionary activities - but it is explicitly its own branch of the armed services. It has a mission different from that of the US Army, which is mostly concerned with large-scale combined-arms land warfare and the logistics required to support it. The Continental Marines were invaluable in disrupting British trade in the Bahamas and in New Orleans by capturing critical ports, and even raided Britain under command of John Paul Jones. The US Marines' reputation as an elite expeditionary force was established during the First Barbary War, and developed into its modern role during the Spanish-American War and the Banana wars that followed. The Marines are tangled up in the F-35 fiasco becuase they needed a replacement for the Harrier Jump Jet - the role it filled was close air support and reconnaissance, operating from a combination of carriers, amphibious assault craft, and small forward bases with poor or nonexistant airfields. Neither the Air Force nor the Navy have any need of aircraft that fill this role, and the U.S. Army prefers attack helicopters. The Marines have had their own aviation corps since the First World War, to better support their role as an expeditionary force. 

Trade unions have a certain influence over the economy and politics in each country and because they're organized in international organizations, their influence has a geopolitical dimension, too. After 1945, the Soviets and the communists had a lot of political capital due to the role of the USSR role in defeating Nazism. The Soviet Union was basically capable of replacing the (non-communist) International Federation of Trade Unions (which existed in 1919-1945 and had headquarters in Amsterdam) by the (pro-communist) World Federation of Trade Unions (whose headquarters were in Prague; after the fall of communism, the importance of this entity declined when communism ended and as a result, in 2006, the headquarters were moved from Prague to Athens). The Soviets and their sympathizers were able to promote their alternative views about the Marshall Plan and other things. This was dangerous from the American perspective. The U.S. and British trade unions would generally oppose the Soviet-led international organizations but the continental West European trade unions were somewhere in the middle. France was the ultimate "swing state" and CGC and Force Ouvriere were the French non-communist trade unions who opposed the Soviet line in the international organizations (the French CGT was a pro-communist example). That's why they got some funding from the U.S. At the end, in 1949, the (non-communist) International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (led mostly by the Americans and the British) separated from the Prague-based pro-communist international umbrella organization. However, the labor movement in Europe became so polarized that the entities were largely considered appendices of their political sponsors and the unions' importance decreased as a result. 

The most important thing Kublai Khan did for culture was to found the Yuan Dynasty, which sought to rule what Genghis had conquered. It initiated trade between east and west, cross-pollinating ideas and culture. Specifically in China, this resulted in advancements in the arts - painting, calligraphy and poetry combined into a new discipline similar to Persian art, and poetry likewise was introduced to theater, along with western instruments, in zaju and sanqu. 

Jean d'Arc understood the strategic situation better than the nobility, and used her influence with the commoners to force the issue. She understood that aggressive offense could make significant gains, where cautious and defensive concentration of massed forces would hopelessly slow them down and lose more than it defended. The combination of aggressive offense and political mobilization of the commoners and nobility to the French cause changed the tide of the war. This was the work of an immature, illiterate girl, who's last action as a military commander managed to save her entire host with an exceptionally well executed retreat in the face of overwhelming opposition. Betrayal and bad luck meant she could not join them in safety. In addition to her battlefield and political genius, the Pious and Pure Jean d'Arc had some right bastards working for her, and she unleashed them mercilessly. (e.g.: Bluebeard) 

The official story is that the inscription is taken from Jefferson’s Notes on the State of Virginia, with the last two sentences being from a letter to George Washington. A manuscript. The quote isn't some black-and-white assertion against slavery. Thomas Jefferson had complex and evolving relationships with slaves. He owned lots of them (inherited some 135 of them), had a romantic relationship with one of them after his wife died (including kids), waived various fees, and was the key politician who banned importation of new slaves and then slavery itself in numerous states. It's just wrong to assume that a politician in the late 18th century should have behaved and acted like a radical social justice warrior in the 21st century. There is no contradiction between Jefferson's life and the inscription and Jefferson was an amazing politician and president who has improved the U.S. society dramatically. 

Quite a few of them, especially in Central and South America. Here are lists of attempted and successful coups d'etat, listed by date in the former, by nation in the latter. 

More recent archaeological chemical analyses, such as the one done on remains from Tianyuan cave, also find extensive freshwater fish consumption, indicating things were similar in East Asia. The evidence is that the diet of modern humans in the paleolithic worldwide was primarily animal flesh, supplemented by easily gathered plant material. Paleolithic tools used in the gathering or preparation of plant foods are either absent, or unrecognizable as such - in light of such an absence, and with the evidence that the diet was primarily meat-based, it must be inferred that plant-based foods that required processing or extensive effort to gather was not a large part of the diet. This includes wild rice and other grains, most of which required extensive domestication efforts. The earliest evidence of rice consumption only dates to the early neolithic, 11-12kybp, and wild barley only goes as far back as 23kybp, but not as a staple, and not in East Asia. There is one 2009 study that concludes that other wild grains were harvested as early as 90kybp, and claims to have found stone tools to prove it, but this is not yet corroborated, and may not be widespread. The chemical analyses show that animal protein was the dominant dietary staple. 

The component is called a speaker or a loudspeaker and Alexander Graham Bell was indeed the person who invented this component in 1876. A current goes to a coil which acts like a magnet and depending on the magnitude of the current, it attracts or repels a static magnet that is attached to a piece of paper. 

You can't expect any stable shape of the distribution throughout the Bronze Age. Just look at the distribution of age in the recent 110 years: 

The question implicitly hides a misconception, namely the opinion that to succeed and establish policies, one needs a lot of "support", majorities in opinion polls, majorities in the Parliament, friendship of the media, and similar things. That's not how Otto von Bismarck did things. He used to have some connections to the old feudal order but was gradually losing their support. He was generally disliked by the public. He had to deal with hostility with Denmark, Austria, and France. He had no army backing him, no political party, and he controlled no seats in the Parliament. But he has defeated all these powers – the old order, public, working class, France, Italy, Denmark, and others – and prevailed. He was truly the first big skillful politician in the modern sense, one who knows how to switch between alliances and betray previous allies, and that's why he was also able to found the bureaucratic government of the modern type (which didn't depend on any previously recognized "power" or "class") – with all the aspects such as the welfare state and healthcare (that's how he bought a sufficient fraction of the working class and suppressed the influence of social democracy etc.) and many other things. 

He pushed for a private and independent central bank, the First Bank of the United States. It was similar to the Bank of England, except he expected it to loan money to private institutions and businesses as well as perform its government duties. He also founded the Bank of New York, which was a private lending institution similar to modern commercial banks. 

The Wikipedia article on Egyptian Temples has a rough estimate as to when the last temple of the Old Egyptian Religion, The Temple of Isis at Philae, was closed - as early as 456 if one goes by inscriptions found at the site, or as late as 535, if one believes Procopious. They source the claim from the 2011 edition of The Archaeology of Late Antique Paganism, which argues a gradual and organic decline that culminated in the abandonment of cult activities well before the hard cut-off of Justinian's command to destroy the temple. While cult activities may have continued in isolation, this is the end of the Old Egyptian Religion in recorded history.