This is an interesting situation, especially with magic having high costs on the user. To use an analogy, its situation were a single person could construct a building and wreck themselves in the process, or a large group of people could build the same building with less risk. The only difference from our world is that, in your setting, the building gets erected in the exact same amount of time either way. Historically speaking, humans have been more or less fine with endangering themselves if it meant getting more profit (see any dangerous but high paying profession) and the march of technology was slow until the printing press revolutionized education. Doing things the magic way and damn-the-human-cost might be a common practice in your world. Of course, then you have the problem that the same people who are being exploited for profit and the ones who have the means to resist exploition. "Phil, I'm going to need you to turn this water into Chianti, in the process lowering your lifespan or maybe permanently raising your blood pressure, while I take most of the profit." "Actually, boss, how about I take the entire profit and, in return, not transform 50% of you into a frog. Thanks for the magic classes, by the way." Then again, a profession that carries a high amount of risk, demands a large amount of training, has the potential to generate a lot of profit, and would be a stupid thing to teach lower-lass people to do already existed in our world. They were/are called warriors, people skilled in combat. Consequently, your magicians/wizards would likely be in charge or employed by people who are in charge. After all, if they are both finite and powerful, why waste them plowing fields when they can be used to secure land and resources or deter invaders with just their presence? Let the peasants invent plows, aqueducts, and roadways. We need the magic users in the kings army. Sorry I turned your mages into WMDs. I get excited whenever magic gets presented as finite commodities. 

Yeah, this character might have never actually spoken to another human, depending when the superpower is activated. They are just too slow to meaningful interest with. Heck, most people probably couldn't interact with her because standing still long enough to be registered by the human eye would require a twelve hour nap on her part. If anything, areas which this character protects would basically appear haunted. A crazy blur is always happening, food and water constantly goes missing, objects move around, and beneficial things (people getting saves, bullets vanishing from criminals guns, homeless people suddenly acquire coats) happen almost at random. Unless your character leaves notes, it would take people a while to figure out what's happening. If her metabolism is three meals a second, she would be able to eat an entire grocery store in a month. And I hope she has good planning skills, cause otherwise she wouldn't be able to actually cook anything. If she can manage having a house with that kind of diet, she might appreciate hummingbirds, who STILL are crazy slow compared to her. That all sounds like an awesome concept to me, but there is a problem that does need to be solved for this plot to work: The average person lives for 27.000-ish days. That means your character's entire lifespan would be 450 minutes, or seven and a half hours. That's a heck of a short superhero career. But hey, it could be an absolutely world changing glorious seven hours. 

The hull can be broken to the point where the ship comes apart - this would be the most difficult outcome to achieve through gunfire alone. The crew could be injured or killed to the point where the ship is no longer an effective fighting unit. The ship could be set on fire, which would damage all the equipment and injure the crew, and in the worst case, could result in a magazine explosion that could destroy the ship. The sails, spars, masts and rigging can be attacked, reducing manoeuvrability and speed, and ultimately resulting in the ship being forced to land or crash. The keel gimbals could be damaged, resulting in a loss of manoeuvrability. The keels could be dismounted or destroyed, resulting in a loss of 'grip' that would cause the ship to crash. 

The first factor is what sounds can the beings generate. What is it using as a frequency generator, and can it generate white noise, i.e. sibilants. The second factor is how easy the beings find it to generate each sound. Sounds that are easier to utter will occur with greater frequency. The third factor is how easy is it for the being to change from emitting one particular sound to emitting a particular different sound. Difficult or slow changes will occur with lesser frequency than easy and fast changes. As an example, A species I invented uses a syrinx (as in birds) as a tone generator - which effectively uses direct neuron-to-muscle control to affect the amplitude of each individual pressure variation of the sounds emitted. Such a species would have trouble with sibilants, as sibilants are effectively random white or pink noise, and a neural system has trouble with generating randomness. They tend to whistle instead when imitating humans. 

A parasitic lifeform cannot just extend its catalogue of potential hosts any time it likes. The initial movies in Ridley Scott's Alien series appeared to have a large plot hole that it is inconceivable that a naturally-evolved species could successfully parasitise not one but three completely alien species (Humans, dogs (in Alien3) and Predators (in Alien vs Predator)), but the revelation in Prometheus showed that these were engineered bioweapons, likely made for the specific purpose of eliminating mammalian life. The fact that they can also reproduce in the completely unrelated Predators, as well as grow in places where there are no practical organic resources other than air (containing carbon dioxide) and electrical power suggests that they are more likely nanotech than biological. That said, if we had an evolved sentient species with a potentially-lethal-parasitic reproductive habit, it is more likely that the parasitic part of its life cycle could occur in a number of related species, since in evolutionary terms, to restrict the valid hosts to one species is to render the parasitic species vulnerable to the fate of their sole host species, and most species have related species that are also vulnerable to the same pathogens. To use a real-world analogy, those host species might be able to be described as 'Homeothermic land-dwelling vertebrates above 25 kilograms body mass', or 'Squid and Octopi', or some other group of creatures that occur in the same biome as our parasitic species. Unless 'Humans' fall into the category of potential host species, even if they did not co-evolve, they would almost certainly be unsuitable as hosts. If by some coincidence humans resembled a valid, but totally alien, host species, implantation might be possible, but gestation would most likely be unsuccessful. The survival of the human in question, while likely but not assured, is probably much higher than that of the intended host organism. Regardless of the nature of the potential host species, we must consider that obtaining a host is a reproductive necessity. By extension, we can reason that any successful parasitic species with any kind of mind at all, let alone extelligence (having a recorded culture) must develop an affection for its host species, and would most likely keep the host species around as pets, to be on-hand when it came time to reproduce. The hosts would be bred, pampered, nurtured - and then implanted, and nurtured some more, until their offspring killed the host, at which point the carcase would be devoured by the offspring. Consider the effort and interest that humans put into reproduction. There would be no question of whether the members of the parasitic species kept host-pets, but how many and which species. If humans were obligate parasitic reproducers with other mammals, it'd be like asking, "Do you prefer dogs, cats, rabbits, sheep, goats,"... etcetera, and to receive a "I don't like pets at all" answer would be practically inconceivable, and would probably represent some sort of monastic, non-reproductive life-choice. The species used as hosts would be selected to have traits that made them suitable as pets, including appropriate size and other traits that enhanced the survival of the parasitic species' offspring, as well as docility, up to and potentially beyond the point of implantation with the parasitic offspring. It would likely be far less risky to implant a pet than to try to implant a wild animal. It is likely that - if possible - the host-pets would be desensitised to the act of implantation by repeated instances of play-implantation. Species of host-pet that came to enjoy play-implantation would be highly prized. While it is possible that the act of implanting the parasitic embryo - or even play-implantation - would be injurious to the host, in evolutionary terms, the longer the host survives post-implantation (until at or near birth of the parasitic offspring), the better, since we are talking about a parasitic species, not a sarcophagic species. Since in wild conditions, any injury can be fatal, from infection if nothing else, evolutionary pressure would be to minimise the trauma of implantation. If humans were not on the list of the parasitic species' potential hosts (since, for example, they are from different worlds), then even if humans resembled a valid host, it is unlikely that they would be selected as a host, since the humans would most likely be seen as falling into the 'risky wild-animal-host' category. If humans were not a typical host, but were a potentially valid host, it is still unlikely that a human might be selected as a host except by a thrill-seeking type of individual/couple who likes the thrill and danger of trying to implant wild - as opposed to domesticated - hosts. If humans were amongst the list of valid hosts - which is unlikely given that human sentience enables us to realise that being a host is highly detrimental or even fatal - then human hosts would likely be kept as pets (or at best second-class citizens), and for the most part kept ignorant of their true purpose as hosts for as long as possible. As for the parasitic species relationships with non-host species, there is no reason why we should assume that they might be any worse or more cruel from what they might be if the species in question were not parasitic reproducers. If we suppose for a moment that humans are parasitic reproducers with other mammals, that wouldn't change the way we relate to non-mammalian species, except perhaps in a positive way. Being biologically habituated to keeping pets (for reproduction) would tend to make keeping non-reproductive pets more likely. If humans kept other medium to large mammals around for reproductive reasons, we might still be more likely to like keeping birds or fish or small mammals than we already are as a non-parasitic species. If our parasitic species did not see humans as a valid host, they would still be quite likely to be friendly, given their predisposition toward close association with other species (even if those other species are reproductive hosts). The potential problems might arise from the human side, as I can imagine that humans might be less than thrilled to find that a species that acts like Ridley Scott's Aliens to non-human species wants to be friends with them. As a case in point, Larry Niven's Pierson's Puppeteers are concerned that revelation of their reproductive biology (which is stated to be similar to that of a digger wasp, very similar to that in the question and this answer) to other species would lead to negative reactions towards themselves. 

The B-2 bomber is still classified technology, even though it is now deployed in service. People can see it flying around, but there are still many secrets to its design: 

You should narrow down what you want. The answer to "is there a way for a monster to turn any creature to stone/permanently petrified?" is probably "no" because the physics aren't very plausible, and if this creature is evolved, not magical, then other creatures will have evolved to counter any physics-based ability it has. But if you narrow down what you want to happen in your story there are some options: If you want there to be some kind of monster that is real, that inspired the legend of the basilisk, then you could go for temporary petrification. There could be a monster that kills things that don't hold still. Perhaps it doesn't want other animals on its territory, but doesn't recognize things as alive unless they move. The other animals that live near this monster have evolved to recognize it and feel an urgent visceral instinct to freeze perfectly still when the monster looks at them. So the petrification is actually an evolved behavior by the animals being petrified. They may stay holding still awhile after the monster looks away until they calm down and realize the threat has passed. A hunter who observes this interaction could re-tell the story without the benefit of evolutionary insight, and think the monster has the power to make things freeze. If he doesn't see the animal un-freeze (or takes the opportunity to kill it first) then he might think the freezing is permanent. That could work as a 'real creature behind the legend' thing. If you want the power to work on humans, then perhaps humans have evolved the freezing instinct too? If you don't want the freezing to be an evolved behavior, then another option is venom. Your monster could inject venom that causes all muscles to tense. This would cause something similar to the fencing response in its victims. If the effect lasted until rigor mortis set in, then the petrification would be permanent. How does the venom get injected by eye contact? I suggest that it doesn't. The creature injects the venom inconspicuously, like with tiny barbs that numb as they go in so you can't feel them. Why do people think the eye contact causes freezing? Because the monster stares into the victims eyes just as the poison is starting to work. To check the progress of the poison. Your eye muscles are the last to be affected by the venom. The monster looks into your eyes and waits until your eyes stop twitching and hold perfectly still. Then it knows you are totally immobilized and it is time to feed. 

It's good to stab the ground for traction, but only up to a point. If you sink in far you are wasting energy. Once you've got traction you want the sinking/stabbing to stop, so you need a flare like the end of a ski pole, that is flat and wide to resist sinking any further. The stabby part probably wouldn't need to be very long. If the moss is more mushy, you want a multi-pronged or thicker stabby part. A longer stabby part just adds more friction and gets you stuck in the goo.