The adapter is only meant to be used while pumping up the tire. You shouldn't keep it installed while riding. Many bicycle pumps can be used with both presta and shrader valves, but I'd reccomend that you keep a pump around that can pump presta natively so that you never need to mess with the valve adapter. 

I suggest buying one. They come in very handy for all sorts of tasks, especially if you are into doing your own maintenance. 

If the derailleur still shifts normally, you may have nothing to worry about. It sounds like it could be a few things: 

There are various gearing calculators available on the web. Here is one of them: $URL$ The top possible speed will depend on your gearing, wheel size, and max cadence. Of course, your ability to reach that theoretical top speed will be limited by your own strength and fitness. 

Typically the adjustment would be made at the rear dropouts. Loosen the bolt back there, hold some tension (not a lot) on the rear wheel while you tighten it back. 

Take the bike for a short ride and shift into the gear that gives the shifter cable maximum slack. For the front gear shifter, maximum cable slack corresponds with the lowest gear. For the rear gear shifter, maximum cable slack equals the largest gear. Loosen the bolt on the derailleur that secures the shifter cable with a 5-mm hex wrench. The shifter cable is attached at one end to the Shimano 105 shifter and at the other end to the derailleur. Cut the metal cap, called the "ferrule," away from the end of the cable, using cable cutters. Grab the cable where it enters the derailleur and pull it free. Squeeze the shift lever on the Shimano 105 gear shifter to expose the head of the cable. The cable head is located on the side of the top of the shift lever. Grab a portion of the cable and push it forward, forcing the head of the cable out of the Shimano 105 gear shifter. Grab the head of the cable and pull the cable free. 

As long as your front derailleur matches the number of gears on your front chain ring (2 or 3) you should be okay. That being said, you may run into issues with different manufacturers or groupsets working well together. Are you using the same make / manufacturer in the front and rear? (e.g., I know Shimano makes both a 9 and 10 speed version of the 105 groupset and I am fairly sure the front derailleur is the same). 

I agree with Mike - the first time I come off the rollers and hit the road I can definitely fell the difference in my form, particularly with my cadence. They're great as an adjunct to regular season cycling, too, since they really force you to concentrate on a smooth pedal form (if you're "pushing" the pedals as opposed to turning them you'll surge back and forth). I'd recommend starting up next to a wall or in a doorframe since it'll take a little while to get used to balancing on them and staying in line on the rollers. Don't give up - we've all fallen off them. And definitely check out the range of rollers available; I have some nice Action Mag aluminum smooth rollers with an adjustable flywheel on them, but you can do what you need to do without a lot of the add-ons (and add them on later, too) As far as getting boring, I usually listen to music, either on an iPad strapped to my arm (so I can flip through my play list) or on the stereo. If you're just starting out I'd suggest avoiding watching TV and concentrate on a spot about two feet in front of your front wheel. Sounds weird, but it helps keep you straight. 

The problem with the first two possibilities is that I'd expect the noise to persist in the 1st cog as well. 

The owner of Richardson Bikemart in TX is just now wrapping up a long tour. Here is their blog. $URL$ 

Yes, it is unsafe. You should find a set of tires that will allow you to seat the wheel properly into the drop out. 

Thread the replacement shifter cable through the hole in the Shimano 105 gear shifter. This is the same hole from which the old cable emerged. The cable has two ends, with a metal fitting at one end, which is designed to anchor the cable inside the shifter. Pull the shifter cable taught until the metal fitting is fully anchored. Pass the cable along the bicycle. The cable follows the exact route of the old shifter cable, passing through the cable housing and cable stops before arriving at the derailleur. Thread the shifter cable beneath the derailleur bolt and pull the cable tight. Tighten the derailleur bolt onto the cable, using the 5-mm hex wrench. The cable will be excessively long and will need to be cut. Cut the cable just past the derailleur bolt, using the cable cutters. Leave enough cable, approximately 2 to 3 inches, to allow for future adjustments of the cable. Press a new ferrule onto the tip of the cable. Squeeze the ferrule onto the cable using pliers. 

I have an Alfine 11 (so very similar) and I had the hub replaced 2 times on warranty because of this skipping problem. The third one is fine so far (~15000km on it). So based on my experience: Have it replaced a second time. It also does skip when misaligned as mentioned in the other answer and yes it's tricky to get right and tends to misalign over time. Also it can freeze in the winter (still works, but need to change gears by hand on the lever on the hub) and this could also cause skipping because it would stick between gears. But your bike dealer should be able to fix/diagnose this within seconds. So my suggestion: 

Go to your dealer. Ask them to verify it's aligned properly and works in general. Test whether it still skips. If yes, demonstrate it in front of the dealer. Insist you need a replacement. 

This will always require some DIY, though. For example you could get a small cloth handlebar bag (worn+slightly dirty). Make two button holes (i.e. with the same technique, not for real buttons :) ) in the bag next to the handlebar and use a cable like this to tie it through the button holes to the handlebar with both loop ends hidden in the bag. Now you can lock something to the loop ends of the cable, for example a small lockable pouch made from strong tarpaulin (maybe reinforced by a layer of wire mesh on the outside). But from the outside it looks like any old cloth bag with at most something like a water stained map and a dented apple inside. :) Other idea: Mud stained non-translucent drinking bottle. Just leave it in the bottle-holder with your stuff inside.