Let's explore your teacher's irksome claim. 1) According to Plato, which is what your teacher is claiming, there are Forms of beauty, mountains, colors, courage, love, justice, goodness, etc. 2) Therefore, according to Plato, there are Forms of objects (like mountain) and attributes (like color). Also, there is a Form of love. Love is a feeling, a force, a relationship between a being and something else, and a bio-chemical mental state. We can then say that there is a Form of relationships like love and hate. 3) Force, as in F=ma, is a force, and therefore has a Form. There is also a Form for mass, and another one for acceleration. F=ma is a relationship describing things that already have Forms. Therefore, if we can find a Form of a relationship between things that already have a Forms, your teacher is right. 4) Justice is a relationship between an event/action, like a crime, and a particularly-satisfying result, such as a punishment. Beauty is a relationship between a set of characteristics/attributes, like big eyes, that when perceived as a whole produce pleasure in the observer. There is a Form for beauty, eye, punishment, and crime. Your professor is correct, “F = ma” is indeed a Platonic Form. What bothers you about it is the same thing that bothers me, and the same thing that bothered Aristotle, and the same thing that seems to have bothered Plato himself later on: there is a problem with Platonic Forms. However, your teacher did not claim that the forms are true. He claimed that “F = ma” is a Platonic Form, and he was right. PS: Whether he was right for the right reasons or it's purely coincidental, remains unknown. Also, whether one can be right without knowing it, is a different matter. Your teacher was right when he said it, as per the meaning of "right" you had in your mind when you posted this question. Hope this helps! 

Yes, to equate the brain to a hardware system and the mind to software; and then say that the brain causes all the changes and activity of the mind is indeed like saying that the system's hardware causes all the changes and activity of the software. All software is made by programmers, even if the software they made is somehow capable of writing its own software. In such a case, the new software written by the original software would be the intellectual property of the programmer, and not of the original software. Just like a pie made by a pie-making machine would belong to the maker of the machine, and not to the machine. The same applies to the hardware, it was made by engineers. The problem is perhaps that the analogy is less than perfect and only goes so far. 

Perhaps, or perhaps not; luckily for us that is not the case because it is not true (as shown above). However, even if it were true, there might still be some intrinsic worth to moral values. Success, defeat, and winning are not moral values; but they would certainly have no meaning if hard-determinism were true. 

The question may gain distinguishing what kind of validity you are seeking for. On the one hand, you may be "simply" interested in using the state of the art mathematical tools to ensure that your engineering project as a consistent specification and that the thing that you built map exactly that. If that's what you are interested for, proof assistant may be an interesting entry point. On the other hand you may be interested with more ontological concerns, like knowing if mathematical objects reveals eternal underlying truths or if their are just mere mental representations resulting from an ugly patchwork of cognitive biases. If that's what you are looking for, you may look up for realism, idealism, solipsism as entry points. 

To answer such a question, you have to define a criteria on which you order and a way to finitely determine a rank in this order for each being you want to order. You can of course chose criteria that fit your initial expected result, for example here "I know I am going to die (don't) make me inferior/superior to all the other living creatures". What you may ask then is "is there some non-subjective/objective ordering I could use?". To my mind, the best you may expect is an univocal consensus, which in actual problems may seems next to impossible. 

Modern definition of science doesn't pretend it is a method for finding the truth. At best it is a way to produce a unfalsified falsifiable theory, that is a theory for which you know what kind of experimental results would deny its validity but no experimental result did. Border cases like water memory, the sokal affair, epistemological anarchism and Anything Goes: Origins of the Cult of Scientific Irrationalism are some topics one interesting in the social aspect of Science may want to look at. 

While the latters may seems to treat subjects out of topic, remember that language is an important part of thought process, mind representations, social communications, and so on. 

Depending on what you mean with language, one may say that the Universe itself is the language in which every possible problems are "formulated". You may then report your problem to commensurability between "the Universe", and "human representation abilities". Maybe you'll be interested to reduce your problem to something like "Is there any formal language able to describe unambiguously any problem that human may face, lead to know if the problem have a helpful solution, and if yes, what move to do to perform it?". If you consider "resolving a problem" can be reduce to "computing a solution", then you may want to look at the computability theory, and especialy to the halting problem and the decision problem. The fact that there are undecidable problems will interest you, because it provide a negative answer to the question "is there an algorithm which is able to tell me if a given language is such that any problem in the Universe can be described unambiguously using this language?". At best you can have an algorithm that will never meet such a case and you may only conclude that you don't know, but potentially will if the answer is no. 

The inscrutability of reference is the thesis that for any natural language L, there is no fact of the matter about what the referring expressions of L refer to, or about what the predicates of L have in their extension. One way Quine arrives at this conclusion is through the 'proxy function' argument and I find it very confusing. Here's how I understand it. Suppose we have a language L and that M is a manual that takes all the sentences in L and assigns things as referents to the terms occurring in L sentences. A proxy function is a 1-1 function that takes all the sentences interpreted by M and assigns new objects to the terms in those sentences. So if M assigns x to some term t, a proxy function will assign p(x) to t. The referents of singular terms in M are replaced with 'proxy referents', predicates refer to 'proxy properties' and relations are reinterpreted from 'xRy' to 'the proxy of x bears R to the proxy of y'. 

There are infinitely many ways to do such assignments, let's pick one interpretation and call it 'T'. So far this seems straightforward.* It is claimed that the new translations in T, can have different ontological commitments from the M translations. This is also straightforward, as I think the example above illustrates. Here's what I don't understand. 1-It's further claimed that (e.g. here and here) that the T & M sentences (in the example above and similar examples) have the same meaning and the same truth conditions. How? The circumstances that make the sentences true in the above example are not the same circumstances and the referents are not the same. Even if a sentence is made true by two models, it does not follow that the models are identical. Quine's notion of stimulus meaning, ''...just that set of total neural stimulations that prompt assent on the native’s part to the query ‘S?’ or that elicit an utterance of ‘S’ all by themselves.''(A.Ahmed, QL1), does not seem helpful here. A person may assent to one interpretation of the sentence in the above example but not the other. Hence they do not have the same meaning. 2-Even if this procedure shows that sentences with different referents have the same meaning and truth conditions, why does this prove that there are no facts about what words mean? Why can't you say that some community uses interpretation I for the sentences of their language and some other language community use I* for their language and there is some fact about whether the set of I & I* referents are the same set. Why does the proxy function argument establish the ontological indeterminacy of reference instead of just epistemic limits on our knowledge? *(This is a brief and intuitive explanation not a rigorous one. Still I hope it was 'clear enough'. If not, there are formal statements of all this in the literature).