Source: p 195, The Art of the Advocate (1993) by Richard Du Cann QC (called to the Bar of England and Wales). 

In the 8-1 decision Buck v. Bell (1927), Justice Brandeis voted with the majority, whose opinion (by Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.) contains: 

The etymology above suggests that only certain Roman citizens were bound to moenus. So besides the young, sick, and old, were there other citizens who lacked any such moenus? For example, if you lived outside a city, were you excepted from moenus? 

At the 31:20 juncture of Episode 20 in total (Episode 10 of Season 2) of the AMC TV show Turn, because the British infantry march slowly in formation (rather than running) to leave the battlefield at the Battle of Monmouth, several soldiers needlessly perish after easily being targeted and shot with muskets of the Continental Army soldiers, but who cease fire after 1 or 2 minutes after the British start leaving. This TV has been adjudged historically inaccurate; so is the above accurate? If so, is not marching under retreat stupid, unreasonable? Did the importance of formation and order outweigh the value of human life? 

This quote sums up the concensus that is derived from the shear volume of manuscripts, their location found, the significance of codex Sinaiticus and Vaticanus (being complete and nearly complete NT copies), and the widely accepted order of authorship. That concensus is that none of the NT books could have been written later than the 2nd century. Combine this with the bibliographical test and it is a very compelling case to consider the narratives of the Gospel as historical. All that might be left is determining if there was a motive to lie, but that is not your question, but can be answered and has been by many. Now we should consider non-biblical texts verifying the stories (because after all the gospels give a religious message which may have hidden motives). Tacitus, Josephus, and Pliny the Younger together make a good case that the gospel writers were sticking to the actual history, because they all match well on a few key points. The most notable being that Jesus was often called the Christ, his followers were often called Christians because he was called Christ, he was executed under the leadership of a man named Pontius pilate for political reasons, and he had a relatively short time frame of influence although was largely influential. There are a few other manuscripts that detail Christianity and coraborrate with the stories in the Gospel, however, I am trying to keep this short. Then there is matching with Archeology. Some have praised Luke as one of the most accurate articles on places such as cities, islands and countries. This wikipedia article (which you should definately read over) states: 

I can't source this at all but I believe that early armor-plated ships were shaped this way after the design of the ACW-era ironclads like the Merrimack and the Monitor. The idea was to present the enemy with convex angles which cannonballs would bounce off of at oblique angles rather than concave ones that would take the brunt of the blow. As time went by, the relative advantage of this set-up was lost as solid shot was replaced by explosive shot, and the significant disadvantages of this set-up (chiefly, I think, the fact that you had so much more of the ship below the waterline, making them both slow and vulnerable to torpedo fire) meant that they soon went back to the old-fashioned V-shaped fronts. As an example of US Civil War era technology, here is the USS Merrimack, converted into the CSS Virginia: 

Latin was indeed the lingua franca of the period, and very, very few people could read or write. There just wasn't a lot of reason to be able to do so; paper was not introduced to Europe until the 1200s, so before then if you wanted to write anything down you had to go through the painstaking process of creating a piece of vellum or parchment for what it was that you were doing, and get to work. Indeed, many medieval manuscripts we have today show signs of having other material which was once on it but which was scraped away (the parchment/vellum version of erasing); the material was so scarce that there were many instances in which it the material itself was considered more important than the information that was written on it. One result of this was that reading and writing were considered two separate skills at this time. This sounds really strange to the modern reader, I am sure - how is it even possible to write without being able to read - but that's exactly the case. A great many medieval scribes simply had no idea what they were copying down and simply did it by rote. Here is a pretty decent discussion of why it is that we are all but positive these folks had no idea what they were writing: 

Sources not already linked * For bibliographical test * Rylands manuscript * Codex Sinaiticus * Codex Vaticanus * covers Bibliographical test well although it is a biased site * Tacitus on Christ * Josephus on Christ * Pliny on Christ * Annals of Tacitus 

This prominent international banker is commonly quoted this. First, did he actually say it? Second, what was its context (when and where was he and what other things did he say shortly before or after this) if we know? Finally, seeing as how this is likely his most notable quote, did he ever reflect on it at a later time shedding some light on it? 

Excluding the claims that Jesus was resurrected, I say that there is no reason to doubt the events detailed in the Gospels. The first thing that should be mentioned is the possibility of textual 'perversion' from the original texts. Historians commonly use a method called the bibliographical test. The test is quite simple and is meant to show the relative reliability, as textual preservation is concerned, to other historically accepted manuscripts. First, the you must choose a few manuscripts to compare. We will of course include the new testament gospels (as a whole but we could split it up but that is a lot of work). Then lets throw in Homer's Iliad, from which we gain much knowledge of ancient Greece, and the writtings of Tacitus, from which we gain much knowledge of ancient Rome. After choosing the manuscripts we compare the earliest known manuscripts and the total number of manuscripts and the similarities between manuscripts. A more complicated version also considers where the manuscript was found, which is significant for ancient times for a number of reasons (but I am disinterested in makeing this answer too long simply because I will likely not get much rep from it ;) 

You could call that period the Age of Exploration, but it's really a couple different periods (at least by my thoughts): 

The other issue is that because disease was not fully understood, the efficacy of this maneuver would be mixed at best. Sure, if you send plague victims over the wall, that could give the people inside of the city the plague. However, the belief at the time was that disease was caused by bad smells, and so a dead, decaying horse would have been believed to have just as large of an effect. Of course, it might not have any effect at all except to make the city slightly stinkier. Also, as I think has been implied, this was something of a nuclear option for invading armies to use. By and large, the whole point of attacking a city was that you wanted to take the city for yourself, or at the very least you wanted to sack it and take all of its gold/women/etc. You infect the city with the plague, there's really no going in there. The Mongol example that Anixx provided is a great one, actually, in that I believe that the city of Kaffa was one that the Mongols had decided they were going to just destroy (the Mongols had a general belief that if you as a city surrendered to them and then rebelled, you were to be wiped out this time around). 

Numerous movies depicting war in the Victorian era, exhibit officers who fire their revolvers at targets clearly out of range for their revolvers. 1. Is this accurate? 2. If so, why did officers do this; are not they wasting ammunition? I doubt the ability of a revolver to scare or deter enemies; at the least, the officers should have chosen to try this with a rifle? For example: 

What does 1 mean: 'manners were [...] by conformity'? I know little about English history. How does 1 justify or mitigate 2; because to Anglophones in 2016, 1700-1900 English (e.g. Sheridan's opening below) appears grandiloquent and exaggerated? 

This page displays 'U.S. ARMY RANK INSIGNIA The Later Revolutionary War Era - 1780'. Is there a similar guide for the British as Wikipedia's rank insignia for the Continental Army? I know of the idiosyncrasies of uniforms back then, but surely people must still have to been able to discern rank by sight? 

Source: See p 6 of 10 of the PDFs, first leftward para. Beware that p 6 of the PDF is labelled as p 18 on the document itself. 

The bibliographical test demonstrates that there is very little liklihood of perversion The close time frame of the manuscripts and fragments further attests that there may have been eye witnesses living during authorship. Outside sources demonstrate that Christianity (followers of Christ) was wide spread by the close of the 2nd century, which means that it was already a popular belief before legend or other could have changed it. They futher corraborrate with particular stories that are in the Gospels. The archeology supports it indisputably in some areas and more so depending on who's opinion you want to take. I am inclined to say the ossuary of James is at least partially significant. There are many arguments showing that the supposed authors had very little reason to lie and even fake, after-the-fact authors, had little reason as well because they were both persecuted (this is outside the scope of the question though). 

On the exact numbers of Tacictus I am being lazy but I am sure that is about right. Check up on it in the various sources I have provided about Tacitus. The kinds of numbers on Tacitus are typical for ancient manuscripts; The Iliad stands out in a class of its own while the gospels stand out in a class above that. Having over 5000 manuscripts with the earliest completed copy being a mere 400 years in from the events, in addition to high accuracy, is impressive. This is a good indication that there is very little perversion in the texts. To make things better there are 10's of thousands of manuscripts from roughly the 10th century in Latin vulgate that match with the same accuracy, further, translators will tell you that they are pretty true to the Greek manuscripts as well. Also, Codex Vaticanus is significant because it is nearly complete and dates 100 years earlier than Sniaiticus. If this is not enough to trust that there is little or no perversion then I don't think anything will be for any ancient text. There is another important thing to consider, regarding the manuscripts and authorship dates. Most scholars agree that the NT was written in this order. Epistles, synoptic gospels, Acts of the Apostles, Gospel of John, Revelation. It has been highly argued and supporting this claim right now is outside the scope of this question and possibly the site as well. Consider the following quote from a wikipedia article: