This doesn't actually answer your specific question, but it is far too long for a comment and justifies the answer, "it doesn't matter." Nothing is perfect, especially invisibility. Removing a shadow on the ground has some remarkable technical problems. Bright light source The first problem is that to remove a shadow you would need a light source almost as bright as the sun itself. So long as the airship is directly between the sun and an observer on the ground the airship would be invisible. But "directly between the observer and the sun" means the observer is standing within the shadow of the airship. If the observer stands anywhere else, the light becomes a very bright beacon. Shielding around the light would keep it from being too visible at obtuse angles, but you'd never be able to hide it completely. Changing angles As the airship travels and the planet rotates, the angle between the airship and its shadow changes. This means the light must rotate (and do so very quickly) to keep up. You would either need to rotate the light all the way around the ship, or you would need a variety of lights with better-than-average brightness control between them to keep the shadow illuminated, making it even harder to keep the light hidden from observers (you could have multiple lights burning at the same time). The Shape of the Shadow The goal is to keep the shadow illuminated like the land around it. That means only the shape of the airship wants to be illuminated. Any land that falls within the beam of light that isn't shadowed by the airship becomes over-illuminated, creating a travelling halo on the ground. Not as easy to see, but once seen, just as easy to track. Complicating this is the shape of the shadow changes with the pitch, roll, yaw, and altitude of the airship. I'm not convinced we have the technology today to create such well controlled light (and if your people did... why are they using airships? Technology dichotomy!) The brightness of the moment The strength of sunlight changes. It changes during the day from dark to bright to dark again. Clouds, depending on their nature and altidude, blowing dust, pollution, smoke from forest fires, etc. will all change the light level — all of which your light source must compensate for. On a side note, your airship would need to either be grounded during dust/smoke or turn the light off completely as the beam of the light would be an arrow, pointing the ship out. Have you ever played with a flashlight on a foggy night? Yup, that's the problem. Clouds, birds, and other airships You're not just streaming a single light to hide the shadow, or even a bank of lights. You'd need to use a very high number of lights with the ability to detect changes in illumination between the sun and the airship so the shadow on the ground can change in part. In other words, if a normal, commercial airship passes between your ship and the sun, your lights would need to track the shape of that second airship (which might not completely shadow your airship) such that its shadow appears correctly on the ground. Same thing for clouds and birds. Now your lights are fluctuating almost moment-by-moment. In the end your multiple lights would be very bright and, unlike the sun, almost constantly flickering. Rather than help hide your ship, they'd probably paint a target on it. I love the idea of a stealth airship, but everything must have a weakness or it's unbelievable. Casting shadows sounds like a pretty good weakness, especially since the calculation of where the airship is in the sky isn't trivial at all. This plot line has actually been addressed in the Star Trek the Next Generation episode, "Identity Crisis". Geordi discovers the invisible alien creatures by an unknown shadow. He has the computer estimate the 3D shape of the alien from the shadow, which the computer cannot do without some parameters (the approximate size of the object). Otherwise you can't know, in your case, the distance from the shadow on the ground to the airship (all three dimensions are involved, so it's easier to explain with polar coordinates and a vector). (This idea was also touched on in "The Shadow" (e.g., see the 1994 film), but other than to add some drama, the effect of clouding a mind to not see the body but the inability to hide the shadow was pretty much glossed over.) 

No... I'm sorry, but there isn't a way of bending physics enough to justify the universe you seek. Your only option is to declare it so in the semblence of a beneficient god and move on. On the other hand... if you just handwave this in the tradition of Jules Vern to have fun with the story (a "parallel universe where anything can happen"), then the interstellar atmosphere would spin around a star like a whirlpool. Eddies and currents would form between systems. Black holes would be like waterfalls and gyres. You're thinking atmosphere, but it's much more like the sea. Perhaps in your universe (where we're not worried at all about our own physics) you have something akin to pulsars or quasars that spew atmospheric gasses rather than radiation. Hate to be near one of those. And the concussive shock of a supernova is very, very real. The story could be a lot of fun... but only if you ignore our reality completely. 

Insulation. Your reptiles will have a much higher interest in thermal insulation than humans. Huts will exhibit better caulking, thicker boards, or even layered solutions to retain heat. Heat reuse. They might have developed looped chimneys to retain the heat of fire. Personal heating. Right now I'm thinking bedpan, wherein the victorian age put coals to pre-heat a bed (not the other bedpan, thanks). But, they would also have glommed on early to the use of gypsum, soapstone, and basalt at an early stage as natural stones that retain heat well. Finally, where humans tend to put boots in front of the fire to dry them out, our reptiles would place boots and hang coats to warm them up. It would almost be a religious observance as they move from building to building, staying warm, and then hanging up the clothes to re-heat while visiting friends (so to speak). You'd find clothing warmers in every building, the warmers getting larger as the buildings become more public. 

Since this needs to be something sudden... something accidental... There actually is one way a furnace of this calibre can exist in the world... A lightning bolt lights a coal seam on fire... a coal seam that happens to be near a small cave system with a natural draft. The Centralia coal seam fire has had recorded temperatures up to 1,350°F. Only a little wind is needed to push that beyond the melting temp of bronze. The Burning Mountain coal seam has been burning an estimated 6,000 years and is thought to have been started by lightning — and it has collapsed ground around it. So, if some unlucky merchant who thought he'd bought the world's more rare statue happened to hit a bump on the way home and the statue fell overboard... it's heavy, after all, and it happened to collapse a sinkhole into the burning seam... said merchant would have the remarkably unique experience of watching an angry, burning god climbing out of the hole. 

If we're talking about the alien equivalent of quonset huts with logistical organization for quartermastering and operations. Then so long as it was planned out to the letter with practice beforehand, it could be done in a week or less. No trees to remove, only basic "surface" flatening (I'm going out on a limb and suggesting if they can move all that stuff, they can pre-plan where to go to avoid sinking into the sea), and the ability to lay down the alien/arctic equivalent of Marston Mats for road base. It would be lightening fast. The real limitation is the size of the portal, which you don't mention. If it's one truck wide, my estimate jumps to 2-4 months. If it's 16 or more trucks wide, a week. 

The simple answer is "no." The more complex answer is found within your last paragraph. Cuba made it work because Cuba was forced to make it work. They would never have developed that way by choice. I humbly submit that it is impossible for the society you describe to exist simply by choice. You would need to come up with something that subdued (aka, forced) the negative elements like greed and arrogance. But it would also need to subdue positive things like the desire for greater convenience and the desire for greater and safer productivity. Let's take plastic as an example. You bet, it was invented for greedy purposes, but it was also invented because it was easy to manufacture, was easy to manipulate and therefore made building things (like enclosures of any kind) cheaper and simpler. Plastic has advantages over glass for light control, and advantages over metal in terms of thermal insulation. It's used in cars to reduce weight, which saves gasoline, which lowers pollution. The negative effects on our oceans came decades and decades after its invention. But who would be willing to give up its positive values? And that's my point, you would need to come up with a compelling reason why everybody would choose to not accept the benefits of development. You would also have to come up with a believable reason why society chooses to stop advancement of any particular kind. "We don't want that because it would lead to pollution" only works if society has the ability to foresee the polution. And that's an important point. Had society in general been able to foresee the full extent and impact of the pollution created by the industrial revolution, it would have changed the nature of technological development entirely. But they couldn't And therefore technology developed as it did. Finally, and for the purpose of full disclosure, you appear to be trying to (if you'll forgive me) crowbar an ideal eco-friendly view of what environmental activists think the world could be or should be... into the past. Hindsight is 20/20. Assuming people 120 years ago "should have been able" to see the consequences of their actions is, simply put, naive. People are intrinsically selfish. Driving a car to work is far more important than keeping the air pollutant free. The first time someone was late for work you can bet the environment would come a distant second to losing their job. So long as nothing forces them into compliance, they will continue to use their car for time-saving purposes until the time comes when the simple, clean environment is no longer simple or clean. That was a very long way of saying, if you don't force people to live "better" lives (in quotes because "better" is in the mind of the beholder), they will always choose to live convenient lives. Getting more money is convenient. Saving time is convenient. Saving bodily energy by using every possible electrical device is convenient. And so long as one person exists who will happliy profit from the desire for convenience, your society won't work --- unless they are compelled. 

Of course, you need to surround yourself with sycophants who are willing to take the proverbial bullet for you so that the occasional individual who has a "sense" about something being wrong can't sneak up behind you and slip a stiletto between your ribs. Carefully dispensed hallucinogenics combined with subliminal audio will help with that... because nothing can bind the faithful to you like a powerful vision. The satellite launches can be masked as the faithful "ascending into heaven" (a good way of removing those sycophants who are getting just a little too comfortable with their power and authority). The launch site needs to be where no one can actually get to it to investigate (realistically, you can have only one Tunguska blast site). While a submarine would be convenient, an underground and underwater base might be simpler. And a nice retreat when you need a break from everybody's prayers. You need a really good supply of antibiotics. Nothing endears the masses like a good healing, whether it be an individual or a crop. Just as valuable is a supply of herbicide, because nothing instills fear like destroying crops. Drones are once again your friend. Quiet, camoflaged drones. If you can sneak one in that's large enough, you could put out small fires or drop a stream of napalm for a quality column of fire (the story of Elijah and the Priests of Baal comes to mind). So... 

The missing metals are conductive metals, alloys, and carbon metals. The missing fossil fuels are combustable hydrocarbons and their principals (no oil, no grease, no John Tavolta — Olivia Newton-John, though, We'll let her stay). The elements were all either consumed/non-renewable or the planet was robbed (otherwise you could just go dump-diving to get everything you want). Thanks to the metal being gone, nobody can frac oil. Oil through fracturing may be limitless. There's a whole lot of planet out there. I'm going to assume you also mean no natural gas and no coal. I'm not sure it would mean that much if they were around. Without sealed pipes for the gas and trains for the coal, they would only have limited and very localized benefits. 

As of today, plant breeding is over 11,000 years old... and computers were only used for the last, oh, 30 years. But you're not asking about the wildly successful and obviously practical art of plant breeding — which solves your problem magnificently without the need for genome analysis — You're asking if a genome can be sequenced to any degree for this purpose without a computer? No, obviously not, since the technology to anaylize and modify DNA to any degree requires computers to maintain and support it. You appear to have pushed your Martians back to the 1970s or, at best, 80s. Genetic markers were in their infancy back then... even with supercomputers. Unless, as I suggest in my answer to the question you reference, you define "computer" to mean something more specific than "a machine that can crunch numbers really, really fast." If so, it will change my answer. 

That's 730 horses (exluding the horses needed for "normal upkeep," like importing food into the troop, but those are usually owned by the farmers, etc. bringing the food). Many ancient societies couldn't afford that kind of luxury. Even the early Roman cavalry had just one horse per man. Battlefield medical for the horses was important. You never want less than one horse per man. Horses often die faster than riders because it's too easy to hit the horse. Which is why medieval heavy calvary sometimes had the (poor) horse wearing ear-to-ankle armor (the armor being cheaper to maintain than one or more additional horses). 

The simple reality is: you can't Star Trek is famous for promoting a future without money, where energy is so cheap and the ability to produce for our needs is so simple that everyone's needs are taken care of and each individual is able to act to their greatest potential. It's a nice thought. The truth is there are substantial differences in our skills and abilities, and those differences very quickly develop some very hard feelings. For example, if the government chose to force a company to employ a weak man for a strong man's job, the company would be unhappy and the strong man who didn't get the job would be unhappy. The government is left with figuring out how to make both the company and the strong man happy without changing its employment rules. I suppose they could behaviorly change the owners and the strong man (aka, brainwashing), but that actually doesn't work well. Another possibility is that the government forces those who excel to work at the level of the lowest common denominator. For the life of me, I keep forgetting the name of a short story. I read it as a teen. Strong people were shackled with weights. Smart people were subjected to distracting noises. All to "normalize" society. A dancer became free of her weights and began dancing with joy, only to have a monitor come in with a shotgun and blow her away. The story made its point about societies that try to eliminate the talented and capable. Which brings me to my point The only effective way to compenasate for the differences in our learned skills and inherent abilities is money (whatever form it takes). The more capable you are, the more you're worth, and the more you receive. Removing the incentive of money allows people to act with laziness, dragging society down. Thus, the government must continuously force people to participate in society. This is a draconian condition. However you develop your society, you must come up with a way to compensate people for making themselves more valuable to society (learning new skills, excelling at those skills, or simply being stronger than your neighbor). You will never control jealousy or envy anymore than you will control pride and contempt. You must accomodate them. Life is a competition. It always has been. From the day we crawled out of the primordial ooze (if not before) we've been competing for limited resources like food and mates. The only way to achieve what you describe is to rid yourself of the reasons for competition. I can't see that ever happening. See beautiful woman. Buy beautiful woman things. Beat crap out of competition. Convince beautiful woman it wasn't you. Marry beautiful woman, then cheat on her with another beautiful woman. Embezzle because the 3rd beautiful woman is getting expensive. ... Human nature is a harsh taskmaster. Religions and governments have been trying since the day the first guy didn't get the beautiful woman to control our behavior. It hasn't worked for society as a whole yet....