That really depends on what your goals are. If you're trying to lose weight, then a calorie deficit is a good thing. But if you're trying to put on muscle, you actually want to be gaining weight (albeit muscle mass), so you want to be consuming more calories than you burn. You said you're trying to lose weight, so I'll elaborate a little more. From what I've read, yes you can consume more calories on days you work out and still lose weight. The reason behind that is the benefits of exercising don't stop at just the calories you burn during the workout. Muscles burn more calories at rest than fat, so if you're doing exercises that build muscle, you can and will need to eat more. You also get an "after burn" after some exercises. According to this source 

After I got this setup, even during several months when I had no time to exercise in any way, I had no more problems. So my 2c are... fix your work area first, then look towards exercises. 

From my personal experience, you can do all the exercises you want, if you do not eliminate the base cause, it won't help. I was experiencing RSI problems while doing lots and varied exercises, including forearm specific. For me this meant investing in a few things: 

I think research is inconclusive on this matter, I don't believe there has been consistent scientific proof that HFCS is as bad as it was blamed to be recently. Aspartame is also similar. While generally seen as "bad", research seems to suggest otherwise. I personally avoid it, just to be safe. On a personal level, I think that as long as you have a fairly healthy diet (without too much "processed" food in it), you should be perfectly safe from these sweeteners whether or not they're "the devil". If you are, on the other hand, eating a lot of processed stuff, sweeteners are probably not the main issue with that type of diet. 

I came across this article today on calories burned when walking versus running the same distance. The important points are that you burn 5 calories for every liter of oxygen you consume while exercising, and running requires you to take in more oxygen because it increases your heart rate more. That is, although you're moving the same amount of weight over the same distance whether you walk or run, when you run you 

In my experience, the most dangerous things about saunas are dehydration and dizziness/fainting. I've read that saunas can cause an increase in blood pressure and coughing (because it loosens phlegm). So, if you are prone to dizziness, have high blood pressure/other cardiovascular issues, or asthma it's probably best to avoid saunas. I'm sure there are other dangers too that I'm not aware of so don't take this as an exhaustive list. But in my experience as long as I hydrate well, don't get up too quickly, and step out after 15-20 minutes I'm usually fine. I've never heard of a sauna being bad for your muscles. As for benefits, it's obviously relaxing. According to the site I linked to, saunas "enhance the oxygen and nutrient supply to muscles and deep tissue, relieving tired, achy muscles." It's kind of the same idea as using a heating pad to treat a pulled muscle. The NY Times quotes some research suggesting that saunas may relieve cold and flu symptoms by promoting drainage as well. 

In a good old writeup on Advanced Workout Nutrition, John Berardi recommends drinking 30g of carbs and 15g of protein per hour of training. How would eating the same amounts of solid food compare, say a small banana (~20g carbs, 1g protein) + 1oz edamame (12g protein, 12g carbs)? Tho goal is maximum muscle synthesis. 

John Berardi of Scrawny to Brawny fame recommends drinking a 2:1 ratio of carbs to protein during exercise: 

I've searched high and low for this, but all I could find was articles on the best number of reps and sets (rep and set range etc.) But how long should one rep be for maximum hypertrophy, given, say, a 5x5 routine (does that change for more reps/sets?)? Additionally, what is the most effective rest period between reps within a set? Of course this depends on the individual, as does everything else, but are there any studies or recommended values? 

The reason oatmeal is good for promoting weight loss is because it is high in fiber and low in fat. The high fiber content helps keep you full for a long time, reducing the desire to eat soon afterwards. According to this site, 

It looks like the shoes you have would be fine for running, but it depends on how long you've had them and how worn out they are. You don't want to be running in something that gives you no support, and if you literally wear them every day that might be the case with them. On the other hand, the Couch to 5k program has you running three times a week, and you don't want to get blisters from using new shoes without breaking them in gradually. If you want to get serious about running, I'd recommend getting a new pair of shoes (maybe going to a running store where they can recommend what to buy) and then alternating your old shoes and new shoes for first couple of weeks. That way you break in the new shoes gradually while starting off with something you're comfortable in. 

Keeping in mind that this experience is from an UNEXPERIENCED runner, let me just say that running barefoot is one of the best things I did for myself :) 

Don't underestimate the importance of just exercising your technique for increasing speed. Often the problem is not so much how fast can you throw your hand forward, but how fast can you do it correctly, with the proper rhythm, form etc. That's what makes a correct quick punch difficult to do. It's not so much the muscle contraction, it's that there are many things that need to happen all at once. 

I agree with md5sum. You need more complex carbs and fats in there and possibly some more protein as well. The reason why it probably all burns out quickly is because it's all very "sugary".