I can't use port-based redirects, because of the custom port use. I can't use script-based redirects because they never get served because of the http/https mismatch. I'm almost willing to chalk this up to a bug, or an unintended behavior, but somebody had the forethought to put a very custom error message in there, they didn't bother thinking that maybe you'd want to just cart to the URL they are already providing? 

Reverse your thinking! Use to link your variably-named (bad form, IMHO) to the . are complimentary; they do the same thing, but in differing directions. Try something like this? 

i would check out the command, which you can use the mount the Win7 WIM file to add/remove features, updates, patches, etc. Link 

Huh? You can have just one file. You just need to change your Require parameter to be the userid instead of valid-user. See here: Apache Docs. 

Our configuration is simple, crude even, but its effective for our purposes: all vSwitches (one for each VLAN) get all NICs. Each Host has four (4) NICs. The NICs are connected in pairs to two switches (Juniper EX4300s in our case). NICs 1 and 2 go to Switch A. NICs 3 and 4 go to Switch B. All switch ports have all the VLANs for that host (or rather all the hosts on that vCenter cluster), right now I think that's a total of 5 VLANs? Bottom line, I yanked power completely from a switch during our initial testing phase of our build-out and with the exception of a few dropped packets while things reoriented themselves, it was seamless. No LACP necessary, etc. VMware's NIC teaming handled the aggregation and layer 2 with as much grace as I'd expect. The Virtual Networking Concepts PDF is a good, easy, fast read and gives you a great overview of vSwitches and how the different teaming policies behave. Since our switches are in a virtual chassis, I can LACP across them, so where I can, I do use LACP links with half going to switch A and half going to switch B. I spent a lot of time trying to sort out a way to get this going on ESXi like you are trying to do because there was no way we were paying for Enterprise Plus to get VDS. In the end, our solution works as well as I could hope, on Standard none-the-less. 

A lot of people bash college for IT geeks, but you learn a lot in those 4 years, and 99% of it takes place outside the classroom. Colleges are one big business, at their lowest levels. And spending time fighting through the bureaucracy of a college is a hell of a way to prep for the bureaucracy of just about any company. You learn patience, you make contacts, build relationships with peers in your field (which are some of the most valuable things ANY geek can have), and generally it gives you a few years to "season" yourself and really figure out what you want to do. Trying to jump straight out of high school and into a career is NOT normal, it only happens in extraordinary circumstances, and odds are, you don't fit the profile (but maybe you do). All those "crap classes" you take in college? English, Management, Economics? Do I use that stuff day to day in my SysAdmin job? Nope. Am I thankful I have SOME understanding of stuff so i can hold a conversation on any range of topics with my manager, my director, my EVP/CIO, or the CEO? Yes. Having a mature personality goes a long way towards getting your foot in the door for interviews, jobs, and promotions. Think you have a personality now? So did I, when I was a freshman in college. Now I look back at that terrified, uneducated twerp I was, and appreciate that 5 years I spent deciding where I want to be and taking the time to get my education. Also, don't go getting a ton of certifications until you have a career path lined up. There's no point spending hundreds (or thousands) of dollars getting your CCNA, CCNE, or whatever, when there's still potential you'll never use them. Not sure you wanna be a Windows Admin? Why waste time, energy, and money getting an MCP certification? Also, as was pointed out elsewhere here, Internships are some of the best ways to test the waters of a particular field, build industry contacts, and find permanent jobs. Colleges (at least the ones worth going to) and clubs at colleges, host job fairs regularly. Impress a recruiter there, and you might get an interview. Impress people there, and you got an internship. Companies send recruiters there to look for POTENTIAL, not for experience. Pick a college. Finish a degree. You don't regret it. 

This is a bug in Redmine, IIRC. It doesn't handle self-signed certificates very well at all. I ended up following the instructions here and got mine working. In short, create a directory for subversion to dump its configuration to, run it once manually, then edit the in redmine's folder in order point it at that config directory. I didn't / couldn't follow those directions to the letter, I doubt you'll be able to either, so be prepared to go off-script if need be. 

Preface Firstly: A simply Port 80 -> Port 443 Rewrite WILL NOT fix this. In almost every previous question, mail thread, forum thread, etc., I have found this was the first ignorant response and was parroted several times. Secondly: Yes I know you cannot serve HTTP and HTTPS traffic on the same port. This is not that. Scenario: Apache Server hosting multiple sites via port multiplication. Port 80 serves a public site. Port 443 serves the secure version of that site. Ports 7443, 8443, and 9443 each serve separate SSL-Secured sites. If a user mistypes the URL, or is given a link that isn't valid, say $URL$ they are given the following ridiculous page: 

Try the LifeCycle Controller (F10 at boot). It'll be slow as molasses, but it should let you reset the iDRAC settings (assuming the system has an iDRAC to begin with). That being said, the iDRAC configuration will be the last thing in the BIOS to run before the system begins to boot; you should see its IP settings and get a prompt to hit Ctrl-E. If you aren't getting that, it might not be there at all. 

I recommend 24" cables and putting the switches above/below/between the patch panels they will service. Given that most racks are 19", this gives you enough room to run a cable from one side of the rack to the other (if necessary), while reducing the slack you have to deal with. Using shorter cables is fine, until you need to recable something, or move a patch port to another switch port, then you're stringing in a new cable. Admittedly it doesn't reduce slack nearly as much as 6" cables would, but the down-the-road flexibility is much handier, IMHO. That said, for stuff that you're going to set and forget, doing a quick mock up of the rack(s) in question, figuring out the best paths and runs, then either custom-cutting/testing the cable yourself, or overnighting some close-to-length cables from someplace can make an otherwise ugly situation look incredibly nice. I did this with the last rack deployment I did, going as far as to get shorter power cables and color-coded Cat5 (for DRAC, Public vs private network, etc). The back of the rack looks clean, simple, and awesome. not to mention well-ventilated. 

I found this post to be a great summary of vCPU assignment and resource consumption on VMware (and to a lesser extent, HyperV). I wouldn't assign more than 6 of the 8 available cores; if you are needing more resources than that you should either move to a quad-processor server (or one with a bigger number of cores / pCPU), or as @ewwhite suggested, nix VMware and install directly on the hardware (assuming you're not using vmware as a shim to enable high availability, etc). 

Instead of the server just redirecting them over to $URL$ My Question is, how in the name of Zeus's butthole can you modify Apache's behavior or this error message to redirect the user automagically? Apache is obviously serving a non-https request (to display that error message) even though it is configured for HTTPS. It seems remarkably dumb to me to not just do the redirect by default, but I can understand why they went with the behavior they did, even if I don't agree with it. So my question is: can you change it? They are handling the error SOMEWHERE, and with Apache being the configuration cornucopia that it is, it stands to reason there is some directive somewhere to handle this behavior, but I have been unable to find it in several hours of tinkering so far. Update: I have attempted a variety of things including: