Yes, it is possible to be so far ahead the other culture cannot catch up, but your example span is likely not in that category. Just suppose I take my solar-powered hand calculator with an LCD display, the one that can solve differential equations, back to the time of Newton's birth. Not only is the technology beyond their grasp, the entire theory of operation is beyond their grasp, because it will be 30 years before anybody on Earth has any idea of what a differential equation even is. If you are dealing with things easy to learn and clearly analogous to something else, then the natives will catch on and catch up. If your technology looks like magic and is impossible to figure out just by looking at it (with the tools they've got), they cannot catch up. An integrated circuit is one thing that falls into that category: Nothing in Newton's world could have shown him the patterns on an integrated circuit, and even then nothing in his experience was like a transistor, capacitor, binary logic, or electricity. It would be too much, it is too many layers of invention to comprehend without a guide and teachers explaining each one. Seventy years of innovation is one lifetime, and possible to learn by the best and brightest. Three or four lifetimes of innovation, discovery and found applications? That is just too much, at least since the Renaissance and embrace of science, it has been. 

Yes, "genetic engineering" can solve the problem. First and most simply, you could just flip a coin and clone either the mother or the father (or make the gender their choice), thus zero mutations from the parent stock. Second and more complex, the problem is mutation due to miscopying of a genome, or a poor choice of inheritance. With genetic engineering (even today) we can specify every letter of the genome and simply manufacture it that way. For your purposes, an inventory of the genes of the ruling family can act as a library of allowable alleles (variants of a given gene) and gene segments, and a random (or intentional) selection of each part, given the founding library, could be the only allowable "persons" to be born. In the event such a person turns out to have an undesirable trait due to some untested combination of allowable genes, Their combinations can be flagged as suspect, or if a combo appears multiple times as suspect, flagged as prohibited in the library. 

Well, to make a desert planet habitable, you will need oxygen, unless your 1870's cowboys live in domed towns, which seems incongruous. Humans need to breath oxygen! You will also need water (could be subsurface) and crops: Which means whatever factor killed off all the plants (including the forests turned coal) must no longer exist, or you couldn't grow anything new. If you want the biological cause of the non-conductive metals being present, they will need water, too. Bacteria aren't a dry collection of sticks; they need water as their primary solvent. Some of those problems I cannot solve in this post; perhaps I will have an idea later. The oxygen problem can be solved; however. Until recently, it was believed oxygen would have to be a sign of life on an exo-planet; for example see this link on Signs of Life. An excerpt follows: 

added: Because much of being rich is about power and lifestyle, both of which they can financially engineer by being in charge of money, corporations and property that they do not technically own. For example, they can transfer their wealth to a Trust for their kids; which they are in charge of until they die (no matter how old the children get). The trust owns the house, the stock, the companies, the cars and planes and boats; and because they are in charge of it, the Trust lets them do whatever they want with those things. They can also buy whatever they wish, they are just doing it on behalf of the Trust. Technically they are not rich, they don't own a thing and earn no salary. The Trust can also own all the stock in a company, and since the guy that formed the trust decides how the Trust votes, he votes himself as the CEO every year. If he wants, he can pay himself some modest salary or bonuses, like $250K a year, not exactly rich, just pocket money for Vegas. Even their credit cards can be in the name of the Trust; which (like a corporation) they can make an independent "person" in the law. So even when somebody sues them and wins, if they are suing the person instead of the trust, the person is a pauper and they get nothing. And if American law gets in the way, there are other countries perfectly willing to accommodate them with bullet proof financial protections. They just need to know where to look. 

A similar answer about "paranoia" is above; but instead of a government, consider it more of a cultural bias: Honesty is paramount, nakedness proves you have nothing to hide. And it isn't a matter of not inventing clothing; there are still such things as protective clothing for firefighters, soldiers, explorers in the ice and snow or other extreme environments: but that comes off the minute it is no longer necessary; kind of like a gas mask in our own world. You don't mind seeing workers cleaning out asbestos covered head to toe in a bunny suit and wearing goggles and a full breather gas mask, but you don't expect them to walk into a restaurant that way. You can even add religious overtones: God made you naked and considered that perfect, and your mother wrapped you in a blanket to warm and protect you --- not to hide your nakedness. Trying to cover your nakedness is challenging the wisdom of God in making you that way; a form of blasphemy that would get you shunned. 

Rumors will spread naturally if they really are magically gifted and really cannot be killed; all they need to do is leave alive a few soldiers and/or spectators from each battle. It is human nature to talk of near unbelievable things they have witnessed. That's it, just allow witnesses to survive and their reputation will be such that they may not need to fight at all: Genghis Khan had a reputation for killing every male in a town and giving their daughters and wives to his soldiers to do with as they pleased: raped, turned into servants, or both: But not if you surrendered and joined his army (on probation and without arms until you proved yourself, of course). After some number of these "kill them all and burn the town" episodes, Genghis took many fortified towns without any fight at all, he arrived to open gates with the men already standing there defenseless, with their weapons on the ground in front of them. Heck, they probably killed (or banished) their own dissenters! Propaganda needs no special accelerant when the rumors are true.