The company I work for supports large corporate clients, and a constant influx of new work is always expected. They are not a startup and have been in business for 15 years. We have six employees including myself. The owner of the company has completely removed themself, calls occasionally but never visits and lives out of state. I was basically hired as a glorified secretary but my position has slowly morphed over time and I am really starting to feel incredibly resentful. I feel like as much as I try I will never be seen as more than a peon. Aside from that I really enjoy my coworkers and they are almost always cordial and level-headed to my face. I was hired to monitor their online project management system, assist with data entry, and content entry for websites, as well as extremely mild coding, and customer service. It has slowly but surely become much more. One of our largest clients manages their data extremely ineffectively because their marketing manager handles it and doesn't frankly understand much of anything about it. This person seems to be constantly worried about losing their job and spends most of their time obstructing us from working directly with anyone else. Because of this almost none of their product fitment sheets are standardized, accurate or translate in a way that makes sense by region. I spent almost four weeks+ learning to navigate my companies extremely complex multi-tier system that holds that data, as well as trying to decipher the non standardized, confusing format of the sheets all without even being able to speak to the person who created them because the marketing manager was standing in the way. Not to mention almost everything in the system was incorrect, and I fixed it all. There were tens of thousands of fitments and thousands of fitment groups. I spent days upon days organizing and researching the correct fitments. I was happy when I did it and I felt like it was a good opportunity to prove that I was competent and passionate about my position. I was given a one dollar raise about three months after the project was complete. I went from 12 to 13 dollars an hour. Almost everyone at my company is more technically inclined. While I do throughly enjoy these things, investigating them and learning to understand them from my outside perspective.....I am much more of a creative person and Art and Design are my passion. My company used to design things but they have held on to a really outdated aesthetic and they love to wave that flag whenever third party firms take over that responsibility. They don't seem to value design work, they gawk at it, they naysay it and yet they never seem to have any valuable insight on how anything could possibly look better. They cannot just admit they aren't good at it, and other companies who are have pushed them out. All of the design work they used to handle has been outsourced by their clients to trendier and frankly better design companies while they have been left to handle data and programming responsibilities. Their own personal website is terrible, and considering that's the business they're in it looks really bad. Attracting new business will be hard for them in the future if they don't update it. The owner wanted a new website. They asked me if I would do it and I said that I would thinking that It would be another opportunity for me to earn a better raise. I took on the project knowing very little about photoshop, which I have learned very well. I have a good design sense and spent much time researching and thinking about the best way to reach their niche market in a relevant and modern way. Not to mention NO ONE GAVE ME ANY DIRECTION OR FEEDBACK WHATSOEVER (aside from telling me to keep an outdated logo). I came up with something that the owner could not stop raving about, and loved. The whole thing was under the guise that if they didn't like it they would not use it, and I was aware and fine with that. The content on their current site was clearly half cared about, so I had to redo all of the copy and determine the best way to integrate what I could salvage as well as come up with new and interesting concepts to feature. I did all of this hoping they would give me a raise after the design was complete if they decided to use it. I completed the seven page design two months ago, and am now working tirelessly to reach their deadline for an important industry trade show when one of my coworkers says that one of our clients trendy third party design outlets quoted our company 30K to redesign their site, and said "How could it cost that much for a picture?" I calculated it and they have paid me about 4 over the course of six months for the project. I am just really angry and frankly overall it just hurts my feelings, because I do really care. I don't expect to get 30K but I expect to be appreciated and somewhat compensated seeing as they know they saved a lot of money using me. Thankfully I dodged another one when they asked me if I would do an entire content translation as they know that I am bilingual. They frankly just treat me like an imbecile in a passive non confrontational way but somehow at the same time they seem like nice and perceptive people. I just don't know what to do and I'm angry. I just don't know how they're comfortable knowing what I did is worth and continuing to deny consideration of another raise on their own. I don't know how they think that is acceptable. Pardon any mistakes, I don't have the patience at the moment. I want to ask for a raise but I don't know what is appropriate or how to ask, I also really just feel like I shouldn't have to ask and it's making me not want to be there. Posting on my boyfriends account, so other questions are not mine. 

Well that's just too bad for them. Talk to them anyway. Self empowerment may give you the ability to make your own decisions, but it doesn't free you from the responsibility to live up to those decisions. If I had a team like that, talking to them would be the kindest level of response I'd consider. One might say "Oh, but the SCRUM master is supposed to resolve impediments like this. Everything should go through him." Well tough. He screwed that up when he went to you to tell you you were fired and failed to do so in a sufficiently courteous way that you accepted it. A SCRUM master is expected to have better people skills than that. So what do you say? First, you want to find out if they actually decided to "fire" you. You have one person's word on that, and I do believe this is the kind of situation where the team should be able to directly say their piece. Second, consider what "firing" means. You claim to be a hands off manager, but they want you gone. Understand why. They aren't writing the paychecks, so the decision to fire you isn't a "oh they're not pulling their weight" kind of decision. That's a "this person is actively getting in the way" kind of decision. Something really isn't adding up here. You need it to add up for you before you make any meaningful decisions. Being an anonymous person on the internet, I can't say if its you or them or the SCRUM master, but something is really really really wrong in this scenario, and you better know what it is by the time you're done talking with them. Work with them. Be a manager. Find a way to solve the problem. Find a way for you to be able to do your job, while they do theirs. Make it happen. Now, if their answers provide you with sufficient closure to honor their self empowerment, now you have to show the team what happens when you "fire" leadership like that. Say "Fine. I'll stop acting as your manager. You can't actually fire me, because that's not your position, but if you want to play this game, we can play. I was your manager, helping insulate you from corporate politics and the stress of reporting to upper management. Now, I am your upper management, and you no longer have that insulation. Now since I can't actually remove myself from this position, I will instead simply begin relaying tasking from on high." Explain that just because the team voted, that doesn't mean you don't have obligations to upper management that you have to fulfill, and will continue to do so. Then, get help. A mutiny is not a small thing. Your entire team just voted you off the island. Don't underestimate it. Get ahold of someone above you to help. Maybe you call your boss on leave. Maybe you talk to your CIO. Someone needs to know that there is a major people problem in your company, and that you are solving it. The second half is clearly important. Never go to leadership with problems, go to them with solutions. The solution I would recommend is to craft your image as the "manager bearing requirements" by choosing things to require which leadership (i.e. CIO) would want, which is crafted to build some self-realization to go with this self-empowerment. They may think they're free to do what they want, but you are still obliged to make them a successful team. If you have to do it from afar, do it from afar. Find out what about your hands-off approach was so intimidating, and make sure you don't ever do that. The end goal is to get them to realize you are on their side. If they are truly self empowered, then they need to come to the realization that you are a beneficial part of the team. They will only come to that realization if they are successful. If they get deluged with impossible deadlines and hopeless red tape, they'll never see it. Just make sure that it all adds up. 2+2=4. A "hands off" manager is "fired" by the new SCRUM master for being too intimidating while two layers of management are on leave? Something doesn't add up from here. You're closer to the situation. Figure out what doesn't add up, and fix it.