Warning: I am not a linguist! This post is essentially a long comment on French’s use of est-ce que and your exclusion of it because “it’s a whole phrase”. I think est-ce que in modern French is not a “whole phrase” anymore, at least in colloquial French, so colloquial French is an example of Indo-European language with such an interrogative particle. (In the citation bellow, Rodney ball mentions the Polish czy, which would be another example). The difference between formal written French and spoken French are quite large, even in grammar. While est-ce que is currently part of standard French, it doesn’t sound very formal to my native ears and is discouraged in formal writings. I believe it is a relatively recent development in French, but I clearly do not analyse it instinctively as a “whole phrase”. Rodney Ball, in his (excellent) Colloquial French Grammar, section 2.2.1, says 

Beyond other answers, I will add some examples of actual use of phonetic writing systems actually used for Chinese (or any Sinitic language, what is traditionally called Chinese dialects/topolects). These example show that it is linguistically possible to use a phonetic script to write Chinese; of course, doing so would be a major revolutionary change, rendering some poetic or technical texts totally unintelligible. Actually, any text which needs supplementary explanation of homophones when read alone would by definition pose problem. In all examples below, a phonetic system is (or was) actually used by a sizeable community of people as a writing system for several generations, ensuring its actual usefulness. For them (except maybe for the medieval 'Phags-pa case), it is the main writing system, since they don’t have access to the usual Chinese characters. If you are interested in discussions about phonetic writing of Chinese you can read this post by Victor Mair at LanguageLog and the links therein. Historic use of phonetic scripts in China Historically, China has been in contact with various phonetic scripts (Mogolian, Tibetan, among others) and I think several have been used to write Chinese. Notably, Phags-Pa (wiki ; more details by Andrew West) was commissioned by Kublai Khan for this use, and was an official way to write Chinese (and other languages of the Mongol empire) during almost a century (from 1269 to 1351 or 1352). However this was not popular among Chinese scholar and disappeared with the Yuan dynasty. I have no idea about the balance of the political vs linguistic factors in this lack of popularity, but I think it illustrates well the difficulties a phonetic orthographic reform would face for Chinese. If a century of effort by a power as strong as the one of the Yuan dynasty didn’t manage to impose a phonetic spelling, in an era where only a minority of the population was literate, it seems unlikely to see such a reform ever happen. Arabic script has also been used to write Chinese by Muslim minorities, and seems to still be in use but declining, according to the linked Wikipedia page. Chinese Braille Nowadays, a phonetic script is the main script for many Chinese blinds: three different systems are used for Mandarin and (at lest) one for Cantonese. I have no specific information about the actual use of this script, but I guess millions of Chinese read and write in it, and thousands of book are transcribed in it, with not much problem. Dungan in Cyrillic The Dugans are essentially Hui people who moved from Gansu to what is now Kyrgyzstan and Kasakhstan in late 19th century. Being form northwestern China, their language is closely related to standard Chinese. However, due to the Soviet policy on minority languages, it is fully written in Cyrillic script since 1953, with a perfectly functional orthography used by a community of 50,000 people. The implication of this fact on a reform like the one you have in mind is the subject of a paper by the sinologist Victor H. Mair, written in 1990 (html version; scanned original pdf) 

Until recently is a preposition phrase with an adverb phrase (realized as a single adverb) as its object; in this case the phrase acts as an adclausal adjunct ('adverbial' in traditional grammar)—that is, it modifies an entire clause, not just a verb. 

But the tense—temporal reference—of the assertion is independent of the tense of pretend, for you may assert a past, present or future fact; and the form/construction of the verb employed in the assertion reflects the interaction of the tense of the assertion with the Reference Time of the pretense. What you want here is almost certainly: 

In all these genres the primary effect aimed at in using the simple present is to make the events more immediate, as if they occur immediately before our eyes. 

Or it may be that as you say lmao actually lies in the middle of the utterance. In more formal registers you might expand it to a clause or replace it with a more conventional clause or adverbial (to my great amusement), and bracket it with dashes or parentheses, and it would look perfectly ordinary. 

Compare horned beasts to crowned heads. I'd call this a sort of indirect passive deverbal adjective . The -ed represents the past (passive) participle form of a verb which is represented by the same morpheme as the underlying noun. In effect, the noun N is recategorized as a verb, whether or not that verb is actually in current use, and its participle is employed in the passive sense "furnished with N". I don't know a term for the thematic role here. Unless someone comes up with something better, I suggest praebitive, from praebere, "furnish, supply, provide". 

All native speakers possess knowledge of at least spoken form of the language. But of course there can be difficult areas especially in written form. In Russian for instance, native speakers often experience problems with punctuation: where should or should not be placed a comma. This is quite difficult topic even for the well educated. Another difficult (but less difficult than punctuation) area is single vs. double "н" in spelling. 

The root structure in PIE (of any root except some indeclinable particles) is as follows (s)(C)CeC(C). There were no third layer consonants, except the s-mobile and also there were specific limitations on the consonant composition. The vowel could change from e to o, to long e, to long o and to no vowel depending on where the root was used. 

No, they are not borrowed, they are cognates. The Proto-Indo-European word was dusmenēs which meant "hostile" (from dus- "bad" and men- "think"). See Mallory & Adams. 

I encountered a contradiction between two respectful monographs. Mallory gives the word as h2/3u̯obhseh2 thus excluding h1 while de Vaan gives totally opposite version, h1u̯obhseh2 thus excluding h2 and h3. I wonder who is right? What do say the primary sources? In other words the both sources also differ similarly. 

It is usually asserted that the Proto-Indo-European word for "seven", septm was an early borrowing from Semitic. Also, Russian word for Saturday, "суббота" "subbota" is a relatively recent borrowing from Hebrew. It is unclear though whether the roots somehow related. Possibly, the "rest" role for the seventh day was decided by ancient Semites based on the similarity in the pronunciation of the words for "rest" and for "seven". 

I'm sure I've read the following idea written by a linguist somewhere. I didn't manage to find the reference and I'd love to have serious references for that. The following is mainly a first person description of my native language's grammar, on an aspect which is not taught at school, but seems obvious in retrospect. Such an indigenous language is my native modern French ! The tense corresponding to mythological/ancestral past is passé simple (French Wikipedia link, with more details, but in French). Basically, this past tense was used for distant past event (older than 24h) in the 18th century but totally disappeared from oral speech by the beginning og the 20th century. It stayed in formal writing, and by now only appears in old text and fairy tales. For example, when my 8 years old niece invents a fairy tale, it is at the passé simple tense, and it is the only occasion she ever uses this tense. 

If being the official written standardized form of the official language of an independent country is enough to be a “language”, the answer is yes. The difference between languages and dialects is often tricky and politically loaded, and in some cases, languages are very closely related. I guess the best case showing this is the pluricentric Serbo-Croatian language, which, after the break-up of Yugoslavia, now corresponds to four official national languages (Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian). According to the Wikipedia page comparing these languages, the 1st article of the Univerwal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) can be translated as follows in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian: 

IPA was not designed for languages with palatalized consonants, so it uses different signs when dealing with different languages. For instance, in Russian, Irish and German the IPA notation is different. In Russian and Irish it is mostly denoted by the IPA on the consonant, in German - with the following vowel. Even for Russian some palatalized consonants get superscript j as indication of palatalization, while others have separate characters, in some cases the both ways are permitted. IPA is just a mess. If you are asking how to understand it based on IPA notation, the following "j" in IPA means that the following consonant is /j/, while palatalization should never be indicated this way. It is usually indicated either with superscript "j" or special character for the consonant or special character for the following vowel, depending on language. 

How it happened that the same roller coaster type is called "Russian mountains" in America and "American mountains" in Russia? 

English "dad" comes from Proto-Indo-European teutos "elder relative, grandfather". From this root comes Russian "ded" "grandfather", German name for Germany "Deutschland" and many other words. 

The prefix entre- in entreprendre comes from Proto-Indo-European e̯enteri "between, inside", from e̯en "in", the prefix under- in undertaking comes from PIE ndheri meaning "under". 

In Proto-Indo-European there was the word for not, it was ne. So affirmation would be ne e̯esti tod. The affirmation would be e̯esti tod. 

That’s a joke (what Servius actually says is that every part of speech can be converted into an adverb); but Horne Tooke was one of the first to recognize explicitly that the term adverb doesn’t really tell you much about how a word so designated actually functions syntactically. Contemporary grammar has of course progressed beyond the classical notion; we no longer call unclassifiable terms adverbs but employ the far more meaningful term particle. 

In the first place, what are called homonyms often aren't. For (your) example, to is only homonymous with too and two when it's unnaturally stressed— ordinarily it's /tə/, not /tu/. Others are homonymous only in certain dialects: merry, marry and Mary are often cited as homonyms, but they have distinct pronunciations in my native speech. More importantly, there are few homonyms which cannot be distinguished in context. Many belong to different word classes. Again, your example lists a preposition, a quantifier and an adverb; they're going to play entirely distinct syntactic roles. And even homonyms which belong to the same word class will usually be used in contrasting semantic or pragmatic domains—how likely are you to encounter an utterance in which balled and bawled could possibly be confused? Such contextual distinctiveness is far more important than mere phonic similarity; in Real Life, as opposed to dictionaries and taxonomies, phonic phenomena only phenomenate in discourse contexts. In evolutionary terms, these synonyms inhabit different ecological niches, so they do not compete for lexical resources. 

This confirms my native instinct. Otherwise, I wouldn’t have needed a linguist to notice the redundancies of my natural way to say “What is this ?” : «Qu’est-ce que c’est», literally, *“what is it that it is”. For me, «Qu’est-ce que» is just a fancy orthography for a word [kɛskə] translating the English “what”. The same question in 18th century French would have been asked by «Qu’est-ce ?». But est-ce without a following que is no longer used in spoken French, unless you want to sound archaic and/or formal. Obviously, given the chronology of this development, there is no way est-ce que could be cognate to similar interrogative words in any other language. 

Since this sample is 164 characters long according to Twitter, it answers your question as specified. Another set of languages I would look for possible confusions would be the Nordic languages, specifically Danish and Norwegian Bokmål. But most generally, if you want to automatically find naturally occuring similar strings of text for different languages, I would look at this set of UDHR translations. Of course, if you are concerned about sentences specifically crafted to be ambiguous, I would bet it is possible to construct identical sentences in unrelated (or weakly related) languages, with different meanings. 

In the 1960’s, the linguist William Stokoe showed that the American Sign Language is a full fledged language, and subsequent linguistic studies confirmed that sign languages share all the characteristics of oral languages (expect the obvious sign/sound difference), and there is no reason to consider them differently. So ASL is “langue”, and the concrete signs used fore example in this video are “parole”, in a way similar to the analogue situations in English or any other language. By sign languages, I mean of course the languages used by deaf communities. The common misunderstanding that they’re not true language, might come from the fact that it is common for people to express simple notions by gestures (finger-pointing, expressing you’re tired, etc.), but this kind of signs are not a sign language, they are at best the equivalents of utterance like “Oh !” and “Yummy !” in English ! By contrast, sign languages can really express any notion an oral language can. I can’t personally speak any sign language, but, to give an example which impressed me, I have seen a live translation in French Sign Language of a PhD defence on biophotonics, where notions ranging from axon anatomy to optical interfermometry were discussed. 

India, Iran, Turkey all have ancient traditions of samovar-making. Yet In Persian, Kashmiri and Turkish they call the device by a borrowed Russian word "samovar" (self-boiler in Russian). I wonder, why. 

Yes, in PIE the masculine and feminine nouns in nominative usually had zero ending or -s or -os. In plural these would beciome -es, -oes. For instance, u̯lq̆os wolf -> u̯lq̆oes wolfs pa̯tēr father -> pa̯teres fathers 

The word აფალინა /aphalina/ is a word of Greek origin, derived from φάλλαινα, "whale". This word came from Greek φαλλός which in late Greek meant "penis" due to similar shape of the whale. This word in turn came from PIE root bhel- "to swell, blow". 

The East Asian languages do not distinguish r and l. The PIE had r/l alternation in suffixes: -tlom/-trom, -dhlom/-dhrom, -ter/-tel, -ros/-los. What can be said in this context about Afro-Asiatic branch? 

In PIE we have dheĝhr day (root dheĝh- "cycle") dhoğhos burning (root dheğh- "to burn") dius sky, daylight (root dei̯- "sky") All three are not related or their relation is unknown. Traditionally English "day" is considered to derive from the PIE root for "burn", although the author whom you link in the question points out that it is more likely to derive from PIE root meaning "cycle" which already was used for "day" and "yesterday" (dhĝhi̯es) in PIE, and which also gave for example, Russian "den'" "day" which indicates that the PIE word for day had an r/n stem, and as such, very archaic. An ironic consequence of this hypothesis if we accept it would be that the both parts of the English word "yesterday" originate from the same root: the yester- part is from dhĝhi̯es "yesterday" while the second part is from dheĝhr "day". The corresponding PIE form would be dhĝhi̯esterom dheĝhr (according the rules, the first word due to large consonant cluster would be pronounced starting with ĝh- already in PIE). It is unknown whether such form was used already in PIE or originated later, but it does not seem impossible especially given that dhĝhi̯es is adverb rather than a noun. For instance, in Russian you can say "вчера" "yesterday" and "вчерашний день" "yesterday(adj.) day". 

Permissive can is 'deontic' because its domain is that of obligation: it conveys a sense of unbinding or absence of obligation. You can stay as long as you want means that you are not 'bound' or 'obliged' to leave at any particular time. This permissive use designates a different kind of possibility than that conferred by physical ability (John can bench-press three hundred pounds) or logical inference (That can't be true!) The term dynamic derives from a Greek verb whose root meaning is 'be able', 'have the power', so this use is in fact etymologically closer to the original sense than more familiar uses. Note by the way that there are dozens of 'types' of modality, not just three. These three come to the fore in discussing English modal verbs because they have been found (somewhat) useful for categorizing the distinguishable ranges of meaning and syntactic use each modal exhibits. 

"Computational linguistics is trying to teach computers to understand ordinary language" would probably make sense to most laypeople. The problem, of course, is that if you tell people something they actually understand, they may respond "Oh, wow! How do you do that?"—and you're back where you started. 

Its is a typo for it, or Its is considered under the aspect "inflected form of it", or Its is an awkward way of mentioning a morphological component while preserving reference to a constituent actually present in the utterance.