Both the figure-8 and a bowline (and its variations) will fail if loaded in the manner your picture indicates. Any knot is only useful for the scenarios it was designed for, and part of knot-craft is knowing what the knots are designed to do, not just how to tie them. 

So, I have (I think) the opposite problem - the outside edges of my shoes wear more quickly than the inside edges. This kind of problem is common among runners, you can look at running websites for ideas about how to fix it. I was never able to fully fix the problem, buuuut... Treating the symptoms instead of the underlying problem works for me. I keep an eye on my shoes and hiking boots, and if I see some uneven wearing happening, I sand the sole down with some sandpaper until the sole is even. Or (if for some reason I don't want to do that), I get a new pair of shoes. Its expensive (I wind up replacing my outdoor shoes about twice as fast as you usually would), but it really helps fight knee pain (from walking on uneven shoes), since I can't seem to fix my pronation issue. Hope this helps. Its not a perfect solution, but its how I manage the problem. 

This isn't in the spirit of the original question, but if you want to make sure you have enough water in the back woods, remember that proper planning is going to be the safest strategy. To me, proper planning would include: 

The Ethic So, the ethic among experienced climbers is to not toprope on the base of a popular multipitch route. In addition to the safety issues you point out, its just not fair to the people who invested the time to learn to lead. Especially not a destination place like Yosemite Valley where people may have traveled a long way to get there. You say this was a long single pitch route, so maybe its a grey area. But a large group of beginners would still be better served by going to a smaller cliff that was more setup for group toproping. Saftey issues I did this once when a partner and I (not a group, just the 2 of us) wanted to toprope a very hard route that shared an anchor with a moderate route we'd just lead, and it had the exact disadvantages you mention (basically point-for-point, you identified them correctly). The biggest are: 

Muir Valley is a privately owned area, so presumably the coins are acceptable to the retired couple that owns it. Don't know about Ontario, but in the US (the Red River Gorge aside) most climbing areas are owned by federal or state governments who may likely have regulations against physically marking the starts of the routes (this is in addition to any leave-no-trace or environmental concerns). You should probably work with a local climbing groups (who have contact with the land owners) to address this issue, rather than risk alienating the government agencies that control the land. 

The risk is that the blisters will get worse and worse, and continue to interfere with your hiking experience. They can get larger, more painful, and eventually tear open and risk getting infected. This process can happen fairly quickly - from the first time you notice pain in your feet, blisters can develop in < 15 minutes. I haven't personally tried to hike on them longer than that, but I don't think it would take very long (a single day, if you have enough rubbing) for a blister to rupture. Once you have an open wound, infection becomes a continual risk unless you can keep it clean and dry, which is hard to do with your feet while you're hiking. (And, to address your question, all infections are very serious.) Long distance walking You mentioned a 30km hike... I'd recommend that you start with short hikes, and add distance slowly over a period of weeks or months. This will give you a chance to: 

You should use some kind of moisturizing hand lotion. There are a lot of brands, and I don't really have a preference. I like to make sure I get an unscented version, since most moisturizers are market towards women and have floral aromas. Put it on your skin once or twice a day, and the dry cracking should go away. 

The leader's responsibility When you take beginners out, you (as the experienced climber) have to be responsible for all aspects of their experience, both keeping them safe, and trying to keep them from getting freaked out. Its actually a lot of responsibility. And when you have then bouncing around on a 140m line, 200' off the ground with up to 30' of ropestretch, you just can't do that. :) Where to look for more information 

Oh, your 3rd question (I didnt see it): Is it unsafe to have multiple connections to a single point while switching from climbing to rappelling (e.g. a rope and sling through the tie-ins, or two biners through the belay loop if I'm clipped to both a rope and a sling)? Those are 2 separate questions (multiple things running through the tie-in points, or multiple things running through the belay loop. Multiple things in the tie-in points If I understand your question, are you asking "Can I have a rope, an anchor chain (and the belay loop) all running through my tie-in points at the same time, such that either of them, if weighted, would load the tie-in points?". If that's the question, then, yes. This is the standard setup. Multiple things on the belay loop The only thing that should ever go on to your belay loop is the carabiner attached to your belay device, so, no, I don't think you'd ever have multiple things attached to the belay loop. 

Maybe? It may depend on where you're getting the blisters. A lot of the blisters that I get from hiking boots are on my heels, or on the sides of my toes. I don't think that barefoot walking would help build calluses in those places. If you want to walk barefoot, go ahead an experiment with that. But I'd also look at the general advice for avoid blisters while in trekking boots (you clearly know at least some of this, but I'll type it anyway, in case anyone else comes along): 

You shouldn't buy used safety equipment (ropes, harnesses, carabiners, etc) because you don't know if the previous owner handled them properly (maybe they splashed bleach on the rope?). But shoes aren't really considered "safety related" - if the shoes did fail in a climb, it would be no different than having your foot pop off because of bad footwork. Which happens frequently, and is something you should assume might happen - that's why you have a rope and harness that you trust. 

You mention that they're newer boots in your post. You could also wear them enough to make sure you've broken them in BEFORE your big hiking trip. Wear them to work (if you can get away with it). Wear them on the stairmaster in the gym (if you're doing 20 minute sessions, blistering may not be as bad, and you can make sure to duct-tape / moleskip up your feet anywhere you might get a blister). 

I'm not aware of one single bar that matches all of these requirements. Cliff Bars don't freeze or melt easily, but they are mostly made of highly processed food goop. Fruit-and-nut bars are highly palatable, but don't have all that much protein. Its not a bar, but jerky is easy to carry and store, and can also be a good option for protein sometimes. 

You propose packing food deeply in your backpack. I'd specifically recommend against that. Bears (and other wild animals) have vastly more acute senses of smell than humans, and they won't hesitate to chew through your pack to get at anything buried there. Even if there aren't bears in an area, there are likely to be some kind of varmints (squirrels, chipmunks, opossums, raccoons, porcupines, marmots, mice, rats, etc) that are more than capable of chewing a hole in the side if your pack. Once a friend of mine found that a chipmunk had chewed a 2" hole in the side of his backpack in broad daylight to get a sandwich he'd left inside. I'd recommend taking some level of precaution to protect your food, your gear, and yourselves. If the rangers in the area offer some recommendation, I'd probably take it. :) Bear bags aren't as safe as bear canisters, either (I've known if raccoons that were able to eat food directly out of a hung bear bag), but they're still better than just leaving food in a pack or tent. 

Knee and Anlke pain In your question, you mention that you have recently been experiencing knee and ankle pain from hiking. Reading it again, it sounds like you're almost trying to find the "right" kind of outdoor shoes because your knees and ankles hurt while you were hiking in sneakers. IMHO, getting a fancy pair of hiking shoes may or may not address the problem at all. Rough Terrain and Ankles If you're having ankle pain when you're hiking, and ONLY when you're hiking (i.e., your ankles are fine when you're jogging or working out in a gym), you may want to look at a pair of full hiking boots. The heavier kind. A well fitting pair of boots will have good ankle protection, and keep your ankles from rolling when you're hiking on rough terrain. Knees There's not going to be a single fix for knee pain, because knee pain can be caused by a variety of underlying issues. There is no particular kind of shoe (or boot) that is universally better for knees. I (personally) have noticably less knee pain when I hike with a pair of 3rd party arch supports (I wear the blue "Superfeet" shoe inserts). Also, I have to make sure my shoes aren't too old, because I tend to wear the outside edge of my soles, and when that wears down too much my foot hits the ground at an angle. But I have issues with the arches of my feet. This may or may not apply to your situation, and there's no way to really diagnose it over the internet. What you could try You could play around with newer shoes and / or boots, with a 3rd party insert. First, wait until you're knees and ankles have settled down from whatever strain they went under on your last trip. Go to a store with a good return policy, and get fitted for a boot, and possibly shoe inserts. Wear them to work for a day or two, and if everything feels OK, try going on a short hike around your neighborhood. If everything is good, then try going on incrementally longer hikes. If that doesn't work, or if you have knee or ankle pain that bothers you when you're not hiking (i.e, when you're at work or trying to sleep), then don't hesitate to see a doctor. A doctor may be able to tell if you have a specific foot issue that could be addressed with custom orthodics, or could prescribe a regiment of stretches and strengthening exercises that may help. (If the doctor immediately proposes surgery as a solution... go get a second opinion). 

If you want to help maintain trails, its usually better to volunteer with an existing organization with a relationship with the park, than to try and act on your own. Its not always going to be possible to know what the exact appropriate / inappropriate line is when you're out on your own hiking. Sometimes park services have conflicting priorities (for instance, balancing the needs of hikers with mandates to protect the natural environment, or balancing the needs of hikers with rock climbers or mountain bikers). Individuals that perform large, impactful "improvement" projects can aggrevate tensions within the park in a way that planned volunteer events don't. Removing broken treebranches from a trail by hand is probably fine, but much more than that (anything that would require tools, building systems of cairns, etc) should probably be left for formal trail improvements.