It has been my observation that in most companies, they may try to find corroborating evidence if possible but if they can't, they tend to take the side of the employee that they feel is more valuable to the company which often translates into who is higher paid. In this case as this is a safety violation, it is entirely possible they would take the conservative action of removing you from the job if you can't prove you were operating safely. Personally, I would contact a labor lawyer. 

@MonicaCellio answered what to do to prep as far as the work. The other problem is how to handle the off work time. Since you are going with people who are very senior to you, you need to be careful to present a professional appearance at all times not just at work. That means, don't even consider getting drunk for instance. It means that even if they are partying hard, you should not do more than be sociable. Above all else, do not get arrested. Different cultures have different laws. It means you likely will be sharing meals and that you need to get out your best manners. Let them set the tone for how much they want you to socialize with them outside of work. Some people will want to go off without you (often because they want to do something like cheat on their spouse), some will want to include you in whatever they do. It means that you shouldn't show up to the airport in your scruffiest clothes. (you might want to check with them about the dress code to follow while on the trip as well, often you need to dress up for client type meetings). You also should make sure that you have a change of clothes and whatever physical materials you might need for the trip in your carry-on luggage. Be prepared for the airlines to lose your luggage. Back when I traveled, I always wore something that I could wear to the work site the next day if my luggage got last. If you have the vacation time available and your work schedule permits, consider taking some time off and returning on a later flight. Ask your boss if this would be acceptable. But with the flight taken care of, a couple of extra days of hotels are a pretty cheap vacation in a spot you might never have had a chance to visit. 

AS a 60 year old, I have never viewed training as compensation. I certainly never would consider it instead of pay! Training is a spearate budget item generally and it goes to whoever needs it that particular year. It isn't unfair if I didn't get any and it certainly doesn't mean I should get compensated in some other way. My skills and experience help dictate my salary level and that is where I am compensated for what I know already without further training. It is true I might expect a significant salary bump if I aquired training in a new area that paid more (such as getting data science training since it is a field that is currently hot and pays very well), but I would expect the younger person to get the same kind of bump. That said, in a tech field where things are always changing and new tools and languages are coming out, anyone at any age might need training. So again I don't see what age has to do with it. 

First, it is how well your experience is perceived to be relevant that is important not whether it is. To that end you are just expecting others to see you as ready for promotion and not actively pursuing it by making sure that others are aware of your accomplishments. Your area has not had that postion, so he probably was suprised that you wanted it since there is no current opening. And since you don't currently have the postion, it is nto suprising he would not be aware of the requirements especiially since he apparently skipped it. Further, since you don't appear to understand the conccept of self-promotion, he probably thought you were not interested in moving up. (another possible reason why he was suprised.) Once you get beyond the entry level or a general training progression (Jr/Intermediate?senior) that is guaranteed to all who perform well, then you must actively let people know what you are doing and how well you are doing it and how it relates to the job you want to have. You have taken the first step in telling him you were interested in a promotion, but he has clearly told you that you have no visibility in theorganization in order rto be considered for one. That is the very first thing you need to fix. You cannot rely on luck, you have to actively push yourself foward. Management is all about politics, if you don't play the game well at your level, you will not get considered for the next level of manangement postion because politics are a huge part of your job duties (in many managment postions, it is well over 50%). So you need to start making connections and making your work more visible if you expect to ever get to the next level. You cannot passively wait for someone to recognize how wonderful you are and promote you. At a bare minimum you need to real several books on office politcs and start putting the techniques to work. If the good employees refuse to play the game, they cannot then complain when the players get promoted. Office politics doesn't have to be about being a snake who steals credit and sabotages people. But it is about making connections with the decsion makers and being seen by them as someone who they can rely on and who is interested in moving up. Look at it from the senior manager's point of view. Tom and Jim are both up for promotion and the decision maker has heard good things about Tom and met him and liked him and all he knows about Jim is that he is assigend to XYZ department. (Or worse, all the have heard about him are things that were his mistakes. Maybe Tom makes as many or more mistakes, but he has made sure that his good things are given more weight.) Remember after the minimal level of journeyman performance, generally more than one manager has to approve a promotion. So which if these two candidates does the senior manager favor? And after you reach a certain level in the organization, every promotion is a competition. It is not enough to be good, you have to be good in comparision with your competition. And that is mostly based on the manager's perceptions of you not necessarily any objective comparision (as if it were even possible to do an objective comparision which is generaly is not, you have skills and weaknesses and so does your competition. Any two managers will value those differently.). If the postion is not currently available, many more people will need to get involved in deciding that the position will be opened up. There are budgetary reasons why the position may not currently exist. So there will be many people who have to sign off on it. It is an easier sell for your manager if those people have heard good things about you and know you. 

How far would depend on the company and how soon they need someone and how many possible good candidates they have to interview. So that is not answerable. However, most good people to work for would be pretty understanding that you need to concentrate on your PhD defense and push it out if their circumstances allow. 

What you are doing is bad all around for your career. It is delaying you getting a better job because you are wasting time on jobs that you have a lower chance of getting than ones in your field. And if you got one, then that weill make your chances of getting a job in your field even lower because the longer you work at somethign else, the less relevant yoru degree is. What you need to do is stop applying for those types of jobs and concentrate on professional jobs or jobs at companies where you have a path forward to a professional position where you can say that you wanted to get your foot in the door but want to move up to a junior engineer when you have the chance. You also need to widen your scope of what professional jobs you want. You have two degrees and there should be something for one of them. Rememeber that with your qualifications there are many government jobs or jobs with government contractors that hire at entry level. You can look at project management type jobs, you can look at any entry level management job, but even there you are better off looking for ones in companies that do technical things rather than retail store manager. My first job out of school was for a local government planning council and I did grant applications for engineeriing projects. Your qualifications are perfect for such a thing and small town govenments need people like that and they don't pay well so they expect to get entry level, but better to start with a poorly paying professional job than as a waiter or food service person. You need to look outside your geographic area. You need to look at industries that have the types of jobs you want and apply to any entry level jobs at those in the hopes that you can prove yourself as a good employee and move up to waht you are trained for. You should be considering jobs in alternative energy which is a field that is growing. Heck look at your local power company to see if there are any jobs. You need to be making professional contacts through volunteer work and tapping into the unadvertised market. All in all you should expect to apply for several hundred professional positions before landing the first one (I graduated in a bad year economically and that is what I had to do), but you should concentrate your time only on the professional ones. Your time is better spent cold calling companies that have no advertised postions but are in an industry that has jobs like the one you want and making networking contacts than applying to work at McDonalds. Right now companies are looking at entry level hiring because a new class is getting ready to graduate. Go to your university placement office and see if they can give you leads. They will help even after you have graduated.