When expressed simply as self-observation or introspection the thought can seem empty or paradoxical. Consider the liars paradox - by itself a puzzle, a riddle - something to play with in a moments leisure and then to be forgotten or passed on. It took Chrysippus to tease out potential meaning from it; and also - famously Godel; and of course we do not know the circumstances in which it was discovered ... Some time ago - I mean as a young man - I was struggling with what the notion of jihad meant; there is the quite well known one now; but there is another meaning whose emphasis is on struggle as in the struggle for self-mastery; now having hands that I could write with, and a mind that I could think with and all my feelings and thinking open to me in the theatre of my own mind, if not publicly announced - I was struggling to see what insight this thought contained. It didn't occur to me to go look to see what others had made of it ... or perhaps and more likely I didn't know where to go looking... Recently I read something in Simone Weils Oppression and Liberty which struck a chord with that notion, and she's obviously as an early Marxist theorist is addressing this in terms of what work means - that is she is sounding out two large thoughts in close proximity to each other: 

The welfare state, meaning 'faring well' is also how it is known in Spain - estado del beinestar, literally the 'state of well-being'; its also known as folkhemmet in Sweden, that is the home of the people, and sozialstaat in Germany. As the names show they signify well-being and social support. Instead of the state being above the people, it becomes their home. It is the latest incarnation of an old idea - the Roman Empire provided corn dole and Zakat (provision for the poor) is one of the five pillars of Islam. The sociologist T E Marshall characterised the welfare State as a distinctive combination of democracy, welfare & capitalism. Its characterised by equality of opportunity, equitable distribution of wealth & public responsibility for poverty. The welfare state should not be identified simply with its last goal - public responsibility of poverty. But with the key idea of faring well, that is flourishing for all its citizens. Given this one hardly expects a revolt by elite or privilaged classes - in the sense of a complete overturning of this state of faring well; and nor by the non-privilaged. What one can expect instead is management of various benefits: How much goes where by what means and to benefit whom and towards what ends. In this view, infra-structure projects like roads and bridges are welfare, and so are scientific missions like the Large Hadron Collider. As well as bailing out Banks. One can say that the aim of the welfare state is about enhancing & protecting liberty, rather than restricting it. However, this aim can be and will be subject to abuse; and the system has to be robust enough to adapt to that, as well as rooting out the most egregarious abuses. And this abuse can happen by all economic actors. 

There is no established scientific theory of mind, despite much investigation, and so its not beyond the bounds of possibility that some minds are more attuned to worlds other than the phenomenal. Some mathematicians believe, for example, that there is an ideal world of mathematical facts that some minds are in tune with. This is mathematical platonism, and a respectable position. We can say that mathematical facts are then revealed to these minds, a veil is cast aside. Revelation, then, as an understanding of something beyond this world, and illuminating a mind, is then a distinct possibility. 

He assigns this 'whittling down of a great difference' to Nietzsche; but provides no textual justification - what evidence is there that suggests that N did indeed come to this realisation? Or is Deleuze distilling a new concept by completing what Nietzsche has set in motion here? Its worth noting tht the etymology of the word sin reveals: 

This isn't really an answer; but an extended comment. I'd be curious as to whether Camus was responding to the myth of the Eternal return of Nietzsche; Sisphus's task after all is essentially a repetition, a return. N after all said, were one to live out exactly the same life, after ones death, would the prospect fill one with despair; its a 'myth' to shake people awake - I suppose; its also aligned with Sartrean Existentialism; its also notably against the Indian concept of karma (deed) which specifically that the next life is morally connected to this; and not a repetition. One can also read the title itself as a sentiment on this theme; the myth of Sisyphus (the eternal return) is a myth (as in illusionary). 

Aquinas is commentating on Christian theology following Aristotles theory of change, elaborated in his Physics; so it might help elucidating Aquinas by looking at Aristotle first. Now A says that for something to change, it must have parts, and so it must be a composite; change also occurs through potentiality and actuality (this is A's solution to the paradox of Parmenides/Zeno. This might sound bizarre from the perspective of todays physics but note that for motion to occur in a gravitational or electromagnetic field, potential energy is converted to kinetic energy; or more fundamentally, in QM, the wave function (potentiality) is collapsed into actuality (measurement)). However, God does not change being perfect; and so none of this applies to Him. 

One hears a great deal about Capitalisms and anti-capitalisms; but what do these terms actually mean? Have these terms been so used and abused that they now mean very little? Can I just think of Capital as simply the economic order of the West - in its modern form; and then globalised? When and how did the term become so popular? Smith for example wrote on the wealth of nations. Also, to place it a little in context - how does one distinguish Capital from markets in Medival Europe; bazaars in Bangladesh; or trading along the silk-roads? How does one for instance distinguish Antonio, the merchant in Venice (from Shakespeare's Merchant in Venice) from the capitalist today? 

The broad nature of the question makes it easy to align other philosophies that in a broad sense also discuss this subject - for example in Antiquity there was the Roman philosophy of Stoicism, this in many ways is aligned with Buddhism; and the Greek philosophy of Epicurus; and here one might usefully recall Budai or the laughing Buddha and also the Ruba'iyyat of Omar Khayyam, the Persian Islamic Poet who wrotes the quatrains: 

Appearence - as in Heideggers seeming; this, then is the beginning of the critique of technology and not criticism which is pejorative and only damns; technology which Arendt commented was the only real revolution in our times. 

There are different kinds of determinism. The one most closely associated with physical theory is that implicit in Newtons theory: knowing the position and velocitiy of a particle at a certain time tells us exactly it's motion in the future. It's also implicit in maxwells theory of light. It's this kind of determinism that is called classical. Another kind of determinism is to consider the motion of a particle described in Epicurean physics; here a particle does not move in a straight line, but in a kind of 'drunken walk' (the Epicurian term is the clinamen); if this motion is on the surface of a table, say; then we can say it's been determined to that extent. 

By fatality, I take it she means a form of neccessity; one might say a structure of neccessity, if one elaborates it in more detail; or more poetically ie machines within machines, and machines amongst machines - and men caught up in them (it's this aspect of necessity that she in her later philosophy calls Gravity). 

In the Buddhist tradition karma & reincarnation go together; to act well is to be reborn as a higher being; to act badly as a lower one; it is a metaphysics of judgement; within the Abrahamic religion there is only one life, and only one judgement; within the Indian traditions Judgement is a process; one might say it is more compassionate - as one has many lifetimes to learn how to escape samsara, the world of phenomenal being (tamas) & attain nirvana; whereas the Abrahmic religions allow only the one life, the one that one is living now. Thus, one can say in the normative materialist or secular traditions of the West, emotion is a central component of Judgement, as Nussbaum affirms; in the main world religions - Indian & Semitic - compassion is a central virtue of Judgement. 

I should add that Badiou is an atheist, so its interesting that one of his examples of fidelity to truth is St Pauls advocacy on behalf of Christ, an event which left little in the way of historical record and which is an example that adds a great deal of his characterisation of an event that 'cannot be proved, only affirmed and acclaimed'. In this conception of what constitutes an event, 'earthly passing away' or ordinary mortality is not an event; it is of course an ordinary event, but not an event on the scale and significance that Badiou imagines it should be; but perhaps Hallward already being a little hasty, for one of Badious examples of fidelity is the truth of love, and in that intimate sphere the death of a loved one is an event. As for the 'night of the world' I can't do better than point to the last two stanzas of Dover Beach by Matthew Arnold, written in 1851. 

How does this work in Newtonian Gravity? Can one say for example the final cause of letting a stone fall is that it is attracted to the Earth? Its efficient cause is letting it go? And that there is no material or formal cause? 

This is where Kant opens up the possibility for non-Euclidean geometry; if we exchange the axiom he mentions with a similar one (that is easier to work with, and changes nothing in what Kant wrote): that the angles of a triangle need not add upto 180 degrees; then, if they add up to less, we get hyperbolic geometry, and if they add upto more, we get elliptic geometry. Gauss was known to have read Kants first critique where this extract is taken from (at least five times, according to one source) then one could conjecture that this - which is talking about geometry, his speciality - opened up for him the possibility of making a definite mathematical model of non-Euclidean geometry. Sometimes in mathematics all one needs is a hint or a cue, and Kant may, and more than likely to, have provided this for him. 

You're missing likelihood and this comes from what we already know and understand about the world. In that world no-one would bother formulating a null hypothesis about the existence or non-existence of purple swans as every school boy or girl knows there are no such animals. And dyeing a swan purple does not help to get around this. That would be merely cheating. 

In the contemporary modern world science is seen as a distinct discipline from philosophy; in the ancient world there wasn't such a clear distinction. There was natural philosophy - in fact it seemed that the presocratics were interested in various rational cosmologies (a kind of prescience, they lacked the technology to make definitive experiments - atomism for example wasn't definitely proven until the early 20C with brownian motion, even though that was one of the atomists key example, see Lucretious de Rerum Natura) Many of them lived & worked in what is now modern Turkey. Further they wrote in a cryptic, poetic form - not far removed from versified mythology (this makes sense for societies emerging out of an oral tradition - poetic utterance would be seen as the privileged & inspired artform) . One could argue that Nietszche reinvented this form for modern western philosophy - in its continental guise; not for nothing does he see himself a modern Zarathrustha thrusting aside the superstitions of a decadent Christian society. Plato indulged in mysticism, as did Pythagoras; and no doubt many others. It seems incredible considering the high level of civilisation that ancient Mesopotamia & Egypt achieved that there could not have been some degree of influence by them on greek thought. The key question is what form that influence takes. Professor Klaus Karttunen, a specialist in the relations between the Indian subcontinent and the western world in classical antiquity writes in a review of McEvilleys book The Shape of Ancient Thought: