Why do people who own cars and have driver's licenses take taxis? Why do restaurants offer home delivery? Why do people shop online for stuff they could get for the same price at nearby brick&mortar stores? Time, and convenience. Having slaves to do things you are capable of doing yourself is incredibly freeing to the person who can afford it. So to encourage magic-users in your world to have slaves, you'll need to make it economically and logistically viable. You don't say whether taking a slave is by mutual agreement (which would be more like hiring household staff) or involuntary; if the former you'll need to make it attractive to the would-be slaves too, and if the latter you'll need to deal with enforcement (keeping them slaves). 

If they depend on interactions with other members of the union for anything, then economic and political sanctions can work. We see this in the world today when groups of nations (EU, UN, NATO, etc) want to take action against some nation they disapprove of (Iran, North Korea, etc). If your independence-minded tribe wants to be able to sell its goods to members of your union, or buy goods from members of your union, what happens to them if they can't complete the transaction? If they are truly self-sufficient then this approach won't work, but few are truly self-sufficient. If it comes to armed conflict, there are direct and indirect approaches. Before sending their invading army they might try to box the tribe in via blockades. In the US in the 19th century, when the southern states seceded from the union the northern states used naval blockades to block their ports. If anybody tries to run the blockade then you've got a conflict on your hands -- a blockade you're not prepared to enforce is no blockade at all -- but sometimes intimidation suffices. But if you're avoiding armed conflict because of concerns about the tribe resenting the union, I'm not sure there's anything you can do. Whether a conflict involves bullets, threats, or economic woes, the party on the receiving end is going to be unhappy. But perhaps in your world there is a particular stigma about physical violence, in which case non-violent sanctions could work. 

Well, there's a loophole if I ever saw one. In fact, in a magical universe, this should be downright easy to work around. We just have to use magic to alter him or his surroundings so that he will be helpless to save himself regardless of how much time he has. 

Historially, the weakness of mountain pass defenders is the fact that their own country and allies neglect to reinforce and resupply them or the enemy goes around them. Since you are surrounded by mountains and appear to be quite stable and dedicated, these weaknesses are not yours. 

Option 1: The only functional fusion reactor in the world is at the center of that city, and there is little to no hope of ever building a different one (although the current one could be repaired from almost any damage.) Why this works: In the near-future, we can assume that power is the greatest resource requirement of civilization. Furthermore, the infrastructure required to transmit such an awesome amount of power is incredibly expensive and becomes more and more inefficient the farther you go. Therefore, humanity bunches up around this energy source. Additional Details: Power alone won't be sufficient to overcome humanity's drive towards expansion, so we'll need something else to force us to bunch up. Carrot - maybe there is some energy field discovered that dramatically improves human health, but you have to be constantly in the field and it's incredibly energy-hungry. Stick - maybe there is some really nasty radiation coming in and only a very energy-hungry shield can stop it. Option 2: Total zombie/demonic/alien/whatever apocalypse. Why this works: The loners and splinter groups just keep getting wiped out before they can ever gain traction, so only the main city continues to survive. It's not that there aren't other cities, just that none of them ever last more than a few years before succumbing to the zombies/aliens/sapient apes. 

A tangential note: Judaism and Christianity are quite different in focus and themes, despite the latter starting from a version of the former. You'll probably do better to stop thinking of "Judaism/Christianity" as a single thing. In particular, Christianity doesn't have as much focus on land even now as Judaism does, and that might be hindering your thinking. Also, there's a third Avrahamic religion, which I haven't touched on in this answer. 

Churches are centers for their religious communities. They need to be accessible; if the people can't go, the churches can't function. Sure, religions also have isolated communities (think monasteries), but those are inward-facing. Your churches, to be successful, need to be outward- (populace-) facing. Successful churches, therefore, will be built where the people are, in the midst of where they live. Some religions' leaders will happily help this along; accessible churches mean the church has access to the people, too. And if no space for religious congregation was built into the original plans, that doesn't mean people need to go to space. Instead, they'll make space. 

Denver has about 17% less oxygen than at sea level. Note that this isn't reduced concentration; there's just less air. This answer doesn't address the increased proportion of other elements in the air, only oxygen reduction. According to this article on altitude sickness, the first effect that kicks in from reduced oxygen is hyperventilation -- you breathe faster in an attempt to get more oxygen into your lungs. This can lead to weakness, dizziness, and fainting. More-severe symptoms can occur at higher altitudes (= lower oxygen levels), from vomiting and headaches to pulmonary edema and brain injury. Obviously it's possible to acclimate -- people live in Denver, after all. So the main challenge seems to be the transition -- those first few days after the oxygen drops are going to be challenging. But people who avoid strenuous activity for a few days and take some extra care with diet and medications can adjust. A sudden 15% drop is like everybody hopping a plane to Denver -- uncomfortable at first, but with care it's not likely to do long-term harm. Of course, people who are already medically fragile might suffer worse consequences. 

This works because I assume that we don't count touching corpses or touching through a spacesuit kind of thing. Also, if you want to prevent even touching corpses, you'd have to add that the environments also instantly dissolve/obliterate the inhabitants of the other environment (kind of like the matter/antimatter idea which seems prevalent so far.) If you want that, you've gone beyond the scope of "already exists on Earth", but anti-matter+matter could still do it for you. I like this reason because it also gives a very solid reason for the two species to be antagonistic - their living space is exactly the opposite of the other species' living space, and if one side manages to spread its environment totally, it will mean the utter annihilation of the other species. Now, to be fair, it's not a guarantee that deep-sea fish will explode in our pressure. That's okay - we just need them dead, we don't need spectacularly dead. 

There are many military-related technologies that can be applied, although some of these are more like techniques/strategies/concepts that have military application 

Use the power of physics, dirt, and the stupidity of zombies. Zombies break a door by exerting force against it en masse, but the zombies have to have an equal and opposite source resistance to push off from. Therefore, you give them extremely limited terrain to push off against the gate and then give the main horde something insanely difficult to deal with, like 15 tons of packed dirt with a concrete shell. Do something like this: 

You know the parents whose hostility to their kids sometimes takes the form of "I slaved away / gave up a plum job / worked three jobs and ate rice and beans / etc to raise you and this is how you treat me?!"? For some of them this class will be like that, so expect some kids to hear about it. How could people cheat? That depends; your law doesn't actually specify that they have to pass an exam, just show up, so some could tune out. If you have an exam, assume that any methods used by students to cheat on school exams could also be applied here. Resistance to the class isn't limited to those who will be terrible parents. Some parents will do fine even though they cheated their way through the class. Some will then use that as ammo to argue against the need for the law. I know you're trying to dismiss the financial aspect, but that money has to come from somewhere. Expect some resentment from those whose taxes are raised or budgets cut in order to provide this. Some will be swayed by the public-good argument (as with school taxes); others will not. Those with political power might act against the law; if they can't get the law revoked directly they'll cut the program's funding. Look to modern US social-welfare programs for examples of such political maneuvering. 

A lot of answers here seem to be answering the related but un-asked question of "How does the lucky person get away with it or maximize winnings?" The answer to the actual question is rather simple and short... How can the casino prove I'm cheating? If you are not cheating, they cannot prove that you are. How would they? The casino cannot prove something when there is no proof. The casino could try to plant fake evidence. This is unlikely to happen unless you are breaking the bank for any given, specific casino. Some people do walk away with millions, and the casinos don't plant evidence against them all, so why would you be different? If you are raking in Billions from 1 single casino, then maybe they would try something. At that point, though, what they are doing is illegal, so just use your imagination. Maybe they rig their own roulette game in a fashion that you could for cheating and they say you did it, maybe get false witnesses. There are 1000 things they could do here. Speaking of illegal activity, casinos are highly regulated in a lot of ways. It is illegal even for the casino to tamper with their own devices to cheat in the casino's favor, just like it is illegal for you to tamper with them to cheat. That said, they will definitely suspect you of cheating. There have been times when people have cheated, the casinos have looked into them and proven they did cheat, and those people have gone to jail. What Can (or Will) the Casino do? Even though the casino cannot prove you are cheating, that doesn't matter. They don't need to prove it. They can and will simply kick you out. It is that simple. If you keep winning too much money in a way that does no good for the casino (provides no positive publicity for casino, causes nobody around you to bet more, etc.), eventually someone will come over and just force you to leave. What Else is the Casino Likely to do? Planting evidence is unlikely, as mentioned above, since that could get the casino in big trouble. However, that does not mean the casino will just roll over. I will also go into the situation where you try to get one last big win so the casino has little time to react, but I will cover it from the casino's point of view, per your question. I have heard of people being denied their winnings before. Even if this is illegal (some have suggested it is, and I would agree), that does not bother the casino if they do not lose out. This, then, becomes just another bet, another game of chances. Odds are that people who are not given all the chips they deserve are not going to take legal action against the casino, and even if some do then the casino just pays you what you were owed in the first place. That is: there is no negative for the casino since they lose (approximately) the same amount whether they pay you now or pay you when your lawyers threaten them and so there is little incentive to bully you into leaving without all earnings, but there is much positive for the casino if you don't send lawyers. So it's a "win/not-lose" situation for the casino to bully you into not taking that last big winning when they are kicking you out. Further, if you have no witnesses or evidence, it may be hard to prove that you were denied what was rightfully yours. If you leave without all your winnings when the casino bullies you, what proof do you have that you actually were denied what was yours? If you were keeping a low profile, you likely left few or no witnesses. This makes it even easier for the casino to withhold what is yours. Summary The casino can't prove anything but doesn't need to. The casino can and will kick you out. It is possible they might try to bully you into leaving without all your money. 

In many (most?) countries on Earth today, one acquires citizenship in one of two ways: being born into it, or going through a formal process to become a citizen. Your vampires will presumably undergo the latter. Their descendants would presumably be born into it -- but you're going to have to define "born". Your question implies that vampires can raise other vampires (hence they don't get human criminals); does that count as "birth" for citizenship purposes? Or does the person's original citizenship continue past his undeath? No current laws address this question. Some countries assign different rights to born and naturalized citizens. For example, in the US the latter are disqualified from the office of president. Your undead might not, over time, demand privileges equivalent to born citizens, especially in light of the colonization task they are doing on behalf of the empire. Alternatively, your undead might argue that, as in the previous paragraph, their citizenship when they still lived should continue to apply -- they might argue that they are born citizens, not naturalized, in other words. Citizenship confers rights for residency and travel that do not always apply to non-citizens. There shouldn't be major changes here, with one wrinkle: can your vampires be photographed? If not, laws about valid ID, photos on passports, and the like will need to change for them to be able to legally travel. In some (most?) countries, citizens (but not non-citizens) working for or as part of the government or military are sometimes granted security clearances. As part of the process, identity needs to be validated, including biometrically. Can your vampires be fingerprinted? Do they have personally-identifiable DNA? If any of your vampires want to work in national defense, these processes might need to change. In some countries, citizenship grants rights to publicly-funded social services such as medical care. Human citizens might push back on that because vampires live forever and people don't, so the commitment for each vampire-citizen is greater. Your vampires might be fine with this, but expect your humans to lobby for lifetime limits, mandatory contributions (you only draw out if you pay enough taxes in), or other restrictions. There are other laws that will need to change in a world that integrates the undead, particularly inheritance law, but those aren't usually tied to citizenship. 

If there's anything that humans are good at, it's deforestation on colossal scale. The hard part is getting humans to not deforest a region. Worst-case, assuming this super-forest is supernaturally tough and resistant to all known herbicides and fire, just drop your spaceship on them. Atmospheric re-entry heat and pressure should be more than sufficient to clear space. 

Now, assuming you close that loophole, your next best loophole is that he can't stop the defense except by leaving leaving the bubble. This is perfect, since it allows you to force him to move somewhere lethal. 

Finally, the true weakness is the time-stopping itself. You just have to go backwards in time to kill him. His defense will render him completely blind to an attack from the future, since the time-stopping will prevent the attack from even existing until his shield disengages. (The simplest would be a magical bomb that detonates backwards in time.) 

Well, you can say what you want about society and stuff, but I'd prefer to focus on improving the life of the individual, given this wizard's powers. Therefore, let's focus on removing some of the worse problems.