Go with the basic pushup. Because of the angle of the arms, if you do a floor press with dumbbell (Assuming you mean a bench press type of movement) then you are missing almost half of the available range of motion. If you need more resistance on the traditional pushup, you can wear weighted vests, elevate your feet on stairs or chairs, things like that. If you are talking about doing pushups while on dumbbells instead of the floor, then Tracy is correct, there isn't going to be a big difference until you start elevating the feet and varying the angle of the pushup (Which will do the same with or without dumbbells involved). 

I would use the half marathon. The half marathon plan should give you the most complete training for the other distances, as some of the finer details in a half marathon plan are going to be a different emphasis than a 5k plan. If you do the 5k or 10k plans, they may or may not give you enough distance work for the 15k and the half, and may place a little too much emphasis on the speed aspects. The half plan should give you enough distance base to easily complete the other events, and you can always play with the speedwork as needed to accommodate the shorter races. 

The rectus abdominus works to curl the torso, and bring the lower part of the ribcage forward and down. It is one muscle, and as such, any exercise that curls the body works the entire muscle. The "upper and lower" abdominal belief is pretty much a myth. Whether you curl down towards your legs or up towards your head, the entire muscle is contracting. The difference between a situp and a crunch, is that the situp does very little active abdominal work unless the torso is curling at the same time. Situps put much more emphasis on the leg flexors. Anything where the body bends and the torso doesn't works the flexors, and the abdominal muscle is a stabilizer more than anything. 

I would start adding extra runs on your other days, until you are able to run 4-6 days per week easily. Running isn't as much about how hard you work (Although that is a factor to some extent), but how much you work. The more intensity that you add to your running, the more you increase your chance for injury, especially if you don't have a lot of base miles/background in running. For your program, I would keep the 3 days as you have it, and add 5-10 minutes extra twice a week. Keep those extra workouts, and gradually increase the distance until you have it up to 25 minutes or so for each day. Once you've gotten to the point where you are running 5 days a week without issues, then you can start adding some speedwork to your runs, by doing short spurts at or near race pace, something like 8 x :30 seconds at race pace in the middle of a 4 or 5 mile run. You can also start gradually increasing distance. One of the best summations I ever saw for running was "Run. Run lots. Mostly slow, sometimes fast." 

The answer for this is similar to the one for triathlons, is that you get faster by doing it more. However, the kick is one of the parts of the stroke that if you aren't "getting it", then it's hard to be able to do it properly without someone showing you. I would recommend that you have a swim instructor look at your stroke and make sure that you are doing it correctly. It should flow almost in a "wave" from your hips through your toes, with minimal bend in the knee. Your foot should also be pointed, ideally you would like a straight line from the top of your shin down through your toes. The best dryland drill for kicks is to sit on your butt, point your toes, lift your legs about 1' off the ground and scissor kick (Keeping legs straight, no bend). However, for long distance swimming, the kick is less and less important for propulsion, and is mainly for balance and driving the breathing cycle. Also, the muscles of the legs are quite large, and take a lot of energy/oxygen, so if you use them as a primary propulsion source for a triathlon swim, then you are reducing their work capacity for the later legs. 

Improper form - You've got something in your lifting form that is wrong so you get an imbalance in how the muscles are being used. It's either learned or your body itself has a difference (See #2) Body imbalance - You've got something different between the two sides of your body, either compensating for an old injury which caused you to learn bad form (See #1), or you have a difference such as different length arms that is causing it. 

This may be a bit late, as you said it was "in a few days", however it is good general advice. I am presuming that you have been training and working up to the 75 mile ride, and during those rides is when you should be trying out different nutrition and hydration strategies to see what works best with your body and tastes. The meal the night before does not have much impact on the ride the next day. By that I mean that one meal will not atone for poor nutrition in the weeks leading up to the ride, and if you are eating and fueling properly during training, it will not add much to the mix. What you want to be doing is replacing calories according to your exertion level, and realizing that most people at a higher effort cannot really process more than 2-400 calories per hour under exertion. The "exact" amount is really person dependent, and also related to effort and environmental conditions. There are many different strategies for doing so. Some like to use energy gels or energy chews, which are approximately 100 calories per serving, and water to wash them down with. Others prefer to have water bottles mixed with things like Gatorade or Carbpro to provide both electrolytes and calories. Some riders are able to tolerate solid foods, and will have things like crustless PB&J sandwiches. I am partial to rice cakes (Allen Lim has a great recipe using actual ingredients. It's all about what you can tolerate, and the way you find that out is by practicing it while you are training. 

Erythropoietin (EPO) is a naturally occurring substance in the body that aids in red blood cell (RBC) production. It was originally developed as an external drug in the early 1900's to aid people with poor RBC production or other disease pathologies such as anemia. By itself, EPO will do nothing to enhance your running ability. What it does do, is enable you to do more work by making available more oxygen to working muscles. This enables you to work harder, which in turn should make you faster. It is an enabler, not an instant result. However, there are quite a lot of drawbacks to EPO supplementation in an otherwise normal person. One of the biggest is that when you artificially increase the RBC count in blood, it does not also increase the plasma/sera (liquid portions of the blood), so your blood becomes thicker. This makes it harder for the heart to pump the blood through the body, and when coupled with a lowered resting heart rate (A very common side effect of being fit), you highly increase your chance of stroke and death, especially when sleeping. There have been over 20 deaths in professional cycling in recent years linked to EPO use. Obviously, people make their own choices, but if you are considering supplementing with EPO I would highly encourage you to research it thoroughly and understand the dangers and the risks that you take with your life by doing so. 

If you do not have a swimming background, the statement "I can only swim 250 before my lungs give out" suggests that you either have a form problem, don't know how to properly breathe, or both. If you want to swim for fitness, and don't really care about the performance aspect (either swim meets or triathlons or similar), then what I would recommend is a program such as the 0-700 or the 0-1650 (1 mile). These are programs designed to get you to a swimming point where you can comfortably swim a mile, and then from there you can go further into swimming if you want. If you get into the program and are still having problems with breathing, I would suggest a session or two with a swim instructor. Most likely suspects are not kicking correctly, and/or not breathing correctly. Both will really hinder you in swimming progress.