At the point where the dotted lines meet the two plots, you can see a reduction in mass at those energy levels. This is due to the angular velocity of the body creating instability which results in mass shedding - essentially mass at the equator of our neutron star being flung off the star due to the body's angular velocity. Unfortunately, this is not exactly an easy process. 

Currently, orbital missions get some protection from radiation as they are within the Earth's magnetic field, but for those travelling beyond this there isn't a lot of protection. Part of the reason is that things that provide good protection are also very heavy, which can be quite difficult in the economies of reaching escape velocity. As such, one wouldn't necessarily be exposed to that much more radiation outside of a shuttle or their suit in space than they would otherwise. 

This is where things can get messy, but there has been some research on the subject. Obviously one can't breath in a vacuum, in fact the lungs actually begin to dump oxygen, essentially working in reverse due to the lack of air pressure. Our victim is likely to lose consciousness within 10-15 seconds. If they happen to be holding their breath when they become exposed, the pressure difference could cause some real damage to their lungs. People often theorize that blood would boil in space. Geoffrey Landis disagrees with this on his blog, in which he speaks on this subject. I highly recommend reading through it as I would consider him both thorough and authoritative on the subject. I couldn't find the official report, but there are frequent references to a 1965 (Earth based) pressurization incident, in which a technician's suit depressurized within a chamber. He remarked afterwords that the last thing he recalled before blacking out was feeling his saliva begin to boil on his tongue. While your blood arguably won't boil, you would experience the boiling of other liquids in your body, water particularly. This can result in rapid swelling of the body. While not pretty, this isn't likely to kill you. However, nitrogen can also become gaseous due to this, potentially resulting the bends, a condition more closely associated with pressure differences in diving. This condition could prove fatal, but AFAIK there hasn't been a lot of research into this in reference to vacuum exposure (This condition tends to become dangerous during the return to normal pressures). All of this can be survived, as long as pressure is returned relatively quickly. Within a minute is probably enough to save a person's life with little lasting damage. After 2-3 minutes, it's likely too late. The difficulty is that the unfortunate victim may be able to survive 1-2 minutes of exposure, they really only get 10-15 seconds to do something about the problem. Of those who have survived vacuum pressurization incidents, their survival is mostly credited to the quick thinking of those around them. 

I've heard a lot of people recommend viewing a solar eclipse by looking at the projection of the eclipse caused by light passing between leaves in a tree, in this case looking at the ground or a wall, where ever the light hits after passing through the tree. However, the Facebook posting here seems to recommend looking up at the solar eclipse through the tree. I suspect that they have misunderstood the projection method (or inadequately explained), and their advice is not only wrong, but potentially dangerous. Is this method recommendable? Should it be considered dangerous? Follow-up Almost immediately upon having seen the posting I had commented on it noting my belief that such advice could be dangerous, including a more clear explanation of how viewing using trees should be done. The staff member who originally posted the status later took note of this and edited the status to less ambiguously explain viewing the projection. Unfortunately, this was done after the solar eclipse had concluded. Hopefully no damage was done. 

The format of the files seems to be described in this file, the content of which I've included below. 

The angular diameter of the sun is approximately 30 arcminutes (roughly .0087 radians), or half of a degree. The formula for angular diameter of a round object in radians is: $$ \delta = 2arctang\frac{diameter}{(2)distance} $$ Given this, we should also think about position. Assuming we want to continually block the same spot on Earth we need to the orbital period to one year. (I'm not sure if there is a technical difference between orbiting the Earth once per year such that you're always between the Sun and Earth, and just plain orbiting the Sun) According to this calculator, our sun blocker would need at a height of 2,152,050km to orbit Earth once per year. So, given that we can set up our formula with... $$ .0087 = 2arctang\frac{diameter}{(2)2152050} $$ ...and the needed diameter of an object should come out to be about 18,722km in diameter. Given that, Mr. Burns's terrestrial solution is far more practical, though certainly a nice orbital one is far more devious. Being evil isn't cheap. Edit: This answer is a bit rough as it doesn't calculate for the 5% of the Earth's land mass stipulation. The answer which would meet this would depend on whether only an umbral shadow qualifies, or if a penumbral shadow would also suffice. I suspect probably the prior. The shadow would certainly reach the Earth, but probably not cover 5% of it, which is a shame considering its diameter is actually larger than Earth's. Regardless, it's not a very elegant solution. 

At the center of our galaxy is a powerful radio source named Sagittarius A*, which is believed to be a super massive black hole (SMBH). This blackhole would contain far more mass than your run-of-the-mill supernova remnant. Our galaxy is believed to contain a SMBH containing the mass of likely a bit above 4 million times the mass (Gillessen) (2) (Ghez) of our Sun. For reference, I don't think we've ever discovered a star more massive than 600 times that of our Sun. It's also important to understand that while many people look at blackholes as mystical or all-consuming, they actually have to follow the same rules as everyone else in the stellar neighborhood. The stars that make up our galaxy don't fall into the black hole for the same reason our planet doesn't fall into the Sun. Our star orbits black hole, our star system's velocity in equilibrium with the attractive force of the galaxy's center of gravity. This should hopefully resolve point 3. For point 1, we should make clear that the 'black' part of the black hole is only true once you cross the event horizon. This is the case because at this point the escape velocity to escape the gravity of the black hole because greater than the speed of light. The light that isn't within the event horizon and is moving away from it is free to escape. So we can see light around it. But why is there so much light? Well, as it happens there are a lot of rather young and large stars in this area. It is not completely understand why this is the case. Lots of stars, lots of light! There are other factors that can contribute to this too, such as there simply being lots of stars between us and the center, not just in the center itself. The accretion disk of a black hole can also be exceptionally bright. Hopefully that clears up part 1. Now for part 2. As far as I know, we don't really have any way of determining exactly where our SMBH came from originally. Black holes aren't necessarily formed just from a supernova event, there are a handful of other ways they can be created in nature. What is apparent, however, is that SMBHs contain far too much mass to be from a single star. It has probably consumed plenty of other black holes to grow to what it is now. One interesting and notable difference between the comparison of a star system and a galaxy is the distribution of mass. While our Sun is believed to contain 99.8% of the mass of our solar system, the SMBH at the center of the Milky Way is not nearly as massive as the total mass of the Milky Way. The ratio can vary a lot, and there are some galaxies which are believed to host no SMBH at all. 

Gillessen, Stefan et al. (23 February 2009). "Monitoring stellar orbits around the Massive Black Hole in the Galactic Center". The Astrophysical Journal 692 (2): 1075–1109. Ghez, A. M. et al. (December 2008). "Measuring Distance and Properties of the Milky Way's Central Supermassive Black Hole with Stellar Orbits". Astrophysical Journal 689 (2): 1044–1062. 

S. Tacchella, C. M. Carollo, A. Renzini, N. M. Förster Schreiber, P. Lang, S. Wuyts, G. Cresci, A. Dekel, R. Genzel, S. J. Lilly, C. Mancini, S. Newman, M. Onodera, A. Shapley, L. Tacconi, J. Woo, and G. Zamorani. Evidence for Mature Bulges and an Inside-out Quenching Phase 3 Billion Years After the Big Bang Science 17 April 2015: 348 (6232), 314-317. [DOI:10.1126/science.1261094] Y. Peng, R. Maiolino & R. Cochrane. Strangulation as the primary mechanism for shutting down star formation in galaxies Nature 521, 192–195 14 May 2015 [DOI:10.1038/nature14439] Andrea Cattaneo. Astrophysics: The slow death of red galaxies Nature 521, 164–165 14 May 2015 [DOI:10.1038/521164a] 

The Earth doesn't cover the hole, the Earth is the hole. Gravity is an attractive force, so were you not standing on the Earth, the Earth's gravity would cause you to accelerate towards it. As you are standing on the Earth, you feel this acceleration as your weight, just as you would feel pressure if you were to push against a wall. To take a more complex view, we would say that you are being attracted to the local center of gravity, which is located within the Earth. Take your bridges example, it doesn't matter that something obstructs you from reaching the center of gravity. You will feel the attraction of gravity regardless. If you jump while standing on a bridge, you would land just the same as if you jumped while standing on the ground (though please try not to miss the bridge). The graphic is meant to illustrate the strength of the force based on the mass of the attractive object and distance. If we were to put you on a more massive object, which would have a steeper curvature, you would experience this as increased weight, which is why our lunar explorers bounced around on the moon instead of walking.