Suppose you go to your village Shaman and tell him "oh master, I have seen a person sitting in the air as it were, levitating. how is this possible?" and the Shaman says "my son, the secret is in loops, for loops are so mysterious." he then calls a few of your friends and sits you all in a lap circle like this: $URL$ and then you tell him "oh master, this loop is really philosophically mind blowing — we are all sitting on each other's laps without any chairs, in the air as it were. but we are not levitating." and the Shaman then tells you "son, there is no further trick to explain — what you saw was surely some kind of illusion." 

I disagree with the answer given by @AlexanderSKing. I have never understood the attractiveness of explaining consciousness with loops. 

EDIT - you wrote "The expert meditator is also philosopher of the highest order, he's also a top notch phenomenologist, and has absolute mastery over mental experiences", and I offered Wittgenstein, and now that I stumbled on a particular passage I could not resist pasting it here as an example: 

In his book Consciousness Explained Dennett writes "Anyone or anything that has such a virtual machine as its control system is conscious in the fullest sense" [p281] referring to a Joycean machine which (if I understood correctly) may be implemented/simulated by a Turing machine. Suppose I define Qualia as that thing which will always be left out by any implementation/simulation of consciousness by a Turing machine. So it seems Dennett believes that Qualia defined in that sense does not exist. The surprising thing to me is that most of my friends insist that no such Qualia exists, and they are all intelligent, and often software developers, who I expect, are supposed to know something about the nature of computation, even if only intuitively. So far I failed to make even one of them realise that there is something in their inner experience that cannot conceivably be reproduced/simulated by a Turing machine. They are in good company, BTW; here is an amazing "Closer to Truth" interview with Marvin Minsky where he explains away qualia: $URL$ Note I am NOT interested in any arguments for or against physicalism, idealism or dualism. I am curious as to why so often non-philosophers, but nevertheless intelligent people who are supposed to know something about the nature of computation, insist there is nothing in their inner experience which cannot be reproduced/simulated by a Turing machine. And my request is for references to discussions of this curiosity by philosophers, if such discussions exist. 

It seems to me that the amount of outrage over that phrase by Kellyanne Conway is entirely for political reasons. If you are from the political left you are likely to be outraged. If you are from the political right you are likely to rationalize and dismiss it. For example, one can argue that all she meant was that Sean Spicer's statement was based on evidence and numbers that she trusts and that the interviewer disputes. It does not even have to be a case of "distorted truth-telling" for she may have said it in good faith. One can just as well criticize Chuck Todd for ridiculing and insulting Conway based on the evidence he had at the time. Neither Conway nor Chuck Todd who interviewed her had access to the fact of the matter concerning the number of people who attended the inauguration. Most of the inordinate amount of analysis of evidence as to the number of people who attended the event probably followed the interview rather than preceded it. 

That said (or quoted), I personally believe CTD is false; for a start, Turing did not argue for anything like CTD; his thesis was about turing machines being able to "replace" human "computers" using pencil and paper and a finite procedure which does not require ingenuity; it had nothing to do with physics or the nature of the universe; while Church Turing thesis is widely accepted as True, Deutsch's principle is not; the article about the Church Turing thesis in SEP discusses the thesis and how it is "misinterpreted" by philosophers to justify computational theories of mind. 

And now that I have claimed above that a serious analysis of the simulation hypothesis is silly, I will add my personal silly analysis of it. It is written from a Buddhist / Advaita / Sufi / Hasidic standpoint: 

But he remains unsatisfied with the explanations he explores in that chapter. In the book he also presents a position he calls non-reductive functionalism, according to which, conscious experience is an invariant of functional organization, and if you follow his arguments down the rabbit hole it seems that their consequence might be that qualia is in some way identical with causality itself. While describing himself as a dualist, Chalmers nevertheless believes that a Turing machine running the right "program" will have qualia, and since Turing machines are deterministic, I think that the only way to dodge epiphenomenalism at that point is to note that the only place a non-epiphenomenal qualia may hide in a physically implemented mechanical Turing machine is, strangely enough, causality itself (whatever that could possibly mean). [A shameless plug warning] However, while I find that kind of speculation attractive, I believe the thought experiments he employs to argue for the principle of organizational invariance are not convincing - and I argue for it in Yet Another Objection to Fading and Dancing Qualia. 

So, there is a good argument for people having qualia, while it is conceivable that not all people have the same type of inner experience you do. 

to be fair to physicists, a lot of lovers of philosophy, including on this site, get a terrible allergy from physics. In response to the comment by @jobermark, here is an opinion, this time by the cosmologist George Ellis, about Krauss' book: 

Indeed, some people insist that true "levitation" is possible, and others insist it is nothing but an illusion — a bag of tricks — I belong to the former camp, and believe that explaining the mystery of consciousness with loops is silly. 

you may be thinking now, "what is this guy talking about? didn't he hear of relative simultaneity?" The planes of relative simultaneity are useful as mathematical abstractions but do not fit the bill of a Now. try to think about it while walking back and forth in your room, contemplating deeply what some hypothetical aliens are doing right now 2.5M light years away (on the axis of your march), but note that this remote Now of yours absurdly shifts back and forth days or even weeks each time you change direction. this problem is called the Andromeda Paradox. 

According to mainstream theories in philosophy of mind, the mind can be explained as a mechanism. If you subscribe to such theories (I personally do not) then as a consequence you subscribe to the claim that in principle "AI can have ethics". Most philosophers, scientists, and philosophically informed people believe that. For example Daniel Dennett who argues in Consciousness Explained (p. 281): 

Here is a beautiful talk of Feynman about chains of why questions: $URL$ In his case the chain ends in why magnetic and electric forces attract: 

Anyway, the entire philosophy of mind grows from your question as it were, and there is no answer, only a mountain of fascinating books and ideas to read through — and you can start by googling around — the wikipedia and the online Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy are good sources. I recommend two books that forcefully present two sides of this debate: One is Conscisouness Explained by Daniel Dennett, who explains consciousness as a bag of tricks, and who subscribes to the computational theory of mind. The other is The Conscious Mind by David Chalmers, who explains forcefully the problem and argues for dualism — though I think he goes wrong in his arguments as he presents his own view, non-reductive functionalism. While I disagree with both - I think they present the problem with clarity, and they are both very communicative, and the books are very interesting to read, as entry points into the topic. 

These questions about applying logical paradoxes to God appear in this SE very frequently and they always amaze me. Why do people assume that God is subject to reason? And in particular why do people who do not believe in God believe that that God in which they do not believe must be subject to reason? And it makes no difference if the person contemplating is a student or a renowned philosopher. The answer is quite simple. Imagine a God that transcends reason and now your question becomes nonsensical. Here is Maimonides on the transcendence of God: 

You did it with the example of the Fourier transform, and Wittgenstein gives a similar example when discussing following rules, for example on how one comes to continue a series such as 1, 4, 9,… 

"A stupid question" deserves "a funny answer" - the physicist will argue that he knows more about the true nature of reality, and the philosopher will argue that your question is all wrong. 

If you accept the idea that the universe started with time and not in time then "the question 'What happened before the big bang?' is meaningless." - see this article by Paul Davies 

anyway, if I apply this to your examples, then it seems that in all cases except case #5, the person involved does not have compatibilist free will. it depends of course on the problem at hand. if it is just about moving one's hand, then someone might say to the shackled person "hey, you do have free will! you can rattle your shackles if you want to, or at least show some interest by trying to fight your shackles". but we can suppose that in all cases the person involved had to press some button and ask ourselves why they did not press it, and if they are morally responsible for not pressing it. As for case #5, we can ask our selves how a court would handle such a case. A court might look into the case and declare, "it was a mistake to assume this person is morally responsible for what he does — we need to lock him up because he is clearly not capable of being a morally responsible agent." or "despite his history, it was still reasonable to expect this person to behave in such and such ways — we need to punish him because we believe it is reasonable to consider him morally responsible for what he did, despite his history." or "we will give him a reduced punishment because we realize how his particular history affected his choices." or "take this kid home, his parents should be held responsible for what happened." Finally, I do not agree with the link you assume between physicalism and compatibilism. for example I am not a physicalist, and yet I find compatibilism an interesting view. It is not true that dualists necessarily believe their psychology is non material or non physical. see Chalmers for example — for him one's cognitive processes are all part of the easy problem of consciousness. 

Thoughts and feelings are to consciousness, what smell and sound and any other sensory input are for consciousness; and just as you can have consciousness without a sense of smell, you can have consciousness without thoughts and feelings. 

Here is another argument against determinism which I have just stumbled upon in a youtube video by Derek Muller: 

Solipsism cannot be proven false and the argument you proposed fails. At step #8 you verify two pieces of paper contain the same numbers — but what prevents your mind from presenting you with two identical numbers? or with making you believe you are looking at two identical numbers? In fact, this phenomenon happens regularly in your dreams. You meet a nice woman in a bar, but she has the head of a goldfish and it does not bother you at all, and you fall in love with her. or you read the paper and fail to notice that the letters are in continuous flux and the pictures are weird. in dreams you can have fake memories, and the only indication you have for having started your philosophical experiment an hour ago, can be a fake memory. Try lucid dreaming — you will have the fun of your life navigating the craziness your brain can produce for you every night. Richard Feynman recounts a funny story of trying to make scientific observations and reasoning in his lucid dreams: 

But some dualists, for example David Chalmers, claim that the existence of the mental cannot be predicted from the physical: 

Right, you are not the first to think about this. You are right on the heels of famous philosophers: Here is an interesting video from a documentary interview of the philosopher Derek Parfit describing a very similar scenario: $URL$ A man enters the tele-transporter on his way to work on Mars; the button is pressed but nothing seems to happen. on coming out from the machine the technician informs him that due to a malfunction he was not immediately destroyed, but due to the biological damage he has taken in the scanning process he will die anyway in several days, but not to worry since he was successfully tele-transported to Mars. The video discusses Parfit's book Reasons and Persons on the subject. Here is another delightful video with a variation of the same scenario: $URL$ btw, there is a glaring hole in the scenario described in the animation. can you find it? And you can probably find more pointers in the SEP entry on personal identity: $URL$ 

It is not really a contradiction to the claim that a TM can in principle simulate a human being. By "AI programs" Putnam refers to programs that we create in practice. By a TM simulating a human being, Putnam is refers to a program that exists in principle. These are clearly different things. It is possible in principle to compute the representation of Pi with 10^1000000 digits, but it impossible for humans for compute it in practice. 

I believe we can have qualia of "internal" sensations. Qualia is of our internal brain activity, and therefore there is no reason in principle why it should be restricted to senses corresponding to external phenomena. that is, when you are looking at your monitor, you are having qualia of the activity of neurons in your brain, not of an external monitor. therefore, there isn't really a difference between having qualia of color, and having qualia of sexual desire; these are two phenomena occurring in your brain for which you can have qualia. so yes, you can have qualia of emotional sensations, such as affection, or anger, etc... As for love, this is a bit more complicated since it depends on how you define love, or being in love, or feeling love. I do not believe we have qualia of abstract concepts, such as justice, etc... so if you define love an abstract concept, then the answer is no. if you identify love with a combination of anger, sexual desire, strongly wanting to make sure someone else is safe or happy, etc..., then the answer is yes. and if you do not know how to define love, then the answer is who knows... 

Now, I would like to go over some definitions corresponding to computation; here is how Peter Smith defines the Church-Turing thesis in his book An Introduction to Godel's Theorems, (p. 315): 

The text is quite clear, Valery is expressing something obscure about something obscure - he uses the word obscure three times in that excerpt so simply take him by his word. But really, why not refuse to interpret it? If people do their best to avoid being understood, let them remain that way; and if other people enjoy interpreting their beautiful obscurity, let them enjoy themselves. Consider for example the process of learning physics - suppose you have two books teaching the same complicated matter, and that one of them is completely obscure and frustrating, while the other (for example by Feynman) is not only crystal clear but is so inspiring that it motivates you to become a physicist. The question is, why waste a single second with the obscure and frustrating book? 

a) suppose you say thoughts and ideas can be divided because you accept their identity with neural firing - why is that not begging the question? b) why did you write that computers "think" - in parenthesis? is it possible that you and Descartes mean different things by that word? 

It seems to me that you are making an uncalled for switch between things about which one cannot speak and things about which one cannot speak definitively, and these are distinct "things". In Philosophical Investigations Wittgenstein writes: 

That said, if you assume that the world is real, and are only worried if you are the only mind in a world of philosophical zombies, then consider this argument: 1) If you are part of life evolving on earth, 2) Then your mind evolved by evolution, since it provided some evolutionary advantage. 3) Therefore, you are probably not the only instance of a mind. 

To make this more apparent, think of the following — you imagine that it should be possible to teach a grownup how to recognize a broken window verbally, without examples, but is it obvious that you may do the same with a four years old child. If not, then why? what it the difference? Now, to tie this back to your question; the example you gave of Watson does not necessarily show scientists have the wrong ideas — but what they are doing are so to speak "local" experiments — they teach a machine to recognize a broken window, to automatically caption an image, or to drive a car, which are in a sense very narrow functions — these are like seeds — or to use an analogy from physics — it is like scientists doing a controlled slit experiments involving a hundred of photons in their lab, instead of 10E27 photons interacting freely with cars' paint jobs and windshields in their parking lot.