Are they following all the IRS rules for travel. It discusses deadlines, receipts, what can trigger taxes. 

Unless the new company is very small the old company is unlikely to get in contact with somebody that has the offer info. Larger companies will only confirm dates of employment, which doesn't apply to you because you haven't started. They will only supply salary info if the employee give permission. This is generally done when an employee wants to be able to give salary info to a bank for a loan. They won't give it out to old, current, new or potential employers. They only disclose it if you have explicitly identified the 'bank' that will be requesting the information. If the new company did give this out I would not feel comfortable joining the company. They should have no reason for giving your salary information to a competitor. 

The key phrase in these types of questions is "I am afraid that it won't be enough for them to actually find someone in time, since there's much to learn." Unless you have a contract that limits your movement, you have no obligation to stay. You have worked there for 6 years. If a project collapses because you leave, then the project was on shaky ground. After all the paperwork and required investigations are done, determine the actual start date with the new company. Then tell your old company. Don't worry about offering to help once you are gone. If they really need to ask a question in the first few months, they will find you. Keep in mind that HR will need to have a valid address on file to send you required tax forms early next year. 

A better rule of thumb in the United States,especially when dealing with government contracting is that the customer is billed at 2x the rate the employee is paid. The extra amount covers: the employee benefits including medical, dental, vision, life; matching social security and Medicare, and unemployment insurance. It is also used to fund the holiday, vacation, and sick leave hours. They also have to pay overhead for the office space, office staff, office expenses. Then they want to make a profit. Frequently that is around 8% of the fully burdened rate. If you have a company supplying befits and providing services for you it seems like they take half the money, but it is more complex than that. Example: Every 2 weeks your gross pay check is 4,000. You think you make $50 per hour or 104,000 per year for 2080 hours of work. Your company is billing the government $100 per hour for the 1,840 hours of work you can be billed for during the year for a total of 184,000: 104K in pay, 65K in benefits and overhead, and 15K in profit. The question is can you replace the benefits for that price and realize that they don't bill when you don't work. So they have to charge more to cover those costs. Taking the payments directly makes the most sense when your benefits are covered from another source: retired from the military, or coverage from your spouse. Edit: The term "W2 contractor" in the original question doesn't make any sense. If you get a w2 you are an employee. The level of benefits are based on the company rules and labor laws. If you are contractor you get zero benefits, you are self employed and responsible for specific taxes. If Joe's contracting company is paying you 70K plus benefits, but you now want to work directly for the customer they will pay you 70K plus benefits as an employee (assuming the benefits are equal), or they need to pay you $70 an hour as an independent contractor. Of course the actual rates will need to be negotiated and depend on what benefits you are looking for. 

It all boils down to compact, neat and updated If you are constructing the resume for a particular job then make sure the ones mentioned in the job requirements are easily found. If the requirements spell out Visual Basic for Applications then say Visual Basic for Applications (VBA), if they say VBA don't spell it out. Many companies use software to search for the key words. Also consider putting the most relevant at the start/top of the list so a human doesn't miss it. Also if they specify a particular version, e.g 10.X , don't say 8.0+. This is an easy part to let get stale, so you should review it every time you update the resume, or at least every year to make sure that nothing is skipped or out of date. 

What constitutes work time was addressed by the US Supreme Court in a case a few years ago. This is a very complex issue. In The company requires you to be ready to start work at X time, they need to know if you will be ready to start the shift. At 15 minutes prior to that start they will be scrambling to cover your shift if you are not on the premises or have not notified them that you are on your way. By the way if push comes to shove the company will just adjust your pay rate specified in the contract to cover that extra period. Instead of $20 per hour and a three hour shift, they will pay $17.14 per hour for a 3.5 hour shift and require you to arrive 15 minutes early and stay 15 minutes later. 

I noticed you called it an initial offer. If you have no money and no way to get money via a credit card, then you must quickly get to the point that you can report for your first day of work. I would immediately sign the offer letter and return it to the company. You delay the start date and thus the date of your first paycheck by negotiating for relocation, advance of pay, etc. Any time you make a counter offer you risk them rescinding the offer letter. Make sure you understand any additional steps that might need to be completed such as a drug test and background investigation. Complete these tasks as quickly as possible. Expect that you will not get paid until 3 weeks after you start, assuming that you are paid every two weeks. If you are lucky your company pays every week; if you are unlucky you get paid once a month. Map out the cheapest way to get to work for the first few months. Consider a carpool, public transportation, even a taxi. Know exactly what you will need for transportation. Between now and the start date, work on getting the money you need via borrowing from friends and family. Go frugal between now and the first few paychecks. Pay back the money as soon as you get the first paycheck. 

Regarding resume: put the degree and when you expect to see it. If nobody did it this way, all new graduates would have to wait months after graduation to get a job. Yes start looking now. With the economy we have had the last few years there is no way to predict how long the search will take. The risk is that you will be applying for jobs that can't wait for you to graduate. But you might gain experience in interviewing. Also your time as an intern to find a job. 

If the company was paying you either as a w-2 employee or as a 1099 employee they owe you the required form by the end of January. They also have to submit copies to the IRS by the end of February. Check the IRS website and the state taxing agency website for info regarding steps to take. 

Everything on the resume has to be useful to selling you. Between the resume/CV and the cover letter you want to make it clear that you have the skills they desire. Some parts you will focus on because they are directly related: looking to fill a position as X, and you have 3 years experience with X. Others are included to complete the timeline. Don't skip mentioning an employer, because it will leave a big hole in the job history. Other accomplishments are included because they tell the company that you have other traits: Intelligence (3 Languages), Drive (Eagle Scout), ability to complete tasks (unrelated college degrees). 

You should provide more information than they need. Make a list of everything you can find: Who you worked for; Where you worked; Dates; Somebody who worked there. You might have old emails or are connected to some of these people though LinkedIn. You might need to look back at your old tax records. Look at old resumes. They will decide who they need to interview. The investigators know the farther you go back, the harder it is to find people. People leave companies, they retire, they seem to drop off the face of the earth. Ask the security office at the company or government agency. You are not the first with this situation. Others have tough challenges too: they moved 10 times while in the military including war zones; they went to college out of the country; they worked for one company but at 7 different work locations. You will probably be interviewed after you complete the forms, this is the time to bring the box of paperwork so that if they ask for more information you can try to find it. They will go over every line on the form at that interview, if they want more info than you have, then you will be given time to gather the names and numbers. 

It tells them that you aren't just carrying a line on the resume. Many times I have seen resumes with outdated information. I don't need to know that you have experience with Windows 3.1, 95... The line should have been dropped or cleaned up years ago. If they are familiar with the certification the renewed date lets them know how stale your knowledge is. It may also let them know if it is about to expire, and they may need to invest in keeping you certified. 

Look around for your "mentors", not just the official mentors or managers but employees that are on the same project as you, but are also on other projects. Ask them questions about these other projects. Ask if you can attend a meeting or read some documents about the project or the technology they are using. After a while you might even ask them to introduce you to members of the other team. The enhanced level of interaction with team members, if not done to the level of stalking, can make a positive impression. You want to be interested in more than your assigned task so that you can appear to be interested in learning. The interactions with members of other teams will help spread you contacts into other parts of the company. The corporation as a whole wants to be able to find a position for interns that they view as capable. Yes, the project you are assigned to work with as an intern may expect you to work for them after graduation, but that might not even be possible. I have seen interns assigned to projects that had short term needs but no definite long term need. Others were able to use interns because their department had funding available. Depending on the time left to graduation the team might not even exist when you are ready to become a full time employee. A goal for your internship is to be able to make a positive impression to several people in the company, so that they can be used as a direct or indirect reference for a job. You don't want to walk away with a hundred business cards from people that will not remember you next year. But I hand full of LinkedIn contacts from people who will remember you, can help you when you are looking for a job. You want to have away to contact these people besides via company email. You access to the address list will disappear at the end of you relationship with the company. Also if they leave the company you have no way of asking them for help. I wouldn't use social media that isn't geared for business, because it is generally not advisable to friend your work contacts on these platforms.