Without going into too much detail, which I don't think is necessary to explicate this wonderful idea, I'd say use quantum mechanics. 

This would be some sort of simple, cellular matrix, the size of the entire ocean, using natural processes such as photosynthesis and other chemical reactions, even underwater volcanic vents, for power. This is essentially a plant scale cellular automata. This is also known as the Gaia Hypothesis. 

(See the Free Will Theorem.) Computing is based on decisions, and decisions are an expression of "will". Since you use a religious context, tying it into this issue of central importance in modern religions would greatly strengthen the work. 

This could be used in a circular manner, swinging the axe-blade at the opponent at a level designed to forestall ducking or jumping to avoid the path of the blade. 

You may want to look a the New Sun trilogy by Gene Wolfe. It's an extraordinary feat of worldbuilding (Wolfe is regarded as the "scifi writers' writer", a term of profound respect for his vision and execution.) In this series, the world is so old, the ages of history are marked by the exhaustion of different resources, such as iron. 

You're asking about "unknown unknowns" (threats they wouldn't be aware of until months after building.) Game Theory tells us that in a condition of uncertainty, always assume the worst, and make decisions accordingly. In this conception, building the colony in a bunker, deep in the planet's surface is probably the safest course of action. But there is also the concept of acceptable risk, and the idea that you don't necessarily make decisions based on highly improbably circumstances. What is the net benefit vs. the risk of building on the surface? Really, it's going to depend on all of the known factors comprising the rest of your world/scenario. 

This stretches the idea into the realm of "magical realism", which I don't think is inappropriate. "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" demonstrates how you can breeze past the technical aspects to develop your allegory. I'd also highly recommend reading the stories of George Saunders, who is extraordinarily well regarded, and writes about the human condition in a technological society. His work also feels consistent with the spirit of your wonderful idea. 

It's actually not an issue because "history is written by the victors", who often use their dominance to codify the evil of the vanquished. The vanquished may have been evil, but evil is a relative concept based on social mores, (despite what deolators would assert), and so, even engaging in acts that would be considered evil, it's a safe bet that most of the actors did not consider such actions evil. But the depiction of the vanquished as evil is in no way universal. Certainly this was not the case in the Iliad of Homer. In the Iliad, the Trojans are not presented as evil. Conversely, they are depicted as noble adversaries, with the subversive element that their dignity is greater than that of the Greeks, certainly Agamemnon, Menelaus and Odysseus. It's not insignificant that the epic ends with the line "And thus was the funeral of Hector, breaker of horses." Hector unquestionably possessed the greatest dignity of all of the heroes of the epic, Greek or Trojan. He neither instigated the war nor desired it, but must fight in it regardless. He is blameless and esteemed, and makes the greatest sacrifice for his country. I'd say that books where the bad guys are evil is a type of shorthand, a technique that allows the author not to have fully explicate their point of view in simplistic narrative. Another way to contextualize this is per the advice of skilled actors in portraying villains, and may be condensed into: 

The ceremony itself was quick: They sat facing each other, the Voice and the Warrior, his heavy breathing betraying the precarious state of his flesh. She spoke to him, and yet her lips were closed: she offered her hand, and yet she was sitting motionless in front of him. He took her hand, and all worries, all the weight on his shoulders seemed to vanish. He saw his own body being taken away, to be prepared for his final residence. He also saw his ancestor standing nearby, his ethereal presence a soft, pale glow. 'Welcome, Dae son of Aik, and thanks for making this old warrior proud as you bring honor to our House once again. Your soul will be reunited with your body soon, but the latter will require no food or rest; the Light of Malik will provide sustenance eternal.' He felt a gentle breeze, and closed his eyes. When he opened it again, he was back to the House of Healing, no longer a mortal. The world seemed to glimmer with new colors, his undead eyes absorbing both the natural world and the ethereal plane. 

Prologue A kid finds an abandoned iPhone. Excited, he picks it from the floor. As the camera focus on his face, we can hear Siri saying... 

Of course! Both Arctic and Antarctic midnight suns stay in the sky for 6 months, alternating: $URL$ Quote from Wikipedia: 

Is certainly, if they possess the means to establish communication with enough bandwidth - and colors can encode a lot of information. Modern computers use at least 3 bytes, or 24 bits, to express a pixel using the RGB format. A 1024x768 screen needs 18.87 Mb of data to express all its pixels. That means around 940 megabits per second on a 20ms refresh cycle. 

If you asked me if a genetically modified terrestrial race can have cat-, dog- and bunny-like features, I'd say yes, probably. Convergent evolution is a thing, even among completely different species, so add a bit of near-future bioengineering and voilá. But an alien race... I don't know, that may be a bit too much. The Alien race need to be carbon-based, possess body mirrorring, fur-like external structures... the list of necessary coincidences is simply too high. But then, space is big. Like, really big. 

(Assuming average word length in English (according to Wolfram Alpha): 5, ASCII representation of a single character: 8 bits) So yes, books are very slow bandwidth, but hey, they work. So the answer to: 

LOTS. Let's forget for a second that we're talking about creatures, and just assume that our focus is Von Neumann machines. Quoting Wikipedia, 

So higher intelligence would correspond to a higher capability in information perception and in cross-correlation in order to derive possible outcomes, and transcribe these as behaviors. Let's pick humans for example. Its units do show fairly decent processing capabilities, and stores information in both transient internal (as in, personal experiences) and permanent external (books, movies, oral tradition, etc.) memories. Now, for communication - here's some human bandwidth measurements: 

I'd also use postmodernism in presenting the conflict. The Trojan war is generally held to be a result of the "abduction" of Helen by Paris. The reality is that Troy held an incredibly powerful strategic position, and dominated trade between the Euxine (Black) Sea and the Aegean. If the Trojan war actually occurred, it was almost certainly about economic control of the region. Even the pretext of Helen is illuminating. WWI has been cast by respected historians as a war fought for no real reason, other than Europe has become a power keg in the wake of the success of Fredrick of Prussia's regimental system. (Critiques of Keegan rely on a romanticized view of warfare as an "extension of politics by other means", but should more properly be cast as an "extension of economic and political hegemony by other means.") WWI can be viewed as an unfortunate outcome of inciting event in which actors in the war were obligated by treaty to take part. 

I strongly urge you to look at Conway's Game of Life, particularly at how it demonstrates that complex structures can arise from very simple rules. In an infinite Game of Life, the hypothesis holds that intelligence and superintelligence would develop. I think there's an opportunity to unify the two concepts you are pondering in your world. 

In this case, the heavier blade is a bonus because it can have sufficient momentum to incapacitate the opponent. This is similar to the type of advantage long blades such as the Claymore confer--the arc of the swing requires defenders to stay out of it's path and forestall closing quickly, even when the great sword wielder is temporarily oriented in a different direction, although it probably works best in conjunction with plate armor. 

The purpose is not to get hydrogen or helium, but heavy metals, which are only produced in stellar cores. This was a feature of the astonishing Quantum Thief Trilogy written by real-life mathematical physicist Hannu Rajaneimi. In Rajaneimi's book, it required only a the technology of a post-singularity civilization, still restricted to our own solar system. (The idea is that the mechanics are well within the bounds of a civilization approaching Type II on the Kardashev scale. 

I highly recommend the book The Qabalistic Tarot: A Textbook of Mystical Philosophy. It is scholarly, extremely well researched, and contains extensive footnotes and citations. You may also find Israel Regardie's work useful, particularly The Tree of Life: A Study in Magic. [Note: there is also a revised, illustrated edition available]. And of course, for an understanding of magic in general, Frazier's The Golden Bough is essential. (Take a look at the chapter on Sympathetic Magic, which is a very good primer.) Finally, Alan Moore's Promethea can be understood as a thesis on magic in general, and the Tarot in particular. Plus, the artwork is astounding! 

Vertical wind tunnel simulated skydiving, Erik Charlton from Menlo Park, USA (Screaming Fast) CC BY 2.0, via Wikimedia Commons Put generators on 'top', allow air flow via grid flooring: 

He woke and found himself lying in bed. At first he thought that he had slept late, after a long unpleasant dream that still hovered on the edge of memory. He opened his eyes to an unknown ceiling. 'We are in the House of Healing, Dae son of Aik,' he heard a familiar voice say. 'We're back home.' 'Hidr!...' he shouted, but only a mewling left his lips. 'Shh, rest now. You have been asleep for three days; your body is broken, and it's a miracle that it survived that long. But your feats of courage where witnessed by all, and this morning the Voice of Malik called for you. Today you join the Immortals,' She said, that lovely smile in her face. They won. He would join his famous grand-grand-grand-grand-grandfather among the sacred warriors of Malik. And, most important of all - she survived. And the kiss they shared afterwards would be the last he would experience while still breathing. 

Setting In the near future a group of explorers land on Mars and proceed to explore the cave system under Pavonis Mons. While exploring the gigantic interior of the lava tube, sensors indicate the presence of an unexpected kind of emission. Using remote probes they detect radiation levels that are safe for humans - but still, being on the safe side, they continue to explore using drones only. They manage to locate the source while exploring the deepest parts of the cave system. As they send in a tethered drone packed full of sensors (CCDs, spectrometers, radiation detectors, environmental detectors and atmospheric detectors, among others) a huge stream of data start to pour from the sensors into the expedition computers as the science officer orders it to focus on a central piece standing atop what looks like a obsidian pillar; It clearly look like an artificial object. The drone maintain its emotionless glare as the science officer asks for a few more minutes to analyze the incoming data, followed by a request for a couple more hours - and finally another for a day. The science team then communicates to mission command, to the shock of all involved personnel, that the data points to an extra-galactic origin. Question: How could they, based on remote sensory information only, reach this conclusion? Assume: 

Have someone from the International Space Station use a Soyuz-TMA to come down with a still-working laptop with all compilers they have available. (Hey, they aren't technically in the world...) 

The Moon IS the weapon The Eel people agrees immediately, which confuses the lizard people. 'We're their betters, and they know it', say a Hawk lizard in triumph; the Dove lizards aren't so sure, but can't put a finger on it. The Eel people asks for more time - there's a lot of eels to move around, you see. given the swift acceptance, the lizards add another year out of 'condescending acknowledgement'. (Or maybe that's a condition: 'If you give us two years, we'll accept your terms.') The Eel people starts moving to the moon. One day before the 2-year period expires, they issue an ultimatum: The Lizard people must now pay tribute, or face consequences. The lizard people laugh it off in disbelief. A couple of hours later, their military centers are vaporized. At the end of the day they capitulate, with minimal loss of civilian lizard life. The Eel people now rules the system. How, you ask? They cut hundreds, maybe even thousands of large chunks (10-tons or more) of moon-rock and put it in orbit around the Lizard planet with the help of rockets, or a highly precise mass driver build on the moon's surface. Less gravity means less fuel to move things around, and you have two years to position them. Using simple ballistic calculation, they can make them drop over military bases, cities and other strategic points. Once these enormous kinetic projectiles start falling, they can't be stopped. (Just as a comparison, a 10-ton falling rock from around our Moon's orbit (384,400km) would carry the energy equivalent of roughly 627 Hiroshima atomic bombs.) Disclaimer: Idea totally stolen from 'The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress' by Robert A. Heinlein. I used this calculator for kinetic energy evaluation.