I have never worked anywhere where 9-5 was acceptable, not in government work, not in small privately-held companies, not in large corporations. Most places you are expected to put in 8 work hours and lunch does not count and is not paid. From the US Department of Labor ($URL$ 

If I saw drawings such as you have shown above, I would almost certainly reject the application as unprofessional for almost any profession. If you need to include graphics in a professional document (and I would argue that it would be rare to need to do so in a cover letter), then the graphics need to be professionally prepared, not hand-done sketches. You are right that a picture is worth a thousand words, but the picture can be saying a 1000 negative words and, in the case of the drawings shown, they have no positive value. They detract from the application making it more memorable in the bad sense, not the good one. I am reminded of the resume I saw 15 years ago from someone with a year's worth of experience that was ten pages long and included photos and hobby descriptions. The fact that I still remember it is not a sign that it was successful in landing him an interview. It was even passed around the office so everyone could laugh at it. You do not want to be the person that the hiring officals are laughing at. In your field in particular, these drawings mark you as an amateur which is never a good thing in a client-facing profession like big data. One of the things you would be evaluated on for these types of positions is how well you would present your information to the client and the answer I would get from these drawings would be - very poorly. 

First I would find out from someone where his desk is. If you are completely stalled, you have to recognize that it still may not be his highest priority. You don't know this person or what is on his plate. However if you are stalled, followup in chat or email immediately. Or go physically talk to him (which I have found is often more effective). Just tell him that you are stuck until you get a response as he may not realize he is causing a work stoppage. If you use email cc your boss. IF you use chat or a personal visit, email your boss and let him know you are stalled and that you are working with this person to get through the delay. It is important to let your boss know what is stalling you because he needs to know that part of your project is stalled. Now it may happen that the person can't get back to you today due to other priorities or even being out of the office. In that case, you need to determine if someone else can help you or seek your boss's help in raising the priority of answering you as soon as can be. You should also work on something else if possible until the delay is resolved or ask your boss specifically if there is something you can work on in the meantime that is unrelated, so that progress is still being made. The one thing you don't want to do is still passively waiting for an answer when work is totally stopped. 

You should address this issue first with your supervisor and then with HR. In the US at least, this would not be something the supervisor should be doing. You need to directly talk to your supervisor, tell him or her that you were upset at your medical privacy being violated and ask specifically that it not happen again. It is too late to undo this instance, but if it upsets you enough, you should talk to HR about it as this type of thing is something that companies are generally very careful to avoid. Only people who have an actual need to know the details of your medical issues (such as HR people who have to get medical accommodations approved and paid for or HR people who help you get short-term disability or supervisors who have to approve the time off (especially if the request is unusual like needing every Friday afternoon off to do dialysis) have a right to know exactly why you are out sick. Even supervisors generally don't need the details (although providing some generally gets these things approved much quicker and with less push back) but may need a doctor's note. Out sick is reason enough for people who have to take over your work while you are out. You don't need to feel humiliated though, very few people really would find oral surgery to be odd or unusual. 

As to why things are location specific, different countries have different laws about what is legal to ask in an interview situation, so some things that might be standard in Germany are information that the interviewer cant know in the US and including it is likely to mean that your resume will get chucked by HR before the hiring officials see it. Different locations have differing cultures and so what is most important in some countries is irrelevant in others. Most people reviewing hundreds of resumes or CVs want things to be fairly standard to save time in reviewing, so it is worth your while to look up what is the norm in the countries you are applying to. So, for example, in the US, few hiring managers read past the second page (and often only read the second page if they are interested in you), so if your most compelling information is on page five, the likelihood that anyone in the US will see it is low. 

The circumstances of where and when he does this can dictate your response. If it is an actual code review, you will need to be more polite. Have a set of answers ready for the more common criticisms that reflect the standards of your own organization. If the coding standard is to use a tab to indent and he wants to use spaces, then smack him down for violating the standards in his suggestions. Some new people want to apply standards they learned elsewhere and forget that each place has its own way of doing business. If there is no standard (and the way you do things is consistent with how other devs do things), then tell him that his comment is irrelevant and to concentrate on real issues. If he calls you out on things that he does not criticize other devs for and they also do they same thing, then ask him what his problem is that he objects to things in your code that he doesn't object to in others code. Be strong enough in your objection in this case that he treats you like a cobra that might bite him at any minute. He has picked you out as the easy prey if he is not making the same criticisms of others. Show him that he is mistaken about that. And for code reviews, this is a key point. When he makes a valid point, accept that gracefully and implement it. If you object to everything he says, you just look bad. But if you accept the valid things well, then he looks stupid for pushing the invalid things. If he starts this up out of the blue or only when other people come into hearing range, then shut him down with something like: 

In addition to talking to the boss about it, if there are other non-smokers who also feel excluded from the informal network, perhaps you can organize a daily tea break or coffee break that you as group ask the boss to attend, so that you can have the same informal access to her or him. 

Employees are virtually never asked for their opinon on these things. This is just the way the world works and you need to understand that they don't care that you don't want another person in your space. Whatever space they put this person into will have people who don't want him there. And even more people will object if he gets a private office that they think they should have gotten. Assigning space is a difficult and thankless task as there is only rarely a case when no one objects. This is one of the reason why some facilites managers love the concept where no desks are assigned and eveyone picks which one to pwrok in that day (which is frankly the worst of all worlds to almost everyone except the facility manager.) The decision is based on several factors: similar type of work or need to work togther, physical room available, political pull of the managers involved; type of office space the company deems appropriate for the individual (a trainee is not going to get that empty corner office no matter what!). 

AS you can see from the chart in the link, state laws vary on whether a lunch break is required and what length the break must be. In some states the employee can waive his lunch break and in others he cannot. $URL$ Skipping lunch is often not permitted by HR as the purpose is to give you a mental break which makes you more productive (and less of a safety hazard in the case of an equipment operator). Another reason why HR often doesn't permit the skipping of lunch is that many people say they are going to work those hours and skip lunch and many of them still take a lunch break which means that the ones that don't have to suffer with the resulting policy. Expecting people to put in the 8 hours a day they are being paid for does not mean this is a death-march company, it just means they expect to get what they are paying for which is 40 hours a week minimum for salaried workers. Project plans are based on you working this number of hours, salaries are based on you working this number of hours. Why should a company pay you a 40-hour salary if you only give them, in the case of 9-5, 35 hours? I've seen plenty of jobs where that number of hours would be enough to make you part-time and lose your benefits. 

Conciseness in a resume can work for or against you. You do not want a resume that goes over two pages, so conciseness can help there. However, never lose sight of the fact that the resume is a sales document. It's purpose is to convince someone to hire you. As such too much conciseness can make the person look bad as you abstracted away all the interesting parts of your experience. You have to balance your need to convince them to hire you with making sure you don't annoy the manager by giving him too much to read. If you look at the resume as a sales brochure (I means a typical 3 panel, front and back one) you can balance these things. Sales brochures have limited space just like resumes should. Sales brochures exist to convince the person to at least look at the product for sale just like a resume does. So instead of conciseness for conciseness sake, instead consider what information is most important to the hiring manager to get him to consider me. Once you determine what is most important to say, you can then work out how it will fit in the space available. The more important items probably need more words, less important but still needed items can be more concise. For instance most people put more words into a description of their current job than the one they did 8 years ago. Or they put more words into the education section if they just graduated but not if they graduated in 1977. And never forget that if you are going through HR, they are using software to eliminate resumes based on key word searches, so make sure you include those key words from the ad. 

Each of these needs to be handled slightly differntly. If it can wait until he has some free time, simply send him a meeting request using the first available free moment you see in his calendar. Make sure to specify the topic. If there is some infomation he needs to see in prepartion for the meeting attach it to the meeting request or send and email with the attchments or links to where the information can be found. Things that need to be resolved today require a bolder approach. First, know how you boss likes to communicate. When he is in meetings or on calls, does he read his emails or use IM? If so send him a quick note describing the situation and why it needs to be discussed today and asking him to make a time to squeeze you in. The magic words to use are: "If this doesn't get resolved today, we may not be able to meet the deadline." Do not however use those words unless they are true. No one listens to the boy who cried wolf. If he doesn't checks his emails or IM during a meeting, you may need to get a bit more creative about finding out when the meeting will end and conveniently being near the conference room when it does, so you can ask him when he can give you the time you need. Make sure to tell him how much time you need in your request. If I need only five minutes or less, my boss will often go to the next meeting just a little late. Finally there are genuinely urgent issues. These are typically only involving either issues concerning things already in production or upset clients. I make it a rule to never let my boss get blindsided by urgent issues that he hears about from someone higher in the organization than he is. So if he is on the phone, knock on his door anyway and go in and say, "I'm sorry to disturb you but such and such has come up." Sometimes I write those words down, so the call isn't disrupted if he is on speaker phone. I don't often know what his call is about or how urgent it is, so I then let him determine if the call or my issue is more critical. Normally my boss will either tell the call that something has come up that he has to deal with and set the meeting to be completed later or he tells me something like, "This call will be done in five minutes, I'll come get you when I'm off." In the second case, I leave until he can get back to me. Same thing if he is in a meeting. I will knock on the door, open it slightly and say, I need to talk to _. Usually the manager then comes to the door and I tell him the problem and the urgency and he decides to leave the meeting or not. The key to this is not disrupting the meeting unless the issue is genuinely urgent. The server room is on fire is urgent. You have to leave right now because your spouse died is urgent. The CEO is going to want to talk to you about why client XYZ is upset as soon as you are free is usually urgent. I need a decision on XYZ that isn't due to production for three weeks is not. If you are having trouble connecting well with your boss, it is possible that you and he have different ideas about the urgency of the issues you want to discuss with him. Perhaps you need to have a meeting to discuss how he would prefer to be contacted and what issues he would see as urgent enough to interrupt him.