Our atmosphere is already a mix of gasses. We only use the 20% that is oxygen. Maybe you could evolve other species that breathe Nitrogen instead? 

Since the availability of real photos are limited, I have taken a few screenshots from SpaceEngine, whose rendering and visualization I find to be pretty good. Here is a shot of Titans shadow falling onto Saturn. Titan (just like the majority of Saturns moons) orbits within Saturns ring plane. The eclipse zone on the 'surface' of Saturn will most commonly lie along the intersection of Saturns orbital plane, and the ring plane, so the shadow will commonly lie across the rings as shown. The shadow from highly eccentric and/or remoter moons may miss the ring plane, as shown in the photo in the other answer. 

If the station is structurally able to withstand not burning up, and not breaking apart, which I think are unlikely for a space station, then the stresses on the astronauts is potentially survivable. One serious problem would be maintaining flight stability, as any sudden twists or rolls or flips could expose the crew to very high g forces, mushing them into the walls. However, you did mention anti-grav, and attitude control jets, and if these were able to compensate for the airflows over the station, then it might be a bumpy but survivable ride. The station would decelerate constantly as it comes down, and final impact with the ground wouldn't be more than a few hundred kilometers an hour. This would not be survivable, but if your crew had access to parachutes, then an emergency bailout just before impact would give them good survival chances. This was a design feature for early Vostok missions, and even the Shuttle had crew egress and parachuting as a contingency plan for situations where landing might not work (losing pressure in the main tires prior to landing). 

About color, the red dwarf will be supplying mostly red light. Just putting a pane of blue glass on front of that won't do anything, in fact the glass will be entirely black and opaque, since blue glass only allows blue light through it. If the only light source is red, the glass will appear black. For unadapted humans, they will have powerful white lighting indoors, and possibly outdoors too. Advertisers will no doubt have a lot of fun with eye-catching use of color. High-contrast building materials may be popular, especially if they reflect the non-red colors and absorb red (so either appearing somewhat colored, or black). Building prism-shaped buildings is not an efficient use of space. The same amount of light will fall in any case. A prism building will only have more difficulty distributing the light to its center. Use louvered windows, terraces, and mirrors to direct light throughout a regular rectangular building form. My guess would be that a direction like North would be rather arbitrary. Instead, orienting blocks and streets to be Sunward seems much more likely. You may see very large scale use of mirrors to reflect sunlight around the sides of buildings, into side streets and dark areas, etc. 

Even if the surface is frictionless, over time dust and random molecules will land on it due to its gravitational attraction. These won't sit still, they will slide around but remain on the surface at least. Over aeons the dust will form a layer and slow down its movement, eventually creating a more normal surface. 

Use two people. The first poses as a repairman, painter, electrician or street cleaner, and hangs around on the street with a view of the crime lords entrance. The second guy comes a bit later, driving up, parking his car near the bosses entrance (driveway, garage, etc) and gets out and goes shopping or trivial activities nearby. Nothing suspicious yet. Now when the boss moves close to the parked car, the first guy reaches into his pocket and presses the button on the detonator. Car bomb explodes dramatically, taking out the boss. If you think the triggerman glancing at the boss will be detected, have several different triggermen wandering around, each looking less often. 

Simple. Just nuke them with everything we've got. It should be enough to destroy them. Since they absorb energy to speed up, but have maximum speeds and temperatures, we can nuke them enough so that they are overloaded and damaged, or destroyed. Plus they might be vunerable to the EMP from nukes, causing some internal malfunction or disruption to their propulsion. A quick google showed me an estimate of 23,000 warheads in the Earths nuclear arsenal, with an estimated yield of 6400MT, in 2009. That's a yield of 64 tons of TNT per alien, less due to losses of course but if the bombs can all be detonated at the center of the swarm (and remember they may ignore our silicon-based warheads since they are out to destroy carbon-based life forms), then quite a lot of that energy will hit aliens (no estimate on swarm density was provided). Any amount of tons of TNT is still quite a lot of energy to dump on a device the size of a mini cooper, even if its made out of high tech materials. Each alien device can suck in energy to accelerate to a maximum of 80kms (why this, there are no arbitrary limits on speed in space, nor constant speeds either for that matter). The term "ablative" and the maximum temperature stated suggests to me that the engine will take damage when pushed beyond its max capacity. Lets look at the energy needed to do that. Assuming an alien bee is made up of solid carbon nanotubes, this'll give it a mass of approx 11tons (based on 1.6g per cm^3) from the comments. To accelerate that by 10kms requires 131tons of tnt per alien, about double the yield of our nuclear detonations, so the aliens should be able to suck it all up and accelerate without incurring damage. However, if an alien is half hollow, this explosion will push it to its max acceleration. If the alien is a hollow shell of nanotubes around some small core, like a carbon fiber mini cooper chassis with an engine, then it will have a gigantic surplus of energy to deal with. Perhaps it has heatsinks to deal with some overload, but we can see from these numbers that todays nuclear arsenal is powerful enough to provide a major issue for the aliens. Now, assume that this scenario is set a few decades in the future, and our nuclear arsenal has doubled in strength. This is enough to impose damage on the whole alien swarm. Should we have developed even more powerful weapons in the next few decades then the potential to overload the aliens starts to look quite likely. With Uranus being about 2.6billion kilometers away and the aliens traveling at a constant 70kms in a straight line towards us (despite space travel not working remotely like this), that's still a minimum of 14 months for us to prepare. Real orbital mechanics would only add to this figure. I'm pretty sure we could increase the size of our nuclear arsenal several times over in that time if our survival as a species depended on it, bringing vaporization of the alien fleet well within our capability. And this is ignoring any kinds of secondary explosions or effects due to dying aliens. A chain reaction of explosions may develop. edit: as rightly pointed out, many nuclear missles are not capable of getting to orbit. But orbit is nor required here. Most missiles are intercontinental, which is a range of thousands of kilometers. Shooting them straight up to intercept the swarm is still possible. Summary: depending on the aliens density, our weapons technology development in the near future, and what happens when the alien bees are pushed to accelerating beyond their max speed, we can detonate enough nukes to destroy them. 

Probably, but we don't know how to do any of that yet. Does your planet have an atmosphere? A magnetic field? We'd likely start by introducing some lichens and bacteria which can eat minerals and excrete useful compounds and gasses. After a while more complex life forms (probably genetically altered) would be introduced which eat the output of the first, and produce new molecules as waste. Over time, and with lots of different types of bacteria and simple life forms you build up more and more organic compounds and material to work with, which lets you move to another phase of the operation. Here's a article on the evolution of the Earths atmosphere which should be interesting, and shed some light on the processes: $URL$ Due to the time scales involved, unless we discover some amazing new tech to accelerate the process you're looking at such a long time that your ability to control and steer the process to completion is unlikely due to other factors (collapse of your civilization, etc). Massive amounts of genetic and biosphere engineering will need to be developed before and during this project. 

I'm not entirely convinced SpaceEngine is rendering the occuluded glare around the sun correctly. The center of the shadow is a tiny bit above the ring plane in the first screenshot, but in the second, the eclipse seems visible from much higher latitude. I think this is a more realistic visualization of the ring illumination when located at the center of the shadow, but of curse, the sun glare here should be obscured: $URL$ If I move the camera further out, inside the shadow cone, towards Titan, I need to be far beyhond the rings before titan fully eclipses the sun in SpaceEngine. I don't know what the relative size of Titan and the Sun are from Saturns surface, but it should be easy enough to calculate. 

Shortage of elements used in their CPUs... there are a lot of rare and unusual elements used whioh could run out or be made unavailable, hafnium for example is pretty rare and maybe zirconium ooesnt work out as a suitable replacement. Germanium is somewhat common but not in high concentrations, so maybe mining it becomes difficult due to environmental laws. If you look at other materials maybe you can find more ideas too. 

By eliminating the ego? Most eastern philosophy has, in some way or another, the darkness resulting as a product of the ego asserting itself. When the practitioner works to dissolve their ego and id, through selfless acts and meditation, the darkness dissolves too, leaving the practitioner free of the dichotomy of good vs evil. Kali would be a one nice way to name your darkness, going by the brief description in the question. According to legend, Kali goes on an angry rampage and is about to destroy the universe, but is stopped by her husband, Shiva, who is passive and lies down before her. Kali steps on him, and gets embarrassed, and stops the rampage. Or another way, if you get into an argument with someone and both of you are irritated and grumpy, you can "win" simply by genuinely saying sorry. This leaves the other one powerless and feeling embarassed, and they usually apologise too :) But the passive side who backs down first is actually dominating and controlling the situation. That's kinda neat. In practice, you cannot decide to just eliminate the darkness, since that is a type of desire for control, a coersion and asserting your will on them, whch is only spreading and generating more Darkness. You just need to change the one thing you can change, yourself, and hope the rest of the world finds it inspiring and follows suit. Your mages could fight as best they see fit, but they'll end up only replacing the darkness. Have them educate and guide the population instead, so they become light. 

Yes, you could boil water to build up lots of pressure, and vent the steam as a propellant, and the spaceship would move. But it would move very slowly, and then you'd be out of water. It's not a very effective propulsion mechanism. 

Magnetic ring particles Perhaps the rings are composed of very special needle-like iron particles, which are magnetized. (how this came to be is another question...) The ring particles align to the planets magnetic field, presenting their long side towards the planet, and reflecting light towards the surface, making them visible. Due to its turbulent, swirling liquid core, the planet has an unstable magnetic field, which reverses polarity now and then. There is evidence suggesting this has occurred in Earths past, and may even be happening now. You would need to accelerate the process quite a lot for your story though. As the magnetic field shifts, the ring particles follow, changing their alignment, meaning that at some point they will be end-on to the viewers on the surface. The reflectivity drops off towards zero, making them invisible. They will reappear again if the magnetic field shifts more. The advantages in this suggestion are that there are no easily observable planets or moons causing eclipses, no unrealistic orbital mechanics, and you have relatively free hands to shift the magnetic field at will. 

Taking a sample on a perfectly flat, hard surface might be difficult. To be able to drill a core sample, the rover needs to hold itself stationary, and push against the surface with the drill. The first can be done with thrusters arranged around the sides of the rover. Pushing against the surface may be difficult though. The Philae lander tried to do this on a comet by using thrusters on the top of the lander, pointing into space, to push it downwards while drilling. In your case, the slightest vertical thrust which isn't exactly through the rovers center of mass will result in an efficient conversion of that thrust into the lander sliding sideways instead (much like pressing your foot at a non-vertical angle onto ice causes a skid). The side thrusters will need to be able to counter this. Any elasticity in the rover body will translate into an erratic skittering on the surface. The side jets need to be designed to handle this, too. Finally, regarding drilling. I'm not sure how shear forces work in a drill bit, and if friction plays a role in getting the bit to "bite". Maybe frictionless means undrillable, this really needs further development... 

I don't think they'll retain their space faring technology for long. Modern space-tech is so complex there are only a few industrialized nations on Earth capable of doing it. Your population of 5000 simply won't be able to produce the raw materials, nor be able to maintain the high tech tooling required to maintain and repair their high-tech tooling. Pick any modern convenience. Like a microwave oven. After a few years, it'll break. What do you need to build a new one? A magnatron, a flyback transformer, metal and glass plates, electrical components. What do you need to produce those? Fine tools, metalwork and glass for the magnetron. Vacuum pump. Fine, high purity copper wire for the transformer, iron, steel. This requires mines, ore smelting, purification. Fabrication facilities. Smelters and kilns. What do you need to make all those? What tools do you need to make those tools? So stuff will break, and the tools to repair things will break, all the machines the colony starts with will break, they will run out of duct tape. How do you make new duct tape? And so the society will slowly slide backwards until an equilibrium is reached with what they can reasonably produce and sustain themselves. Sustainability is the key thing here, anything the colonists bring with them won't last long, only the things they can constantly produce themselves will matter after a few generations. Where is that equilibrium point for a society of a few thousand? Probably living in mud or stone huts, dressed in animal skins, using tools made from bones and pointy rocks, malnourished, hunting animals or working 18 hours a day in an iron mine, and dying at 30. The modern society tech tree is extremely large with massive inter-dependencies. It takes a population of hundreds of thousands, maybe millions, before it becomes economically viable to produce things like industrial weaving machines and internal combustion engines. In a resource and food rich land (best case scenario) your colonists would need to focus on survival and breeding, and over many generations increase the population to millions before there is time over so they can start to support specialized professionals like metalurgists or chemists or electrical engineers, which is when technology really starts to take off. Until then its just a very, very long slog through the mud (a few tens of thousands of years if our own civilization is anything to go by). 

You asked about planetary stresses. There will be none, although total destruction will of course occur. By rotating the planet faster and faster you are actually reducing the stresses that hold the planet together. As you spin the planet faster and faster, the imaginary centrifugal force appears to throw things outwards (but really, they are just going faster, and so resisting the gravity force, becoming lighter). So the atmosphere will fly off into space, along with the sea. As it spins even faster, internal pressure which has been balanced against gravity will start to dominate, bulging the planet at the equator (its already this way), so expect a lot of volcanoes and earthquakes. The surface will continue to bulge and deform, both from having speed to overcome gravity and also due to magma underneath pushing up. The crust will break up, get drowned in lava, churned up and eventually everything becomes liquid magma. The planet will keep expanding as it rotates faster, due to the internal pressures. Drops of this liquid will eventually start to lift off from the equator. This is not really due to stress, but that the imaginary centrifugal force now balances gravity. Or to put it another way, the equator is moving so fast as to have entered orbit, and it is now weightless. Spin things a bit more and the planet will start to gently dissolve into a spinning collection of lava blobs in higher orbits. Somewhere here you'll start running into major problems in HOW you are adding rotational energy, since it's no longer a solid shape but a bubbly, blobby mess.