$URL$ Also, you can fly provided you have enough money for a plane ticket. You can't float unaided. I don't know of any philosopher who claims you're not free because you can't float unaided. 

Your question makes some false assumptions that get in the way of you finding the answer. The first problem is that you're asking for proof, but proving any statement is true or probably true is impossible, unnecessary and undesirable. This is true whether the statement is deemed to be philosophical or not. If you assess ideas using argument then the arguments have premises and rules of inference and the result of the argument may not be true (or probably true) if the premises and rules of inference are false. You might try to solve this by coming up with a new argument that proves the premises and rules of inference but then you have the same problem with those premises and rules of inference. You might say that some stuff is indubitably true (or probably true), and you can use that as a foundation. But that just means you have cut off a possible avenue of intellectual progress since the foundation can't be explained in terms of anything deeper. And in any case there is nothing that can fill that role. Sense experience won't work since you can misinterpret information from your sense organs, e.g. - optical illusions. Sense organs also fail to record lots of stuff that does exist, e.g. - neutrinos. Scientific instruments aren't infallible either since you can make mistakes in setting them up, in interpreting information from them and so on. Rather, knowledge is created by noticing problems, guessing solutions to those problems and criticising the solutions until there is only one left and you don't know how to find or invent any criticisms of it. So the standard by which to judge objective morality is whether it solves problems. Objective moral standards are institutions that help make it easier for people to deal with one another. They are invented by human beings, but that doesn't mean they are arbitrary. Nor does it mean that different ideas about what standards people should hold are all equally good. For example, if the government can steal from people at will and are totally unaccountable for their plundering this makes it very difficult for anybody to deal with other people. You can't say that you will deliver some grain to market because the government might decide to steal the grain. Also, it will not be in your interest to advertise that you have grain for fear of the government stealing it. You can't make long range plans with respect to grain growing because the government might steal the seed you intend to plant for next year's harvest. Such a system was tried in the Ukraine when it was occupied by the Soviets and led to famine. You write: 

The short version of the argument is as follows. The theory of computation as it currently stands claims that any physical system that can perform a certain set of operations can do universal computation, regardless of its physical constituents. As such, if your experiences are all a simulation it is impossible in principle for you to discover anything at all about the computer on which you are being simulated. As such, that hardware can play no role in any explanation of anything that happens to you. So this alleged simulator amounts to slapping a label on stuff saying it's not real while explaining all of its actions with no reference at all to that label. So its takes your current explanations and adds an unexplained complication, so the simulation idea should be rejected. 

The theory of evolution explains how more complex biological organisms can arise from simpler organisms. The theory of evolution starts with the idea of replicators - physical systems that can exist in multiple variants and are copied faithfully with some finite error rate in a particular environment. For example, the DNA in an amoeba's body is copied by the amoeba making copies of its DNA and them splitting into two independent cells. The environment allows some variants of a replicator to be copied and not others. New variants of a replicator, including more complex variants, can arise by exploiting features of the environment not exploited by other replicators. For more detail see "The Selfish Gene" by Dawkins. There is no reason to think that the cells or replicators that exist now bear much resemblance to the first cells or replicators. The first cells and replicators may have been a lot less complex. Nor is there any reason to think that any explanation other than evolution by natural selection is required to explain existing biological complexity. Nor is it clear what sort of observation could refute the theory of evolution. You can only judge an observation as a refutation of a theory in the light of another explanation that replaces the theory. For a discussion of this issue in the context of evolution, see "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch, Chapter 4. 

No. The majority of people in the past had ideas that we now think are false. Either they are wrong or we are but in either case lots of people believing something has no bearing on its truth. 

I will address the issue of whether unprovable mathematical results constitute a paradox: they don't. Many people make an error when discussing this topic of assuming it is a matter of pure mathematics. A mathematician might point out correctly that there is no largest prime number. It could be the case that there exists some prime p such that nobody will ever use a prime larger than p, but that wouldn't change the fact that there is some larger prime. So mathematics is not a branch of physics. However, the study of mathematical methods is a branch of epistemology. And one of the relevant sets of limitations on what we can know is provided by the laws of physics. The reason that Turing machines are useful as a model of computation is that the set of Turing computable functions happens to coincide with the set of functions that can be computed by machines allowed by the laws of physics. If the set of functions that could be calculated by some physical device was larger or smaller than that set then the set allowed by the laws of physics would be more relevant to what we can calculate than the set of Turing computable functions. A formal mathematical proof is an argument to the effect that some suitably interpreted formal system that we have instantiated in some physical device (a human brain or computer) implies that some statements follow from some other statements. The fact that some results can't be proven means that the laws of physics don't allow an instantiation of a system suitable for providing such a proof. There is nothing particularly paradoxical about this. Nor does it stop us from doing mathematics with undecidable results. We can just follow the consequences of a particular result being true and the consequences of it being false and look for criticisms of each option. All that is different is that a particular method of criticism, that of constructing a formal system and instantiating it in a computation, can't be used in such cases. There is a lot of knowledge for which that method can't be used, so I don't see that there is anything particularly terrible or puzzling or paradoxical about it. For more see $URL$ and "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch, Chapter 8. 

Wittgenstein did not end philosophy. Karl Popper refuted Wittgenstein in an essay reprinted as chapter 2 of "Conjectures and Refutations". Popper pointed out that non-philosophical disciplines like physics give rise to philosophical problems. For example, the problem of change arises from physics: if you want to say X changes then X is different after the change than it was before, but X has to be the same thing as before and this looks like a contradiction. Ernest Gellner also refuted Wittgenstein and his followers in his book "Words and Things". He went into a lot more detail than Popper about why Wittgenstein's ideas are mostly irrelevant to philosophy. 

Entanglement does not refute the principle of locality. A sketch of the sort of experiment commonly said to refute locality runs as follows. Suppose that you have two electrons with entangled spin. For each electron you can measure the spin along the X, Y or Z direction. If you measure X on both electrons, then you get opposite values, likewise for measuring Y or Z on both electrons. If you measure X on one electron and Y or Z on the other, then you have a 50% probability of a match. And if you measure Y on one and Z on the other, the probability of a match is 50%. The crucial issue is that whether you find a correlation when you do the comparison depends on whether you measure the same quantity on each electron. Bell's theorem just explains that the extent of this correlation is greater than a local theory would allow if the measured quantities were represented by stochastic variables (i.e. - numbers picked out of a hat). This fact is often misrepresented as implying that quantum mechanics is non-local. But in quantum mechanics, systems are not characterised by stochastic variables, but, rather, by Hermitian operators. There is an entirely local explanation of how the correlations arise in terms of properties of systems represented by such operators. For an explanation of how the correlations arise, see $URL$ and $URL$ 

People who work for a wage aren't slaves and slavery is not an apt metaphor. A person must have food, shelter etc. to survive. Nobody is obliged to provide you with these goods. If you maintain otherwise, then you are saying the person who can provide those goods should be forced to work to provide you with them: he is your slave. The person who can provide those goods should do so only if he has been persuaded to do so by argument, or by receiving goods he wants in exchange. One of the options for obtaining goods that you can exchange for food and shelter is that you can agree to do stuff another person asks you to do in exchange for money to be paid in a short time - a wage. In order to pay a wage somebody has to gather the resources necessary to pay that wage and do without them for the period required to produce something that can be sold. Some people say the employee and employer have unequal bargaining power and that this is unfair in some way. A person looking for wage work can consider an offer and negotiate or reject the offer. He need not accept the first figure that the employer proposes. There are books on salary negotiation if you don't think that's an option. If an employee wasn't providing value nobody would want to hire him. If the employee fails to think about this issue and look for information about how to use it, that's the employee's responsibility. The employer is not obligated to do this for the employee. There are other options, like starting a small business, or a large business. Promoting the idea that employers have power over employees is a vicious lie. That lie demonises employers and claims that employees are not moral agents who can make choices about what they value and how they want to obtain it. A commenter below complains about employers treating employees as a means to an end. An employer does not treat an employee like a cog in a machine because the employee can resign. The employer would then have to find a replacement. However, the employer won't pay someone to watch cat videos on youtube. The employer will demand and should demand that the employee will do something of value to him to get paid. The current system has many defects, like lots of burdensome govt regulation that stop people from starting some kinds of businesses, but that's govt slavery not wage slavery. If you complain about wage slavery, then you have a beef with the laws of physics since they don't require cooked roast chickens to fly into your mouth with no effort on your part. It would be a good idea to learn some political economy. See "Time will run back" by Hazlitt for an explanation of the relevant economic issues that you might find interesting: $URL$ A short explanation of the moral issues can be found in "The virtue of selfishness" by Ayn Rand.