Oh good heavens I was at MSFT for 16 years. I could give you war stories all day. X reports to Y, who reports to Z. X is doing poorly because X lacks skill B needed by Y but has skill C, not needed by Y. Q -- who does not report up to Z -- needs someone with skill C and not B, so Y moves X to report to Q, opening up headcount for Y, who hires rock star with skill B. Everything is great, right? Everyone is doing the best for the company. Z tells Y, "what on earth are you doing? We need a goat (low performer) on our team so that we can shaft one of them at review time, as required by HR. Give the rock star a bad review; they're the least politically powerful." 

Start by accepting the fact that you cannot control the behavior of other people. Really, you can't. You can control your own behavior, so work on that. 

They have a problem that needs solving. They thought you might be the person to solve it. Then they found someone else to solve it. That's all they care about: that they get their problems solved. Your feelings are, how shall I put this, completely irrelevant to them. So if you want to express unhappiness and not burn bridges then always keep the company's interests in mind. The thing you say is: 

Start at the technical level. Are your tasks tracked in a change management system? Are your code changes tracked in a source code management system? If not, you have bigger problems than recognition. If they are, then you can use these as the basis of a weekly report on what you've accomplished this week and what you plan to accomplish next week. Do you have code reviews? If not, again, you have bigger problems; start encouraging a culture of code reviews. Code reviews are a great way to showcase your work to your management and peers. Do you have status meetings? Talk about what you've done in those meetings, where you're stuck, and how you can help other people get themselves unstuck. Do you have skip-level meetings with management? If not, start taking your manager's manager out to lunch a few times a year. Ask them if you are on track for your career goals, and if not, what you can do to improve. This effort will be noticed. 

You can't stop them gossiping; that's their behavior. You can stop talking to them about it. So stop! Practice saying "I'd rather not discuss my personal life at work with you." in the mirror until you can say it with utter conviction because it is true. Then when they come to talk to you about it, keep saying it. Really, keep saying it. This is your behavior, you can control it. You can't make them stop asking you, but you can stop answering. You're feeding trolls and wondering why they keep coming by for more food. 

You're doing science -- trying something, and observing the results -- and you're asking us to tell you what the outcome of your experiment was; you're the one who knows that, not us. Did you get the job with this technique or not? If you did not, then something didn't work; teasing out exactly which cause might be difficult. If you really want to do science then randomly assign half the applications to the "lowball" pool and half to the "normal" pool and see if there is a difference in the number of offers you get. Write an article on your results; I'm sure people would be interested. (Not here; this is for questions.) 

Yes, but to a point. A case that comes to mind was of a rock-star-quality friend who worked for Twitter who was given the task of improve user satisfaction amongst users who post many photographs to Twitter, and made good inroads on this problem. And then at review time, they were reviewed on the metric how much additional advertising dollars were spent at Twitter as a result of this work? Since that was not the task they were given, it seems unfair to review them based on this metric; said person is no longer at Twitter and is adding value elsewhere. The real incentive system should be: 

What you are describing is the combination of a "level" system with a "stack rank" system, and I can tell you right now, that is astonishingly demotivating. It seems like it ought to be fair; people are compared to their peers, right? Well, consider this scenario: We have A1, B1, C1, D1 all at "level one", and A1 is clearly the strongest team member. So we put A1 in the top 10% bracket, grant a nice bonus, and make A1 eligible for promotion. Then we promote A1 to level two, and hey, it is review time again, and now our top performer A1 is being compared against all the level two people for the first time, and someone has to be in the bottom 10%; plainly it is A1. If A1 was any good by level two standards then A1 would already have been level two, right? And we certainly can't say to any of the long-time level two people that A1 is better than them; A1 just got promoted last month! And in our stack ranking system we have to give someone the shaft at level two, so A1 it is. I have seen this happen over and over again, and you know what it does? It encourages people who have just been promoted to leave the company, that's what it does. But we don't even have to look at the bad outcomes to see why this idea is terrible. Suppose you have a machine that produces something valuable. Surely to goodness the right question is "how do we keep the machine functioning efficiently?" But the question that level / stack rank systems seek to answer is "what is a total order of all the parts of the machine?" Imagine trying to do that for an aircraft; we're going to take several million parts that all make a machine that flies, and rank each part by importance. Then we're going to divide those rankings into completely arbitrary levels, and throw away the parts that are at the bottom of each arbitrary level. Sure, the wings are important, but surely one of them is more important than the other, and we don't need to keep them all around, right? And sure, the peanut storage crates are not strictly speaking vital to the safe operation of the craft, but one of those peanut crates has got to be the best of all the peanut crates. We want to make sure to keep that crate around. Ridiculous. So how do you fix this? Plainly you don't. But you can keep from making it worse than it already is. Don't implement a level system on top of a stack ranking system. All that does is accelerate the rate at which your top people will leave. 

A PIP is the company's way of reducing their legal liability by thoroughly documenting your eventual firing. The dislike is irrelevant. The nitpicking is documentation. 

No offense intended, but that is extremely naive. It ignores the entire history of labour relations, well, everywhere. There are literally thousands of examples and millions of workers involved in widespread organized worker actions designed to punish the companies they worked for. Do a search for "Lordstown Syndrome" for many examples. You should expect that people do the behaviours that are incentivized and avoid behaviours that are disincentivized. 

After you get hired, you won't have to. Until then, carry on your negotiations over email, not over the phone. Consider cc'ing the hiring manager, as that is the person who is actually motivated to get you hired and working. 

They're making you document your firing. It is rare for anyone to survive a PIP, and if you do, your long-term prospects at this company will forever be tainted. 

Yes. Companies have policies in place to prevent shenanigans like this because shenanigans like this are not in the interest of the company. Now, let me give you a contrasting case from my life. I was feeling burned out, I told my employer that I wanted to take a year off, and that I could afford to do so, and that I was therefore giving notice, and so on. They very kindly offered to keep my benefits turned on for an extra month because they spent that month trying to induce me to change my mind and stay. Note the differences: I didn't ask, I didn't expect it, I wasn't heading to a competitor, and they felt it was in their interests to do so. It didn't work, but I was very appreciative that they tried. This is not your situation. You're a short timer who is now effectively working for the competition. Be happy they didn't escort you out the door with your stuff in a box when they found out you had accepted an offer from a competitor. There are plenty of companies where that is the policy, and it's a sensible policy. You are a security liability and a hazard to the morale of your coworkers right now and you're doing no useful long term work. They have every incentive to kick you to the curb. Be thankful that they're keeping you employed for two more weeks. They have no incentive to go above and beyond. 

If I were interviewing a candidate for a web developer position, say, the fact that the candidate waited tables or taught skiing or whatever as a teenager is noise that I ignore and might as well not be on the resume. I would much prefer to see a resume tailored towards the job. That said, I've in the past included one weird job on my resume. (Monkey boy; I chased down escaped monkeys when I was a teenager.) That sort of thing can be a nice way to have fun / start a conversation / be memorable / etc. But a whole long list of them seems excessive. 

Salary negotiation is tricky. All prices send a signal. "I am taking a significant pay cut" can signal a lot of things, and "you are getting a bargain by hiring me" is not necessarily one of them. Leaving aside the "leave in six months" aspect, this potentially sends signals like: 

If it is impacting your productivity, or more generally the productivity of the firm, or if it is exposing the firm to possible legal action, then yes, engage with HR. 

You're not the captain of this ship. You're the guy who keeps the engines running. The guy who keeps the engines running should get the heck off of the ship if it is sinking.