The answer is a qualified yes. As tniles09 comments, the (scientific) discipline that studies this is called Textual Criticism, and has had an enourmous development, especially during the last two centuries. You can check the current consensus of the scholars in the majority of serious books on the subject (you can discard the obviously "interested" ones, be on the christian apologetic side, in the atheist side, or in the mere sensationalist-commercial side). To summarize, and restricting to the four gospels (main part of the New Testament), we can state with high degree of confidence: 

It looks quite different to me. Can someone clarify this? Is the text above the real original source? Is this translator's liberty, an error or what? 

The references give some (little) evidence to this claim -rather curious, considering that there is almost no mention of his work as writer. I'd like to find out it this is really true - both the nomination and the people who supposedly supported him. 

is quoted extensively (especially in atheist circles). This has always puzzled me, because I've read (many years ago) the Pensées in Spanish, and I didn't remember this, and it seemed hard (for me at least) to reconcile this affirmation with Pascal's beliefs - after all, his book is an apology of Christianity. I did a cursory search for the French original, and I found this pdf (p 147) (I can't vouch for its fidelity to the original) which reads: 

The study you are thinking of was conducted by Cornell Professor Emeritus Daryl Bem, and concerns "erotic stimuli" and response. You can read his paper directly here. It was published in the Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, which is apparently a real peer-reviewed journal. In the study, over 100 sessions, students successfully identified that they would be shown a pornographic picture 53.1 percent of time, rather than the expected 50%. According to the journal, the study was well designed and the paper was well reviewed. But it hasn't been reproduced. 

There is no strong evidence for this, and plenty of evidence that ancient and Renaissance artists used other systems — for example, ratios of integers. That is, it is not as if we have lost all writing from classical times on ideal numerical systems for art and architecture, but this idea does not appear. Therefore, it is likely that those systems were used by artists and architects, and the golden ratio was not, until its modern popularization. Knowledge of the ratio dates back to at least Euclid (300 BC), but he just noted it as interesting in mathematics, not aesthetics. Then, it doesn't seem to really turn up in writing until about 1500, when Italian mathematician Luca Pacioli wrote about it as "the divine proportion" — and while his mystical writing touches on aesthetics, there's no evidence that anyone (even da Vinci!) took it to heart. The idea that the number was important in aesthetics comes from a psychologist named Adolph Zeising in 19th century Germany. There is credible evidence that this is the start of the modern idea. Zeising's theory — that there was a number behind beauty — matched the times, as scientists worked to turn psychology into a quantifiable empirical science (see more in the article Architecture and the Golden Section), and perhaps this helped the idea spread. (More on Zeising: here, here, here, and here.) But, just because Zeising popularized the idea doesn't mean he's wrong. However, I'm coming up empty coming up with anything credible before the 19th century — which suggests that if he's right about any aesthetic qualities (a separate question, really), he was wrong about its actual use by prior artists (just as he was wrong about its frequency in nature). The Zeising approach of finding some ancient thing which appears to fit the measurements is not satisfactory, for two reasons: first, this is subject to selection bias — it stands to reason that if we measure all of the things, some will appear to fit by coincidence. Second, it is usually the case that such measurements are done very shoddily in order to make them match. The images Sklivvz has provided in another answer are perfect examples of this: sure, there are convincing-looking lines and measurements at first glance, but if you look more closely, it's unclear what exactly they line up with. The rectangle around the Parthenon doesn't even line up with the borders of building in the diagram very well — and in fact in reality, only comes close if you start at the second of four steps. In short, the idea that the Parthenon corresponds in this way has been well debunked. Most ancient writing on proportions in design seems to follow a system of ratios of integers — for example Vitruvius, on who's work da Vinci's famous illustration is based. This is the case with the Parthenon: 

Lewis, S., Kutvirt, S. G. and Simon, T. L. (1992), Investigation of the effect of long-term whole blood donation on immunologic parameters. Transfusion, 32: 51–56. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1992.32192116433.x Lasek, W., Plodziszewska, M., & Jakobisiak, M. (1987). The effect of blood donation on natural killer activity in man. Journal of clinical & laboratory immunology, 22(4), 165-168. Lasek, W., Jakobisiak, M., Płodziszewska, M., & Gorecki, D. (1987). The influence of blood donation on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in voluntary blood bank donors. Archivum immunologiae et therapiae experimentalis, 36(1), 37-43. Lasek, W., Jakobisiak, M., Grochowska, M., Płodziszewska, M., & Szczytnicki, W. (1992). Two patterns of NK activity changes following blood donation: decrease in the beginners and restoration in regular blood bank donors. Archivum immunologiae et therapiae experimentalis, 40(3-4), 191. Marquet, R.L., van Papendrecht, M.A. H., Busch, O.R. and Jeekel, J. (1993), Blood donation leads to a decrease in natural killer cell activity: a study in normal blood donors and cancer patients. Transfusion, 33: 368–373. doi: 10.1046/j.1537-2995.1993.33593255594.x 

As rightly pointed out this study only measured the counts but not activity of the immunological lines. Now we will have look at work of Lasek et al, who had done quite a lot of work understanding this. All the references are from Pubmed. In 1987, In Journal of clinical & laboratory immunology under the article "The effect of blood donation on natural killer activity in man". 2 

(Emphasis added to highlight the numbers.) This text — not the golden ratio! — is the inspiration for da Vinci's Vitruvian man. Now, the actual influence of Vitruvius on architecture before the Italian Renaissance is itself in doubt, but an example of an intended-to-be-comprehensive ancient survey of practices in architecture, and it's all about the integer proportions. The golden ratio isn't mentioned. If we move forward to the Renaissance, the most common example cited is Luca Pacioli's Divine Proportion. But, only the first part of this book is concerned with the golden ratio, and is primarily about the relationship between religion and math — the word "divine" here is intended to be literal. Pacioli's writing is deeply mystical, and connected with ideas about an indivisible God, the trinity, and so on (see this for more). He does discuss Platonic solids and more complex derivatives and their relation to architecture, but the connection from that to direct use of the golden ratio as a design principle just isn't there. The second part of Pacioli's book covers architecture, and discusses the integer-based Vitruvian system as applied there — not the golden ratio! Furthermore, despite da Vinci's illustrations, Pacioli was not an artist, and I see no contemporary evidence that his ideas caught on (in art or otherwise) until Zeising. Da Vinci made extensive notes and sketches for his own work, and none of these make reference to the golden ratio — but there are examples of other proportions. The idea that he believed in this theory but left it out is an extraordinary claim with no support. There is, however, significant counter-evidence in a 1876 study by Gustav Fechner — a strong believer in Zeising's ideas. He surveyed 10,558 paintings from from 22 European art galleries and analyzed their aspect ratios. Expecting to find the golden ratio, he instead found a general disregard for it: 

Cook and Sanstead reported Wallenberg syndrome (lateral medullary infarction) in a 33 year old woman. 2 Rothrock et al reported a similiar case of vertebral artery occlusion in a 35 year old man. 3 In February 1991, Johnson et al reported another case in 26 year old male in The Australian Medical Journal. 4 

Finally, In 1992 again in the same journal in the article "Two patterns of NK activity changes following blood donation: decrease in the beginners and restoration in regular blood bank donors". 4 

In 1988 in Archivum immunologiae et therapiae experimentalis in the article "The influence of blood donation on antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) in voluntary blood bank donors". 3 

Yes (probably if you are young adult). Chiropractic neck manipulation is known to positively associated with dissection and occlusion of vertebral artery, this is especially true for young adults. 1 What you have asked is cervical self manipulation. Yes there has been cases reported with patients having vertebral artery strokes due to cervical self manipulation. The first two such cases were reported in October 1991 edition of Neurolgy. 

Rothwell, D. M., Bondy, S. J., & Williams, J. I. (2001). Chiropractic manipulation and stroke a population-based case-control study. Stroke, 32(5), 1054-1060. Cook, J. W., & Sanstead, J. K. (1991). Wallenberg's syndrome following self‐induced manipulation. Neurology, 41(10), 1695-1695. Rothrock, J. F., Hesselink, J. R., & Teacher, T. M. (1991). Vertebral artery occlusion and stroke from cervical self‐manipulation. Neurology, 41(10), 1696-1696. Johnson, D. W., Whiting, G., & Pender, M. P. (1993). Cervical self-manipulation and stroke. Medical Journal of Australia, 158(4), 290. 

I quote "original", because your assertion "that is, we know what the original authors wrote" needs some qualification. We need to relativize our modern ideas of literary autorship and originality (the individual that sits alone in his study, and writes "his" own words). Twenty centuries ago, things were different, in many senses: oral tradition played an important part (not only as a trasmissions of facts/tales/ideas, but as a trasmission of texts), the tasks of literary creation (and reelaboration, conservation, trasmission) was more a community thing. Think for example of the "synoptic problem": parts of the first three gospels seem like copy-paste from others, and yet they differ (even sometimes contradict) with each other, and each one has its own style: this would be almost incomprehensible in our modern frame of "autorship" (either we have four individual and honest authors... or we have not; if they are narrators of the life of Jesus, we expect them to tell us the same things using different words; the gospels, instead, sometimes seem to be using the same words to tell different things). We don't need to go to the extreme, and reject the notion of individual authors: textual criticism asserts that, in spite of the above, each one of the gospels has an individual author, in the literary sense. But this must be weighted against the other elements: they were antique authors, they regarded themselves as faithful voices of a community. Granted this, then yes, we can be reasonably sure that when we read the current texts of the New Testament, we read "what they wrote". We are not here saying that 

Of the three types of paintings analyzed, those in "portrait" orientation have an average aspect ratio of about 1:1.25 (that is, 4:5) and those in "landscape" orientation average about 1:1.37 — which is close to 3:4 but nowhere near phi. Of course, in such a large sample, one can surely find some examples which approach the golden ratio, but were it in any way special to the artists of the time, one would expect at least a pattern of use — and there isn't one. For more analysis comprehensive paper on some "conventional wisdom" examples which do not hold up, see George Markowski's paper Misconceptions about the Golden Ratio, which covers the Great Pyramid, the Parthenon, da Vinci, This paper itself contains many further references if you're unconvinced. Ancient (Pythagoras, Vitruvius) and Renaissance (Pacioli) authors wrote about the beauty, importance, and mysticism of small integer ratios, and this is matches various very precise measurements of surviving structures. That is, the writings match the apparent result. To the contrary, there seem to be no ancient writings espousing the use of the golden ratio in art or architecture, and few if any examples of precise measurement of artifacts. 

— Anne Bulckens, Parthenon's main design proportion and its meaning Bulkens connects these proportions to Vitruvius' writing on the proportions of Doric temples, This aligns with Vitruvius's writing on architecture, which is extensive — Vitruvius's Ten Books on Architecture. A particular section is worth quoting a large chunk from: 

The last paper also made some strong observations that this practice of cervical self manipulation should be strongly discouraged and neck manipulation (self maipulation) should be considered a cause of stroke. Another observation one can make from all these three cases is that apart from being young, all three went for chiropractic neck manipulation in their past. In the first two cases although it all appears experimental self manipulation gone wrong, in the last case the chiropractor had actually instructed how to self manipulate, making the whole exercise more hazardous. 

Probably not. (atleast not boost) The terms used in this claim are like weasel words which from wikipedia is 

but only to reiterate that the activity becomes normal. 5 In conclusion, we can only say even though transfusion may cause a transient decrease in quantitative immunological parameters (if measuring activity), body has its mechanism by which it restores the immunolgical status over a period of time. Although increase in complement levels have been reported, the claim that its boosts (or whatever) seems probably not true and needs to be substantiated with further studies. 

Anyways, coming to the question. A research question would not try to assess whether blood donation boosts/improves specifically immune system of blood donors as blood donation from the donors behalf isn't a therapeutic modality for them, although it may be for recipients. In 1992 Lewis et al reported in their article "Investigation of the effect of long-term whole blood donation on immunologic parameters" published in Transfusion. It was done on blood samples were obtained from 27 whole blood donors who had been donating on a regular basis for at least 4 years and from 21 nondonor controls. 1