And for a historical review of Industrial Development in Taiwan you can review Digital Taiwan's overview which puts it better than I can to cover their many areas of Production. Edited: So I guess if you ask for the Why then you can look up the Taiwan Miracle where although land reform moved labor to Urban Centers, providing for a cheap factory worker group you also have increased US Aid which 

These apparently cover a wide range of time-periods, since it seems that Madison was paranoid about many of his correspondence's being discovered. The Library of Congress details some of them. 

One word - manufacturing. Before China was the country of cheap labor it was Taiwan, just as Japan was before Taiwan. Taiwan built up a lot of manufacturing know-how, and still does so in computer chips and some other respects, it also has many companies that manufacture on the mainland. The capability of Taiwan being able to do this also coincides with its economic system, which as differentiated from the Maoist-Communist system on the mainland, allowed entrepreneurship to blossom as Japanese and US investment came into Taiwan. For a recent economic overview on Taiwan's GDP Growth: 

From what I know about this the Western Railroad workers were Chinese immigrants who came to California, most were Cantonese since Canton province was on the southern coast of China and was a convenient location from which to sail to America. As Canton was overpopulated at the time and with the Qing in decline due to the Opium Wars and foreign settlements there was a lot of poverty in China that drove many to immigrate. Their arrival in the US in the mid-1800's coincided with a labor shortage: 

Once the commune system was abolished and the markets began to open then China became a place to invest and manufacture in. There is a good overview of Deng's reforms that note them in detail. But without the market forces that began to operate on the mainland in agriculture and industry, just as they did in Taiwan previously, then China never would have taken over. Although considering the state of Taiwan for the past 10 years I am not sure you can call them an economic success anymore, considering their marginalization within the UN world body they do pretty well. As to the marginalization in numerous world bodies that is another question in itself that deserves its own answer. And yes I know they still do well as a county, my wife comes from Taiwan so I keep an eye as to what is going on there. 

The Federalists and Anti-Federalists started around the Constitutional Ratification, during the adoption fight but eventually grew under Hamilton to the political party that they became during the first few presidential administrations. Afterwards you had like-minded groups grow because the only way to get elected, or names on the ballots because of the way the political system was structured was through parties. Remember initially there was no direct vote, you elected your State Representatives and Senators were elected by State Legislatures so to get a sizable block you needed to get a sizable number of like-minded people into State government and the House of Representatives. Since that time there have been the Democratic and Republican parties that we have come to know today, as well as others that rose out of the times. Others rose and feel depending on feelings on political power, such as Andrew Jackson and what became the Democrats where he favored the Executive branch while Henry Clay and the Whigs favored the Legislative. This was a time of political friction, and it is during times like these when partisan politics become intense (like the past few years in the US with the rise of the Tea Party) when new groups form. A couple of short overviews can be found here: 

During the Maoist era often "enemies" were put through "self-criticisms" where they needed to note where they were in error and how they strayed from the party. I've seen multiple records of this in Chinese History books and read some on the practice in some of my sources but would like something in more detail. I'd like more detail in how these were put into practice, how they were done and what the process was like around it. Are there any sources or books out there that go into how the self-criticisms worked in China? Were these recorded anywhere and maybe transcribed into larger works? If possible I'd like to see what one of these criticisms entailed, if its been recorded and published in any work. 

I haven't seen sources that note an outcry on recycled materials, but shoddy products with cheap materials might be more of an issue to some at the time. I did find another article that notes old, infected mattresses were often resold and they do note another source you might like: 

If you are expecting a source against Darius the Mede, as noted in the Bible, then you may be sorely disappointed since there are no primary sources that have made any connection between the king as noted in the story of Daniel and any living king of Persia. If you can't find a primary source on the king who issued the edict then you are going to have a hard time finding material for or against something like that proclaimed by any king of the time. Flavius Josephus is the only one who mentions Darius the Mede; Josephus' research is more focused on Jewish History of the time so it's not going to be an independent corroboration, and even his mention is unable to be linked to a known ruler. The only record of the time you might be referring to I have seen is for Cyrus the Great, where he allowed the Jews to return home and practice their religion. Although his general attitude was to allow worship in countries he conquered and ruled, there is an overview of the Jews in the Achaemenid period at Iranica Online which gives an overview of their history in Babylon. If you read in between the Jewish sources you can see the other historical records there and the overview seems to be one of general neglect on Jewish communities so long as they went along with the government at the time. 

I found a few notes here as to what happened with the paper in this article on the New York World. In the 20 years since the sons took over, the paper seemed to have a slow decline, part of this may be due to the editorial content, but also by the slow decline in columnists. These were a huge draw for newspapers at the time, the Journal had Nellie Bly who attracted readers, yet the most important reason may have been a price increase. The New York World was also a bright. leisurely paper as noted by Slate.com, in an era of quick news this was an expensive proposition and may have been a factor in its later years of losing money If you look at the history of the World they had great early success with specific journalists and innovations, such as the Cross-word puzzle, but by 1920 these seemed to disappear If you look at older editions of the New York Journal and the New York World you can definitely see this last point, in an era of newspapers coming out with morning and evening editions people would read the "broadsheets" quickly on the way to work or home. Any paper that took time to read would probably lose interest with many of the workers in New York City at the time, unless you could spend a lot of time on the paper it might lose marketshare. I also wonder, as a sociological question, if the inks used by the World were more expensive (continuing the financial losses) or came off in your hands, I'm sure the black inks from the Journal did as well and what people might have done about that. As an aside there is also a good overview on the History of Newspapers that mentions the buyout of the World, but not much more than you already knew, but the history stretches back very far. 

I'm going to say going from here that it is 1961, as it seems to be when they start engaging in terror practices although I doubt the list goes back that far. Yet from the graph of incidences I see the first one recorded here is on 1976-11-30. I'd need to coordinate these with when the list really started though. So I did some more checking and really the ANC was first on the Terrorism Watch List, which looks to he the predecessor of the FTO list prior to the Patriot Act. It looks like at first, according to USA Today (I know, but bear with me) that the ANC was considered a Terror Organization by the former Apartheid government of South Africa. Which fits in with the timeline I noted above, where the government the ANC was seeking relief from considered the ANC a terror organization. Considering the time that would probably be true. Now trying to tie down the time period I get two different era's so I am not sure what makes more sense here. Either it was during the Reagan administration: 

it occurred that this sort of research usually doesn't happen in a vacuum. Were there other medical colleges, or researchers, trying to work out ways to provide some relief during operations? While in Boston it may be that this was the only place trying to look at ether as a way of relief there must have been others doing similar research or something before it. Are there any texts that note medical "discoveries" like this. And I use discoveries in quotes since many were just using existing treatments in new ways, though if ether was one I don't know. 

Remember, even though these were religious emigres coming over to start a new, they were here under a charter that demanded some sort of repayment on the investment given to get them here. So they needed skilled labor in addition to manual laborers, which many of the Pilgrims were not; they were just seeking religious freedom. From the Dutch, if I remember correctly, the Pilgrims were seen as odd since they left England to live in the Netherlands because they wanted to practice freely, yet they never learned Dutch and kept to themselves. After becoming homesick they went back to England, where many feared they would be arrested and their lands confiscated for their religion. So they sold what they could then chartered the ships to the New World, bringing their Strangers with them to help them create and build up the colony. To also get back to your question, were they outcasts? Yes, in some fashion, as minority religious groups in many countries of the time could be.