Venus is actually warmer than Mercury because of the thick carbon dioxide atmosphere causing runaway global warming. So it isn't simply the distance from the sun that determines the average temperature of a planet. 3. There's only ONE aphelion/perihelion The closest point of the Earth's orbit (perihelion) and the farthest (aphelion) only happens once per year; not twice. That is because the elliptical orbit of the Earth is such so the sun is at one of the foci, not the center (as illustrated below). 

So while it is mathematically possible that two observers of a perfectly spherical illuminated body might see just the tiniest bit more and less than than a 0.8% crescent due to parallax… in reality, the precision by which we make these observations is far, far less than what can be reasonably determined by the human eye or the margin of error due to the irregular surface of the moon, deciding what's "illuminated" in the twilight regions, etc, etc. The discrepancy in dates is typically due to differing decrees of when the criteria have actually been met rather than any observational differences due to their position on the earth. [I'm certain I saw a religious authority dispelling such differences in a Q&A interview; but I cannot find the link, so perhaps someone can find a reference.] 

In theory, yes; in practice probably not ... i) It's perhaps helpful to take the Andromeda galaxy as a first working example. It is somewhat bigger than our own Milky Way galaxy but not so big as to be a problem. When we look at Andromeda, it appears to occupies an area about 3 degrees by 1 degree. By comparison, the Moon appear about 0.5 degree across. Andromeda is a good target to see, a little faint but it is just about visible with the naked eye on a good night. Andromeda is about 2.5 million light years away so, even travelling at the speed of light, it would take 2.5 million years to get far away enough from the Milky Way so we could look back and see our galaxy like we see Andromeda today. ( In Star Trek, the writers seemed broadly to limit themselves to adventures within our galaxy for the same reason: within the realms of sci-fi, perhaps they could justify getting around the Milky Way within a reasonable period of time - not so to travel between the galaxies ) ii) To reduce the apparent size of our galaxy to a dot would require travelling at least 10x further or probably more - depending on how you are observing. 50 million light years, anyone? 

I was reading about rotating pulsars and other more-massive objects spinning at absurd speeds (hundreds of revolutions per second), and there was one point of which I was not clear. Does a rotation of a mass change the gravitational lines of force? In other words, does a body which is rotating change the direction of gravitational pull from this: 

Moreover, those 2 degree would vary over the edge of the moon (where you are viewing the crescent), so you would see significantly, significantly less difference in the crescent size over those two degrees. 

Yes, metals and other elements and molecules can exist in gaseous form under the right conditions of temperature and pressure. A "gas" is simply one of the fundamental states of matter, as in solid, liquid, or gas (and a few other states outside the scope of this question). But as a gas, these substances exist entirely as either individual atoms, individual elemental molecules, or individual compound molecules of multiple atoms (e.g. carbon dioxide). Dust, on the other hand, is comprised of tiny particulate matter that has undergone the stronger intermolecular bonds to create substances like ice, silicates, and carbon compounds that float around in varying densities between the stars and between the galaxies. Since these particles are still extremely small (typically a fraction of a micron across), they can appear to be a gas, but these tiny, irregularly-shaped objects still exist individually in a solid or liquid state. 

According to CalSky ($URL$ there were two Iridium flares visible low in the south-east from Minneapolis at 21:18 (Iridium 60) and 22:28 (Iridium 55) on that evening. Both would have been about 15 degrees elevation and both in the right ballpark for brightness. Iridium flares occur when the rising / setting Sun's rays bounce off the antennae or solar panels of one or other of the Iridium communications satellites. By their very nature they occur around dusk or dawn. They'll flare up, persist for a few seconds and fade away. 

Firstly, if you're planet spotting, don't worry too much about light pollution. The planets are some of the brightest objects in the sky and some (especially Jupiter) can easily be observed even with a full Moon - the full Moon (along with the Sun!) is the biggest contributor to light pollution! Take a look at the list of brightest stars ( $URL$ ), which also contains estimates for the brightness of the Sun, Moon and major planets. There aren't typically any stars brighter from Earth than Venus, Jupiter, Mars and Mercury and precious few brighter than Saturn. I'm going to suggest you probably have seen many of the planets - but just didn't recognise them. +1 for Stellarium ( $URL$ ). It's free, intuitive and very visual to use. You can put in your local viewing location and it gives you a view for any time of the night, future or past. At the time of writing (23 July 2017), Saturn and Jupiter should be looking good for the Southern Hemisphere. This rotates throughout the year, and Stellarium will help with this. Do a web search for "the sky at night in the southern hemisphere" and you'll find a number of examples of websites with highlights to look for when you get out. Couple of final suggestions: 

You can imagine that if you hopped into a rocket and blasted off in a lateral direction, you would be able to view the moon from a different perspective and see more and more of the side illuminated by the sun. But the earth is only about 12,700 km across whereas the earth-moon distance averages about 385,000 km. That means that the angle you are viewing the moon from the (nearly) opposite sides of the earth is a less than two degrees. (drawings not to scale) 

There are a few incorrect assumptions in your post, so it is difficult to answer as asked. But I can address the misconceptions. 1. The seasons are not caused by our distance from the sun The seasons are caused by the 23.5° tilt in Earth's axis. When the Northern Hemisphere is tilted towards the sun (summer), the Southern Hemisphere is simultaneously tilted away from the sun (winter). So the seasonal temperature difference has little to do with the Earth's position in its elliptical orbit. Without this tilt, there would be no seasons and the temperature day to day across the globe would be relatively uniform. 2. Even the GLOBAL temperature is NOT consistent with our change in distance As a matter of fact, the average temperature of the Earth globally is hottest when it is the furthest from the sun — hotter by about 2.3°C (ref). That's because there is a lot more landmass in the Northern Hemisphere facing the sun (when Earth is farthest away in its orbit). So even though there is less intensity of sunlight, the land is able to be heated up much faster than the vast oceans which have to be heated at perihelion. This distance-temperature inconsistency isn't unique to the Earth. Look at the average temperature of the other inner planets as we move away from the sun: 

This is a really good question - and quite subtle. TL;DR; Earliest opportunity might be that inter-month changes in the stellar parallax of the Sun might lead the observer to conclude that either i) the Moon is a single, very large, rotating body or ii) it is part of a multi-body co-rotating system. However i) would seem to be inconsistent with a near and strongly curved horizon. If not then, certainly when we develop a quantitative model of orbital mechanics involving mass and gravity 

The Gary Seronik website that you cite is a good one - it's not leading you astray! There are a couple of important things to look at: 

Are there stars - in our galaxy, as stars in other galaxies are not individually visible - that are 'dead' but still alight to us. The Slate article you linked is rather good in this respect: i) the lifespan of a given star is much longer than the time taken for light to reach us so it is unlikely that this is the case and ii) most stars have an extended extinction compared to the time taken for light to reach us, with few going out in a supernova flash. Hence it is pretty unlikely that this is the case at the moment - but it will happen on occasion If there is a specific star which is 'dead' but still alight to us - could we know? Not really, as no useful information will be travelling to us faster than the speed of light. The best we might do is to observe a supernova and then say "this event happened x years ago" 

We express when events are going to happen (or have happened) in our observed time frame. For example, we say SN 185 went supernova in the year AD 185; but it didn't. The star actually physically exploded about 9,100 years earlier. When we say the sun will set tonight at 8:07 PM ET, that is when we observe the event. But our actual position relative to the tangent from the sun will have already passed about 8 minutes 20 seconds earlier (plus several minutes due to atmospheric refraction). So when you say Betelgeuse is predicted to explode sometime in the next million years, that's how many more Earth years are expected to pass until we see it happen… from here. From Betelgeuse's point of view, it would have happened about 642 years earlier… or it may have happened already. 

On any given day, you see the moon rise in the east and (apparently) travel across the sky from your left to the right; therefore, you would assume (incorrectly) that the leading edge of the moon's movement must be to the right. That is not correct. The apparent motion you are seeing is predominantly from the Earth's ~24 hour rotation. But the orbit of the moon is ACTUALLY from west to east as it revolves around the Earth every 29.5 days. Look a the diagram below. If you were looking down at the earth-moon-sun system far above the ecliptic over the north pole, you would see the Earth spinning in a counter-clockwise direction… and the moon is also revolving around the Earth in a counter-clockwise direction. So forget about the Earth's rotation for a moment; it has nothing to do with the moon passing into the Earth's shadow (i.e. the eclipse.) Look at the diagram below, and place yourself on that little ball labeled "Earth" and look into the night sky. Which side of the moon is covered first as it passes behind the shadow cast by the Earth? What do you see? Left to right. 

Don't worry about only having one support rather than four. The key will be to identify your centre dot (you can just see it on Seronik's webpage, first picture ) and to see how it is centred when you look through the collimation cap onto the secondary. Maybe read this article: $URL$ Or search for Newtonian Collimation on Youtube? 

Hmm - good question, Michael; and thanks for sharing your images with us. For me, it's about eliminating possible causes: 

Yes, you can. I use a Newtonian reflector, 200mm objective, 1000mm focal length. Uranus is sometimes right on the fringe of naked eye but looks a lot clearer as a small but recognisable blueish disc. Neptune, sadly, just looks like a star to me ... but you can find it. 

I don't think stellar parallax would directly help us as it (in the modern day) just tells us that we are in orbit around the sun and little about the Earth-Moon system itself. Let's look at how a Ptolemy equivalent on the Moon (call him Moon-Ptolemy) might see it. He would have no way of distinguishing the Earth-Moon system from his assumption that he is just sitting on a solid object at the center of creation. Of course he wouldn't see a "moon" in orbit around him, but he would see the Sun, stars and major planets. Stellar parallax (to him, the Sun "moving through the Zodiac) would just tell him that Sun is rotating around his Moon, as are the planets. The existence of planetary epicycles would be a curiosity required to make his model work - but it does work and he has no notion of the Earth Moon-Galileo might (or might not) be able to develop the heliocentric model - he misses out on one key insight that Earth-Galileo had: that the Earth wasn't special because other planets also had moons. Moon-Galileo would find the orbital system of Jupiter interesting but not a key insight, so he might not develop the new model. Even so, someone else would. Nevertheless, in a qualitative scientific world, there would still be nothing to help the Moon observer deduce the existence of the Earth behind the horizon. I suspect the truth would become unavoidable when orbital mechanics developed sufficiently to incorporate mass and gravity into calculation. It might have been around the time of Moon-Kepler. I'm not sure I agree with the comments looking at observations of the planets - I don't see how they help distinguish between an Earth-Moon system as opposed to a simple, very large, rotating Moon body with no co-orbiter (which would be a natural assumption to make). Even the monthly changes in parallax caused by the rotation of the Moon around the Earth might be waved away by suggesting the simple rotation of a much larger Moon body - though our hero might certainly question the compatibility of this with the apparent curvature and distance to their Moon horizon. 

Your question is a bit oversimplified because there are many types of supernovae based on the size and configuration of the star. But I can answer your question about "why iron" by considering what keeps a star from exploding in the first place. In the simplest terms of star formation, when material from an interstellar nebula starts to collapse under its own gravity, the pressure and temperatures involved will become great enough to eventually start fusing hydrogen into helium (it's a bit more complicated than that, but I'm speaking in generalities). If you were to consider the helium atoms created by that process, you'll notice that each helium atom weighs just a bit less than the two hydrogen atoms that formed it. That bit of extra mass is given off as energy which is produced in great quantities as the hydrogen continues to be fused into helium. During the star's "main sequence", the release of energy by the hydrogen-helium fusion helps counteract the weight of the star's gasses pushing inward. Material presses in; energy pushes out in perfect balance. This balance of gravity and energy output continues until the star uses up most of its hydrogen. It's at this this point (when there is no hydrogen to fuse into helium) that the fusion reaction stops and gravity will resume to collapse the star further. As this star collapses, it will quickly become denser and hotter until the temperature and pressures of the interior are great enough to start fusing helium into heavier elements… and the process continues. That is, until the star starts fusing elements into iron… The fusion into iron is the first element that does not create more energy than it takes to produce. The effect is that there is no net energy being produced to counteract the gravity pushing inward. So the outer layers will quickly collapse into a much denser and smaller ball causing the remaining star material to undergo fusion all at once, causing the supernova. So, in that sense, iron is not the cause of the supernova, but its presence marks the inevitable end of this star's life cycle… in this particular scenario. But understand that this is an oversimplification to illustrate the process you asked about. There are many other sequences of a star's life cycle. Our sun, for example, does not have sufficient mass to keep collapsing down with sufficient pressures to fuse heavier elements into iron. Without getting into other pathways for the production of heavy elements (even in smaller stars like our sun) — once our sun starts creating carbon and oxygen, the fuel starts to run out and the core will simply collapse and rebound as it swells up into a red giant, before losing its outer layers as a planetary nebula while the core shrinks to become a white dwarf (and eventually cooling into a black dwarf).