There are three exceptions listed, but none of them apply in this case since the out at third base is not a force. The MLB rulebook also contains an Approved Ruling scenario that is very similar. 

The batter received a ball and remained at home plate. Since the batter has not become a runner, there is no force play. Ball is not dead and runners may move to another base at their own risk. Runners need to be tagged out. 

I couldn't easily find how AVG/P was calculated on these maps. But standard averages are per at-bat, while these are per pitch. So I would expect the per-pitch numbers to be much lower. 

The rule you cite appears to cover the situation when the pitcher starts and then stops the pitching motion or completes the motion but does not throw the ball. It is not explicit here, but it does not cover the situations where the pitcher begins a motion to throw to another base. Other rules (such as 6.02(a)(3) and 6.01(a)(4)) cover them. In the video linked, the pitcher is in position on the rubber, picks up his forward foot, turns, and steps directly toward second base. This shouldn't be seen as violation of 6.02(a)(1). Feints are specifically mentioned and not disallowed when the motion is to second base, so I see no reason for this to be a balk. 

The sources I used probably predated the Rams move to L.A. and did not mention their current (2017) usage of the L.A. Coliseum. I missed that one and as GB11 points out, there's no team logo there. As the new Los Angeles stadium is also planned to be used by two teams. We'll have to wait for the opening to see if it will be similar to Metlife or if they have something else in mind. 

and maybe many more that I do not remember. How does all the stats collected? There are a kind of software that register those info or are collected by human or what else? 

Thinking that the application be referred to the game eights-ball, the Regulation provides that the black ball is pocketed after you holed out his 7 balls. According with World Pool-Billiard Association after having pocketed all their balls 7 is necessary, pocket the 8 ball (hit with the cue ball) in the declared hole. There are several variants of this type of game with special rules, but the standard is what is written above 

Whatching the US swimmer Michael Pheps in Rio 2016 pools is it possible to see some dark red circle on his body. What is the cause of these signs? In the picture belowe you can see those signs on the right shoulder 

The player ask for rescission and he will take back "his property". In this case is is free to choose another team and the new team should not pay for the player (see player Iker Casillas moving to Porto from Real Madrid in summer '15) The team sacks the player and the player start to play to another team. In this case the new team has probably pay money to old team, but it depends on the courts where the teams talk about the questions) 

The group all-around competition speciality involves the use of more than one ball (here a video of WC 2012). In individual competition each athlete use one rubber ball, while during the group there are more balls on the floor area. 

This is a mannequin for skill training. Is it used in football/soccer training to increase precision penalty (so is called (slave) defensive template barrier) In american football and basketball is often easy to find it called as man defensive mannequin. I do not know if it exists a "real" name for it, but those are probably the easy denomination you can find for it i.e. commercial links basketball and soccer 

So the umpires are not neglecting the wide ball law, they are merely enforcing it as written. Additionally the laws do not appear to have a definition for wide line in Law 7 (The Pitch) or Law 9 (The Bowling, Popping and Return Creases). You might be thinking of the Return Crease which is used to determine whether a bowler balls a no-ball. 

The referee is shouting 'Use It'. He is asking the team with possession of the ball to use the ball, and (in most cases) warning that if they do not, they will lose possession of it to the other team. Some referees even say 'Use it or lose it'. Under the established laws of the game you most often hear this when the ball is in a maul that is no longer moving forward. Law 17.6 calls this an unsuccessful end of a maul - if the ball stops moving forward for 5 seconds, a scrum is called and the defending team get the put in. The referee is warning the attacking team that they are about to lose possession and they should do something with the ball - either continue moving the maul forwards, or pass the ball out of the maul. Until recently you didn't often hear 'use it' in other situations. In a ruck there is not this 5 second law. If the attacking team keep the ball from emerging (i.e. keep it under the feet of people in the ruck), they can keep the ball in that position for many seconds while they organize their next attack, or just to slow the game down. The referee can deem too much time to have passed for the ball to emerge and call a scrum, but according to Law 16.7 the referee can allow a 'reasonable amount of time'. Also in a ruck if there is no obvious 'team moving forward' then the attacking team keeps the put-in so the 'lost it' part is not the case there. It probably does get called in deliberately slow rucks, but its usually advantageous to the attacking team to quickly recycle the ball and continue to attack, so having to warn the attacking team probably doesn't happen as often. As pointed out by @Rawling, the Law Amendment Trials include proposed law changes that enforce specific behavior at the ruck - when the ball is available to a team to use, the referee will call 'Use It' after which they have 5 seconds to pick the ball up and use it. These are currently being trialled, but I'm not sure which competitions are using them - I've only recently watched the Six Nations, and I don't recall seeing this. Looking at the clip provided of the match - Hurricanes v Highlanders - it certainly appears that this game was using amended laws. However even under existing non-amended laws where this call is not a formal part of the game, it is still a very common convention used by referees to prevent unnecessary stoppages for scrums - to encourage exciting continuous play in the game. 

Finally, this MLB Press release indicates that as of the 2015 season, the between-inning break is 2 minutes 5 seconds when games are televised locally and 2 minutes 25 seconds when televised nationally. 

There is no benefit within the rules of the game or from a statistics perspective to touching first after the out is completed. However, there is a strong social component ("unwritten rule") that the batter should be running with hustle to first during all plays, in case the defense makes a mistake. It is generally expected (at least in the US) that the concept of running out the play includes touching the base even after the out is made. From a preparation standpoint, if you're running knowing that you're going to go all the way to first anyway, you don't have to stop and think about the play in front of you (and make a mistake with your interpretation). Errors are rare on routine grounders in the major leagues, but they happen and if you're used to not bothering to touch the base on an out, you can start to anticipate the out. I wasn't able to find a source, but I recall listening to a team reporter discussing a Japanese player that came to the US that was chastised for not running out a ground ball. The player apologized, stating that it wasn't something expected of him prior to joining his MLB team. So this concept may not be universal. 

Offensive statistics rise and fall over time. So to make things easier, I'm just going to look at figures since 2001. (2000 seems to be a bit of an outlier) Baseball Almanac has grand slam totals for MLB by league over the years, but only through 2013. I didn't find a free reference for the stats after that time. Unfortunately the figures dip a bit in the 2011-2013 range, which may be part of a trend that is partially hidden by not having more recent data. In the 2001 - 2013 seasons, there were a total of 1596 grand slams. From Baseball Reference, we can see that each individual team plays about 4860 games each year, or about 63180 games in total. But there are two teams competing at each game, so just under 31600 competitions in that time. (Bryan Turriff pointed out that I had forgotten that you're watching two teams at a time). This gives a 5.0% chance of seeing a grand slam in any random MLB game with similar offensive output. As Philip Kendall noted, this gives us the expectation of grand slams per game. But it is too high if you are simply interested in the chance of seeing a game with at least one slam (since some games may have multiple slams). Fortunately the first reference (Baseball Almanac) lists all games with multiple grand slams, so this can be checked. For the 13 years in question, there were only 15 slams hit in a game that already had one. Removing those 15 slams changes the figure only in hundredths of a percent, so 5.0% is still a reasonable rate. 

What: if you are talking about "Super Tie-break" the appendix V of ITF rules of tennis you can see info about Match tie-breaks (10 points): this is a tie-break to 10 points, a shorter solutions played instead of third (final) set When: suggested by ITF in 2001, experimental in 2002, it becames a rule from the year 2003 source Applied: it is applied also to double matches (men and women) and also in other tournaments out of Gran Slam circuit: ATP 250 men doubles ATP 500 men doubles ATP Master1000 men doubles 

The question is legitimate by a person who has never skied. The poles help professional skiers during the races (as amateur skiers) to maintain a better balance. With the sticks you can move the weight (and so also the center of gravity) to right and left also allowing to support a higher speed 

During the Olympic Games in curling it is easy to see two stopwatches (one per team) with a time that starts from 38 minutes each . What happens if the time should end for a team? Has this situation ever occurred? 

Why there is a lot of difference in cost transfert from football players to a coaches? I think in Europe almost all coaches have an agent, so I do not understand why there is so much difference in the negotiations between a coach (not free) and a footballer For example take a look at Montella sign to AC Milan (where Milan is paying €500,000 to release Montella from his Sampdoria contract) 

In downhill they test the track with time trials twice before every race (in the image you can see the FIS calendar for december 2015 where all the time training downhill are signed with blue arrows) 

If does it exists, how is regulated the invasion of lane in swimming? It is allowed to "invade" the next lane during the stroke under water? 

Cricket like baseball is a sport that actually works quite well on the radio, and many commentators on the sport commentate on radio as well as TV. In such 'voice only' circumstances you want to give your audience a summary of the score at frequent intervals, and with Cricket you have the natural cadence of the 'over' of ~6 balls, so this is often used. The habit has carried through to many TV commentators, as often people will 'watch' a long test match for example with only half an eye on the TV. 

Gridiron Football (American and Canadian) has an offside foul too. If a player is on the wrong side of the line of the scrimmage when the ball is snapped then they are offside. It is even a strategy of the offensive team to entice a player to make such a move before the snap. You could also argue that at the kickoff, the rule that says that the kicking team have to be behind the line the ball is on is also an offside rule. A deliberate attempt of the kicking team to gain possession at the kickoff by kicking short and along the ground is even still called an 'onside kick', a play that is reminiscent of a contested kickoff or 22-meter dropout in Rugby. 

Having fairly recently taken up the sport myself, I feel your discomfort. Equipment: I cannot stress this enough. Buy second-hand equipment. It really doesn't matter if it looks beat up, you can get some very good deals and as a beginner you don't need to spend a fortune before you even decide that you like the sport. I ignored this advice and bought a shiny new set of clubs, and a year later, it looks almost as beat up as the second hand stuff I could have bought for a fraction of the price. You can always buy a nice bag if it make you feel better. I spent nearly $300 on clubs, where I should have spent no more than $100 on second hand. Learning: Get some group lessons. These are certainly available anywhere I have lived (UK & USA). Get some private lessons if you can afford that - then find a small beginner friendly course and get out there. I found a small 9-hole community course, and got out there early Sunday mornings when it was empty. Find someone else who is willing to learn the sport with you - and you can both enjoy being frustrated at the most enjoyable and infuriating sport on the planet. 

If I understand well this is the case of Rule 18-5. According to this rule the player must replace his ball back to its original position so on the green. (See related FAQ under Rule 19) The other player must play his ball as it lies. There is no penalty to either player in either match play or stroke play. In stroke play only, if the player's ball lay on the putting green prior to the stroke, he would incur a penalty of two strokes. 

In Italy it is friendly called "around the world". Is it possible to be played by 2 or more player. I believe there are no official rules for this kind of matches/points. A Particular version if surviving around the world where many players (more than 2) starts to play in order one shot each moving to the part of the table of that shot (if there are odd numbers of player thay have to move from one side to the other, otherwise thay can hit from the same part of the table) and who fails is eliminated. The game continues until there are no two players who play a traditional point in the final 

Is it possible that during the annual draft a basketball player do not accept the proposal from the team? I mean, e.g. if during draft 2017 there are more teams that would like to choose Markelle Fultz but he would like to play only for Suns is it possible that he refuse any team to be free when Suns has its choose? 

Here the updated wikipedia pages with the list It is interesting to notice that for Nadal this 2017 Roland Garros represents his personal career record for percentage of game won on game losts (116 GW vs only 35 GL => 76.8%)