Hiragana and katakana contain the same sounds (morae I think), but are typically used in different words. In particular, most European loan words use katakana (a few don't), and a large proportion of katakana involves European loan words (though it is used for other purposes as well). English has upper case and lowercase, and also can have print versus cursive, but specific words aren't strongly associated with case or whether or not it is cursive. Do any other languages have an equivalent to hiragana and katakana? 

If given a text in Mongolian using the Cyrillic alphabet, I can read it out, albeit with a couple of pronunciation errors, even though I'd understand few if any words in it. It's almost the opposite of being illiterate, which would involve understanding the words, but being unable to read them. Is there a term for being able to read a language out but not be able to understand it? 

Interestingly, this entry hasn't been included in Fowler-4 (Butterfield 2015). cf. Michaelis and Jones 1913 or Jones 1917 give one variant only, with [aɪ]. For some reason, it's missing in Walker 1859. Chambers 1861 lists hygiene, with other variants hygieina, hygieine (all with [aɪ]?). 

Those inlaut (and possibly Auslaut) fricatives didn't get all voiced in all words overnight nor did stress in Proto-Germanic shift within a week. Verner's Law didn't stop functioning on the winter solstice. These processes took a long time, they overlapped, not all words got affected (due to various reasons) etc. This is exactly what we can see with a lot of Gothic preverbs (including ga-) that have not been fully grammaticalized, could have been followed by other enclitics etc. See Arkadiev 2015: 209-210, Buscko 2008, Sizova 1978 and Sizova 2007 for further details. This is a natural, living language in its development. 

The specific claim that "Eskimos have X words for snow" is heavily disputed. However, is the general concept that certain cultures' languages often have a large number of words for things that are important in that culture valid? Examples of this I recently encountered include Lonely Planet's guidebook on Mongolia saying that Mongolian has a large number of words for horse skin colour compared to English (IIRC), and a claim on the BBC that Japanese has a larger vocabulary for apologizing than English (The many ways to say sorry in Japanese) 

Do native speakers of different languages make different mistakes when speaking in English? For example, do native speakers of Japanese make different mistakes than native speakers of Russian when they speak in English? Wikipedia says that pronunciation differs, for example Japanese speakers are more likely to get "R" and "L" mixed up, but I'm also interested in other things, such as grammatical errors. 

Linguists who subscribe to the Laryngeal Theory (now it's the majority of researchers) don't have that problem because they don't reconstruct at the "Eurasiastic" level. A laryngeal is reconstructed when Vedic i corresponds to Greek alpha, epsilon, or omicron: *ph2ter - Vedic pita, Greek pater With the word "mother", it's a bit different: *meh2ter -Latin mater Also, notice that in *ph2ter the last syllable is stressed, whereas in *meh2ter it's the first syllable. Now we are waiting for your "Eurasiastic" explanation. 

Chomsky (in this passage) defines universal grammar as "a system of rules that assigns sound and meaning in a definite way for an infinite class of possible sentences." He writes that it (=universal grammar) consists of three components: syntactic, semantic, and phonological. He understands the syntactic component as the one defining an infinite class of possible sentences. The semantic and phonological components, he argues, are "purely interpretive" (p.111). Now to your specific question. The problem is that you misunderstand the relationship of synonymy and substitution. Also, quite often the particular word choice is determined by stylistic or syntactic considerations. Just because you can't insert the word semantics in a particular sentence doesn't say much about the actual meaning of the term semantics. You clearly say that you're trying to understand the difference between two English words, meaning and semantics. That being said, your extremely crude approach is wrong (can they be substituted in sentences?). There are so many factors that affect word choice (morphosynstactic properties, register, etc.) As is, your question is misinformed because it is based on false assumptions and thus has no answer. 

This list can be deemed minimal because it is a negative list: it restricts the kind of explanation you are allowed to put forth. Especially, if one takes seriously point 4. and 5., it follows that the analysis of any construction in any given language (say left-dislocation in Spoken French) has to proceed through universal explanations in terms of geometry of the tree and feature properties, explanations which in turn possibly (and do, if the work is to have any value) imply predictions bearing on another totally different constructions (say wh-questions in Spoken French) or a similar construction in a totally different language (say left-dislocation in Japanese). For examples of what I consider good work done in this way, I would cite this or this. Where do the lumbering structures come from and why they are actually empirical success stories for minimalism? Now moving on to the justification of the lumbering structures. As Kayne first noted (as far as I know), the combination of point 1. and point 5. above implies the existence of many extremely refined functional projections (if only because a binary tree has a lot of internal nodes compared to the number of its leaves). So it is not that these functional projections were introduced, they were predicted to exist because they were essentially the only solution compatible with the imposed restrictions. This is indeed extremely reminiscent of the epicycles of Ptolemy and extremely worrying: if your theoretical framework leads you to postulate many things nobody has seen, shouldn't you be concerned? That's a very fair criticism but one which actually highlights the predictive power of the core principles above: if our prediction is correct, the functional projection posited (again as the only possible solution within the framework) have to be phonetically overtly present at precisely the assumed position in at least one language. The fact that this has been repeatedly shown to be true is one of the main scientific achievements of minimalism: any serious alternative account should face the challenge head-on and achieve similar predictive power within its own system. A prime example of such a successful prediction is successive cyclic movement (the point of departure between what became minimalism and many other formalization of generative grammar) which is phonetically realized (among may others) in Afrikaans and in cyclic agreement in Chamorro but one can also think about focal projection (realized in Vata) or voice projection (arguably realized in Japanese and Kiswahili). There are of course many more sophisticated ones, from binding theory, the structure of DPs, the properties of nominalizations, the logical interpretation of indefinite objects, the extraction properties of relative clauses... It thus seems to me that the comparison with angels on pinheads is quite unfair: these angels have been repeatedly found ex post on precisely the pinheads they were supposed to be dancing on. What is the appeal? To me, as a complete outsider to the field who has never taken a class in linguistics nor ever intend to (so I feel quite immune to any political influence this or that strand of linguistics might have on the curriculum or, a fortiori, on the hiring process), the appeal to this approach mostly stems from its cross-linguistic potential: as mentioned above, by nature, explanations valid in one language will make predictions and suggest insights for others. While it is quite easy to give a formal description of any specific linguistic phenomenon for a given language (any texas sharpshooter can do this), it seems to me that when it comes to the study of cross-linguistic correlations, minimalism is currently the only game in town. That said, I do think that the comparison with the Ptolemaic system is not off the mark: minimalism might currently be the most precise and clearest unified account we have of syntactic phenomena (just as Ptolemy's system, as famously argued by Otto Neugebauer, endured because of the clarity of its tenets and its very reasonable empirical basis) but it seems fair to me to say that linguistics is still awaiting its Kepler, not to speak of its Newton. 

I heard about an Indian woman (possibly Hindu) with a given name of Sati the other day. Checking the internet, this site confirmed that Sati is an Indian female name. Is the name "Sati" related to the name of the Hindu goddess Sati who self-immolated, or is it just a coincidence (the name's only two syllables long, so it seems plausible)? 

Some languages change what writing system they use. For example, Old English used to use Anglo-Saxon runes but eventually used the Latin alphabet, and Mongolian in Mongolia uses the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet (while in China they still use the Traditional Mongolian alphabet). Likewise, some languages used to not have any writing at all. Does the change in writing system change the language, such as how words are pronounced? 

In English, most loanwords from Japanese are pronounced similarly to the Japanese word. It isn't an exact match, for example with "karaoke" the pronunciation of the second "a" differs between English and Japanese, but it's fairly similar. Likewise, many languages that are unrelated to English, but are not from East Asia, have a similar pronunciation as the Japanese word. For example, according to Wiktionary, the Hebrew word for origami is אוֹרִיגָמִי (origami). (I don't know whether Hebrew got the word from English, or directly from Japanese) It seems that the pronunciation of the Chinese translation of words that, in English, are loanwords from Japanese, is radically different from the pronunciation of the word in Japanese. I don't speak Chinese, but it meant that when I was speaking in English with Taiwanese people who were native speakers of Chinese but reasonably fluent in English, they didn't understand some Japanese loanwords I used. I'm finding it a little hard to find good examples, but "origami" seems to be one. None of the Chinese translations of origami seem to have a similar pronunciation to the Japanese word. (I could be mistaken though - maybe the pronunciations of the Chinese words "摺紙", "折紙", "折纸", "折紙藝術", and "折纸艺术" are the closest thing you could have to pronouncing the syllables of "origami" in the Chinese language) Is this the case? If so, why? Is it because Chinese speakers take the written form of the Japanese word, turn it into a written Chinese word, and then pronounce the word the way they would pronounce a native Chinese word that was written the way it was written? Alternatively, are words that are Japanese loanwords in English derived from Japanese words that are ultimately derived from Chinese words, and it's the Japanese word that's "different" in pronunciation, not the Chinese word? In addition, in which languages is the pronunciation of words that are loanwords in English greatly different from the pronunciation in Japanese? For example, does this happen in Korean? 

Note that a word doesn’t need to pass all of those three tests to be considered a determinative – e.g. “one” doesn’t pass the first test (the one problem that remains). Quite often the same word can belong to both word classes, adjectives and determinatives, e.g. “sufficient”. sufficient as a determinative: ?the sufficient helpers sufficient of helpers sufficient as an adjective: a sufficient reason I think that “said” may behave like a determinative in legalese in writings of certain people (in whose idiolect "said note" is fine but "the said note" is not) - if there are such writers. However, in this case you’d have to address the following two questions: How consistent are those writers in omitting articles before “said” followed by a singular count noun? Is "the said" followed by an NP ungrammatical in their idiolect? Do you want to have the same word belong to different word classes in different registers in your theory of syntax? I personally would say yes to the second question. As Walter Bisang argues, there are languages where “lexical items are not necessarily preclassified for syntactic categories” (Bisang 2011: 293). 

Recently, I learnt that the literal meaning of the main written Japanese form for dolphin, "海豚", is "sea" and "pig". The Japanese person mentioning that noted that he didn't know for sure why that was the case. At first I thought it was because dolphin meat was similar to pork, but then I looked further into it. 海豚 is also used in Chinese. Meanwhile, the English word "porpoise", which comes from Medieval Latin via French, is based on a compound of pig and fish. In addition, the Welsh for "porpoise" is based on sea pig and sea sow. Online Etymology Dictionary mentions that Latin had "porculus marinus", with the theory that its snout looked like that of a pig. The Wikipedia article Marine mammals as food mentions that in Peru, dolphin meat is referred to as "sea pork". I came across the fact that the German for guinea pig is "sea pig", but I'm not looking into that. Why are some sea mammals called "sea pigs", especially in Chinese/Japanese? Failing that, has there been any cases of sea mammals being called "sea pigs", where it is known that the speakers of that language don't eat sea mammal meat?