To further detail Lev's example -- there is some evidence of cultural exchange between the Maadi culture of the Nile delta region in Lower Egypt somewhere during the middle of the Naqada period of predynastic Egyptian history, in the neighborhood of 3900-3500 BCE. Some of the evidence for this in the archaeological record is a type of blade (referred to as the "Canaanite Blade") that shows some Palestinian influences, as well as an apparently simultaneous shift to the usage of certain copper tools rather than their stone counterparts in both this Maadi region as well as in Palestine. Source: The Oxford History of Ancient Egypt 2003 Edition, pp54-55 

The first evidence we have for the usage of actual coinage as currency is the "Lydian Lion", a stamped coin of electrum from, as the name would imply, the region of Lydia in Anatolia. Herodotus indicates these started showing up in the early 7th Century BCE. See here for more info on the history of the first Lydian coinage: $URL$ I'm sure that prior to the Lydians actually stamping coins to validate their weight and purity, and thus their intrinsic value people had probably been using precious metals in bullion form to pay for things, but this wouldn't quite be the same as having a handy, pre-validated chunk of electrum that had a known value without having to weigh it and such. I'm unsure of the details, but the Greek city states started minting their own coinage not too long afterwards. One of the most prolific being Athens' "Owl" which served as a standard international currency in the eastern mediterranean for centuries. As far as I'm aware, all of these were useful as a medium of exchange because of the intrinsic value of the metal they were made from. Sometime during Rome's early or middle republican era (first Samnite war perhaps?) is one of the earliest, if not the earliest time we see a state issuing a currency that has value because they say it's worth X amount, rather than being strictly based on the weight and purity of the metal. TL;DR: I could be off on that last bit, I'm at work now and don't have the time to go digging up the references, but I recall an incident during one of the Roman Republic's many wars that led to citizens hoarding their coinage, which led to a severe shortage of the source of the valuable metals they were made from that Rome needed to pay for its war. So they came up with a clever plan of debasing their currency and declaring that a Sestercii were worth not 10, but 16 asses, and they had this great deal for anyone who wanted to come and trade in all their old coins, 16 for the price of 10! They soon had the funds they needed :). 

The second method is more astonishing. Although ancient Egyptians did not know the theory behind the Pythagorean Theorem (a² + b² = c²), they did use it unknowingly. They used a so-called primitive Pythagorean triple 3-4-5 (3² + 4² = 5²). Take a long rope, divide it with knots into 12 parts from the exact same length. When you now lay out your rope as a triangle and use 3 parts, 4 parts and 5 parts as side lengths, you get a perfect right angle between your 3 parts and 4 parts side 

Field tests have shown that this method could be used to measure a distance of 45 meter up to a centimeter. Longer distances like our 230 meter do not go, because then the human eye sees too little detail. So far we have three discoveries of such wood triangles, approximately from the grave of Sennedjem at Deir el-Medineh. 4. Aligning the three main pyramids Unfortunately, the linked source does not go into detail on how the ancient Egyptians did it. But as shown in the picture, all three pyramids are aligned at their square diagonal. 

7. Waterproof joining of stone blocks The outside surface stones are cut within 0.01 (1/100th) inch of perfectly straight and at nearly perfect right angles for all six sides. And they were placed together with an intentional gap between them. That 0.02-inch gap was designed to allow space for glue to seal and hold the stones together. A white cement that connected the casing stones and made them watertight is still intact and stronger than the blocks that it joins 

Based on my research, I can posit what I believe to be a satisfactory answer in terms of US terminology. The US refers to the U.S. supreme court members as "justices" all the way back to the Judiciary Act of 1789. The more salient point is in Article II. section 2 of the US Constitution gives the presidency the uncontested authority to appoint the "Judges of the supreme court". Now I had come across several sites which suggested that the difference between a judge and a justice (not necessarily limited to the US) was that the former required a law degree and the latter did not. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Occupational Outlook Handbook 2010-2011 had the following to say about Judges, Magistrates, and Other Judicial Workers. 

I'd recommend either purchasing the DVD the series has on the transcontinental railroad, finding it at your local library, or at least reading the article. I imagine that given your interest in the subject you would really appreciate it. 

One of the interesting points Johsnon makes is on his claim that "East Asian export regimes thrived on foreign demand artificially generated by an imperialist power...the strategy only worked so long as Japan and perhaps one or two smaller countries pursued this strategy." While the beneficial policies initially benefited both Japan and the US, the former as described above and the latter by providing cheap consumer goods and an example of the benefits of capitalism to be used in the ideologically driven conflicts ragging in East Asia. However, by about the end of the 1980's, the Japanese developed an overcapacity to produce goods aimed at the American market at the same time that American policies in Japan (and elsewhere) had hollowed out vital American industries, lowering employment opportunities and wages in the US and thus correspondingly lowering the ability for the US consumer to absorb Japanese products. His argument is elaborated more in chapter 9 of Blowback, and I would really recommend that you check it out from your local library or buy it, if you want to know more. 

I think this probably falls into the same category as questions like "When did the Roman Empire Fall?" If you're ever on Jeopardy and somebody asks you that question, you should probably answer "476 AD," but there are entire books written about how and why that isn't the case. Kind of the same deal here, especially depending on how you want to interpret the "fall" of "Ancient Egyptian Civilization." I think the jeopardy-answer is probably going to be Rome's annexation of Egypt in 30BC, but since you specifically asked about the Civilization and not merely the State (or one of its various incarnations), if you're going to try and pick a date at all, I suppose the closing of the last temple might be more appropriate. There are compelling arguments to be made for the date you're looking for to be based around the final Achaemenid conquest of Egypt circa 343 BCE, or Alexander's conquest (or liberation, depending on who you ask, I suppose) of the country circa 332 BCE. It can be really hard to pin down solid dates on the "fall" of Ancient Egyptian Civilization specifically, since the culture was (and still is!) so infectious and pervasive, although I think by the time the last temples were being shut down and the old language was gasping its last breath in the 4th-5th centuries CE it is probably safe to say that by that point the ancient culture and civilization had at the very least ceased to be dominant and no longer existed in any sort of widespread fashion. 

Land surveying and the Orion constellation After answering some of your questions, here's a point for further answers: How did the ancient Egyptians measure their land and use the whole Nile Delta to depict the Orion constellation onto it? We are talking about a distance of 8 kilometers (Pyramid of Djedefre to Gizeh) or 4 kilometers (two unfinished pyramids at Zawiyet el-Aryan to Gizeh) All pyramids are tied together. The three main pyramids are standing for the Orion belt. And two of the four outer stars exists as smaller (not so famous) pyramids. Only 2 stars are not represented. But they found plans for one more pyramid which should be build at the right position. 

If needed, they extended the range or size of their triangle by using multiple rods of the same length. Remember, they were handling with 230 meters as one side length 2. Control of the inclination angle with the seked The Egyptians didn't knew the division of the angle in 360°. From the Rhind Papyrus we know that the Egyptians calculated with a so-called "seked". The return (horizontal displacement) of a wall is measured. Or in other words: How many palms (7.48cm) and fingers (1.87cm) is the upper edge of the wall set back to the lower edge, namely at a height of an Egyptian Cubit (52.4 cm). 

During the Spanish Civil War (1936 to 1939) to what extent did the International Brigades play a role in fighting the fascists coup? My understanding is that they were a relatively minor element, mostly dramatized by the Republican government and socialist parties world wide. However, I am really interested to know if they were effective in any major battles. I would also like to know the level of Soviet support that was given to the brigades, in comparison to international support for the Republican government and fascist support for the military coup. Wikipedia provides some interesting statistics apparently heavily from Antony Beevor's The Battle for Spain, but some context and additional sources would be appreciated. 

So I am somewhat familiar with the 17th century "agrarian communist" (according to Wikipedia, although I suspect they're closer to anarchists) movement in England known as the Diggers. I learned of them from the song "The World Turned Upside Down". I also know that there was a San Fransisco hippie community that appropriated the name. However, I haven't heard much else about them. I'm particularly interested in hearing how the diggers influenced English politics both in terms of agrarian and urban settings. I'd also like to know if the Diggers had any impact outside of the occasional song or name appropriation. 

5. Orientation to the north The pyramids are nearly aligned to true north (deviation is only 2.46°). A small but precisely worked pyramidion (made from wood or stone) is placed as close as possible to a north-south position on the flattened ground where the pyramid will be built. Then two lines are drawn, taking the edges of the small pyramidion and lengthening them on the side which lies in the shadow. During a day a surveyor notes down, where exactly the tip of the pyramid shadow cuts through those two lines. The pyramidion is precisely aligned north to south, when both lines are cut at the same distance to the corner of the pyramidion. To achieve this, the pyramidion is moved slightly over a period of days, until both segments are exactly the same length. 

The site www.cheops-pyramide.ch is about how Egyptians were able to achieve an incredible precision when measuring with simple techniques. I'm going to summarize it. 1. Right angles in the corner The base of the Cheops pyramid forms a perfect square - the deviation from the 90° angle is a maximum of one minute, which is very precise when you consider the Cheops pyramid's side length of 440 Egyptian Cubit or 230.33 meter. By stretching a cord between two pegs stuck in the ground, a long straight line was marked out. Then to each peg an equal length of string was tied, more than half as long as the line drawn. By keeping the strings stretched tight and moving the ends around, the Egyptians could draw parts of two perfect circles. These arcs cross each other at two points. By drawing a straight line between these two points the original line is bisected at a right angle and the line is cut into two equal parts. 

To sum, there was no unified state in the region which would become Russia in the time of the classical Roman empire (or even during the height of the Byzantine empire for that matter). The governmental structure of the peoples living in that region would likely have been tribal nomadic, although it is difficult to tell due to the lack of written records. In addition, various empires claimed territory in this region for various lengths of time. 

Regardless of whether the Japanese government was seriously considering surrender, the bombing forced the decision and was less costly to the Americans (obviously) than a protracted war. Whether a protracted war would have spared Japanese lives as opposed to several more months of brutal warfare is an open question. It is my opinion that this motivation was one of several competing reasons as to why the Americans decided to detonate nuclear bombs on Japanese civilian centers. In a large part I feel this was simply the natural evolution of the doctrine of total war applied to aerial bombings of civilian targets, first seen in action during the German bombing of Guernica and continued by the Americans both in the fire bombings of Dresden and Tokyo. Beyond this there was also the ability to justifiably test an atomic bomb in warfare conditions. American military scientists were very interested in seeing the effects of nuclear weapons in many environments (even detonating them underwater to see what would happen). Obviously the most important environment to test it on would be that of urban or military targets. The prior would be unthinkable, outside of a war anyway. Also, by deploying the bomb America was able to send a strong message about the balance of power after the war. Given that there is always some degree of uncertainty about political relations and military stability after the war, the bomb was certainly a strong message that Americans were not to be messed with. I don't think any of these motivations were alone sufficient in explaining why the American high command decided to drop the bombs; its far more likely that it was a combination of several of these and possibly additional concerns as well. 

6. Using a rope roll to transport pyramid stones to the top There is some historical evidence that ancient Egyptians know a rope roll (that's not a pulley or pulley block). With the help of the rope roll it is possible to haul a 2.5 tons stone block including sledge up the 52° incline of the flank of the pyramid. This technique can be compared to slinging a rope attached to something heavy up over a branch of a tree and then pulling the heavy object up by grabbing the rope and walking a short distance away from the tree. If you walk down a steep incline you need even less force than on level ground. 

For the Cheops pyramid, the documented Seked was 22 fingers or 5 palms and 1 finger. This results in an inclination angle of 51.84° and only a very tiny difference to the official measurement which is 51.84444°. 3. Leveling the pyramid base The Cheops pyramid's base area, a square of 230m x 230m (= 52900 m²) has a height difference of only 2.1 cm. This is a remarkable achievement. The ancient Egyptians knew the square level, which is a right-angled isosceles triangle made from wood. This tool is made in the shape of the letter "A" and looks like a triangle ruler. A plumb-line is suspended from the top of the connected corners. If the plumb bob coincides with a mark in the middle of the crossbeam, the surface area on which the two legs stand is level. By placing this triangle on stone, these could be easily leveled. 

What happens after "widespread social chaos" is difficult to predict as it often depends on local conditions combined with regional and international considerations. There are often two requirements that a nation needs to fulfill after any internal disorder, those being economic sufficiency and a need to establish a system of just governance. In many cases, particularly after very violent confrontations, people trade the elements of the latter requirement for the former and promote the rule of a strong leader. This is particularly evident in the French revolution where the near-genocidal reign of terror lead many of the French towards supporting Napoleon, a leader who though despotic was both sympathetic to the revolutionary goals and brought military and economic success to the country. The former has particular importance as the revolutionary goals encompassed in the saying of "fraternity, equality, and liberty" were the social motivation that lead to the revolution. Napoleon would have been incapable of mustering such widespread support without appeasing the social/economic grievances of the French proletariat. Tunisia's case is difficult for the reasons stated by Omar in addition to regional and international elements. While Tunisia is more economically advanced than most of its neighbors, it certainly does not have the massive oil wealth boasted by some of the Arabian states, the cultural influence of Egypt (mostly Cairo specifically), or the military power (and unwavering American support) of Israel. Thus while the "strongman solution" is likely given the current internal factors of Tunisia, it is also very unlikely due to the relative regional insignificance that Tunisia will be able to recover via economic or military conquest (like France in the aforementioned analogy). I am not particularly knowledgeable on Tunisia, but from what I do know it does seem that the Tunisian revolution was largely successful. Many of the political demands seems to have been met (even if in a limited fashion). The more corrupt and autocratic elements of the government likely realize that American support is too tepid to be of assistance and that reliance on the EU economy will mean allowing more political freedom. Given this, I doubt that Tunisia will devolve into the state it was prior to the revolution in the near future, but like I mentioned before, the temptation of having a "strong leader" will be ever present. With the advancements in establishing a "system of just governance", the importance now will be in economic development. If the economic expectations of a large number of Tunisians becomes more likely to be unfulfilled, it is then quite likely that a sufficiently charismatic leader could install themselves and roll back advancements made in political freedom.