If you don't like exercise, you can focus on improving your diet. Cut down on sugar and flour. Cut out fried foods. Eat more vegetables, especially green leafy ones. Consult your doctor or a nutritionist about supplements. You can also incorporate more "stealth" exercise into your daily routine rather than setting aside explicit exercise time. Take the stairs rather than the elevator. At work, if you are just reading or on the telephone rather than actively typing at the computer, try standing rather than sitting. These changes won't produce fast results—nothing except for maybe lipo-suction will—but they will produce results. Safely. Good luck! 

There is almost nothing better you can do for yourself than to quit drinking soda. A number of recent studies have shown that the rise of obesity in less-developed countries is almost entirely due to soda! Just the availability of soda, without any other changes to the diet, is enough to significantly tip the epidemiology of a population. Anyways, if you cannot bring yourself to forgo soda completely, you should at the very least try to have it side-by-side with high-fiber and/or high-protein food that will buffer the absorption of sugar into your bloodstream. If you want a can of soda, have an apple or a turkey sandwich at the same time. Other than the taste, the thing you are addicted to is the instant blood sugar spike you are getting from unbuffered high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS). And if you can't or don't want to cut out the sugar in soda, try to cut out the sugar elsewhere. Good luck! 

This year, I'm planning on running a 5k, a 10k, and a half marathon in 2015. The dates of the races other than the 5k haven't been announced yet. However, based on last year's dates, there will be about 2 months (9 weeks or so) between the 5k and the 10k and about 4 months (16 weeks) between the 10k and the half marathon. I'm also planning on moving from a maintenance schedule to a training schedule after the holidays, leaving me with about 12 weeks of training before the 5k. I completed a 5k last year, and have ran 10k training runs, but never competed at that distance. My official 5k time is 29:32. I'd like to get that down to 25:00 or less. I'd also like to run an official 10k of less than 1:00:00 (hopefully ~55:00) and a half marathon in ~2:30:00, if those times are reasonable. How should I manage my training? I see four obvious solutions that seem reasonable: 

Congratulations on your accomplishments so far! I agree with @Alex that you probably need a professional (or pseudo-professional) to take the next step. It sounds like you have the basics covered. Going further will take tweaking routines or regimens you probably don't even know you have. If I would add one thing is that you might want to consult either your physician or a nutritionist. Losing weight is largely about diet. It sounds like your current diet is fairly lean. If you make any additional changes, you want to make sure you don't undershoot on important nutrients and compromise your health. 

I assume you are doing this to avoid strain on your wrists rather than to toughen up your hands for bare-knuckle boxing? One option is to use push up "bars" or "handles" instead of your knuckles. This would have the additional benefit of getting you another 4" or so off the floor and increasing your possible range of motion. You can probably get a pair for $20 or so (cheaper than a manicure). Alternatively, you could try holding something in each hand which is roughly the size of a bar, e.g., a magic marker, to get your nails out of your palm. Gloves are another option. 

I've been running for a few years now, but I still struggle with speedwork. I use an online training plan generator that takes previous race time and distance, target race distance, weekly distance, and schedule duration to generate a running plan that includes easy runs, tempo runs, speedwork, and rest or cross-training days. My training plan is based on a four week cycle. Monday is an easy run, Tuesday is an easy run on weeks 1-3 and rest/XT on week 4, Wednesday is speedwork on week 1 and 3 or tempo run on week 2 or an easy run on week 4, Thursday is an easy run, Friday is rest or cross train, Saturday is long run, and Sunday is rest or cross train. The plan also builds speed throughout, across all the workouts. Distance also increases. Total weekly distances range from 22 miles/week to 35 miles/week. The plan deviates slightly at the end, close to the race. When I'm on a treadmill, I tend to adjust the plan paces based on something like this conversion chart to account for the fact it's slightly easier to run on a treadmill than outside. I rarely take a rest day, opting for strength training and/or some time on an elliptical (usually strength + 15 minutes elliptical but sometimes 30 minutes elliptical or 30 minutes arc trainer). I do tend to take the rest days as rest days early on in the plan (which is usually following a race), very late in the plan (the week or two before a race), or if I'm not feeling well for any reason to avoid pushing myself too hard. To give an idea of where I stand, my 5k PR is 29:00, my 10k PR is 1:09:51, my 15k PR is 1:57:21, and my half PR is 2:35:07. Unfortunately, last year, I was coming off an injury. I was healed before the spring, but my winter training was almost nonexistent so my times were far worse. Last years times were 32:55 for 5k (April 2016), 1:17:35 for 10k (June 2016), and 2:53:03 for a half (November 2016). Based on my training, I'm edging close to a 5k PR this coming April. My easy runs on a treadmill are recently around 10:50-11:10/mile. I could probably even push that up a little and be comfortable. I've only had the weather for one good outdoor run, and it was an easy run around 11:30/mile. My tempo runs are around 3-4 miles long and I'm running at around 9:40/mile. Even though my easy and tempo runs distances and times are projecting a near PR, my speedwork runs are terrible. Today, I was scheduled for a speedwork run that consisted of a warm up, and 5 0.5 mile intervals at 8:20/mile, each followed by a 0.25 mile recovery interval (I used a pace of about 11:30/mile), and a cooldown for a total distance of 6 miles. By the middle of the third speed interval, I was physically worn down. Am I doing something wrong in my speedwork if I'm able to complete my easy and tempo runs on plan (and sometimes better than plan), yet struggle with my planned speedwork? What can I do to specifically improve my speedwork without huge deviations from my plan which is tailored to my upcoming 5k race? Are there any modifications I can make on training days that call for speedwork? 

This won't build muscle or improve cardio, but you may want to consider asking your advisor for a standing or adjustable desk (good luck!) or rigging one yourself. I try to work standing up at least for an hour a day, I just put my laptop on a bookcase. If I am just reading something I will also try to do it standing up. Man (and woman and child) was not meant to sit in a chair for 8+ hours day after day. 

An exercise regimen that targets muscle-building (i.e., anaerobic activity, intense muscle breakdown and rebuild, and a heavy diet) is fundamentally different than one that targets weight-loss (i.e., aerobic activity, lighter muscle breakdown and rebuild, and a lighter diet). I can see why taking a week off from muscle-building will help the former—you are giving your muscles additional time to rebuild. But a weight-loss routine doesn't emphasize muscle rebuild—so that particular benefit is reduced. At the same time, you could lose a tiny bit of aerobic conditioning that you had built up. However, if you need a mental break from exercise—and who doesn't?—by all means take a week off and come back re-charged and re-dedicated. Just take it easy on the cupcakes! 

Short answer: deadlifts are mainly done (in terms of strength) with your hamstrings and glutes. It of course varies with the difference in style (from a "hardstyle" hamstring based DL to a more squat or quadriceps based). I thing the saying comes from the fact that you shouldn't dynamically use your lower (and usually upper) back. in terms of picking shit up I would say deadlift, just because it resembles picking stuff up the most 

I would say start with your diet and simply increase your overall activity levels. So eating cleaner, probably eating less (although I'm not a fan of caloric deficits by not eating enough). And start by walking every day for like an hour or something. The exercises I think are the most beneficial are the larger compound ones, squat and deadlift. These do require technique though and if you don't want to spend the time and energy to acquire this bodyweight exercises may be the way to go. About the arms question: If that really is your only goal, just curl until you can't curl no more. 

I am wondering how effectively a stationary bicycle can be used at building lower-body strength vis-a-vis weight-based exercises like squats and lunges. For instance, if I put a stationary bicycle on a resistance setting of "15" (just a number, I understand that scales on different brands and models are different), I can't pedal it faster than 40 or 45 rpms or for longer than 3 or 4 minutes. When I am done, I can barely stand. Can I substitute this routine for a traditional set of squats? 

Try standing. Seriously. Ask your supervisor for an adjustable desk or for a tall desk and an adjustable chair, or rig a setup of your own. I work standing for at least an hour a day by putting my laptop on a bookcase. I also try to do non-computer work (e.g., reading papers, conference calls, etc.) standing up. I sit quite a bit as well, and often with suboptimal posture, but just a few hours of standing a day seems to counteract that fairly well. Your mileage may vary, but for me this works well.