To answer the question about Hadrian's Wall directly, Gildas mentions the conquest and loss of Britain to the Romans, including the construction of the wall, in De Excidio et Conquestu Britanniae ("On the Ruin and Conquest of Britain"). I am not sure exactly when it was written, but Gildas dies in roughly 570. Gildas was British and spent a great deal of his life in Britain, so I think that is good evidence for educated knowledge of the Roman Empire, its influence and effects, in Britain, but Gildas retired to Brittany, and I am not sure if he wrote De Excidio there. Gildas's account of the wall's construction is rather confused. He appears to describe the construction of Hadrian's Wall as an act of the Roman occupiers very late in the period of their occupation (as late as Honorius perhaps?). Rather than in Hadrian's time. @Sempahore has mentioned Bede, and as it happens Bede also mentions the wall in Historia ecclesiastica gentis Anglorum (writing in 731), although he ascribes it to Septimius Severus: 

From which it is clear that educated Britains did have some understanding of the history of Roman Britain in the 8th century. As to what "normal" or "average" people knew - I doubt that is something we can ever determine precisely at this late date. 

Texas was de facto independent for 10 years(!) until the Mexican-American War. Russian troops entered the Ukrainian province of Crimea in the spring of 2014, then rigged a "referendum". Russia guaranteed the Ukrainian borders in 1994, then violated its own guarantees 20 years later. The borders between Mexico and the US in the early 19th century were much more nebulous: they were the outcome of the Seven Years' War and defined borders between France and Spain. Texas was empty of both Mexicans and Americans early in the 19th century (there were Amerindians there, but they "do not count" for the purposes of this question). Americans colonized it faster than the Mexicans did, then seceded. The population of Crimea has been relatively stable for many decades (after the Stalin's deportations), and has been a recognized part of Ukraine for half a century. 

Medieval inner city looks like a modern college campus "safe zone" compared to the level of violence in "native societies". 

First of all, at least a part of the reason for rejecting Judaism (and Islam) was circumcision. What the Chronicles say is not perfectly reliable. But, mostly, changing the state religion is a major revolution. One would not undertake that based on such a minor event as a fall of a neighbor. (cf. Raskol, when a relatively minor changes in the mid-17th century led to a long-term schism). In fact, as far as Russia was concerned, the fall of Constantinople was an opportunity to become the sole leader of the Orthodoxy ("3rd Rome"). Note also that the status of Jerusalem in Judaism is vastly different from that of Constantinople/Rome in Christianity. 

I thought I ought to answer the question rather than simply commenting on another. There are a few points that may help you understand what is going on. I will confine my answer to England because that is where the question is about and this is a subject which varies considerably across different countries. The basic point - made by a number of users - is that, with very few exceptions, in at least post-Norman England, a title was just that, a title. You could be styled "Duke of X" or "Earl of Y" but those titles were quite separate from the notion of vassalage. In fact titles on their own conferred very little by way of rights at any time. There were periods when, for example, particular forms of dress were intended to be restricted to particular classes of people, but in general no. What I think the poser of the question is thinking about in terms of "vassalage" is the notion of someone being someone else's feudal lord. Now this system operated in England. All land was either "held of" someone else, or was in the hands of the Crown (technically known as "Royal demesne"). So the Manor of Littletown might be held of Lord W who holds of Lord X who holds of Lord Y who holds of the Crown as tenant in chief. Being Lord of a particular manor or manors was thus a legal relationship concerning primarily land ownership. It was not really a title in the modern sense. Lots of people are "lords", including numerous women, also known as "lords". These chains of ownership happened because, at first, the holder of land was permitted and even sometimes expected to create subordinate holders by a process of subinfeudation. In the above example, the Crown may have granted lands including the manor of littletown to Y who then granted some of them to X who then granted some of them to W. But this process began to be used as a way of transferring land to others. If W wanted to sell the manor to another person they would have to get X's permission (as W's lord) or they could simply grant the whole manor to the purchaser. That created a feudal mess. In 1290, Edward I passed the statute Quia Emptores which prevented any further subinfeudation. At that point no new links in the feudal chain could be created (except by the Crown). The first duke in England (the Duke of Cornwall) was created in 1337 by Edward III by a royal charter that gives it to the eldest son of the monarch (then the Black Prince). From this it should be obvious that no duke could have created a feudal inferior because the ability to do so was stopped some 47 years before the first duke was created. There may have been situations where an Earl happened to acquire land where their feudal lord was a Duke but that would be an accident. What is more the reverse could have easily occurred as well. This is because, as I said earlier, just being a Duke or Earl didn't give you any particular local jurisdiction or create a kind of "subkingdom" in which you were a sort of mini-king. You might be made Duke or Earl of somewhere and have no lands there and no authority at all in that area. In the earlier period that would not be usual - why make someone Earl of March if you weren't also going to give them something to do there? But the current Duke of Cambridge has very little to do with the city or county in law. There are exceptions, but they are really extra rules rather than something inherent in the title. The big exceptions were the "counties palatine". In those places someone was usually given local power. There were separate judicial and administrative arrangements. I think only one of these was ever held by a Duke (Lancaster) and for most of its history the Duke was also the Monarch as is the case today. But again dukes come to late for the handing out of feudalities. The Earl of Chester (another county palatine) was much closer to what the questioner had in mind. The Duke of Cornwall does have certain rights (by charter) such as bona vacantia, so its not a nothing title, but it these are not feudal rights. The "Charter of Novadamus" is unknown to English law and so ought not to form part of a correct answer. 

Although I don't know anything about the historical fact of whether Hiroshima was actually chosen because of a conjectured focusing effect by anyone responsible for this decision, I might shed some light on the physical background. From that point of view, the decision might have been influenced by the hope for a significant "focussing effect", but this hope is not well justified by physical fact. Short answer: Although a detailed treatment of the conditions of this incident would involve several more complicated effects (detailed geometrical model of the terrain around Hiroshima, wave mechanics, ultrasound propagation, temperature effects, etc.) the overall behavior of the energy distribution is roughly covered in large parts by just geometrical optics. Seen from this perspective, the percentage of additional destructive energy due to an alleged "focussing effect" is definitely very low. The main effect of the surrounding mountains is to scatter the pressure wave at a slightly different angle to infinity, but not dominantly back to the target. Any physicist who is qualified for the matter and is in control of himself, would not ever have recommended using the "focussing effect" to optimize the result because many other variables will have had a greater effect. If a qualified physcist has expressed such a recommendation, it probably might have been biased by social dynamics. Another plausible explanation why the decision could have been influenced by the hope for a "focussing effect", is that a member of the military or a politician thought to know better and wanted to make a name for themselves. Long answer: For a significant focusing effect to take place, there is simply the need for sufficiently many surface elements to be oriented in such a way that they reflect "beams" of pressure back to the target (angle of incidence = angle of reflection). In the given scenario this means that the mountainsides would have to be almost perpedicular to the ground, which is obviously not the case, as you can see in Google Earth. A way to derive this result with a little more rigor, is to view the Hiroshima terrain basin as an approximation of a hollow spherical cap which acts as a spherical mirror on the incoming pressure wave of the bomb. Looking at the terrain in Google Earth I can estimate the average maximum elevation of the mountains surrounding Hiroshima to approximately meters. The lateral extension of the Hiroshima basin is around meters in diameter. Using Wikipedia: Spherical Cap one can compute the radius of curvature of this cap to be: meters. According to this site one can calculate the focal length of a spherical mirror to be half the radius of curvature, in our case: meters. The focal length means the following: if a point source of excitation (in our case the Bomb) is exactly in the focal point (i.e. at the focal length distance from the mirror), the reflected wave will be a parallel wave that travels back to infinity (to the stratosphere) without any focussing or defocussing. However if the excitation source is further away from the mirror than that (say at distance from ground), the reflected wave will again be a spherical wave, but this time traveling towards a focus point, the distance (say from ground) of which calculates from the focus equation: . However the nuclear explosion of Hiroshima was ignited at a height of approximately ~580m above ground (Wikipedia) which is not only closer to ground than the focal length of the terrain basin, but it is also a lot closer. For source distances closer to the mirror than the focal length, the above focus equation yields a negative result for s2. What does this mean? Well, it just means that there is a virtual focus point behind the mirror, from where all wave fronts of the reflected wave seem to emerge. And this simply amounts to the reflected wave being scattered instead of being focused! This first seems to contradict the intuition, because we somehow always expect a hollow spherical mirror to show some amount of focussing. And indeed, if we compare it with the plane mirror, which is also scattering the wave because it has focal length = infinity, we can say that even if the hollow mirror is scattering the wave, it is scattering it less than the plane mirror. The bottom line is, although the Hiroshima basin is not focussing the reflected wave anywhere in space, let alone the target in the city of Hiroshima, but actually scattering it, it scatters it at least less than if Hiroshima had flat terrain. For the destructive energy at the target this is practically irrelevant however. The wave will just be deflected at a steeper angle towards infinity. Edit (2018.04.24): Wave mechanics makes this simple consideration a little more complicated in that geometrical optics is not strictly valid anymore then. Anytime a wave front hits a part of the mountain, this location will again be the origin of a spherical wave, spreading in all directions. All of these superpose to give some complicated pattern, usually with some interference (like you see when two stones are thrown into the pond). This is what is called diffraction. Diffraction doesn't obey the rule "angle of incidence = angle of reflection", i.e. diffracted waves may be cast back even if the inclination angle of the mountains is "not right" and the waves can even move around corners to some extent. So in spite of not showing any geometrical focusing effects, there may have been an additional destructive energy from this effect in the Hiroshima bombing. However, since energy cannot be destroyed nor created during all of this, it is quite simple to estimate an upper bound for the scattered energy. Suppose is the original energy that is set free by the bomb. This energy is emmitted through a spherical shock wave and thus is distributed over the surface of a half-sphere of area (the full sphere has area 4*pi*r^2, but the ground cuts it in half). The mountain silhouette as seen from the bomb is a hollow cylinder of height h and radius r, so has a projected surface area of . This corresponds to an energy fraction . If all the energy that hits this virtual cylinder got reflected back to the detonation site, the energy would be what increases destruction due to diffractive effects. So the additional destructive energy percentage is smaller than 

"3 musketeers" - 17th century Western Europe 2nd-5th centuries common era Middle East (Judea & Babylonia) 

He prioritized it to deny USSR the Baku oil (170MB/y). Getting Baku oil for Germany was a pipe dream (OTOH, Hitler was famous for pipe dreams - the relevant one involved Rommel from North Africa meeting List from Caucasus in Palestine and sending an expeditionary force from there to India). Getting North Caucasus oil (50MB/y) was more realistic, but less lucrative. 

I would love to see an answer to the "guiding questions" too. Here I will provide a mathematician's (game theorist's, in this case) background on the subject, answering the question "qui prodest" - in case of one state splitting in two. If you think this "side topic" has no place here, I will delete the answer. Tax base: this is a zero-sum game: is those who secede are "rich", then they benefit from keeping their taxes to themselves, while those they secede from suffer. This is not interesting. Presidential Elections: this is interesting because the Shapley value is super-additive! This means that the total power of the two new states will be smaller that that of the original state. This implies that the other states will benefit from the secession. To make it clear, let us consider an example. Suppose we have a huge state which has over 50% of electoral votes. This means that this state determines the outcome of the presidential election completely. So its Shapley value is 1 and everyone else's 0. Now that the state is split in half, the other states have a say in the presidential elections, which benefits them. Congress: the share of representatives is proportional to the population and thus does not change, but the number of senators is fixed per state and this does change. Since this is more visible and simpler to understand than Shapley value, the other states might incorrectly think that the secession is against their interests because it dilutes their representation in the Senate.