From doing this professionally for over 15 years, I would say - be very careful! Even if you have a contract in place before looking at the application, some companies are still quite litigious. The legalese I need in place before I touch an app is an annoying but necessary requirement. If your identification of the vulnerability is through entirely passive activities, ie before trying 'confirmation' then you may be in a relatively safe place from a legal standpoint (however I am not a lawyer). The more mature organisations do have reporting contacts where you can notify of issues, and some even offer a bounty (eg Google, Facebook etc) but the majority are nowhere near this level. If you have taken any active steps to confirm a vulnerability then from a target's perspective you look just like a real attacker and they are likely to be well within their rights to use law enforcement and the courts to prevent you doing anything further. From the perspective of gaining new work, it would also put you in a bad place with enterprise level organisations. You are likely to end up on their black list through not going through usual contractual and procurement procedures. 

We have some machines with a RAID 1 out of two 2TB hard drives. Now it has been found to the error that the partition was not recognized from OS (Windows in most cases). In the configuration menu there is the message "set0 invalid raid drive". The discs are fine. They can be separately mounted in some linux live distributions and S.M.A.R.T. tools shows no errors. We use an Sli 3512A SATARaid chip with BIOS version 4.3.83. . Any idea what the cause is or any advise how to fix it? 

The script gets called as expected everytime someone logged in via ssh. But since August 2016 the env var is not set anymore. I couldn't find something in the changelogs that explains this behavior. Can someone please give me a hint where to look or present me a solution how to fix or work around this? 

802.1x works fine on a single vendor LAN (my experience has been with Cisco ones) - and in fact has less challenges from a management perspective than IPSec in an Enterprise environment. If you use Cisco for your LAN I'd probably suggest this as it is straightforward to implement. 

One of the very interesting points talked about by one of the Cisco network leads at the Qualys stand at RSA was that the major difference is one of scale. I'll have to update this post when I get home and can source my notes, but he basically said the problem is that now the number of IP addresses he is responsible for is over 1 nonillion. That's a 1 with 30 zeros after it. Scanning a host for ports 1024-65535 can take some time, but assuming 1 minute per host, 1 nonillion hosts would take 1900 sextillion years. So the real change in security scanning between IPv4 and IPv6 is around how you target hosts or subnets; no more blanket scanning of a range! 

This happend because of the missing perl module . Without that, every mail with dkim signature will fail the verification. Even those with correct signature. You can find futher information about it here. A simple fix is to install the missing module via cpan. 

So I have to look at the request numbers carefully to detect offline states. Did anyone know a better way to do it or can name a tool for this? Thanks in advance. 

I've installed a Debian (jessie) box with postfix and spamassassin. Configured and everything works fine. Except receiving mails with DKIM signatur will produce a flag even if the signature is valid. See log example below. After that, opendkim will verify the signature and let it pass. 

You could do something simple as a first check: go to one of the internet speed check websites - these let you determine upload and download speeds, and often the latency as well. You run it, and let the client run it - compare times. 

This will help to minimise your attack surface. Then you'll want a locked down browser (ie whitelist the websites you want them to be able to access) or you'll find it being used as an attack tool or for surfing pr0n before you know it! Oh, and lock it down with a Kensington - as you'll be not too far away and that will put off the casual laptop thief. 

I have a particular problem with subversion. Environment: subversion (1.6.12dfsg-6), apache2 (2.2.16-6+squeeze7) + mod dav_svn. I can't create a directory named "mysql" or "testmysql" or add and commit a file named "mysql.txt" in my repository. There are many references to "subversion PROPSET 403 forbidden" problems in google and so on. But I can use all functions of subversion. I can also create a directory named "hugo" or "test". My repository works properly. Only "mysql" doesn't work. The following errors occur: 

Check which ports are being used on your system. There are some programs which bind port 80. For example TeamViewer, Skype, etc. For an easy test type in your browser and check which service appears. Or ou can use a programm like CurrPorts by NirSoft. 

A key is orders of magnitude longer, and is not displayed at any point so it avoids these three issues. 

The main one is service accounts, as previously mentioned, however another option is for accounts that may have a very low risk profile combined with an infrequent usage profile - for example an account which is logged into once a year that gives read only access to some non-critical data. If it had password expiry, the user would either write down the password or use the helpdesk for password reset every time. It isn't best practice, but if the risk is low it might just be the right thing to do in this example.