anything else is pain on the body and bike. If you do extend the hands and feet just before touching the ground then you have: 

I push the pin to it's 100% correct position (similar to other pins) and 1/10 of a mm more. Assume blue pin on photo. Then I remove the chain tool and do the following: 

For the last 3 years I've been using light (800grams) tyres front and rear. Since I've been having too many rear tyre pinch flats (tried everything: high PSI, tubeless, heavy duty tubes) I'd like to switch to a real double ply DH tyre for the rear which weights 1200 grams. Is running a heavier tyre only on the rear suggested? Or should I switch both front and rear at once? Maybe for bike balance issues while jumping etc? p.s. I ride mtb all mountain and downhill 

Bottoming out once in a while is OK and will probably not damage your fork. The forks have bottom out bumpers which prevent any metal to metal impact. If you find that you are bottoming out too frequently then you need to do one of the following: 

No. Also, not many people agree with the min/max numbers. Some people say that the max is a warning to never exceed that and just a number to reach when initially inflating the tyre in order to let it seat correctly. Then you deflate to your desired number. 

10 cm from the saddle would be possible if you are talking about XC saddle height and the handlebars are lower than the seat. One way is to do this: 

Rougher, slower, more technical, more dangerous, more rear snake bites (tyre punctures). For some people this means more fun. 

I've heard many times from experienced riders that OEM parts (parts that accompany a complete bike) are of lower quality than the exact same aftermarket parts (parts bought separatelly). Is this true? The usual justification is that that's the way a complete bike can have a low price so it is affordable. My judgement says that companies (both part providers and complete bike sellers) would not get into such trouble to save a couple of dollars. Edit: I'm talking about high end MTB bikes with high end parts, such as $URL$ or $URL$ and my question regards exact same models. 

The minimum pressure is an estimate that will most probably work for the majority of people in generic riding conditions. Not going below the minimum pressure may prevent: 

Pedals are a totally personal matter. A rider is expected to buy pedals for the new bike or use pedals from an older bike. Especially in the MTB world this is more prevalent where the rider will either be riding clipless or flat pedals and there are tons of variations for each of the two types. 

Trying to find shell widths for 103mm sealed cartridges only gives 68mm as the only possible combo for 103mm the length. e.g $URL$ So it should be . 

It's called an endo and you can start learning it anywhere right now (e.g in a parking lot). Don't try to learn turning endos or rolling endos at first. Here is a good how-to video (doesn't matter that it's on a bmx): 

So, you'd need to find out which of the above you are best at and start contacting people, sending cvs etc. 

You most probably need a medium but that can depend on the brand and riding style. For example my previous 2 MTBs (trek, commencal) where medium but my current one (canyon) is small. Have a go at canyon's interactive tool: $URL$ 

Does anyone know the oil specs for the 2013 Totem RC2 DH DPA fork? On $URL$ the "Technical Manual - RockShox Front Fork Oil Chart - 2011 (44.85 KB)" only mentions 2 step (their previous system and not dual position air) and the latest PDF "2014 RockShox Suspension Fork Oil, Air, and Coil Charts (2.3 MB)" has all the forks apart Totem. I think that's because they are discontinuing Totem this year. 

I've been using the same missing link on a KMC x10sl for 3 years. I may have opened it around 40-50 times. No problem. Note that I use the proper tool to open it (KMC Missing Link Chain Pliers): 

That is normal behaviour. You pushed the piston way out, so oil from behind it found a way out. General actions suitable for your case as well: 

Do not bother yourself with how much the transition from 3 to 4 will take. Thinking about it will make it longer. When you reach 4 you'll find yourself stronger, more confident and having more fun than before the crash. Good luck. 

Before changing to new pads you usually need to reset the pistons to their original position. I'm not familiar with your specific brakes but usually pistons auto adjust in order to compensate for pad wear. That's why right now you get constant rub. Bleeding will help in case there is a lot of air trapped in the system (and that may be the reason why reseting with the spacer did not work for you). Also, air will expand when the brakes get hot so it'll make this problem even worst. Generally, properly bleeding your brakes is the only way to have good brakes. 

The average person can learn to ride it in just 4-16 hours. It's a super fun and possibly mind expanding activity but it didn't improve me as a bicycle rider (bmx or mtb). 

Your assumptions are wrong. Yes, riders do extend their hands and feet just before landing, but not to make the bike work more. They do that so they can make room for the inevitable hand and feet compression which will happen when contacting the ground. If you don't extend hands and feet then you only have: 

In all cases wear your full face helmet and, if things look really serious, a neck brace may be handy in case of an OTB (over the bars). Ultimately, after practice and if you are really interested in that kind of riding you'll be able to hit stuff such as: $URL$ 

The problem (but also beauty) of steeps is that unless you have enough experience with steeps you cannot easily judge whether you can do it or not. So the solution is to see it both from above and from below. If both views scare you then you should probably not do it and in order to gain more experience you need to: 

This video shows an extreme landing at 1000fps but it displays the extend-before-land technique very well: 

Yes. Heavier and downhill specific tires are more capable of handling the roughness of the trail. Downhill specific tyres are usually "double ply" which means that they have thicker sidewalls which prevents cuts from sharp rocks and are resistant to snake bites. 

No. If you sit on the saddle then you become connected with the bike. That means that the next hit from the ground will be transmitted as is on you and you'll most probably go flying in an uncontrolled manner, usually nose heavy, and you don't want that. Apart from getting rest or pedaling, the only case where you touch the saddle is with your inner thigh (one, not both of them) in some offcamber cornering scenarios. But I think this is irrelevant to your question. General rule for descending on rough terrain is: 

The only catastrophic failure I see is if you hit the rim (e.g pinch flat very hard) again on the exact same spot. Then there is a high possibility that the aluminium will crack. Don't worry too much. If you've pulled the rim dent back at 95% of the correct position then you have nothing to fear of. My rear wheel on my old bike had 9 (nine) of those straightened dents and I was using the ghetto tubeless method. No problems whatsoever. Here is a similar dent on my new bike just before fixing it: $URL$ 

Being able to experience and describe the above (on 20cm diameter rocks) means that you are going very slow. Speed is your best friend here. Maintain a relaxed and neutral attack position and let the 160mm bike of yours handle the terrain. 

The most common way is to use a "Chain Wear Indicator Gauge" tool. (google for product pages). If you don't have access to (or don't want to buy) one, you can use a ruler: $URL$ 

very easy to wheelie and manual (see video $URL$ which shows a person who did that in order to learn to manual) harder to corner properly because you wouldn't be able to push the handlebars down hard. In downhill you'd most probably tend to go straight. harder to climb because of #1 

I'm not sure whether companies ever do that. Tubeless is messy and sometimes hard for the end user. Also, the standing juice inside the tyres may dry out after a couple of months, which will allow air to escape and make the brand new bike look bad on the store's exhibition (flat tyres). 

with my hands I bend the chain laterally (at the direction where it's not bending) mildly back and forth a couple of times. That is the red arrows on the photo. I turn the link completelly to one side and to the other (at the direction that the chain is bending) to make sure that the movement is complete and safe. That is the green arrows on the photo. I apply 2 drops of oil on the link that I've worked on. redo step 3 once, check again done