Why play fair? Engage in psych-ops that would be securities fraud if conducted by a private person spreading convincing but false information that the enemy bank is about to collapse. Then, through a secret third party proxy, buy up the devalued shares. 

The big problem with an all cavalry army is that the supply line requirements would be huge. Instead of needing enough food and water to support 200 pounds of human per soldier, you would need enough food and water to support 2200 pounds of human and horse per soldier. For all practical purposes this would mean that the cavalry army would be limited to a couple dozen miles from abundant fresh water sources at all time, would pretty much be limited to fertile plains where there were abundant grazing resources, and would have to be constantly on the move as grazing resources were exhausted in any one place. Against such a force, one attractive tactic might be to ambush the army at attractive watering holes like African top predators go after herd animals in the savanna. Another defensive tactic might be to start a grass fire that engulfs thousands of acres which would deny food to the horses in the vicinity of your defensive position while making the land more fertile for farming in later years. And, with the grass burned away, if it rained, it would all turn to mud which would be very slow going for a large all cavalry army. Yet another defense tactic would be to sow weeds that are poisonous to horses, like Russian knap weed, far and wide in the vicinity of the position that you want to defend, killing the horses in a force that wants to meet its heavy logistics load through grazing. Someone engaging an all cavalry army would also be attracted to deploying any stimulus that could spook the horses, causing the entire lot of them to act like a panicked herd instead of individually managed cool headed war horses. Sudden noises, skunks, fire, or a pack of wolves, for example, could all fit that bill. 

Parts of this sounds like the domestication syndrome which is fairly well understood at the biochemical level (and even to some extent a genetic level) as well as the gross phenotype level. This arises from lower level functioning of neural crest cells which regulate the fight or flight syndrome and also drive a lot of seemly random stuff (like pigmentation) that go with it. This could bring empathy and docility and acceptance. The trouble is that a post-apocalyptic world is a bad place for domesticated humans. Neural crest cells provide huge fitness advantages in "the wild" which this world is more like, while being a disadvantage in more civilized settings. IQ is much trickier because it is massively polygenetic. Realistically, in the kind of setting you suggest, the main way that average IQ could be enhanced is not with genetic engineering to make the smartest people smarter (which is virtually impossible), but by culling (or castrating or surgically sterilizing) children with developmental disabilities, removing the number of people at the very low end. 

An artist's depiction of Ardipithecus. The oldest member of the genus Homo is Homo Habilis (an artist's depiction of which is below) dates to about 2.33 million years ago. 

A law firm intern is sent to control room of power plant to do interviews of employees in connection with an employment related lawsuit (maybe harassment, maybe worker's compensation), but the employees are not allowed to leave their posts, so the intern comes to them. A law enforcement intern is sent to to control room of the power plant as part of a group of law enforcement officers responding to a fake employee going crazy and attacking people call. A photography intern is sent as part of a PR campaign for the plant to take pictures of the control room. A Congressman's intern is sent to do advance work for a speech or dog and pony show for the member of Congress. 

The lack of a moon, or even more dramatically, the lack of a moon and any other planets close enough to be seen with the naked eye, would probably retard the development of mathematics and physics. These observations were critical, for example, in our capacity to generalize gravity to the Newtonian and the general relativistic state, and made it necessary to use precision observations to make complex calendars work. 

In the later stage of the commune system, they started to resemble the political system of the House of Saud. Council members generally served for life and only aristocrats had any political say. Per Wikipedia: 

This is plausible near future technology. First, I agree that technology like this is not so unthinkable. A lot can be achieved with improvements on traditional suppressor designs using cheap materials (and if you are really pressed for cash, two liter soda bottles with some water in them are big and bulky but significantly reduce noise levels), and this can be supplemented with an anti-noise system. Anti-noise projects sound waves perfectly out of synch with the sound waves you want to cancel. It does so using technology you'd find in any karaoke system but more specialized. This once would have been expensive, but as electronic parts get cheaper and cheaper, the price could come way down and the anti-noise system only has to improve the mechanical suppressor, not do the entire job on its own. This would help low budget, ill trained snipers ambushing soldiers from more sophisticated armies. The biggest beneficiaries of benefits from suppressors would be insurgents in asymmetric conflicts like Afghanistan today. In those conflicts, surprise ambushes by snipers are a key tool of the insurgent. But, affluent and technologically advanced countries have responded by developing systems that automatically identify and locate the source of any military weapon being fired and can be set to either notify troops on the ground in the vicinity or to automatically return fire if the weapon is a type that couldn't come from a friendly. This tool, together with superior training and sights that allow soldiers from affluent countries to have superior accuracy at long ranges to ill trained insurgents, has made being a sniper for the insurgents in such conflicts a very dangerous job. But, an improved and inexpensive suppressor technology would make sniper ambushes in these conflicts, by insurgents against soldiers from well equipped and trained affluent countries, far more effective and far more survivable for the sniper. Other aspects of warfare might not change all that much. The sound of the bullet hitting targets is more than sufficient to let soldiers being attacked know that a gunfight is in progress even if it isn't that helpful in identifying where the shots came from. In an non-stealthy day battle that is not an ambush, however, you already know where the shots are going to be coming from, so a suppressor adds weight without providing much of an advantage. So, this technology might not have particularly wide benefit in contexts other than the ambush-sniper one. 

The Russian autonomous areas in the Caucasus mountains weren't thrilled with this leading to several military actions there, most notably the Chechen insurgency that was ultimately resolved when a strong Chechen leader seeing that the gig was almost up declared loyalty in a more or less personal way to Vladimir Putin on behalf of people loyal to him. The other issue was the Ukraine where the country was strongly geographically divided between pro-Russian regions in the east and pro-Western regions in the West. Russian unilaterally retook the pro-Russian leaning political unit of Crimea with its pre-existing boundaries. Notably, Crimea was a late addition to the historical territory of the Ukrainian Republic. Russian efforts to acquire provinces elsewhere in Eastern Ukraine have been inconclusive despite military aid to insurgents and Russian military forces deployed there. 

Adopt The Saudi Arabian Pattern Of Succession A Large Pool Of Potential Future Kings Related To The Dynasty Founder In the Saudi Arabian succession system, all adult male descendants of the founder of the dynasty are eligible to become king someday, and there are lots and lots of descendants (in the Saudi case, due to a combination of polygyny and successive marriages and high fertility for nobles). There are basicaly basically no "cadet" lines with only a remote chance of succession if lots of unlikely deaths occur no matter how distinguished their own efforts may be. The King Has Great Freedom To Hire And Fire Royals From Powerful Posts In the English hereditary monarchy, most of the subposts were also hereditary under a primogenitor system, creating many points where incompetent aristicrats could weaking the kingdom. This is not true in the Saudi system. The sitting monarch can name a Crown Prince and other senior cabinet members from the most trusted, capable and competent of his adult descendants whom he interacts with regularly. Less trusted, less capable and less competent descendants of the founder of the nation are given posts commensurate with their abilities. One might be given charge of a minor government ministry, another a governorship of a province or a mayorship of a city or village, or an officership in the military as high as the descendant can handle, or a chancellorship of a college. Black sheep might be given an allowance but no responsibilities at all - denying them any benefits of their royal blood could breed dissent. All lesser officials would serve at the king's pleasure, rather than for life, creating stronger incentives, allowing the king to rotate promising candidates through different parts of the kingdom and different experiences to become qualified, while also preventing any royal from consolidating too much power that could be mobilized against him. Succession Is Decided By A Council Of Senior Royals A council of royals who are senior officials in the regime, like a board of directors, would have formal power to appoint a successor king without regard to whether or not that person was Crown Prince, although the Crown Prince would be favored. The size of this council varies over time based on the monarch's wishes. If the Crown Prince position is vacant when the monarch dies, or the Crown Prince has lost support from his kin, the senior members of the ranks of potential heirs choose someone, usually one of their number, to be the new monarch. If the sitting monarch has chosen wisely, the most qualified member of the royal family will already have been named as Crown Prince and the succession will be seamless. But, if a demented old man who named as flatterer with a rotten heart to be Crown Prince, the empire is not lost. And, because no one has a true right to be the next king, even the Crown Prince, it will be hard for a disappointed contestant to mount a contest to the pick of the senior eligible heirs and unwise when the disappointed conteestant is likely to get some of the most senior posts in the new regime. Benefits Of This System For Francia This still provides some of the key benefits of a monarchy to a medieval state: (1) if you don't have the resources to groom even 1% of the population with the training and opportunities necessary to prepare them to lead the country, by limiting scarce training and education resources to descendants of the founder, you can get a qualified leadership elite (e.g. mostly literate and training in riding horses and war) with a minimum of expenditure of resources in a desperately poor society. (2) it provides clear lines of authority direct from the king to organize and mobilize the country which fits with the very direct managerial authority that Charlemagne exercised over his vassals in the early kingdom - with a traveling court that regularly visited every place in the domain, he could bring unassigned royals in his entourage to be dispatched to new posts as the need arose in the circuit of his traveling court, replacing incompetent officials who were discovered en route, (3) it provides for rapid succession that is not subject to dispute and provides a clear outcome (often monarchy is justified on the ground that avoiding civil wars of succession created by uncertainty is more important than the quality of the king), and (4) it would protect the nation from the mishaps of a purely hereditary succession system with no regard to merit.The selection of a monarch and senior officials based upon merit within the class of descendants of the founder avoids the elevation on monarchs like Charles the Fat who could end a dynasty. This system also creates a way to reward and incentivize otherwise lazy aristocrats to perform in order to gain more power. Since 98% of them would have no shot at real prominence and power in the European style primogeniture system, there is a large corps of powerful people who are better trained and educated than anyone else in the kingdom to have a vested institutional interest in supporting this alternative approach and the monarch it selects, even if they don't personally get the top jobs. Those who come out on the bottom in this quasi-merit based system are the least qualified to mount a regime changing coup. It also divides up power in so many ways among so many people that no one descendant can consolidate enough power to split the empire and create an independent region if managed well by the monarch. Family Dynamics In A Francia's Version Of This System In Francia, it wouldn't be necessary to have formal polygyny. It would be enough to abolish the succession distinction between legitimate and illegitimate descendants of the founder of the nation to get a sufficient pool of eligible descendants to find a few worthy of responsible positions in the empire. Royals would have no trouble producing many descendants if their children, marital and non-marital alike, had such promising futures. Also, if a woman lied and said her child had a royal father when the father was actually not royal, and was believed, there would be little harm to the kingdom - if the child was competent he would serve the empire well, if not, the cost would be little more than the cost of a modern society to reward the occasional lottery winner who doesn't really deserve the prize. Relying on the royal parent's declaration to determine paternity while ignoring commoner testimony would encourage people to try to win the favor of royals they were in close relationships lest their children be disowned. This system would also provide a means by which promising non-royals could join the dynasty, marrying (or merely mating) a royal family member and having children with them who would be royal descendants too. These marriages might be subject to approval of the monarch and would provide a means by which the empire could co-opt anybody who might otherwise lead resistance against the regime. How Would The System Be Imagined? The system could be implemented by Charlemagne, perhaps consciously adopting pre-House of Saud Beodin traditional leadership succession practices he learns about from spies and captives in his war with the Moors (figuring he must copy the techniques that give them an advantage while adapting them to his own world), and followed by his successors, perhaps with the support of a prescient Pope who sees the perils of the alternative that was actually followed in our world. Other examples of similar systems might also suggest it. One would be the Roman Catholic Church's College of Cardinals (a group of Bishops hand picked by the Pope to vote on a successor to him). Some nominally democratic Northern Italian and Swiss cities states call communes operated on something reasonably similar to this basis from the late middle ages until the 19th century. As Wikipedia explains: