But the point is that, as a distinct letter, was introduced rather recently, in the 18th century, and its usage was usually arbitrary, one could always write instead, besides many typewriters had no key, for technical reasons, so all that resulted in confusion of the two letters, mostly in borrowed words, and in mispronouncing of some others, which was so widespread that some of those mispronounced variants became the norm now. For example, Leo Tolstoy's name in standard modern Russian is , but his actual name was , and 99% of Russians are unaware of this. Other examples include: 

At the university I was taught those are predicatives, and these are sentences with compound nominative predicates (like in "He is drunk). Your bold words are adjectives, and the verbs ("entered", "left") in such sentences are, actually, play the role of the linking verbs (like "be" or "become"), although many otherwise action verbs can be used as the verbal part of such predicates. One of the proofs of such a view at it is that the a- adjectives can be used at the end of such sentences. By a- adjectives I mean those ones like "asleep", "awake", "afraid", etc.: 

In the Wikipedia article on Sanskrit you can find all those special characters together with their IPA counterparts. By the way, these special characters are parts of the IAST, the International Alphabet of Sanskrit Transliteration. 

It is not clear what you mean by "prolonged", but if you want to know how long vowels can appear in a language that earlier had none of them, one way of it is when a consonant between 2 vowels disappears and the vowels merge. The Turkic and Mongolian languages that have long vowels got them this way, the earliest Turkic and Mongolian languages had no short vs. long distinction. For example, the Old Turkic word oɣul (son) developed like this: oɣul > oul > ool > oːl And now in Altay, Tuvan, etc. it is oːl, with a long vowel, spelled оол. 

At one time in Japan it became rude and offensive to protrude one's lips while speaking, it considerably affected the sounds of Japanese, eliminating the sound [f] in all the environments except before [ɯ]. 

Also, Latin used subtraction in numerals. Among the numbers from 18 to 98, those that ended in 8 or 9 were formed by subtracting 2 and 1 from the following decade: 

The a- adjectives can be used only as predicatives, never as attributes (which differs them greatly from most of the other adjectives, some even consider them to belong to a separate part of speech, "statives", "the words of the category of state"). The point is, action verbs are used as linking verbs with the a- adjectives, and it looks very much like the sentences with a- adjectives is just a special case of the sentences of your kind. 

Agamemnon - Greek Ἀγαμέμνων "very steadfast". Priam is from the Luwian compound Priya-muwa-, which means "exceptionally courageous". In Greek, Héktōr is a derivative of the verb ékhein, archaic form hékhein, "to have" or "to hold". Héktōr, or Éktōr as found in Aeolic poetry, is also an epithet of Zeus in his capacity as "he who holds [everything together]". Hector's name could thus be taken to mean "holding fast". Paris is considered to be derived from Phrygian and means "wrestler". 

Do these examples, "on high" as in The Lord our God who dwelleth on high (Psalms 63:5) (adjective prepositional complement) and from here as in "I can see your house from here" (adverb prepositional complement) count? Have a look at this: $URL$ 

The vowel diagram shows the position of the tongue when pronouncing this or that vowel. This position, as well as lips being rounded/unrounded are the only factors that influence the quality of the English vowels (the diagram is for the English language), all the vowels are produced in the same manner: the air freely flows through the open mouth, the position of the tongue only changes the shape and the volume of the resonator (mouth cavity). But with the consonants it is all much more complicated. The quality of the consonants is not defined merely by the tongue position as is the case with the vowels. Some consonants are produced without any use of the tongue whatsoever (bilabial, labiodental, glottal), there are several manners in which the consonants are produced (stops, fricatives, affricates) as opposed to just one manner with the vowels. Also, while pronouncing a consonant, the air can flow not only through the mouth, as with the vowels, but also through the nose (nasal consonants). And on top of that, the consonants can be voiced and voiceless. All of this makes the system of the consonants much more multi-dimensional than the two-dimentional vowel system. In other words, a vowel is defined by just 2 factors, tongue position and rounded/unrounded lips, a consonant is defined by much more factors that simply cannot be squeezed into a two-dimentional diagram. 

It's all simple: you cannot put an indefinite article before every noun, but definite articles have no limitations, every noun can have a definite article. The point is, in most European languages with articles (including English) the indefinite articles developed from the word "one" and in most of those languages it is still identical to the word "one". But "one" being a numeral can combine only with the nouns that name countable things, it cannot be combined with most of the abstract nouns like "friendship" or "eternity" or with names of substances like "sugar" or "blood". Since you need to learn the gender of every noun, the indefinite articles cannot fulfill this task completely, but the definite articles being able to combine with every noun do this job perfectly. 

Yes, they are. The idea of perfect is the action that happened before something else. When it is present perfect, the action happened before now, when it is past perfect, the action happened before another moment in the past. As for infinitives, they don't have any time signature, like past, present, or future, their meaning is relative as for the meaning of the predicate verb tense - non-perfect infinitives denote actions simultaneous with the predicate (your 1st example), the perfect infinitives denote the action that precedes the action of the predicate (your 2nd example). 

In Russian, it is possible to use imperatives in different kinds of clauses, including attributive clauses (like your English example 2). Both of your Greek examples can well be translated into Russian with imperatives in the same positions as in Greek. The Russian language lacking Subjunctive and Optative moods, its imperative can be used in their meaning, such cases I will exclude from my answer, although Russian is brimming with them. I will give examples with the imperatives used only as direct commands. In the following examples imperatives will be italicized. First, my translations of your examples. English example 2: 

You know, a human cannot survive without drinking water for 3 days, that's why everybody drinks water every day, so if one says "I don't drink" it means the person drinks water but doesn't drink something else. What else? Do you know people that abstain from drinking milk, tea, or juice? I think no, if somebody refuses to drink, the beverage is usually alcohol. That's mere logic, there's no linguistics in that. 

In the Northeast Caucasian languages, nouns are divided into classes, that category is analogous to the Indo-European and Semitic genders. Let's take Archi, a Northeast Caucasian language. It has 4 noun classes: I. male, II. female, III. inanimate objects and adult animals, IV. abstract nouns and baby animals. Since Archi is an ergative language, the very idea of subject/object is different in it, all the verbs in Archi are marked for class – for the class of the "subject" with the intransitive verbs and for the class of the "direct object" with the transitive verbs. The same happens in all the languages of this language family.