There's always strain on the knee when you use it for something. Actually this mode is probably safer than a full squat olympic style for a reason: Range of Motion is reduced and the starting point at the bottom of the movement is actually inertia free. In cheaper words, its different from a half squat because when you are in the lowest position you sit on the box and so tension on the knee and ankle joint is heavly reduced. So, yes, it's going to put strain on your knee, but nothing to worry about as long as you perform the movement correctly. 

With this out of the way give frequency the priority in the microcycle. For exemple if you want to have a total volume of 30 sets, don't burn them all on the same workout but divide them by 3 or by 5. Give this characteristic to your microcycle and you will grow AS FAST as your body can possibly do. Intensity/voume ratio: you can actually utilize the Undulated Periodization ( at microcycle ); it means you're actually changing in a wave fashion the ratio between the two ( Ex. one micro is high volume - low intensity, next is medium and medium and next is low volume high intensity ). This will provide the best of the two types of stimulii I've explained to you. Nutrition advices Here the thing is more simple. But I dont know if you have any ethical standpoint on nutrition or if there's any food you can't eat for mediacal reasons so I will keep myself in general. Do not go crazy on protein! It has been long debunked and litterature is FULL of biased studies on the actual link between grams of protein x Kg body mass. Just eat enough carbs and you will be good to go. Focus more on having a sustainable lifestyle approach to nutrition that benefits you first with great health, and only after muscle mass will come. As long as you are energy replenished your AMPK inside the muscle cell will not be phosphorylated by the low AMP:ATP ratio and will not inhibit the Akt/mTOR pathway and your protein synthesis will work smoothly. I'm not an expert on nutrition so I'm not going to make the step longer than my reach. Hope it helped, I tried to fill as much info in less lines possible. If anyone has any question be free to ask. 

What they told you actually make sense in some contexts. The only way you could consume less calories with added physiological work is if you develop economicity in your motor skill. To be more clear, architecture of type I fibers allow you to produce less power stroke in the architecture of sliding filaments but at longer leghts compared to type II fibers. With this you can actually mantain a certain pace exploiting the viscous properties of the type I fibers along with their architecture and their chemical features ( phosphorylated ATP stays longer on type I myosin heads as ADP, that's one key characteristic that make these fibers less susceptibles to stretch/strain and suitable to work at higher lenghts ). However, the moment you add weight to yourself, you actually will do more physiological work no matter what. The fact that you can develp efficiency doesn't mean you will consume the same amount of calories no matter how much work and weight you add to your routine; this just make no logical sense at all. To answer your question: no. Adding 10kg to yourself will not help you burn more fat, or anything else. Burning fat is for a large part depends on the actual total time or/and intensity of work. You could go at a low intensity for a very long amount of time, and you will burn fats ( this is highly variable upon individuals and training level/muscle cell phenotypization ). Or you could go at a high intensity for intermittent intervals and build a very big EPOC that will help you burn fats while you recover ( remember that RER - Respiratory Exchange Ratio, drops at 0.7 after high intesity exercise ); for this, is better dynamic exercise ( like cycling ) instead of static exercise ( like weightlifting ). 

My long term goal would be to lose about 10 kg of fat, but I would also like to gain more muscle mass. I am about to begin a training program. I have seen on this forum that it is difficult to lose weight and gain muscle at the same time. In light of this, do you think I should focus on first losing the 10kg of fat, followed by gaining muscle mass, or instead focus on gaining muscle mass, and then lose the 10kg of fat? Some of you might be critical that these two suggestions are too simplistic, and if you would prefer a more complicated mixture of the two, I welcome those suggestions as well. 

Suppose one wishes to start an aerobic workout routine. Assuming one is young and without illness, is a 30 min a day workout (approx 15 min jogging and 15 minute walking intermittently) a reasonable workout routine, or should rest days be initially scheduled? If rest days should be scheduled, how many per week would be recommended? Would you recommend the number of rest days being reduced over time? 

What you need to do is eat less, and exercise more. Eating less is far far far more significant a factor for weight loss than exercising more. If you fast 1 day a week, you might burn about 8000kJ (check out a metabolism calculator for your exact daily metabolic rate). If you want the same results through exercise you'd need to run 30 minutes, every day, for a week at medium to high intensity. So what's easier, fasting 1 day a week, or intense running 30 minutes a day for 7 days? Clearly both could be done, but reducing calories is a much more efficient way to lose weight. In addition to fasting 1 day a week, you could cut your calories in half every second other day. This would lead to a calory deficit of 20 000kj. Add 1 hour a day of running to your routine and your deficit becomes 36000kj, which is approximately a 1kg a week loss of fat. 

Any diseases that causes excess water retention could cause you to put on weight (which include many diseases)or any disease which causes bowel obstruction. These are two examples. Also, perhaps the liquid sarcoplasm in your muscles has increased. No calories are required to increase the amount of water stored in your muscles, which will also add to your weight. Elevated exertion is responsible for sarcoplasmic hypertrophy the same as for myofibril hypertrophy. Basically, your body compensates for the extra stress by increasing the size of capillaries feeding the muscles so that they receive more fluid and, therefore, more energy. When such reoccurring periods of trauma occur, such as during regular workouts, the body triggers the sarcoplasm to retain and store more glycogen and ATP for future use as energy to meet such demands. 

Protein synthesis and adaptations are sectorial. If you train only your left arm only that arm will grow. Training other muscle parts will not impair the capacity of growing in the muscle itself, but can just fatigue the part if the exercise uses more than one muscle group ( actually is the case for every exercise ). The misconception is that you can isolate a target muscle. This is not correct and actually is not detrimental but beneficial. There's not a rate/quota for muscle building. It depends on a moltitude of variables and cannot be predicted with ease. 

I wouldnt take in account the last longitudinal study by default, due to study design. On top of that HIIT is just a tag. Every dynamic exercise with a high enough intesity will provoke hypetrophy of the hearth wall. Soccer players have this type of "problem" too. Even in static exercise sports such as weightlifting and bodybuilding there is the same effect on the hearth. Anything brought to the extreme will give you "side effects". 

First of all we have to look at what you need in terms of real conditional capacities. Lactate thresholds have been used to asses one's endurance capacities related to many sports such as cycling, running or swimming. What you are asking is basically if you can improve the delay in onset of lactate accumulation that is correlated ( not cause ) with the aerobic-to-anaerobic energy system transition. Problems of the thresholds We must understand first of all what we are referring to when we talk about LT ( Lactate Threshold ). For exemple, your wikipedia extract is not precise in describing effectively what Lactate Threshold is or are. 85% of %HRmax and 75% of VO2max are still only general measures that are based on general indications aswell; these measures have been shown to coincide with the anaerobic thresold in some, but not all individuals (expecially adv. athletes ) and I'm not going to take these indicators in consideration. To focus only on LT, there are two thresholds. The first one is called Aerobic Threshold (AT), and the second one is called Anaerobic Threshold (ANT) ; even for the AT there is a general observation that put it in correlation with the 50% of VO2max. The AT is considered the upper limit of the exclusive aerobic mechanism usage ( this doesnt mean that glycolysis does not occur ), while ANT is considered the upper limit after which the anaerobic system become more and more consistent and the body relies more on a glycolitic/fast type metabolism. So what we want is to consider ANT to answer your question. Yes you can improve your ANT There are several protocols of training for improving ANT. On top of that a big body of research over the years has accumulated work that shows how the ANT can be found at different lactate concentration in blood ( ranging from 2 up to 10 mmol/L )[1-2]. This however do not correlate with performance. When you improve your ANT you actually have a shift of this limit upward thowards the exerted power ( it means you can exert more power and sustain more intense workload without the accumulation of further lactate. This happens because you have improved your aerobic capabilities, but I won't get in depth in this argument just because it would lead to an enormous Off Topic. How to improve your Lactate Threshold (ANT) It largely depends on your sport but the key thing you have to keep in mind is that you must target what you need. You can perform in two different ways. 

Let us assume that we have two people. The first person starts exercising at 20 years old and continues to do so for the rest of his life. The second person doesn't exercise in his 20's, but when he is 30, begins exercising and continues to do so for his life. Assuming both people survive to 60 years old, will the first person have any advantages over the second, for example improved life expectancy or better metabolism etc? If possible can you please provide references to back up your claims. 

Background Information: I recently began a running/walking regime that lasts for 30 minutes. I think I run about half the journey and walk the other half of the journey. There are 2 very steep hills, and numerous medium hills on the journey. I tend to walk up the 2 very steep hills. Question: On my walk I noticed that some other people walking had very large/bulky (although doesn't look fat) looking legs. My observations of endurance athletes are that they have quite lean legs. I am weather my regime will turn my legs bulky, or if they will remain lean looking. (I would prefer if they don't become bulky, how can I prevent this?) 

Roger Federer, a professional tennis player, spends time in his off-season training in the dessert of Dubai, where temperatures can be extremely high. What physiological adaptations does the body make in response to this training, and how do such adaptations enhance performance in cooler conditions? 

I have learnt from this site that weight training that involves lifting few repetitions (e.g. 6) of heavy weights will result predominantly in muscle strength increases, where as lifting many repetitions of lighter weights is useful for muscle hypertrophy. Naturally I would think that for weight training for improving power in the sport of tennis, one would be more concerned about strength than hypertrophy and therefore perform less reps, but with greater weights. In tennis however, muscle endurance is also important, which leads me to think perhaps more reps will provide benefit. I wish to improve my power in tennis, should I focus on max weight and less reps, or medium weights with more reps? 

It is estimated that about 36% of deaths from CAD in men and 38% of deaths from CAD in women are due to lack of physical activity. To produce the maximum benefit the activity needs to be regular and aerobic. Aerobic activity involves using the large muscle groups in the arms, legs and back steadily and rhythmically so that breathing and heart rate are significantly increased. It is recommended that adults should participate in a minimum of 30 minutes of at least moderate intensity activity (such as brisk walking, cycling or climbing the stairs) on 5 or more days of the week.