Safavids main target was the Sunni Muslim community of Iran which was the majority of Iranian population at inception of Safavid Empire. They considered them possible fifth column since main rivals of Safavids were Sunni Ottomans who were expanding further and beyond at an alarming pace. Therefore most of conversion process was focused on Sunnis. Others they either treated with indifference or sheer contempt. Christians enjoyed certain rights during reigns of Abbas I and Safi I due to political needs of Safavid Empire. Persia was isolated from the world because of her being surrounded by non-friendly Sunni states. Furthermore expansion of Ottomans in Europe, Levant and Africa was a cause of huge distress to Safavids. So they sought to forge a two front alliance with European Christian monarchs in order to check the Ottoman expansion. To improve relations with Christian west, Safavids provided favorable environment to Christians from time-to-time depending on geopolitical situation. Athna Ashari Shia doctrine of non-Muslims being unclean was a major driving factor in animosity towards non-Muslims. While Shahs could be open-minded when it suited them, general populace and bureaucracy was less compliant and willing to broaden their minds. From time to time, in reign of Abbas II for example, Armenian and other Christian groups were coerced to convert to Shiiaism. Sometimes with carrot, sometimes with stick. The efforts were largely unsuccessful & Shahs valued the economic value of Armenian trading community very much to let those efforts last for long. Jews often faced similar persecution. The Clergy played an important role in undoing all efforts of earlier Shahs during reigns of their weaker descendants. They assumed complete authority over religious matters and persecuted anyone with different beliefs in Spanish Inquisition style. In conclusion, the attitude of Safavids changed with time and situation. They provided freedom to minorities and they also persecuted the minorities. By the end of their dynasty, all of foreign Christians were forced to flee from Iran. Armenian and Georgians were subsequently conquered by Ottomans/Russians and remained under their occupation until decline of Ottomans/Soviet Union. 

That is actually a false perception that All Arabs consider themselves to be descendants of Ishmael. According to Arab traditions, Arabs categorized themselves into two main branches1: 

Islam is considered by Muslims to be restoration of original faith of Abraham which according to them had been corrupted and changed by the Jews, Christians and Polytheist Arabs. That's precisely the reason why Muslims consider People like Adam, Abraham, Isaac, Moses, Jesus etc to be prophets of Islam as they see Islam as restoration of the original Faith, not a new religion in itself. We do know however that: 

Lack of a clear majority party Differences between Labour, Protectionists and Free Traders Unpopularity of Protectionist-Free Trade merger 

Notable Members Luftwaffe pilots who served in Iraq included Martin Drewes (Night fighter ace with total 52 victories),Paul Zorner(Ace with total 59 victories) and Wilhelm Herget (Night fighter ace with total 73 victories). Pictured Martin Drewes (Left) in Iraq. 

Is this what Hulagu's insult was referring to? If yes, How can he accuse Qutuz of fleeing when it was the Mongols who sold him in the first place? If no, Which armed confrontation did Qutuz take part in against Mongols before the above mentioned letter and subsequent Battle of Ain Jalut? 

Berke had grievances that Ilkhanate was granted wealthy lands of Persia. Berke did not like that Mongke Khan gave Jochi land of Azerbaijan to his brother Helagu. Berke was tired of Helagu trying to boss him around with demands of cessation of selling Cuman-Kipchak slaves to Mamluks. 

No one knows where they are. Professor Aslam Pervez, an historian of Bahadur Shah II's reign and a founding member of the Mughal Trust, told The Daily Telegraph: 

Pictured British Soldiers in Baghdad after escape of FF-Irak and surrender of Iraqi National Defense Government. 

Banu Abd ad-dar: They were responsible for carrying and guarding the Meccan flag in battle. Banu Umayyad: They were charged with political command of the city even though they vied with their cousins the Hashemite for that. Banu Makhzum: This was the power-house of Mecca. This house was charged with defense of Mecca and leading her Armies. Many of the greatest generals of subsequent Islamic Caliphate belonged to this house e.g. Khalid Bin Walid, Akrimah bin Abi jahal etc. 

Apart from solid facts, you can also view this Modern rendition of Akbar's court in context of popular Folk story of illicit love-story of Akbar's son and crown Prince Selim (Later Emperor Jahangir) and a slave girl, Anarkali1: In the beginning of the video, upon Entry of Emperor Akbar, The Herald cries in Persian: 

Yet when there was a prospect of a renewed and much larger assault on Mamluks, Berke changed his views and attacked Ilkhanate to save the Mamluks. Why were the Golden Horde ties to Mamluks stronger than their tie of blood with the Ilkhanate? A simplistic reason would be religion but there has to be something more than that. I found out some other reasons too for Golden Horde and Ilkhanate rivalry: 

In any case, it is safe to assume that Britons had furniture in 3100 BC. If I were to make an assumption, I would say humans must have made "furniture" as soon as they started wearing clothes/skins and found out that sitting on ground was not really good for their clothes. 

(Here I have to note that some historians are of opinion that Abbas did it as no favor to Armenians. He simply transferred them to strengthen his North Western Borders with infusion of Shia settlers in place of Christian Armenians.) Many Armenian merchants became extremely wealthy, and the office of kalantar was ‘clearly a lucrative one, for Tavernier mentions that the estate of one Khwaja Petrus … included 40,000 tumans of silver, not to mention houses and country properties, jewels, gold and silver plate and furniture’. In considering the relations between the Safavid state and its non-Muslim minorities, one must make a clear distinction between the state’s treatment of its indigenous minorities, particularly the Jews and Christians, and that of the foreign religious. The latter, if harassed, could, and did, appeal, however ineffectually, to the Christian princes of Europe, such as the King of Spain. The former, as Iranian subjects, were just as much under the authority of the Shah as were his Muslim subjects, and the one thing calculated to throw Abbas I into a towering rage was any suggestion by emissaries from Europe, whether lay or ecclesiastic, that the Christian powers of Europe had any jurisdiction whatever over the Shah’s indigenous Christian subjects such as the Armenians. The Jewish community in Isfahan, though not as numerous as the Christians, was also allocated its own quarter of the city by Abba¯s I. The Zoroastrians, those ‘honorary dhimmis’, had their own suburb dubbed ‘Gabristan’—gabr, anglicized ‘guebre’, being a pejorative term used by Muslims to denote the Zoroastrians. The remaining non-Muslim minorities in Isfahan, the Indians, known as ‘banians’, established themselves in the city toward the end of the reign of Abba¯s I, and increased in numbers under his successors Safi I and Abba¯s II. Being Hindus, they were not ‘People of the Book’ but, on the contrary, were considered mushriku¯n or polytheists, and therefore did not qualify for dhimma protection (Ironically, The Muslim rulers of India did consider Hindus as eligible for Dhimma protection). Consequently, they were at the mercy of rapacious Safavid tax officials, who took advantage of their non-dhimmı¯ status to milk them of additional taxes in return for turning a blind eye to certain Hindu practices repugnant to Muslims, such as suttee (burning of widow with corpse of her husband, alive). They were, however, granted freedom of worship. It is clear that there was a fundamental misunderstanding between European Christians and theShah. The Shah thought he could use the religious to bring pressure on the Christian princes of Europe to further his plans for an anti-Ottoman alliance on two fronts and, when his hopes were disappointed, he could vent his anger on the religious. The first Carmelite fathers had arrived in Isfahan in December 1607, and two more, Fathers Benignus and Redempt, arrived in May 1608. They had their first audience with Shah Abba¯s only a few days later, and the Shah at once expressed ‘his indignation and disgust at the princes of Christendom and the Pope for deceiving him about operations against the Turks’. Nevertheless, there was a considerable amount of goodwill on both sides, and hope continued to spring eternal. That the hope of organizing a second front against the Ottomans was never far from Shah Abba¯s’s mind is clearly shown by his jocular remark to the Carmelite religious that they could have his palace 'if the Christians really made war'. Given this general situation, the action of Abba¯sI in ordering the forcible conversion to Islam of a considerable number of Armenian and other Christians in the year 1030 H/1621–2 CE seems an anomaly. This being so, it is worth quoting in extenso the detailed account of the contemporary Safavid chronicle the Tarikh-i Alam-ara-yi Abbasi of Iskandar Beg Munshi: 

You are confusing his epithet with his regnal name. As already mentioned, the practice of Regnal Names was common in the Mughal and some other oriental dynasties. Definition by Wiki: 

Berke Khan, the Khan of the Golden Horde was not very fond of his cousin, Helagu Khan, Khan of Ilkhanate primarily because of the latter's actions against the Abbasid Caliphate. He wrote this to Batu Khan before the fall of Baghdad to garner support from influential Mongol leaders for the Caliph: 

Not all Arabs claim to be descended from Ishmael The claim/legend pre-dates Islam by several centuries The Adnanites Arabs who claim that are considered to be Arabized or culturally assimilated Arabs, not pure/real ones. Adnanites and Qahtanites have been traditional rivals. Their in-fighting has been observed many times in Pre-Islamic Era2, Umayyad Era and Andalusian Era. Arabs and Jews are both Semitic people so some distant kinship can't be completely ruled-out. Arabs did believe in Yahweh/Elohem/Allah even in their polytheistic days. Arabs do not consider Judaism to be original faith of Abraham. They consider it to have been altered just like they believe Christianity is also deviated from the original Abrahamic faith. They see Islam as restoration of Abraham's original faith, not a new one. 

No. The word which appears in Sanskrit ancient tomes is "Gāndhāra". That refers to ancient Kingdom of Gandhara which is now part of North-West Pakistan. It's boundaries included Peshawar Region, Taxilla region and for some time, Swat region. It's people, as called by the Rigveda, were Gandhari People as mentioned in Rigveda 1.120.1, 1.126.7. It is backed up by archaeological finds of Gandhara civilization which are almost all found in North-West Pakistan, not Afghanistan. Gandhara was conquered by Cyrus the Great and annexed into Persian Empire, just like modern-day Afghanistan was. Persians divided their eastern possessions into four satrapies. Kandahar was part of Arachosia Satrapy, while Gandhara was a Satrapy in its own right. Then Alexander the Great took it from the Persians, Greeks further expanded the great civilization of ancient Gandhara onward, eventually adopting Buddhism and assimilating into local populace which is why Greek period is considered a distinct chapter of Gandharan art and civilization. White Huns, considered to be forefathers of Modern Afghans (Excluding Hazara, Uzbeks and Tajiks), didn't appear in Afghanistan until much later. Not to mention, it was medieval Durrani dynasty which is considered the founder of Afghan state, thousands of years later. You are not alone in making that connection however that Kandahar may have been named after Gandhara Kingdom of then North-West India, now North-West Pakistan. In Placenames of the World, author Adrian Room presents the same hypothesis. It seems wrong however. The Old city of Kandahar was founded by Alexander the great as Alexandria Arachosia hundreds of years after Gandhara had established and flourished. And the modern city of Kandahar was founded by first Durrani King Ahmed Shah. But the counter argument is strong as well, farming villages of Indus-Valley civilization existed just 17 miles away from Modern Kandahar. Same civilization can be considered mother of Gandhara. Modern people of the regions included in Gandhara still proudly celebrate their heritage. There are two museums dedicated to Gandhara civilization in two cities of the former Kingdom of Gandhara. One is in Peshawar, Pakistan, the second one is in Taxilla, Pakistan. There is also a university named after the former-Kingdom in Peshawar, Gandhara University. As for countries changing names, yes that happens. For example, your own country India was known as Aryavarta (Home of the Aryans), Bharat (After Emperor Bharat), Hindustan (Land of Hindus) and now Bharat again. In conclusion, your assumption seems wrong because: 

Again, note the tribal leaders, many of them are founders of important tribes such as Banu-Ghatfan, Banu Sulaim, Banu Thaqif, Banu Assad, Banu Tamim, Banu Hashim, Banu Umayyah etc. The Adnani and Qahtani rivalry may have caused this legend or the legend may have some truth after all (Assuming that Abraham and Ismael and Isaac existed in the first place of course), who can say now? There can be no definite proof for or against this until there is a proof for or against the very existence of these people in the first place. As already mentioned, Arabs held that legend long before Islam so it wasn't Islam which created that legend. Not to mention, it wasn't just them who held that legend of Ishmaelite descent. I remember a letter from a Byzantine clergy man too who referred to Arabs as Ishmaelites. Sadly I can't find it right now but when I do, I will link it here. Moreover, Yahweh is also known as Elohim in Hebrew bible. The Word Allah is the Arabized form of that word. So yes Arabs did believe in Yahweh. The deities they worshiped before Islam were considered to be daughters/sons of Allah, while the Abrahamic deity Allah remained the highest deity of even the polytheist Arabs. Even before Muhammad, as linked by Ted, Many Arab thinkers tried to preach monotheism, claiming it to be the original faith of Ishmael, one which was corrupted by polytheism. Although some Abrahamic traditions were preserved, to quote a few: 

Black Eagle on Golden field represents the Emperor of Eastern Roman Empire, Heraclius. (As the single headed Roman Eagle remained in use in ERE, albeit rarely. This is attested by presence of Eagle Bearers (Aquilifers/ὀρνιθόβορας) in ERE). Golden lion on Red field probably represents Macedonia. Pictured below, Coat of Arms of Macedonia from 16th century which represents the ancient Lion of Macedonia: 

There are currently efforts underway in India, as stated above, to trace the lost Imperial family by private NGOs. The organizations claim that they have successfully found out 70 lost descandants of Mughals in Calcutta, Bengal state and 200 other descendants in city of Aurangabad alone. Officially, the Timurid/Khandan-e-Timur/Timuriyan (خاندانء تیموریان‎‎) aka Gorkaniyan/Khandan-e-Gorkaniyan (خاندانء گورکانیان‎‎) aka Mughal dynasty/Khandan-e-Mughliya (خاندانء مغليہ) ended with the Indian war of independence and the dynasty no longer formally exists and has no head of dynasty unlike many other deposed dynasties which still survive e.g. Osmanlı Hanedanı/خاندان آل عثمان/Ottoman Dynasty. 

Population concentration in Urban areas Population in Alaska is mostly concentrated on three urban areas, which include Anchorage. 

Ahmad Shah Qajar, Shah of Persia was deposed in a military coup by Colonel Reza Khan in 1921 and was subsequently exiled. While he was in exile, Kemal Ataturk summoned the Persian ambassador Anoushirvan Sepahbody and sent a message to the deposed Shah, offering to restore him to the throne. 

The book by Garraghan will help you a lot to understand the process. Other than that, this brief PDF paper and its sources will also come handy. 

Amidst the WW2, US President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Saudi King Ibn Saud met aboard USS Quincy after the Yalta conference. Colonel Bill Eddy played the role of interpreter. It however strikes as something very odd that in the photograph of meeting, Colonel Bill is kneeling before the two leaders.