This relies in willfully mistaking figurative language for non-figurative speech. Roosevelt didn't "trade" those people in the sense that a slave trader traded his captives. He made a political pact which included handing prisoners of war to a foreign power. There was no selling of human individuals in that; it is a "trade" only rhetorically, in that a political pact involves both sides making concessions, which may be roughly similar to the concessions made by people selling and buying things. Also, those people were not "slaves" in any technical terms; there were no "slaves" in the Soviet Union. Slaves are property that can be bought and sold; we use the word "slave" in many different figurative senses, some very foolish, others not so much. And the condition of POWs returned to the SU may have been dire, even similar to slavery in the 19th century Americas, so the rhetorics may have some merit here. But to attempt to make a factual statement that "Roosevelt was the biggest slave trader in recorded history" and intend it to be taken as an accurate description of what really happened is to mistake electoral campaign rhetorics for a scientific description. 

Consumption appeared to rise enormously after Prohibition was ended. After looking at several graphs, this one seems to agree with most: 

The "Hitler militia" was the Sturmabteilung. Reading the Wikipedia entry is enlightening on this organization, since it has no parallel in the modern Western World that I'm aware of. To describe this organization in my own words by using the Wikipedia and other texts as a guide, I'd say this organization was based of ex-military members who are either unemployed or underemployed and have tightly organized themselves in a political group. This is different than modern gangs or organized crime, which are usually social or economic in purpose. As such, it could be described as a militia. In the early 1920s and indeed into the early 1930s, politics in Germany was explosive and street fights went from bad to worse in terms of severity. For example, if a political group was having a meeting, it was highly likely that opponents would arrive and try to disrupt the meeting (shouting, fist fight, etc). Since police were ineffective at this point, the political group needed its own security, and also a quid pro quo - they needed their own members to disrupt the meetings of their opponents. So as they get organized, you have units in the militia for bodyguard, security, disruption, "street fight on demand," and so on. Note that you could describe this group with a range of adjectives ranging from "paramilitary" to "drunken louts." Such a group is also powerful for social persuasion, such as Kristallnacht. It is from this kind of group that you'd use "soldiers" to post in front of "undesirable" locations (like Jewish stores) and tell people to keep moving. The atrocities committed by your own militia would be used as propaganda to show how your group is fighting for what you define as the common good. The atrocities committed to your group by your opponent is your rallying cry and evidence of evil on the opponent's part. The Sturmabteilung was therefore used to engage in these ends, and their staunchest opponents were the Communists. For an upstart political organization like the Nazis, it was an important part of their structure and survival. However, when the party reached national power, the violent or "disagreeable" nature of the Sturmabteilung had to be dissolved, yet its more organized and refined successor was the Schutzstaffel. 

For WWII at least, from bottom up, a Generalmajor wore an insignia without stars, a Generalleutnant wore an insignia with one star, a General (of Infantry, Cavalry, etc.) wore an insignia with two stars, a Generaloberst (literally, colonel-general) wore an insignia with three stars, and a Generalfeldmarschall wore an insignia with two diagonally crossed marshal batons. So their insignia had one star less than their American equivalents, the names of the ranks were not exact translantions of the American ones, and there were only four ranks, including that of Marshal. 

Why? No one thinks of Nero or Caligula as socialists, and they certainly had two or three things to teach Hitler about the persecution of Christians. 

In Alexander the Great's time the region of Afghanistan was known as Bactria. Alexander overran this region but had trouble managing it. Nominal ownership remained that of the successors of Alexander's empire, eventually phasing into the Macedonian-based Seleucid Empire. During my time in Afghanistan, old architecture could still be seen dating back to Alexander's conquest. There is a claim by Afghans that they were not defeated by Alexander because they maintained an insurgency during the foreign ownership. As with so many other foreign invaders to the region (including Genghis Khan and the USSR), the Afghans claim to have always resisted and outlasted the outsiders. In other words, "We were here before they came and we were still here after they left." 

T.E.D.'s answer is very good, and points to the most important issue: the difference between colonisation methods in North America vs Latin America. There are a few missing nexus that I feel could be explored in more depth, though. But, first, as this is a question with very important political and ideological consequences, I also think it is necessary to dispell some (first-world-o-centric) fantasies about it, because those fantasies are widespread and noxious. So I will adress first what are not the causes of the differences between what went on North and South of Rio Grande, and only then proceed to a more encompassing explanation of the divide, which should show the actual place, if any, of the fantastic factors in the real order of things. Not Democracy There is a strong tendency to anachronically read modern contents into mediaeval forms. One such misreading is that of the role and meaning of mediaeval parliaments. Those were not democratic institutions, and were probably instruments of feudal reaction rather than of democratic progress. Some comments pointed to the fact that the Spanish Cortes were older than English Parliament; this fact - and its omission by those proposing a difference between a supposedly democratic mediaeval England and a despotic Spain - shows that this was not an actual factor; if there were differences in the internal workings of England, compared to Spain, they must rely elsewhere, not in the existence of a parliament - at least, not in the existence of a parliament as an early step in the path to democracy. But the Cortes predating Parliament are far from being the only evidence that democracy in metropoles had little to do with the difference in prosperity and political stability North or South of Rio Grande. Absolutism was only toppled in England by the Civil war and the two 17th century revolutions. But it was toppled earlier in two other places in Europe, namely Switzerland and Netherlands. And while Switzerland, being landlocked, had not its own colonial enterprises, the Netherlands were quite a major player in the colonial game. And albeit being socially much more similar to England than to Spain (and arguably even more far apart from Spain), Dutch colonisation mostly resulted in hellholes similar if not even worse than Spanish or Portuguese colonies. Plus we can see that the same metropolis delivered very different results, if we compare New England to Jamaica (or even to Georgia), Quebec to Haiti, or Peru to Uruguay or Costa Rica. And, last but not least, we must at least suspect that the early development of democracy, industry, and capitalism in England, as compared with Spain, may very well not be an independent variable. Was the belated development of democracy in Spain and Portugal a cause of the lack of prosperity of their American colonies, or is it, the other way round, a consequence of their colonial enterprise? Somewhat relatedly, Not Reformation Other myth is that the work (and/or family) ethics of Protestantism (or more specifically Calvinism) would have resulted in more orderly and progressive societies than those that could be built under the hegemony of Catholicism. Again, the Netherlands are the counter-example that shows that this is not possible; while England was only very partially Calvinist (with a State Church that mixed elements of Catholicism and Calvinism, and a strong Catholic minority, the Netherlands were quite the Calvinist country, which didn't help Surinam or Java too much. And, of course, albeit the many flaws of Catholicism, it is certainly not an ideology that promotes idleness or debauchery. So, if work or family ethics have to do with differences between North and South (and I do think they do), such work or family ethics must be related to something else besides the religion of colonists. Then we need address the apparent opposite of these social or political explanations. If not in the internal workings of European metropoles, could the key to the problem be in geographical factors? Climate, yes, but not like that Then there is the myth of the intractability of tropical climate, as put in a previous answer: 

The parish registers from Eversholt, Bedfordshire, are published for the period 1602-1812. They seem mostly complete. They contain records of 2074 burials, 2792 baptisms and 571 marriages. I can understand the low number of marriages - one marriage for two baptisms, plus many people died while still children, before having an opportunity to marry. But why are there more baptisms than burials? A chart of the numbers in each 5-year interval over this period shows that baptisms exceeded burials in 34 of the 43 intervals. One period with low baptisms registered was around 1650, during the commonwealth, when the church was in some chaos. The other with low baptisms was around 1735, when there is some evidence that the parish rector was in jail. 

(From T.E.D.'s answer) In the 50's, above 40% of adult Americans smoked cigarettes. (From T.E.D.'s answer) Of smokers, about 70% smoked at least one pack a day. (From 2.) Conservatively, each smoker smoked in average 15 cigarettes a day. (From common knowledge) Adults are usually awake about 16 hours a day. (From personal experience) It takes about 8 minutes in average to smoke a cigarette. (From 3. and 4.) Each adult smoked a cigarette each 64 minutes. (From 5. and 6.) Each cigarette smoking adult spent about 1/8 of his awake time smoking. (From 1. and 7.) It could be expected that about 5% of adult Americans was smoking at any given time. 

Japanese submarines did come to the American Pacific coast. I know of one bombardment while visiting Fort Stevens on vacation. The attack did no damage, but appears to have helped foster fears of further attacks. In the strategic sense, basically nothing happened on the American Pacific coast to change the course of the war, but one could argue that the defenses were a huge diversion of resources to guard against a threat that in hindsight was fairly marginal. However, had Japan won the Battle of Midway, then strong Pacific coast defenses would have been an even higher priority. 

A good parallel to what you are talking about are US submarine tactics during the same period. A good book about this is the book Wahoo: The Patrols of America's Most Famous World War II Submarine, by O'Kane. It is a great glimpse into how complex and intense submarine operations were during that period. The parallels to your questions are: 1) Submarines spent most time surfaced and running on diesel engine power. This required constant and careful watch, but it kept the batteries topped up and they had better speed on the surface and that helped long cruises to patrol areas. If a target was spotted, they would usually run fast on the surface to get in a good position and then submerge get final position and attack. Some German and US captains preferred night attack while surfaced, for better situational awareness and speed. 2) Highly rare. Usually a sunk ship would have had an escort not far away, and the submarine was very interested in getting away before the escort got involved. It was not safe to linger close to the scene of an attack. As mentioned in other posts, this was also a war crime. But it did occur in some instances. 3) Deck guns were used for smaller targets that were alone and undefended. Wahoo's patrols actually had quite a bit of deck gun action, but only against lone vessels without equivalent guns and were not big enough to warrant an expensive torpedo. I think German subs during this period began counting their deck guns as a AAA battery due to the air threat at the time. 4) As mentioned above, the main deck gun was mounted forward and was not meant to fend off chasers. A turn to bring the gun to bear would allow it to be used, but the gamble would be lost if it couldn't stop the whaler from ramming them, which was fairly likely. A medium-caliber deck gun firing from low and forward was probably not going to stop a decent sized ship. 

Oman is basically right about the power of knights; of course they didn't win "always"; Agincourt is an example of them being soundly defeated. But Agincourt is one exception; several different and unusual factors made the English victory there possible: the narrowness of the terrain, the muddy soil, poor command, the disorganised structure of the French force. Those, combined with correct tactics by the English (the ample use of longbows by bowmen protected by spikes), defeated the French cavalry). Also, heavy cavalry is not a good option in hilly terrain - which is the reason that plebeian Switzerland could secure its independence against foreign nobility. But, "normally", cavalry could break the lines of infantry, yes. Tom Au brings up the interesting notion of rider and horse becoming a single unit, due to the stirrup. Similarly, infantry was not an actual unit at that time. Bowmen and pikemen were different weapons at war; the former could shoot, but only the later could engage directly with the enemy. And that intrinsic division was to be only healed much later, with the invention of the bayonet, that allowed footsoldiers to charge and shoot simultaneously (and, in this respect, Agincourt is also kind of a premonition: due to the disarray within the French army, bowmen could, at the end of the battle, take swords and finish the defeated Frenchmen; but such fusion between the two parts of infantry was, at that time, only possible in extraordinary circumstances).