They don't start slow because they are on a fixed gear (track) bike. They start slow because they are trying to coax the other rider into starting the sprint for the finish line before they do. The advantage is typically given to the rider behind the other because you have not only the element of surprise, but you also get a draft off the person in front. These riders walk the line of not starting their sprint too early and thusly fading at the end...and allowing the other rider to get the jump on them and losing the advantage of getting in their draft. 

Without additional information it's really hard to diagnose something like this, but those are some common causes of cramping during a ride or any athletic activity. You may also look at your technique to see if you are favoring one side over another or have a setup that is not ideal. 

The real key for cycling sunblock is to not put it on your forehead, or wear some kind of bandana to block the sweat from getting in your eyes. Or wear a cycling hat under your helmet to protect your head from sunburn. I spray the sunscreen on the bottom half of my face, ears, neck etc. then use some additional cream/stick on my nose for added protection. I prefer the Neutrogena sport sprays that are listed on the Good Guide link you asked about. 

I've been looking into this a lot, and asking around at local bike shops, as I'm looking into getting a modern road bike. In terms of failure - both aluminium and carbon are quite brittle, compared to steel, and from what I've heard (all non substantiated) they are both about as failure prone as each other nowadays. Steel can also fail remember! I'd be interested in a well reserached article into failure rates of different frame materials! Well looked after, both types can last for a long time too. One bike shop told me that cracks Carbon Fibre can be repaired to a certian degree, apparantly by injecting resin into the cracks then baking it back together, Aluminium can, apparantly, be harder to weld back together. However, he was trying to sell me a carbon fibre bike! In theory, carbon fibre can be constructed so that the frame has different properties - stiff where it needs to be stiff, and more flexible where that would be required. It can give a smoother ride than aluminium. When it comes down to it though, I suspect you can get badly made frames out of either material! Can you try riding both models and see which you prefer? Edit: Here's a video of two frames being stress tested. Not the most scientific ever, but this particlar carbon frame takes more pubishment than that particular aluminium frame. Make of that what you will! $URL$ 

I've experienced wear on some of my cycling shorts before and after a while I traced it back to the velcro strap on my saddle bag. It was rubbing on the inside of my leg when i would pedal and wearing out a patch on my shorts. I don't know of any chamois creams that would cause that type of damage. Do you purchase quality or budget cycling shorts? I've certainly worn through cheap shorts pretty fast after only a few washings (i always wash cold and never dry). 

Similar to Matt Adams' suggestion, I'd go with Continental Gatorskins or Armidillo or other kevlar lined tires. Additionally, I'd suggest that you move to something a bit larger such as 25mm for commuting. This will provide you with a little more material to fend off glass and other debris. It'll also be a bit more comfortable of a ride for commuting. 22mm/23mm tires are mostly used for racing and are usually very soft and prone to picking up and holding on to debris like this. 

I'm in the process of upgrading a well loved 1970s steel frame from a downtube shifter system to a modern 'brifter' system. Through this process I've had to look at many disparate sources to get information from all over the internet. Generally, LBS have been rather sketchy about this - they'd rather sell me a new bike. I think it would be ideal if we could have one question under which we could address as many of the general problems & solutions that the process throws up, and maybe have a collection of resources that someone who wants to follow this process would be able to refer to for more specific problems. I'm going to provide an answer myself, once it's established that the question is valid! My question is: What potential issues will I need to consider when modernizing a pre-1990s steel frame? Please note, I am getting brifters. Answers which say 'you'd be better off staying with downtube shifters' are not helpful in the slightest. 

I'm looking for information about this frame- it's my trusty touring bike, and I've been gradually upgrading it - next up is to convert to 700c and a modern chainset (probably sora to keep costs down) The frame is a Falcon, and has a decal saying 'falcon' on it, but I can't find any information about falcons anywhere - no mention on Sheldon Brown of a falcon model, and scant information on Google. The frame is steel - 25 inch, lugged. It is pretty much the only original part of the bike! It was originally a 10speed, down tube shifters, rear indexed, front friction. So my questions: Can anyone give me an approximate date for the frame? Can anyone point me in the direction of a resource about falcons? Are they a well known brand? I'm thinking of getting the frame resprayed - is there anything I should bear in mind? . . 

You should definitely be careful with it, but at many races we employ the use of a pressure washer to do broad stroke cleaning like getting mud, grass, etc off the bike and tires. You need to be careful and use it from a little distance and obviously not get up close on the BB, hubs, etc. but it does a good job of initially cleaning or cleaning between races. After the race you should do more appropriate maintenance on the bike with degreaser and proper lubes. 

Most of the nicer courier bag/backpack companies don't do a zipper down the length of the bag because that creates a weak point for not only loss of contents, but water entry. Some will do laptop pouches, but if you're looking for a heavy duty courier bag it's slim pickings for external zippers into main compartments. The closest I came to finding something like what you're after is from either Crumpler that have some laptop sleeves and/or zippers to main compartments or Freight Baggage that have a smaller secondary compartment that is easily accessible. I looked at RELoad, Freight, Seagull, Bailey Works, Trash Bags, Banjo Brothers and some other smaller companies. 

Bottom Bracket: You will want to check what size your frame takes - in my case, British standard seems easy enough to find still. Some things don't change! You will want a BB which is compatible with whatever groupset you are putting on the bike. Handlebars: Some older handlebars won't take modern shifters/brake housings happily. You can convert from an old style 1 inch quill stem into a modern system with this bit of kit if you want to go that way. Cable routing: You might want a set of cable stops on the downtube, around where your shifters once were. These might require some additional brazing. The cable routing around the bottom bracket might also need some work - I got these done by a custom bike builder. It wasn't cheap, but peace of mind that I was getting everything necessary made up for that. 

I am building my first wheelset. The front wheel went without a hitch - nice and true both radially and laterally. However, the rear wheel has a pronounced (5mm) bulge over about 1/4 of it. The rest of the wheel is pretty much true. As far as I can tell, I should be tightening the spokes around the bulge area, but they're already significantly tighter than the rest of the wheel, and the bulge isn't coming out. What should I do at this point? Is it worth loosening the spokes everywhere else so that the rest of the rim settles out? Wouldn't that bring the spoke tension to be even less even? Thanks 

Get some bottle sleeves like these mesh bottle sleeves that they use at liquor stores. It'll quiet the noise and protect the bottles from breakage. Plus they are reusable. 

To answer your question, no. The leather/lorica/covering has no bearing on the shape of the saddle. They make a lot of versions of each design specifically for bike manufacturers with custom designed coverings in addition to their standard covering design. They make quite a few saddles with grooves, without grooves, with and without cutouts. It's not entirely clear which model this is from your image or description as they do not have an "SL" model on their current product listing. They do have an "SLR" line and the shape appears to be of the "SLR monolink" variety which has both a non groove and groove model within it. As stated above in the comments, it's best to go to your local shop and ask that if they do not have the item in stock, that they order one for you. Most will oblige because they can send items back if they are in unused condition. Some will ask for a deposit as a "holding" fee to ensure that you don't ask them to order a bunch of stuff and never come back.