I am looking at two opportunities with the same employer, either one I would be very good at. Should I apply to both? Or should I pick only one? I worry that applying to both makes me look like I'm wallpapering the internet with my resume, whereas if I apply to just one, I worry about missing out on the other opportunity if my qualifications come up short. 

He didn't have many connections, and I've also noted that none of his other connections have removed their links to him either. 

Simplify wherever possible. Address emails to specific people or peoples. Frame the questions as choices. 

I've tangled with this one many-a-time. It's a trade-off question. Do the benefits associated with gaining experience with the new firm on old technology outweigh the benefits associated with using the same technology with your current firm, or newer technology with a firm x after an assumed-to-be-arriving offer. This was always my answer: if you want to stay in development over the long-haul, try to get experience with newer technology; certainly do not regress. If, on the other hand, you want to move into management (or whatever), the value attached to working with the firm could potentially outweigh the benefits of working with newer technology. Be sure to accurately weigh the other implicit costs of joining the new firm, though. For example, a company that refuses to move beyond VB and ASP can't be that forward-looking of an organization. Getting into management with this firm might not be worth the costs of signing on. The reputation of the employer goes with you, wherever you go. I have personally found it difficult to sign on with an organization that wants to stick with old technology, simply because it would drive me crazy. PS- it might be bad form to actually name the company in these posts. 

The reason they ask these questions is because (in general), they'd like to know how to help you get to where you are going. Your best move is to speak in the vaguest of possible terms; ambiguity is your friend in this situation. For example, say your goal is to land a job in management with a $60k raise. The person giving you the review very likely knows that a position like that won't open up in the company until he or she is fired, retires or resigns, thus signaling to your reviewer that you are unlikely to stay in your current position much longer. How can you phrase that so that you get the benefits (e.g. training, conferences with networking opportunities) without jeopardizing your current situation? How about "grow into a recognized leader within our industry and company in the X function of the Y domain."? My point is that the less specific you are about the exact nature of your goals, the more likely you are to be able to leverage the benefits of enhanced focus on your career internally, but at the same time keep your options open without actually telling a falsehood. 

I think that the answer depends on how long you've been with your current company. Telling the truth doesn't mean elaborating upon all the available information. Any of the following are permissible, truthfully generic, and are open-ended enough that you can steer the conversation in a more-positive direction: 

I am in an almost identical boat as you. I just received a "raise" and a "promotion," but for my job title, I make about $45k less per annum then the average nationally, $35k less than peers in my region. Similarly, I am at the very end of a project that, within my organization, only I can do. I promised I would see this project through in Jan 2010. If I made a promise about finishing the project, why would I have spent the past year looking for new positions? When I promised that I would see the project through, my project schedule had me finishing in 6 months. But then my managers decided to step in and "help." I don't feel that, by looking for new positions, I have been unethical in the slightest. When you sign on to do a project and guarantee that you won't leave until said project is complete, you take on a whole bunch of career risk that wouldn't otherwise exist. This career risk has the potential to damage you. The incompetence of my managers stretched the project out from Jan 2010 to July 2012--much more time than I had been counting on. I wouldn't worry too much about references from the organization, either. Never once have I listed somebody as a reference that gave me a bad reference. When a future recruiter calls your current organization, due to the potential for law suits the only confirm the person's employment, dates of employment, and your salary (source). 

It's unlikely that the people actually doing the interview scheduling are going to care whether you appear dominant or flexible. I can't think of one interview I've ever been on where the person scheduling the interview was the person doing the interview. In general, if they have a range of open dates/times, I try to select one optimally around my schedule and personality. If you're a morning person and they have 3 openings where only one is in the morning, your best bet is to ask for that appointment. Honestly, though, they wouldn't give you the option to select a date/time if the date and time really mattered. My advice: Don't read too much into the details of stuff like this. 

PMI's years of experience requirement isn't necessarily PM-work, but years that you have been doing project-related work. This means that you can count contributions you've made on other projects towards the goal. If you've been doing project-related coding for the past 15 years, I'd be willing to bet that you have enough project-related experience to sit for the PMP exam. 

I subscribe to Steve Jobs' philosophy about innovation: it comes from having a lot of experiences and then being able to "connect the dots." Given that you have built up a number of experiences in the past year, I would view your experiences as an asset if I were on the other side of the table. I would expect that you'd a more nimble collaborator, and somebody I'd want to work with. I would also expect that your batteries be recharged, so I wouldn't have to worry about burn-out in the near future. Bottom-line: Give an honest answer! 

Unless s/he asks your opinion about the new co-op, let it go and don't say anything. This is because: 

I am looking for a career opportunity I am looking to grow in a new role I would like to gain experience in a different domain I need a change of scenery I need to relocate 

Linkedin profiles are too generic. Resumes should be prepared specific for a job. This is especially true the further up the ladder you are looking to go. An exec from a fortune 500 company (who also holds a PhD in business communications) once told me that she couldn't believe the volume of generic resumes she was seeing for a middle-management job that paid six figures. Prepping a custom-resume for a position makes you that much more attractive over the competition. It's one of the "little" things you can do to distinguish yourself from the pack. The bottom line: if you are looking to move into management or up the management ranks, do the custom resume. This means word doc, because Linkedin profiles aren't customizable. Other resume formats (i.e. PDFs generated by LaTeX-scripts) aren't desirable because most systems don't read PDFs well. 

Send an anonymous note to HR. There is all kinds of liability here. If it's anonymous, you won't have to deal with follow-up stuff, nobody will wait for you by your car after work with their baseball bats, and the company can deal with its liability issue. If HR doesn't find cause to fire the guy/gal, then you've done your part and can sleep at night. 

I have both an MBA and PMP certification. One component of the PMP certification is the ability to add the letters "PMP" after your name. The MBA is a degree, and I thought that adding "MBA" after my name might seem kind of a reach. Since that time, numerous people who I respect (including some of the faculty at my business school) have added the MBA letters after their name, also as if it were a credential. On the one hand, Ph.D. is a degree that is also used as a credential. I also have seen people with masters degrees do the same thing, but I've never seen somebody use a BA or a BS as a credential. I have 3 degrees, an MBA, an MA and a BS. Should I use MBA and MA? Neither and stick with the PMP? How much is too much?!? What is good form here? I am changing jobs in a few weeks, and I am going to need to have new business cards made up (as well as an overall update of my LinkedIn profile), and I want to make sure that I leverage all of my skills and abilities for potential clients researching the company, but I also don't want to do anything "phony."