See further Ethics, I, Proposition 17, Scholium : Spinoza, Ethics, tr. G.H.R. Parkinson, Spinoza : Ethics, Oxford : OUP, 2000, 91-3. ▻ FREEDOM AND EVIL 'If men were born free, they would form no conception of good and bad [evil] as long as they were free' : Si homines liberi nascerentur, nullum boni, et mali formarent conceptum, quamdiu liberi essent. Reference below. 

Rhetoric, III.18.6, 1419b2-5 is the background text here. We'll see in a minute that Aristotle makes a direct reference to irony. 

Aristotle's ideas about final causation apply to all organisms. The basic notions are those of a nature (phusis) and a potential for change (dunamis). For instance, an acorn has a nature (phusis), an essence : it is the nut of an oak tree and it has an internal structure common and distinctive to organisms of its specific kind. It also has the potential for change (dunamis) and that potential is to change according to an intrinsic developmental pattern of organic growth until it reaches a state of maturity as an oak tree. If we consider this process we see that the acorn has no end-state imposed on it by any larger system to which it is subordinate. It is a part of the (sub-lunary) cosmos but the cosmos does not design it to develop as it does into an oak tree or assign any goal to it. The acorn simply is what it is, an organism with an essential nature, capable of change and actually changing by a normal developmental pattern into an oak tree. Nor are its nature and potential created by a designer. The Aristotelian God (theos) does not intervene in the world. It is pure thought thinking about pure thought. Certainly in Aristotle's grand teleology everything tries to imitate the perfection of God as best it can but this explains nothing in particular and we can bracket it out for present purposes. The acorn has an end-state 'intrinsically, in a non-derivative way' by virtue of its essential nature, its potential for change and its normal developmental pattern as the kind of organism it is. What is true of the acorn is equally true of the human being. A human being (generally a male citizen !) has an essential nature (phusis). Its ergon or proper work is to exercise its reason both theoretically and practically. This means acquiring and exercising the ethical and the intellectual virtues enumerated and specified in Nicomachean Ethics, III-VI. One of the intellectual virtues, practical wisdom (phronesis), needs the sphere of political participation and responsibility for its fullest development. This consideration plus the fact that the acquisition and exercise of the ethical and intellectual virtues requires the educational social context of the city-state (polis) find expression in Aristotle's description of 'man' (sic) as a 'political animal' (zōon politikon) at Politics 1278b 19. Hope this helps. Add a comment if you need more information. Larga vida a Aristóteles. 

INTENDED CONSEQUENCES I decide to kill X. I administer a lethal dose of poison to X in order to kill her. The consequence is that X dies. X's death is an intended consequence of my administering the lethal dose. FORESEEN BUT UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES Y is in great pain and is in a condition of terminal illness. On the best calculations, Y has two days to live. I may administer a pain killer which I foresee will as a side effect cause Y's death in two hours. But Y's death is not something I intend to bring about. Y's death is unintended in the sense that I do not aim to cause Y's death; I merely foresee it as the unintended (unaimed for) consequence of what I do intend to do, and do intentionally, namely remove Y's pain. 

1 They are assuming that if the global warming theory is correct, only a particular causal outcome is to be expected, namely and crudely that everything and everywhere warms up, there are universal rises in temperature. It's a brutally simple application of modus tollens : i. If p then q ii. not-q iii. Therefore : not-p If there is global warming (p) then there are universal rises in temperature (q) There are not universal rises in temperature (or we wouldn't have major unexpected snowfalls) (not-q) Therefore there is not global warming (not-p) 2 This misrepresents the global warming theory which does not hold that there are universal rises in temperature but only that there is a general and persistent rise in average temperatures. 3 That aside, what this type of argument plainly and slightly infuriatingly omits is that global warming involves multiple causal mechanisms by which a general global warming can cause local downgrades in temperature. I am not sure if there is a specific term for the kind of false reasoning you describe but there does seem to be an error of over-simplified causation. 

Evolutionary psychology does not assume that evolution has produced or will produce the best of all possible worlds. Evolution has simply produced the world we have. If random variation has been at work, the resulting world is not even deterministically necesssary, let alone best. Voltaire brilliantly caricatures Leibniz in excluding evil from the world but God may have perfectly sufficient reason to leave evil in the world. The divine plan is not intelligible to us, or need not be. This is not a plea for theism, deism, Christianity or any other religious position; I am simply setting out a logical possibility reflecting what I believe is widely taken to be our rather limited knowledge of the mind of whatever God, if any, exists. 

If this conveys the central idea, one wonders how reasonable it is. Aristotle says in Nicomachean Ethics, I.3, that 'Our discussion will be adequate if it has as much clearness as the subject-matter admits of; for precision is not to be sought for alike in all discussions, any more than in all the products of the crafts' (Barnes, 'The Complete Works of Aristotle', Princeton : Princeton University Press, 1984, 2, p.1730.) Aristotle clearly recognises that one cannot reasonably expect or require the same rigorous standard of proof from an orator as one can from a mathematician. Equally he himself cannot offer the same degree of rigour in discussing ethical topics as he uses in setting out his logical theory : the subject-matter does not allow it. Precision and rigour have to be relativised, indexed, to subject-matter. If this is so then the requirement of epistemic parity does not appear reasonable. But you mainly wanted to know what epistemic parity is. This I hope I have indicated clearly. As to your rider, if the pluralist endorses epistemic parity in the particular field of religion, and not across the piece, then s/he should apply the same standards of proof or argument to one faith as to another. This need not mean that the two faiths will score equally by the relevant standards, since one may have epistemic merits that that the other lacks : mertis e.g. of consistency, comprehensiveness, clarity, economy of assumptions, &c. 

The philosophers, who would rather follow a life of contemplation of the Forms, return to the Cave and govern the city since this is an obligation they owe to the kallipolis (the ideal polis) which has educated them or at least created the conditions for their education. This altruism, this regard for the interests of others, namely the non-philosophers, is required of the philosophers and accepted by them. It is also true that the philosophers have a prudential or self-interested reason for governing the city - for returning to the Cave - since if they do not rule, government of the city will pass to others less competent, even to the enemies of philosophy. Can one be too altruistic ? Yes, in two respects. 

What your extremely interesting considerations show is that total war is never a rational choice. It is never an optimific choice. Or rather that it has never been an optimific choice in the past. 'Past performance is no guarantee of future results' - investment bankers are right at least about that. There's always the possibility that next time it will pay off. Assume, however, that total war is not a rational choice. It can still be chosen, freely, by agents whose rationality is limited or bounded. There are constraints on the mental capacity of decision-makers. A decision-maker may not be able to consider the alternatives to total war, or realise the consequences of total war, or have full and accurate information about the military and economic resources or determination of the other side. It is also possible that total war, though recognised by a decision-maker as a bad option all else equal, all else may not be equal : total war may present itself as the only available option to dissuade the other side from continuing its resistance or attack. Total war may be undertaken on the assumption that the other side will 'blink first'. In light of this, total war suggests not limited free will but limited or bounded rationality. This is not to dismiss your ideas but to switch your perspective away from limited free will and towards limited rationality as a rival and perhaps more plausible explanation of total war. [I'm not sure that the idea of 'limited free will' is in good order. At least it needs scrutiny. I should have said that at a time or in a respect one has free will or one doesn't. But I don't press the matter since, as I suggested above, I think limited rationality rather than free will is the key to your problem.] 

☛ Dialectics So much for materialism. Where does 'dialectical' fit in ? The story is roughly as follows. There are objective conditions of human life which belong to a world of nature independent of consciousness [thesis]. We confront this world with our needs and other purposes [antithesis] and transform it through labour into into objects of production that satisfy needs or serve other human purposes [synthesis]. This process generates tensions and contradictions in social life; new technologies of production generate different patterns of ownership, which create social and economic inequalities. Classes emerge, rise and fall. The ultimate synthesis will be the domination of a single class whose victory will create a classless society in which the full potential of human creativity will be released. That's the picture. Don't try to read off my own views. ▻ PRACTICAL APPLICATION (1) - EX POST FACTO DESCRIPTION Human history can be read in the way described but DM appears to have little if any predictive value. Everything that happens can be interpreted in line with it. DM could be totally true yet not be able, as it was not able, to forecast the new technologies of the late 20th and early 21st centuries and the resultant social and economic changes. That we can after the event describe what has happened in DM terms hardly confers much value on it. Like an autopsist it can explain why the patient died but not how long s/he would live. ▻ PRACTICAL APPLICATION (2) - FALSE TELEOLOGY Even if DM had predictive power, it grafts a teleology on to history which it can't really justify. Since we can't predict inventions, hence new technology, then we can't predict new patterns of ownership. Hence we can't predict what social classes will emerge into dominance. There is no guarantee, whatever Marx may have thought to the contrary, that the end-point of history - or the start of 'truly human' history - will be the emergence of a class that will abolish all classes. 

I don't think a fallacy is involved. A fallacy is (a) a type of invalid argument which is (b) so common and so easily leads people into error that it is given a name : the fallacy of hasty generalisation, for instance, or the fallacy of the false dilemma. (a) is definitional, (b) - the naming - just a handy way of identifying a familiar type of invalid argument. There is substance in your question, though. In your example we are invited or induced to infer from behaviour to motive. A philanthropist is someone whose motivation is, usually through large donations or gifts of money, 'to promote the happiness and well-being of one's fellow people' (Oxford English Dictionary). All we know of your Mr X (or Ms Y) is that they have made large donations or gifts of money which probably will benefit other people. Why they have done is, who knows ? But the media coverage and clichéd description, 'philanthropist', invites the inference : 'gave money, therefore motivated to promote the happiness and well-being of others'. No such motivation may be present. 

I assume you want to live. If you don't answer, you will certainly die. So you should answer. If you do answer (without knowledge in the time available) then you have no rational reason to prefer one binary answer over the other but have a 50% chance of giving the right answer whichever you choose. So choose one answer randomly. If you gain the requisite knowledge in the time available, there is no problem. If you survive, try to avoid such situations in future ;)- 

Mauro Allegranza's recommendation is spot on. I would add Daniel C. Dennett's Intuition Pumps (2013) - 'intuition' refers to nothing spooky. He just means that thought experiments can generate good ideas as well as show up faults in bad ones. As a mathematician you might enjoy Edwin Abbott's Flatland, which employs the thought experiment of a two-dimensional world. Historically, Descartes' Meditation 1 (only about four pages) is one of the most celebrated thought experiments in the history of philosophy. Present-day a favourite thought experiment with philosophers is Hilary Putnam's 'Brains in a vat' : $URL$ Just as influential is Thomas Nagel's 'What is it like to be a bat ?' I don't think there's an online version of this but there's a good account on You Tube : $URL$ A hand of welcome from philosophy to mathematics ! 

REFERENCES Marcel Lieberman, 'The Limits of Comparison: Kant and Sartre on the Fundamental Project', History of Philosophy Quarterly, Vol. 14, No. 2 (Apr., 1997), pp. 207-217. Thomas Baldwin, 'The Original Choice in Sartre and Kant', Proceedings of the Aristotelian Society, New Series, Vol. 80 (1979 - 1980), pp. 31-44 Wesley K. H. Teo, 'Self-Responsibility in Existentialism and Buddhism', International Journal for Philosophy of Religion, Vol. 4, No. 2 (Summer, 1973), pp. 80-91. 

'However, if you know someone wishes to kill you, but has not been given an opportunity to do so just yet, would it be unethical if you found and killed that person first yourself?' I think all that follows is that one is justified in preventing or in trying to prevent the other person from killing you. Whether in order to achieve this purpose it is necessary to kill the other person is a specific question not settlable apart from a context - not indicated in the question. Good question, though. 

(Cited in more complete form in Achim Stephan, 'Armchair Arguments against Emergentism', Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 46, No. 3 (May, 1997), 305-314 : 308.Also see Kim reference below. The question and the problem are : do emergent properties have new and irreducible causal powers ? If they do, then this is one argument against reductionism. If they don't then this argument against reductionism fails but another might succeed. Whether and which if any emergent properties have new and irreducible causal powers seem not to be a philosophical but empirical issues. References Kim, J.: 1993b, 'The Nonreductivist's Troubles with Mental Causation', in J. Heil and A. Mele (eds.), Mental Causation, Clarendon Press, Oxford, 189-210; reprinted in J. Kim: 1993, Supervenience and Mind, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 36-357. Stephan, Achim, 'Armchair Arguments against Emergentism', Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 46, No. 3 (May, 1997), 305-314.