It is just to make the game run faster. Why would a team need to do something during a dead-ball situation? 

** And this has nothing to do with multiple fouls on one play but how about multiple fouls on a drive? You know that if the Ravens have the ball at the 50 with 7 mins to play, they can keep running run plays up the middle, but always line up with illegal formation (6 guys on the line). Play runs, defense takes the 5 yards, clock keeps ticking, next play runs, defense takes the yards, clock keeps ticking... and so on. This mess doesn't stop until the 2 min mark. Someone will do this soon. 

They do now. The Rams are back. They didn't because fans chose to go to the beach and mountains vs football games. They also wouldn't publicly back buying a stadium for an owner. 

A player is consulted with before designated to I.R. They could have a long fingernail and be put on I.R. as long as both sides agree. A player can file a grievance if they feel they are not injured. From there the player would have to pass a physical by league. The team would have to reinstate player, move player to practice squad or cut player. If the player gets moved to practice squad every team has the ability to pick them up if they will move the player to their starting roster. Some teams put players on I.R. vs cutting player simply to make sure no one else can use him. Now if a team cuts a player, they might have salary cap or contract issues to face. If the player has guaranteed money it will all go to next year's cap. The player might also have guarantees on annual compensation. So then you would be cutting someone you will pay fully anyways. You might want the player around to see how he looks during rehab. Last thing you want is to have a need at his position and wonder what he was doing the past 8 months. Also a few other things to consider. When a team cuts a player, they may lose overall good will in the league. No one (agents too) wants to sign a contract with a small bonus knowing that this team likes to cut players. So the move could potentially cost the team. Another factor is that if a player was hurt, no matter how small, and they are cut then there are usually some legal issues. Basically the two sides have to come together for an injury settlement. This happens a few times a year at least but pushes bad will out on both sides. The team looks like they are casting off the injured and the player looks bad for collecting money for no play. The truth is IR is a bit of a joke. The new rule allowing for a couple of short term IR exceptions helped but IR still is a joke. Some rosters are loaded. So teams that want to keep a players rights throw them on IR - player agrees so he doesn't get cut. It is kind of like a redshirt year. Also on really bad teams you might have little to no depth at a position. Well you can only have so many inactives... well now a guy out for 4-5 weeks is gone all year. The rules were put in place - short inactive list, 53 man roster, IR rules - so that teams couldn't hoard borderline players and so that talent was better dispersed. To a point the rules might help a little but IR is used more for circumvention. 

Yes you could put a slot in motion to guess man defense but this would be akin to reading the knuckles of offensive lineman to guess run or pass. 

Although the other answers are right in that things are that way because of rules they don't really tell you why - or at least correctly. 

Now if the play is a staple of your offense your team may just give it a nickname. One of the schools I was at simply called this "pro-right/left chuck or dive". The players knew the play call based on the nickname. I actually remember the FB coming over to me asking me if he should motion on the "chuck or dive". Which then we went over several scenarios on when he should or shouldn't motion and it was basically his option... unless he saw the not motion hand signal. Back to your question. Learning a playbook is really only rocket science for QBs. They have to know all of the terminology for every position. If you have a dumb QB you better pick 5-10 plays and create an option off that and go with that. Each player is only worried about their part generally. I would expect a player to be able to run any play after 3-4 practices without much of a problem. Your smart players will learn everything through repetition in a couple of weeks. I love it when a tackle smacks a receiver on the back of the head and tells him to run the right route and it happens all the time. Really learning a playbook is only super complex at the pro-level. And then it is only really hard if you are just thrown into new terminology. See in general a high school will have a pretty easy playbook. When a player gets to college it will be a lot harder and a lot different. The player adjusts through repetition and generally they use the same system their entire time at college (I know this isn't always true for bigtime college amidst coaching carousel). So really no big deal for players. QBs might have a tough time at first but that is why not many freshman QBs start. Now pro terminology might be sort of close to college - because a lot of the NFL players came from bigtime colleges with pro concepts on offense. So rookies may be in for a shock because the are learning the same thing in a different way. As a college player you learned "how to speak" and now you go to the NFL and someone is telling you that green tomatoes are now tomate verde. Just like a language certain terminology that you used is mixed in but there are new things, so things do get confusing. And then the pros have one more thing to add on to that. They can be traded from team to team and every team will have a slightly different dialect or speak its own language. So how hard is it to learn a playbook? At pee-wee through most colleges you will learn 80% of the playbook concepts in one week and be fine if you are average intellect. The hard part isn't learning the play. The hard part is remember your task on the play in question when you are out of breathe and just had your ass handed to you. I find that 90% of the "Responsibilities" errors come from mental mistakes of forgetting than it is from a player not knowing. And if a player doesn't know it is generally the coaches fault for playing him there - I would "quiz" my players all practices and throw them some booby trap play calls.