I understand you want a hard-science answer that will be consistent with our world-history until about WWII. In this alternate reality of yours the main difference is that what we call consciousness is not something that is emergent from the complexities in our brains, but rather an other that you are calling a spirit. I will propose an alternate history where the consciousness does not come from our physical brains, but from something else. In the Beginning When life fist evolved, let us say that at the very small end of the scale a lot of very important things were happening. Organic Molecules were forming as well as RNA, DNA, and their like. But let's also say that at the same time something else was forming - Spirit Molecules. Connected together by quantum string fluctuations, the development of our Organic Molecules were mirrored in higher dimensions by Spirit Molecules. This tethering by quantum string fluctuations would eventually evolve into what we know as the spirit. It is connected to the physical world, since it evolved alongside our Organic Molecules, it's like a strange mirror, where one side is the physical world, and the other the spirit. But these spirit Molecules are tethered to the physical, Organic Molecules. Over a Long, Long, Long Time As time passes, and life gets more complex, so too do these spirit Molecules which are a form of information/energy/life - that exists, but not like Organic Molecules do, since it exists in what we shall call now a spirit plane and not our physical world. At some point, when some life got more complex, with nervous systems and brains and their high concentrations of information and energy. So too did the spirit plane experience this increase in complexity as spirit Molecules evolved as well. History This connection between the spirit plane and our physical world, the Organic Molecules and the spirit Molecules is something that form the outside looks exactly like our history, but we know the truth, which is that the Organic Molecules that make up life, are not capable of controlling it, they, like simple algae and plants, just react. It is the spirit Molecules, the entities that developed alongside us in the spirit plane that have a consciousness. But they do not have a way to experience the physical world without us, being tethered to their physical bodies, the spirit Molecules have evolved in a different way to us, but they are merged with our Organic Molecules, tethered together, and so they evolve as we evolve, subtly influencing each other. But together, as is were, it is indistinguishable from our own reality. Humans do not know they are comprised of spirit molecules, or that their physical shells are just meat suits. Discovery Discovery of this would be very interesting, since you want history to be pretty much exactly the same until about WWII. It would have to be a recent discovery. Meaning it may not be totally accepted by all, it might be controversial, and not everyone will even know about it. What a spirit can and can't do on it's own, how a person could even access that aspect of their own existence, is a question I can't answer. But I would say it would probably draw on the "mystical" and the "pseudoscience" for answers. 

So, it could be that due to changing circumstances, melting of the poles, rising tides, hotter temperature, heavier buildings, runoff sewage, bad city planning, tectonic movements, earthquakes, or even all of the above have caused a city, or some cities to start sinking. And slowly, slowly, only the tops of the tallest towers remain. 

In order to maintain the secret from the "public" The government would need to either isolate these people involved in the chain of the "new" technology, or "include" them in the secret and swear them to secrecy. This would probably be the first thing to happen. Once the "new" technology would be released to the "public" a cover story would need to be created. This cover story would need to include a lot of false evidence and constant care would need to be given to maintain the cover story in case of journalists or curious people looking into it. Likely, that would mean that anyone getting to close to the information would need to be "removed" from the public or included in the secret and sworn to secrecy. Assuming that all those sworn to secrecy, involved in the project, or that know about the "stolen" technology would be loyal, and that those who would not be loyal would be "dealt with". You could maintain this cover story for a long time, perhaps indefinitely. However, once the "war" happens and the troops using the "new" technology would notice the enemy is using the same technology you would have a problem. There are not many choices for how the enemy would have the same technology. Either they stole it, or we stole it. The only real cover story then can be that the enemy stole the "new" technology. Since it would be unreasonable to say that the enemy must have developed the same technology on their own. In order to keep this hidden, it would mean that a policy of no prisoners would need to be maintained. Total annihilation of the enemy would be required, as well as all information and technology they had, especially manufacturing plants and scientists who would actually know the process and history of these technologies. The government would likely need to initiate many strange policies for their soldiers - commanding them not to talk to enemies, shooting them on sight, not taking prisoners, or other actions which break Geneva Convention Rules. In other words, by the war, the USA would become a tyrannical government with secret police, people disappearing, not adhering to universal laws, and genocidal policies. But hey, at least it would be a secret. 

This would of course, need to be a very large version of this plant. And perhaps with a stronger "shell" that would resemble wood. Artisans and craftsmen could take these plants, and shape them by carving, and by nailing other bits of wood, and attaching metal bars and beams, locks, and latches - until they looked like chests. Essentially, these would be plants that have been decorated, masked, or otherwise disguised as chests. And these plants naturally want to eat people. These creatures would be very comfortable simply sitting in the dirt, and it could go well to explain how they can be found hidden in long-forgotten dungeons. There are certainly no lack of examples from our world of very large plants, of plants that live for a long time, or plants that don't need much sunlight. A combination of these characteristics, inside a fantasy world, would make this a very plausible and realistic explanation of where these creatures come from. With a prolific aristocracy, they would be very numerous. 

But these don't hold water. Here are some examples: There are The Ten City-Kingdoms of Cyprus which are essentially City-States but called Kingdoms. There is the Neo-Sumerian Empire which was basically a City-State. And The Holy Roman Empire which Voltaire himself famously claimed was "neither holy, nor roman, nor an empire". So, What gives? 

I am going to focus this question. I believe the question is specifically about keeping the "public" from knowing that technology was stolen from somewhere external as opposed to developed internally. If we are talking about the Modern United States, then we can make some assumptions. 

Instead of the land rising, why doesn't the city fall? There are many examples of sinkholes and sinking buildings. The most famous is the tower of Pisa. But there is also a modern version in the Millennium Tower. The tower of Pisa is cited as behaving in the following way: 

So in my fantasy world I have a river that is in the shape of a perfect circle if viewed from above. Lets say the diameter of the interior is about 10 km, and the width would be wide at about 200 meters. So a small city could exist in and around the river. The river is magically powered such that it has a constant current that flows through it at a consistent strength. It also magically feeds itself, such that water taken from the river would be normal water, but the river would never run dry. The river can be utilized for many things, such as powering machines with waterwheels. But that can be done on any river. I am looking for ingenious, special uses for a river that feeds back into itself. For instance, in this river you could drop something into it, and it would eventually come back to you - something that is impossible in a normal river. Since this is a fantasy world with magical elements, some magic exists, but it's not a heavy magical world, as such this river is a very special location and I want it to have a very special touch. The societies in the world may have basic industrial elements like gears, waterwheels, mills, etc. But not steam-power or electricity. How could this river be utilized in a clever and special way that a normal river can not be utilized in?