I think the latter can be directly rebutted. Atheists could have an externally-delivered "fixed moral center" from a source other than a religious text, for instance: 

The proof must have been carried out in some kind of formal system, otherwise it's not so much a proof as a persuasive argument. So, we have a proof in some system of the statement 1 + 1 != 2. Philosophers in the subject of logic, and mathematicians, would look closely at the details of this proof. Since all formal systems that anyone is interested in prove the opposite of this statement, also proving this statement demonstrates that whatever system was used, is inconsistent. So that system could no longer be used for serious work. Therefore, logicians would have learned something extremely important about that particular logical system, and they would want to know what other systems the same technique will prove inconsistent. The universe could not be "thrown into chaos" unless one believes in some kind of (dare I say it: magical?) effect by which the motion of stars in the Andromeda galaxy is significantly affected by what markings you make on a piece of paper on Earth. A solipsist might, I suppose, believe that the universe is sustained solely by their personal belief in logical consistency, and hence that the universe would be fundamentally altered by their reading this proof. Most people have enough faith in the existence of an external reality, not to believe that the universe has any interest in what proofs humans do or do not produce. I expect that philosophers not interested in logic and formal proof systems would mostly ignore the result, at least until the logicians explained to them exactly under what conditions they (the non-logicians) are actually using the same flawed system that proves 1 + 1 != 2, and therefore what reasoning it is they need to stop using. Of course it also depends to an extent on what you mean by disproving that 1 + 1 = 2. One might imagine a "physical proof" rather than a formal logical one. If you mean that someone has proven that they can place one orange in an empty bowl, and then place another orange in the same bowl, and no other oranges have been added or removed, and that the bowl now contains some number of oranges other than 2, you might say they've proved 1 + 1 != 2. But everyone's expectation is that actually, some kind of previously-unknown physical process involving oranges is involved. So while you've discovered something that really changes our notions of the nature of reality, that's not because of the "most fundamental equation" being logically wrong, it's because oranges (or physical objects in general) apparently don't obey arithmetic any more, and therefore the equation is no longer applicable to them. Naturally, this would be extremely troubling, because humans rely all the time on being able to count things, and so human society might well be throw into chaos. 

It has been pointed out that the distinction between surplus value and profit is the crucial issue here. I will elaborate on what that means in relation to the original question. 

A clear sociological conception of descrimination makes this ethical question similarly clear, almost trivial. Bias is universal, but descrimination is very culturally specific. Discrimination is a systematic bias which impacts the life chances of the members of a specific social group. If some employers of a certain kind are biased toward men and others of the same kind are biased toward women, whatever ethical arguments you may want to make about that, it's not what most of us mean when we say that descrimination is a significant problem. Bias becomes harmful when it becomes discriminatory, that is, systematic enough to have a measurable and unequal outcome on things that matter to members of the affected group. If any number of women in general would prefer to earn more income, and a pattern of descrimination is a key factor preventing this, then there is reason to see this as descrimination, and therefore objectionable. Knowing or not knowing is clearly irrelevant here. It's the impacts that matter. A law forcing women and only women to wear headscarves is discriminatory and wrong to whatever extent there are women with a substantive reason to value their right not to wear headscarves. But also take note... A law banning headscarves in a society where some women feel it is their obligation to wear one is equally harmful, if not even more so. Whether the people affected realize that the law is discriminatory is not at all relevant, unless it's the abstract idea of discrimination itself they are upset about. (This assumes there is no substantive argument to say that such a law is justified despite its discriminatory impacts.) 

The argument you want to rebut seems to come in two parts, the second of which doesn't get much attention from your idealised religious person: 

To add more context, this quotation is his response to the situation he's chosen to consider in this section of his essay. "Whenever I go into a foreign country or a prison or any similar place they always ask me what is my religion". The difficulty here is not about his beliefs, it's about how he can accurately answer that question when posed by some official or other. So, he's not changing his beliefs, he's changing the label he uses when describing his beliefs to different audiences. Russell assumes that to a philosophical audience the word "atheist" means "a person whose beliefs entail the non-existence of God", whereas "agnostic" means "a person who thinks there is no conclusive argument for or against the existence of God" (he explicitly states here that he thinks there is no conclusive argument against God. He has let it go without saying that he thinks there's no conclusive argument for God either). Therefore, to a philosophical audience he uses the word "agnostic" to describe his beliefs. He can't present a proof of God's non-existence from his own priors, which is what a "pure philosophical audience" would understand by the word "atheist". Then, Russell assumes that to the ordinary man in the street, "atheist" means "a person who does not believe in God". By this definition, Russell is an atheist, since "God exists" is not among his beliefs. Basically he's advocating talking to people in their own language rather than getting too hung up on the proper philosophical definitions at all times. Therefore that there's no contradiction in describing himself as an agnostic in one context and an atheist in another. In particular he sees no contradiction in publicly describing himself as an atheist and nevertheless believing that one cannot prove the non-existence of God. By raising the Olympian Gods as an example I think he is also teasing those who want to draw what he believes to be an overly-pedantic distinction between agnosticism and atheism. He asserts (rightly or wrongly) that there are many things other than the Christian God in which we don't believe, and which if absolutely pressed we would acknowledge can't be disproved either, but we don't go around in everyday life saying that we're agnostic on the subject. 

Indeed, the thinking activity of a reflective person presupposes such a 'reflective person'. What I observe is that there are certain attributes or characteristics in words, words like 'think', 'articulate', 'summarize', 'deduce' are mainly applied to human-beings. If 'think'(subjectively) is privileged to human beings, then 'thinking' along will prove the existence of someone, if not 'I'. If these words are not only applicable to human, that some animals also possess such capabilities, there is also one distinction of human beings from animals, that is the power of subjective initiation and the 'awareness of such initiation'(self-consciousness). When someone uttered 'I', he is already using both of the attributes, that it is impossible for us not to think but simultaneously initiatively utter 'I', hence it is sufficient as proof of the existence of 'I', and thus 'think' is surplus or as a further elaboration for 'I'. It seems to me that both 'there is thinking activity, therefore someone'(if thinking is privileged to human beings, and uttering such sentence is a think activity) or 'I, I am'(with the recognition, self-awareness of 'I' and such recognition entails thinking activity in the broadest sense) are both sufficient to prove existence of at least something, and the latter is sufficient to prove the existence of 'I'. Is it valid? 

I think the writer is quoting the original text from the chapter "Essentials for Nurturing Life"" (in Chinese 養生主). At the beginning of this chapter, Zhuangzi says (since I don't have an English translation, I just put my literal translation and some understanding here) our life is limited, and knowledge isn't. If we get ourselves addicted into knowledge (actually Zhuangzi, or the Taoist doctrine, resists all types of addiction and we shall not be bound by anything. So in my opinion, in Zhuangzi's sense, we may still be fully liberated if our mind is not attached to anything, and if one daoist believer cannot attain liberation due to the imprisonment, he can just suicide), then our spirit (I don't use mind since mind requires us to be rational, and it seems to me spirit in Zhuangzi's term requires us to be consciously liberal rather than rational) cannot be liberated and it would be dangerous to our life (in the spiritual sense. Chinese people may say your life is pointless or fruitless if you live a restrained life that you can't liberate your spirit). So in this sense, one living such a life is not wise as well. This might be why the writer of wiki Zhuangzi uses "foolish". 

In my view, the labor theory of value hasn't been dis-proven so much as it has simply fallen out of favor, for essentially practical reasons. It is helpful to make the distinction between price and value, or to use Marx's terms, between exchange-value (the amount something is worth in money terms) and value (the average amount of labor time socially necessary to produce it). In theory, the relative prices of commodities in general result from their respective values. In reality, when we are talking about specific kinds of commodities, things get more complicated. The high price of a diamond or a Picasso painting may not correspond to their value, but those are not typical cases. There are different ways of addressing such exceptions that have been debated, particularly among Marxian discussions of the transformation problem. But with this in mind, its also not difficult to see the real reason that labor theories of value in general have fallen out of favor. If you properly understand what is meant by the labor theory of value, you will quickly see that it is very difficult (perhaps impossible) to empirically measure the value of anything. In contrast, we have mountains of data about prices. So, economic theory in the twentieth century has increasingly worked its way around value in the classical sense, not so much disproveing its existence as finding a way to live without it. Modern economics shows us that studying prices instead of their underlying values can be relatively useful. Marxists and others who defend the labor theory could counter, however, that where economists have failed (e.g. their inability to predict of financial crises) it is precisely because the underlying essence of value is still human labor. Finally I would emphasize that Smith, Ricardo and Marx each developed their own theories of value. In that sense, I do not think that sweeping, general critiques of "the labor theory of value" in the singular make a whole lot of sense. Ricardo built on and critiqued Smith, rejecting parts of his theory, while Marx did the same to both of the other two. These theories are each quite different and I haven't seen a convincing, general critique that really applies to all three.