Talk to her. Don't ask about the weight gain. If you don't feel like you know her job well enough to do a good job when she's out, that's enough reason to ask to shadow her for a day or two, pick her brain, etc. Even if she's not pregnant or planning to be out, people do go on vacation for a week or two from time to time, get in catastrophic accidents, or have long term illnesses. My boss was suddenly diagnosed with cancer and has been out since December and will probably be out for another four months. You don't know how much I wish I'd asked to learn more about what he does before he got sick. If she's the one interacting with customers, you should be able to step in (relatively) seamlessly, so part of your job is knowing hers. Please, do yourself a favor - see if you can meet to learn what she does! 

As a new mom, I've felt very lucky to have a workplace that makes no complaints about my need to pump and that has a room for that purpose. Unfortunately, that room is attached to the first aid room (which requires a key) and, today, I found a woman in the lactation space who said she wasn't feeling well and was trying to find a place to rest for a bit. Since the room is specifically for lactation usage, I had no issues telling her that I needed the space and I let her know that I would be finished in about a half hour. I didn't want to make someone already feeling unwell feel unwelcome but I'm concerned about transfer of whatever is making her feel poorly to me and to my baby. I'm generally not an overly germ-conscious person and I know that many women don't even have the facilities that I do... but is it unreasonable for me to talk to our administration staff about preventing people who are sick from being in the lactation room? I don't think there are any legal requirements that the room must be only for lactation purposes. 

I have been working with an external recruitment agency (they don't represent one company in particular). The other day a recruiter contacted me with a job opening they needed to fill quickly. He asked how much I make at my current job and I'm pretty sure he just added a small amount to it and say that's what the new company pays. I kind of thought the recruiter was "on my side" but I guess it's in their interest to find the lowest cost candidates to fill a position for a company? Should current pay or salary expectations be given to recruiters at all? I normally wouldn't give it to an internal recruiter of a particular company but I guess external is the same. In my area it seems the use of external recruitment agencies is very popular. On one hand they act like they are there to help you get a job, on the other hand they are assessing your skills to see if you would fit the position. I find it hard to tell whether to let recruiters know about my weaknesses so they can help prepare me for the interview, or if I should treat speaking to them like an interview itself and only highlight my strengths. 

This is a follow up to Is it necessary to focus immediately when entering tech industry, and if so how? I've just graduated and a lot of people ask me what area I'm into. I do not know the answer to this question. Right now I'm into IT and development but often times they want me to be more specific. I just went to a couple networking events and everyone said "back end or front end" when I said I'm into development. In school we had to do everything for yourself, so that is back end and front end. I had a co-op where I wrote a program for scientists and it parsed an XML input file, so would this be front end? Is there a clear distinction between back end and front end? Also some people think developers are in the IT department; I always thought they were separate? I know different people use words differently and different companies have different structures, but in networking events and interviews it wasn't a good response "what do you consider a front end developer?" when they asked which area of development I'm into. 

I had got good salary offer and position from this MNC company from different city than I'm in currently. However I got Counteroffer + Retention Bonus from my current employer and I have taken the decision to stay here. Reason of holding back with current employer is because I have lot of job hops in my resume (No of years = No of job hops) also I'm comfortable staying with the current employer. But I'm confused that how should I approach new employer to inform this decision without burning bridge with this new employer and Should I inform thru email and wait for them to notice OR call the HR inform him and then formally tell the same on email? Just for information if this matters, we have 2 months of notice period in my region and it's been 20 days since I have accepted the offer. 

I wanted to know how to deal and negotiate with new employer regarding joining date and required leaves few days after joining. I tried all i can with my current employer to not get notice period extended but now it seems to get the relieving letter and F&F, etc i have to serve extended days and also for easy transition of work handover. Current notice period is 2months. Extension is of 10 days. Problem 1: If i get relieved under extended notice days then i would get no break between job change and have to join from next working days. I had given tentative dates keeping buffer days for getting break but seems my notice period has gone even ahead of the kept buffer period. Problem 2: I will need two leaves after joining new company within next 2 weeks for exams of distance learning program i am pursuing ( they already they know about my pursuance but not about upcoming exam of the course and i came to know the schedule of exam today itself) Update regarding extension of notice period The key person who had to conclude exit date was busy in his personal matters and then in other projects under company. Now after almost 20 days of putting letter he has concluded after my repeated attempts to get Exit date. Background story 10 months before company did some technology certification for three employees due to cost incurred company got certified employee sign bonds of 12 months but i was exempted from signing bond somehow (Due to reason HR or gods knows). Note that I was promoted for going for certification at last minute because one person was not well and was hospitalised. As i am leaving and having not signed bond but implied bond period to other two employees, my manager is asking for extension to compensate a bit and ignoring the reality. Might be manager is thinking that my future employer withdraw the offer due extension in notice period and so that he can retain me for few more months. Also note that my current employer asked for 3months +2 months notice due to bond things explained above but now settled for 10 days extension but with no fixed assurance on exit date even after sharing KT plans and past experience of new team member's KT. Update New job location is in different city so there is some relocation stuff also involved.