It seems fairly common in fiction for a single city to be known for a single trade good (resource or manufactured item). It then follows that any discussion of economy, which is rare enough in fiction, includes only that main trade good. Can a system function 'well enough' to be plausible if each city in a network (think Greek city states) specializes in the trade of a single good? What would that system look like? I am not looking for an explanation of how a single resource economy would function (I actually know the answer to that) Rather I am looking to include discussions of economics in my world but it will not be a focus. Therefore I would like to make an overly simplistic scenario that doesn't get into the details. I want to include economics but it needs to be simple enough that I don't have to explain things too much. 

In short...you can't. If five hundred years have passed since the last war there are several problems you are going to face and I think the premise of the question is flawed in a couple ways. (that's not to say the question is bad, if I didn't like it I wouldn't bother answering) 

This is where it gets situational, and if the people truly have the freedom (and resources) to move, you will likely see a lot of movement. Essentially it depends on the person and their experiences. If you were raised under a communist faction you may resent the control and move to a faction with more freedom as soon as you are able. Conversely if you grew up and experienced freedom leading to tragedy you may indeed want the control and organization of a communist group. It will also depend on how well each faction is run and what stressors are on the system as a whole. Best explained with an example: The region is in the middle of a major drought. The communist regime is better organized and planned ahead storing food stuffs and improving its water collection systems. Naturally people would flock to the group, and remain long term in appreciation for the system that saved them. The communist faction gets larger and larger and eventually the state organization becomes a mess due to sheer size. A corrupt leader takes charge with a group of autocrats and now the system gets repressive to maintain control. Now people flock to a faction that allows more freedom. This ebb and flow is what you would see, and it would be more complex in a realistic system as there would be more than two factions vying for control. So pay attention to these ideas. 

Generally speaking you are not going to be able to use predators as mounts, as cool an idea as it is their bodies are not able to support weight the way pack animals can. They are also designed to be agile where as pack animals while potentially fast are generally not terribly agile. If you want to make a tiger (for example) believable you would have to make it very rare, a special ranger loner type bond. If we get into dinosaurs its harder to say. Its somewhat realistic to believe we could have tamed some herbivores during the time of the dinosaurs but without knowing their behaviors the way we know living creatures its hard to say. 

You want some form of modified termite. Now...this is still going to be a pain. But here is what I am thinking. How: 

(and 5) are both from Utah actually. The first is a ten minute drive from Salt Lake. The Salt flats are nasty hot. But I think #5 is the closest for you. The national forest is beautiful the mountains are amazing...as soon as you hit St. George completely desert and dry, and a little further south once you drop through the virgin river basin you hit the desert outside Vegas and that is truly desolate. 

To be most effective it makes sense to use these methods in tandem, starting with method 2 and following on with method 1. 

Access: In short, how do your magicians execute their powers? In this case it is totally up to you but here are some options... 

This assumes that all humans are motivated only by their own self interest and that is simply not the case. Open-mindedness and self interest are not necessarily exclusive concepts but they do not mix well together. Being completely open minded would require that people also eliminate all bias, including self bias and an increased value on ones own life versus the life of another. Second, 

You notice that there are many rapid swings in the value of sugar. This would wreak utter havoc on an economy mainly because it makes gauging the value of things very difficult. I will not claim that the value of gold does not change, it certainly does (see for yourself on the site). But gold is not impacted by weather. Sure it's value changes BUT it is not as susceptible to rapid changes in value. The impacts would mainly be a greater potential for rapid shifts in the value of your currency. This makes the currency unreliable, meaning many may not even be willing to use it rather going with bartering or unofficial currencies...gold coins maybe ;) 

Society would develop completely differently (taking into account my points above). Completely rational humans would be more willing to act against their own self-interest. Government would also be be a far more involved process with less conflict (give that this perfect rationality leads all people to the same conclusion). Conflict in its various varieties would also be far less common if it existed at all. 

The physics have been pretty well covered and the answer is yes, with a pod of some sort including a catch or parachute mechanism and slow enough acceleration and deceleration this could technically be done. Now the question becomes in what scenario would this be worthwhile...and believe it or not, one exists. (well at least one) First, you have to ditch the one mile range, at one mile you are way to close to your enemy for it to not be destroyed...standard artillery can shoot farther than that. So if you put this on the range of 10+ miles you may have something useful. In conventional warfare this would be a suicide mission without any likelihood of it also being helpful to the cause. Now, if you have this scenario it could be useful. 

Make them geographically remote, top of a mountain, middle of a swamp, you get the idea. Limiting their use would limit the impact of culture transfer significantly and no one wants to live in the middle of a swamp so if you place them away from "civilization" in places that people have trouble getting to, that should solve that. Their use requires something beyond the average person: Maybe you have to be a mage to activate them, maybe you need a certain relic (there could be many of said relic) a passport so to speak. Limited number of portal pairs. On an earth sized planet a dozen pairs connecting certain parts of the globe wouldn't make a huge difference in globalizing things just because of the scale of the planet, this is even more true if you combine it with #1 or #2. 

The skin regulates our temperature, both in cold and hot conditions. Blood vessels contract and expand to release and retain heat. The included fat also acts as an imperfect thermal barrier. 

The most likely scenario in my mind is a single celled organism. The organism would be launched into space via natural phenomenon, to be trendy lets go with the ejection of water from a nice little moon called Enceladus. If there are single celled organisms in the theoretical oceans on the moon, the plumes of water vapor could contain little critters. Over time some could randomly have the ability to survive in space by essentially being dormant while they travel. Say they land on an asteroid or another moon that has the simple resources they need to survive...a particular mineral maybe and viola, you have your space faring critters. 

How would the human eye have developed differently on a planet with two suns? One sun will be a yellow star functionally the same as Sol and the other will be a red dwarf. The planet will be earth-like and orbit around both stars. I am curious about the impact to: