My research and practice of meditation in this area is something I have internally debated for many years also. Comparing Zen, which is extracted from the Mahayana Tradition comparing it to my first love and study of the Theravada tradition. Firstly the major differences that I have traced between Mahayana and Theravada is that Mahayana, is essentially a revised and blended system. Mixed with Taoism and Confusion (i don't think I spelt that correctly but anyway). There are many mystic and magical things written and adopted within Mahayana that are not present with Theravada which is the written adoption of what was taught originally by Gautama Buddha. Whether you follow one or the other, or Zen or Vajrayana it doesn't matter, as long as you yourself are compassionate and a good person. The major difference I have discovered is the approach to your own salvation. Theravada emphasizes you cultivate through meditation and compassion towards Buddhahood and then when you have reached where you can, you help others. Like climbing over a tall wall, you get up and then help other get up there with you. Mahayana on the other hand has the opposite approach, first you help others as you travel the path so that they may reach their own enlightenment. With Zen the approach seems to be neither here nor there with the path. Adopted from Ch'an with the Japanese strictness and systematic approach it focuses on a very deep foundation of meditation through which you achieve clarity. With this clarity one then is able to see things in a different light and able to help others. If I were to classify myself I would be Theravadin, however I practice Zen style breathing meditation. If Zen and Mahayana and Theravada where a venn diagram they would all overlap with each other with with areas distinct to each. The only thing I can recommend, which Gautama Buddha himself teaches, is that you study and practice meditation. I believe that if you study deeply into one of doctrines and understand it, then you will be able to study the next and so forth. Always comparing will cause confusion and distress in your mind and you won't be able to understand any of them at the end of the day. As the Buddha said, question everything and make sure that it aligns with your own morals. I hope this helps. 

There are numerous studies on people having this type of experience, and I remember Ven. Yuttadhammo once said he also experienced this when he was young. I think interpretations like astral body projection do not quite adhere with Buddhism. Are there possible explanations on this from the Buddhist perspective with regards to Five Aggregates? 

The essence of this is that for the life span to increase, human qualities also have to improve, advances in medication and increase in the standard of living alone will not be enough. 

Well, Buddhism is not simply a doctrine or belief system that needs to be defended through clinging to its knowledge or the view. The wisdom mentioned here that is acquired through reading, thinking or studying has to be experienced through Vipassana meditation. Unless it is experienced through this way, this knowledge will become just another view among many other views in this world subject to decay and misinterpretations. There's a seven step purification process in Vipassana where you begin simply from practicing virtue, give up all the wrong views midway and finally end in wisdom. You go through the entire process similar to using seven relay chariots until you arrive at the destination where each chariot is used only to achieve its designated purpose and then you abandon it without clinging to it; this is explained nicely in Ratha-vinitha sutta. 

It happens at about 20 minutes every time lately... either in half lotus (a traditional position that i would like to honor), or with one leg laying in front of the other, or indian style... doesnt matter, my left leg goes numb. sitting up in a chair doesn't seem conducive to a meditative state and laying down i just fall asleep. id really like to do some intensive and very long blocks of meditation (advice on this would be appreciated also) but im not sure how to approach this severe distraction and get past it. 

yes. well theres a couple of ways... 1- you could study more about the stages of insight and enlightenment, and 2- you could practice with a monk regularly and ask for help. Im sure there are other ways (and feel free to explore them) but these are traditionally how progress is made and verified in buddhism to he best of my knowledge and really, if you want to know how you're progressing on a buddhist path... theres only one type of person likely to be qualified to evaluate you (though not all monks are valid choices). Here is a video my teacher made on the stages of insight through vipassana though for a short run down so you can make a general assessment. $URL$ 

But for people studying the Dhamma for its real purpose, that is the cessation of suffering, Buddha's advice is to question him or an experienced monk when there's doubt. 

Pilgrimages however are not a significant part of the practice, but these visits can inspire us to put more effort into our practice. Some groups of people observe eight precepts and practice meditation as a part of the pilgrimage as well. By showing reverence at these places, the person is able to purify his thoughts, speech and action. So by visiting these places with the correct mental attitude can help us in our practice as well. 

This sutta is mentioned in Visuddhimagga page 242 paragraphs 74,75 and 76 as part of a training process in mindfulness on the foulness of 32 parts of the body. Page 238 says, 

Under six major wrong doings (Abhithanani) in Buddhism, (i. matricide, ii. patricide, iii. the murder of arahants (the Consummate Ones), iv. the shedding of the Buddha's blood, v. causing schism in the Sangha, and vi. pernicious false beliefs (niyata micca ditthi)), 

The person who develops the first 6 parts in the tenfold training achieves appana samadhi (7. absorption). In the pali version of the book this is mentioned as appanāto. The aim of the three suttas, 8. higher consciousness, 9. coolness, and 10. skill in the enlightenment factors, have as their purpose the linking of energy with concentration. Nimitta sutta should be studied to understand on balancing the high consciousness (Jhana). 

if you are offered a seat that seems luxurious, and simply using the seat available, as opposed to seeking out "the best seat" your intention is appropriate. if you hear music someone else is playing, its very different from intentionally seeking out music to listen to. these are very useful opportunities to meditate on the nature of such phenomina and your reaction to them. like, if your mind tries to attach to the other persons music, or if you experience gladness about being stuck with a nice seat. others conforming to your lifestyle is not necessary (and may be inappropriate, especially if you impose your beliefs on them) no one else can violate your precepts for you. understanding things in this way may be helpful. one example... if someone has to go out of their way to accommodate a low seat (a specific preference) then that seat becomes (in a way) a phenomenon of luxury. 

ask questions... but Monks are essentially people also, Your practice isnt dependent on theirs, same for your progress vs. theirs. If you are getting opinions, know that they are simply opinions. if you are getting textual facts... a well studied monk is the place to go. If you are just curious of opinions... this is more appropriate than a Monastery. but more directly... - they dont usually ask for things, so please offer anything you may think could be useful for them. - They do live according to the Vinaya Pitaka. - What do you mean by bless?... their knowledge is available to all, they dont generally reguard people by economic status and if they do it tends to be focusing on the less fortunate in a helpful way (in my experience). The rich (who are involved) tend to bless them actually...with various things. 

Of course others have responsibility to rectify the wrong views. There were several individuals spreading wrongly grasped views on Dhamma even during Buddha's time like Arittha, Sati and Sunakkhattha. Buddha's and other monks' reactions on such situations are detailed in Alagaddupama sutta and Mahatanhasankhaya Sutta. Buddha explains the plight of such people, as if grasping a snake from it's coils in the water snake simile in Alagaddupama sutta. 

First of all, the Buddha didn't die from eating pork at least in the Theravada point of view. In fact, his last meal was sukara maddava, translated to English dug by pigs, a mushroom which still grows in India. Also, vegetarianism is not considered morally superior to eating meat in Theravada. The general guideline followed with regards to eating meat by both monastics and laity is, 

The occasion where Milinda was introduced to Nâgasena in Milinda panha gives some insight on how Buddhist literature sees the influence of body language. Nâgasena was a junior monk, yet Milinda was able to recognize him among others by his demeanor, 

If we divide Pratītyasamutpāda to three existences it's much easier to explain. (this can be explained for each moment as well) 

There was a Sri Lankan monk named Balangoda Ananda Maiythreya thero, and he mentioned in one of his meetings with lay people that he had attained until Sankarupekkha-nana in vipassana meditation and if he had continued further, he could have become a stream-winner. But he didn't carry on from there because he had a wish to become a Buddha. However, he didn't completely abandon his meditation, still practiced samatha meditation and went on to achieve much higher levels in that as well. So I think it is possible for advanced practitioners to stop doing it when they want to achieve much higher goals like Buddhahood once they reached a particular state in vipassana meditation. I don't see a reason for giving up samatha meditation though. Some illness might also be a reason for stopping meditation. There are several examples in literature how monks abandoned their meditation because of lust and also clinging on to wrong views . 

no an arahant learns from a buddha, a buddha discovers the path on his own. ive also heard that buddhahood has additional powers, its not just nibbana attainment and thats it. i coukd be wrong on that. 

If you do not follow (or know) what the Buddha taught, yet seek and reach enlightenment on your own, you are working on buddhahood. So in a sense yes. Though not meditating can also be a state of not doing the actual practice that the buddha taught. Considering the theory of rebirth even without meditation one can start down the path as they noted above and develop kammic building blocks for the next round. 

Mindful living is another form of meditation (typically an advanced one), if one no longer needs to formally sit or walk in meditation... then i guess that would be that. But the way you phrased it, it seems it could be any reason. 

its a pretty straight forward question. facts only please, no opinions, and i request that only an experienced and well practiced zen buddhist answer this question (to avoid speculation). thanks. 

Yes it is asking for opinions, which i will investigate further on my own. opinions would be helpful in this particular circumstance. 

The five precepts are mentioned in Dhammika sutta. The main reason for teaching the fifth precept is said to be that intoxication easily instigates people to break other precepts by concealing the seriousness. 

It's also said that Ananda wasn't able to invite Buddha to prolong his life during the last days of his life because he was possessed by Mara during that time. During the first council monks accused Ananda for not doing that and he defended himself by giving this excuse. 

Buddha is said to have had 32 major physical characteristics, and the second feature among them is named, 

The wikipedia article on Vesak mentions that this name is derived from Vaisakha month in Hindu calendar . 

In some traditions commentaries are inherent in the daily sermons and books written by monks. But I've noticed that most of the commentaries are not available digitally in English compared to the Suttas and most people don't use commentaries as reference. Are they not so important or what is the view on commentaries? 

Maybe those things aren't worth speaking or thinking about? Indeed, these aren't worth talking about because knowledge about them doesn't bring an end to suffering which is the main issue that Buddhism tries to address. Hence, Buddha encourages to discover yourself rather than the vast universe. 

i recently went to a meeting with some bhikkhus, and they served the monks a small dish with butter slices and little chocolate squares... i think it was dark chocolate if that matters. So anyway, i was suprised to see it and was wondering other views on this. and the underlying point to the question... i am obviously looking for loop holes for a snack-ish type thing before bed. 

Question closed... i noticed Soma was a link in Ven.Yuttadhammo's comment. Apparently soma is ancient slang for something widely speculated on being either an amphetamine or entheogen. Its probably both. The link Ven.Yuttadhammo shared had an excerpt; "The Graeco-Russian archeologist Viktor Sarianidi claims to have discovered vessels and mortars used to prepare Soma in 'Zoroastrian temples' in Bactria. He claims that the vessels have revealed residues and seed impressions left behind during the preparation of Soma. This has not been sustained by subsequent investigations[19] Besides the residue of ephedra, the archeologists discovered the residues of Poppy seeds and Cannabis. The vessels also had impressions created by Cannabis seeds. Cannabis is well known in India as Bhang and sometimes Poppy seeds are used with Bhang to make the ritual drink Bhang Ki Thandai." So i would imagine it was much like today, different strokes for different folks... or mix and match. So, since it was obviously (which i already basically knew) available... and mentioned... the question is answered. Thank you Ven.Yuttadhammo Sadhu Bhante