Per World Nuclear Organization, there have been no deaths or cases of radiation sickness from the nuclear accident at Fukushima, but over 100,000 people had to be evacuated from their homes to ensure this. It states "There have been no harmful effects from radiation on local people, nor any doses approaching harmful levels. Government nervousness delays their return. Official figures show that there have been well over 1000 deaths from maintaining the evacuation, in contrast to little risk from radiation if early return had been allowed." Other Fukushima Daiichi accident facts collated by a journalist are listed here and potential future risks of human exposure to radiation owing to the March 2011 Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant accident are discussed here. "Tepco has now examined all 3,700 workers; 107 workers have from 0.4 – 0.8% chance of a fatal cancer, and another 17 have higher exposures, with chances of fatal cancer as high as 5%.) Exposure levels for other workers and the public are much lower, but one can assume that the sheer volume of exposure will produce statistical cancers predicted by the model, but occurring at a much lower rate than year-to-year variations, with vanishingly small chances of any one cancer being caused by this event". "A preliminary report from the World Health Organisation (WHO) in May 2012 estimated the radiation doses that residents of Japan outside the evacuated areas received in the year following the accident. The report's headline conclusion is that most people in Fukushima prefecture would have received a radiation dose of between 1 and 10 mSv during the first year after the accident. This compares with levels of about 2.4 mSv they would have received from unavoidable natural sources. In two places the doses were higher – between 10 and 50 mSv, still below any harmful level. Almost all were “below the internationally-agreed reference level for the public exposure due to radon in dwellings” (about 10 mSv/yr)." "In May 2013, the UN Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation (UNSCEAR) reported, following a detailed study by 80 international experts. It concluded that "Radiation exposure following the nuclear accident at Fukushima Daiichi did not cause any immediate health effects. It is unlikely to be able to attribute any health effects in the future among the general public and the vast majority of workers." The only exception are the 146 emergency workers that received radiation doses of over 100 mSv during the crisis. They will be monitored closely for "potential late radiation-related health effects at an individual level." By contrast, the public was exposed to 10-50 times less radiation. Most Japanese people were exposed to additional radiation amounting to less than the typical natural background level of 2.1 mSv per year." "UNSCEAR’s final report of radiation effects was released in April 2014. This concluded that the rates of cancer or hereditary diseases were unlikely to show any discernible rise in affected areas because the radiation doses people received were too low. People were promptly evacuated from the vicinity of the nuclear power plant, and later from a neighbouring area where radionuclides had accumulated. This action reduced their radiation exposure by a factor of ten, to levels that were "low or very low." Overall, people in Fukushima are expected on average to receive less than 10 mSv due to the accident over their whole lifetime, compared with the 170 mSv lifetime dose from natural background radiation that people in Japan typically receive. "The most important health effect is on mental and social well-being, related to the enormous impact of the earthquake, tsunami and nuclear accident, and the fear and stigma related to the perceived risk of exposure to radiation." Per research in 2015 on health effects of radiation and other health problems in the aftermath of nuclear accidents, with an emphasis on Fukushima, 

Those with missing data (about 15% of participants had incomplete data and weren't included in the analysis) may have had better mood scores and were less deprived, which may limit how much their results might apply to all adolescents. Some of the data such as sleep and sedentary behaviour was self-reported which can mean that it is not possible to ensure the data was correct. The researchers also acknowledge they were not able to take into account that some screen time may have been for home work, revision or other educational purposes. 

Religion affects wealth indirectly through its strong effect on processes such as educational attainment, marriage, decisions to have kids and women's decisions to work or stay home with their kids. Religion affects these behaviors and processes, and they, in turn, affect household income, expenses and saving. Religion can affect wealth directly by influencing intergenerational processes, social relations and orientations toward work and money. Intergenerational processes (the transfer of both religious ideas and wealth from parents to children) and social relations (contacts made through religious group who can provide information, capital and other resources) are important. 

Pelvic floor muscle exercises could be considered as a first-line approach for men seeking resolution of erectile dysfunction without pharmacological and surgical interventions per Grace Dorey et.al. in 2004. 

Human epidemiological evidence which include case examples, disease registry records, case-control study and prospective longitudinal studies is consistent with increased risk of birth defects in offspring of persons exposed to depleted uranium. 

Functional virgin olive oil (FVOO) enriched with phenolic compounds provided benefits on endothelial function in hypertensive patients. 

Referring to MIC, "limited research suggests that tea consumption may be associated with fewer cavities and a slightly lower risk of kidney stones, but more research is needed to confirm these findings." 

Survey Methodology: The Fukushima Prefectural Government had examined 298,577 children under age 18 in 2011 out of a population of 367,687 and surveyed them again in 2014. The children's thyroid gland was examined through the use of ultrasound and the results were that 110 have been diagnosed with or are suspected of having thyroid cancer. Several limitations for the study mentioned in the question are recorded in the paper by the authors themselves. Limitation #1: Coverage of the screening program and secondary examination did not include all eligible residents of Fukushima at the time of the 2011 accident. This may induce overestimation in internal comparisons when prevalence of the 2013 fiscal year districts was used as a reference. Limitation #2: The effect of the length of time elapsed between the accident and timing of screening should be considered further. Limitation #3: Before the accident, no evidence existed that natural radiation was higher in Fukushima Prefecture than in the rest of Japan. Experts listed below state several reasons which are skeptical of the conclusions of Tsuda et.al. study. 

A 2013 study showed that there is insufficient evidence to recommend frequency or duration of tongue cleaning and the use of toothbrushing plus tongue cleaning significantly reduced the indicators of halitosis (malodor) and tongue coating. 

"Music is considered an ecologically valid auditory stimulus since many different brain centers can be activated through functional dissociation between the ventral and dorsal networks involved in event segmentation of music." Evidence is inconclusive to suggest using headphones to drown out office noise is detrimental since some studies show positive/neutral effects while others show negative effects. Positive or neutral effects of music listening in offices 

Was there a chicken at a Marilyn Manson concert?-Yes, per Dallas TX publication The Met, the Ft. Lauderdale-based band Marilyn Manson used plenty of shock props in its live act brought a chicken to its Friday, January 13, 1994 concert at Trees. 

Obesity is influenced by several factors such as behavioral traits, social-environment and genetics and one of the social microenvironmental influences on obesity promoting behaviors is social eating. 

Refined grains/grain products, sugar sweetened beverages, sweets and starch (certain potatoes) all produce brisk rises in blood glucose and insulin and may induce multiple adverse effects including cardiovascular disease. 

There are EPA certified kits for converting conventional gasoline-fueled vehicles to run on E85 fuel. Pure ethanol (100% ethanol or E100) could theoretically be used to power flexible fuel vehicles (FFV) however not used for the following stated reasons. 

Evidence through research shows that consumption of sugar sweetened beverages, artificially sweetened beverages, and fruit juice is associated with risk of diabetes but this simple correlation does not imply causation. No study has estimated how many diabetes cases can be caused by consuming sugar sweetened beverages. Research through observational studies continuously show that artificially sweetened beverages and fruit juice are not healthy options for the prevention of type 2 diabetes. 

All interviews for the research mentioned below were conducted by telephone by ACTFL-certified testers and all tests were double or triple rated (triple if double ratings did not exactly agree). Research indicated there are no significant differences in ratings between telephonic and face-to-face interview scores. 

Research in 2014 by Rachel W Kirk on Spanish proficiency of Mormon returned missionaries through written survey completed by 103 students shows many attained a high level of linguistic proficiency but their awareness of cultural issues and ability to articulate them were limited. A research paper by Lynne Hansen also shows that European languages are learned faster by the English-speaking learners than are the more distant Asian languages and European languages are retained better than Asian languages. Another study in 2013 among LDS learners found that two motivational factors, learners' interest in culture, travel, and people, and positive learning attitudes/experience and intended efforts predicted learners' interest in continuing foreign language learning. 

A combined tire tread pattern lowers hydroplaning risk in different modes of vehicle movements. Researchers have concluded in 'Effectiveness of Tire-Tread Patterns in Reducing the Risk of Hydroplaning' 2009 that combined groove pattern would help in lowering hydroplaning risk sufficiently in different modes of vehicle movements. 

Music may impair cognitive abilities while hearing music at the same time as doing the expected task per a 2010 study at the University of Wales Institute in Cardiff, United Kingdom by Nick Perham and and Joanne Vizard published in Applied Cognitive Psychology. 

Research results through American Council on The Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL) oral proficiency interview (OPI) shows that the length of time immersed in a target language is better than only learning language in a classroom, but factors such as aptitude, motivation, amount and types of practice and nature of social interactions also play important roles and for optimal outcomes, additional instruction and negative feedback may be necessary. The proficiency levels listed in the research are the minimum levels established by the various professions, and higher levels would often be preferred. The missionaries tested had all spent about the same amount of time in the language environment but did not all attain the same amount of proficiency. However, there are clear limits to their “missionary language” that might prevent them from participating in more linguistically demanding careers such as contract negotiation or professional translation. 

TL;DR: Research shows that drinking with parents was associated with more episodes of drunkenness for their children and drinking behavior of female children were more influenced by their mother’s parenting style than males. 

The Aviation Safety Network data for 2017 airliner accident statistics also shows that 2017 was the safest year ever for commercial aviation as described below. 

When one reviews the comments of the Director General report of IAEA in Aug 2015 to the Tsuda et.al's study, there are valid issues noted which will need to be addressed in the future by Tsuda et.al regarding children living near the Fukushima nuclear meltdown affected by thyroid cancers at a rate 20 to 50 times when compared to children elsewhere . 

However, later the doctrine was accepted by the medical community and even compared to Edward Jenner's famous germ theory. 

"There may not be enough information to make an outright commitment to or rejection of a relationship. For instance, when individuals initially meet, it may be unclear to either side whether the other person would make a good romantic partner, friend, or coalitional ally. Similarly, partnered individuals who are losing interest in each other may not be ready to abruptly end a relationship. As such, humor may allow individuals to indicate the direction of their interest and to build (or deconstruct) relationships incrementally." "Since an indication of interest conveys much less information than an evaluation of a full relationship, the costs of being rejected for an indication should be lower. Such costs include future possibilities for the relationship and one’s reputation. Humor initiation may yield an indication of interest without incurring such consequences." "By using humor, one can gauge the strength of a potential or existing relationship without revealing his or her ultimate motives, which may extend beyond the establishment of a relationship. For example, if one needs to confide in and elicit the assistance of someone concerning an important matter, he or she may wish to first assess the strength of various relationships before choosing who." 

Butter is mostly fat and dairy items highest in fat are noted to be the most concentrated food sources of persistent, bioaccumulative and toxic pollutants. It is also advised that moderating consumption of dairy, particularly high-fat varieties will reduce the intake of these PBTs. 

Against the high impact of sugar taxes However, there is a need for bigger studies to test this hypothesis since the current evidence shows that the soda tax rates do not benefit all people equally in terms of their health status. 

The 2012 report by the Institute of Medicine (IOM) now called the National Academy of Medicine (NAM) notes that the very rare hypersensitivity reactions caused by vaccine administration are more likely due to potential allergens among the vaccine constituents rather than the active ingredients of the vaccine but the actual mechanism directly causing the reaction is not known. 

Force can also cause an acceleration which is rotational or translational of the skull/brain structure and acceleration creates intracranial pressures and movement and distortion of brain tissue through strain. Optimal neck strengthening interventions for concussion risk mitigation are not known. Identifying differences in overall neck strength may be useful in developing a screening tool to determine which high school athletes are at higher risk of concussion per Collins CL et. al. 2014. 

Different populations may have different odors since earwax type and armpit odor may be correlated in certain select populations. Populations with dry earwax, such from East Asia, tend to sweat less and have little or no body odor, whereas the wet earwax populations of Africa and Europe sweat more and so may have greater body odor. "There are two kinds of sweat glands: eccrine sweat glands, which are found throughout the skin, and apocrine sweat glands, which are found in the armpits and groin. Eccrine sweat glands produce sweat that is mostly water and salt, and it does not contribute very much to body odor. Apocrine sweat contains proteins and lipids; when bacteria on the skin metabolize apocrine sweat, they produce body odor. The earwax glands (ceruminous glands) are a form of apocrine gland." "Although the evidence available on Caucasian/Negroid sweating is somewhat inconsistent, it would appear that the Negroid population is capable of producing more malodorous substance in the axilla by virtue of the larger size of the apocrine glands and more prodigious among of secretion observed in experiments. In addition, eccrine sweat gland secretions in Negroids also seem to be higher than in Caucasians, thus providing a volatile medium for radiation of any axillary odor. Mongoloid populations also appear to have active eccrine glands than do Caucasians, but due to the low number of osmidrotic apocrine glands in the axilla, there is a lower level of axillary odor present than in either of the other two groups." "In Japan, wet earwax has long been associated with greater body odor (Adachi 1937, Matsunaga 1962). Yoo et al. (2006) found that 860 out of 896 patients who consulted a doctor about axillary osmidrosis (the medical term for stinky armpits) had wet earwax, in a population where wet earwax is uncommon. Nakano et al. (2009) genotyped the polymorphism in the ABCC11 gene in Japanese axillary osmidrosis patients and found the genotypes that cause wet earwax in 78 out of 79, while only 35 percent of the general population had wet earwax genotypes; Inone et al. (2010) found similar results in a smaller study." Martin et. al. (2010) analyzed sweat from people having different ABCC11 genotypes and found that several compounds that are precursors for body odor were either absent or in lower concentrations in sweat from people with the dry earwax genotype.