A native speaker may or may not be able to understand you; it depends on the phonemes, the language, the accent, the skill of the native speaker, and more. A few things to consider: 

A direct object must always be in the accusative/objective case (that man was I v. *that man fears I — the fact that the nominative/subjective case "I" is possible with copulae shows how they are to many people different from transitive verbs; an object can never be in the nominative case. The number of people who would use "I" in certain registers prevent us from simply regarding it as an object in all respects.). It allows for the transitive verb to be passivized, and it then becomes the subject if the meaning of the sentence is to remain intact (the cat likes me => I am liked by the cat, but she remained a cat => *a cat was remained by her ). Only a phrase that acts like a (substantive) noun—a "noun phrase"—can be a direct object. Normally, this includes only words that can have an article without changing their meaning, unlike common adjectives (the chair is expensive v. *the chair costs expensive ). 

The regular suffix to form the perfect stem is by adding -v- to the present stem, so after the theme vowel. This is very common, especially for verbs of the -a- conjugation, and also somewhat common for the -i- conjugation. 

From this it follows that your two languages will never become part of the same language family, because all borrowed features should be ignored when determining membership of a linguistic family. If an Indo-European language has adopted so many features from a Semitic language that both its vocabulary and its grammatical constructions are 99 % borrowed from the Semitic language, leaving only a barely recognizable 1 % Indo-European features, it should by this definition still be considered an Indo-European language. Even if this becomes 100 %, it follows that the old language should in principle still be said to be Indo-European! This the absurd but necessary consequence of the definition shows the limits of its usefulness. It is the only way to classify a language with absolute certainty. So a language is treated here as something entirely separate from its speakers: the essential factor to consider is its past. This poses the following problem: how do we determine which language has borrowed from which? In the above case, it could be said that the speakers have simply gradually adopted the Semitic language and stopped speaking their previous, Indo-European language. It just depends on whether you treat the pair as one "original" Indo-European language influenced by a Semitic superstrate, or an "original" Semitic superstrate that has moved to a new community of speakers and made the old Indo-European languages extinct as to its having any living speakers. The choice seems rather arbitrary. 

Another special thing about your sentence is that the on which phrase is not a full clause: there is no finite verb—only an attributive infinitive to the "noun" that is the relative pronoun. But that exists in other languages too: relative pronouns can basically introduce anything that modifies a noun, at least in theory. Normally an elliptic clause can be imagined: 

The only theory I know is that prepositions were originally adverbial in nature, and unbound. My professor of historical grammar of Greek suggested this. The idea is that it went something like this: 

A similar cross-pollination from the vocative occurred with French soeur, "sister" (the Old-French oblique case seror falling out of use): 

While I think your progress will on average be slower without the above four points of immersion, you can certainly learn a language very well without some of them. If you watch a lot of French films, read a lot of French, chat with people on-line in French, but never visit a Francophone country, you can still learn to read, write, and speak very good French. Conversely, many people who have lived in France for several years will still make grammatical errors and have a fairly noticeable accent. Moreover, if you never read good literature, your French will most likely never approach that of an educated Frenchman, not even after 30 years of immersion. 

Whenever the preposition in indicates a static being-in-a-place, it goes with the ablative (Latin) and dative (German), which are also the cases normally used for statically being in a place (as partially replacing the older locative inherited from Proto-Indo-European); that is, in Latin, you could under certain circumstances use the bare ablative without in to express the same. This also applies to the accusative, which is the normal case for a moving-towards, where English would stick -to on the preposition. This suggests that the cases that are now commonly seen as determined by prepositions were probably already there when prepositions developed: it was perhaps once horto ambulat in, or something, where the ablative already suggested that one was walking within, not into the garden, and the preposition confirmed that, so to speak (the ablative can also be used to express "out of" without a preposition, and it is also the only possible case to be used with ex, "out"). If my English were poor and I said he came building out, you would immediately understand that I meant that he was coming out of a building; this shows that a preposition doesn't depend on its position in front of its noun as much as one might think. 

The dental consonant -t- plus -t- often but not always becomes -ss-. This sometimes also happens after -d-. 

If you want a very quick and simple program to slow down a sound file of speech, use VLC Player. It is one of the best free media players at any rate. It cannot transcribe anything, though; but you could get your audio files for the sounds or words you want to study from elsewhere. Press - (minus) to go slower, + (plus) for faster. It keeps the pitch intact; that is, it keeps the frequency of the short waves (high frequency) in instrumental music and voices at the same pitch for the human ear. That is what it is designed to do. It does a very good job at slowing voices down, though speeding them up is not always as smooth (but still reasonable). Especially speeding up vibrato in classical music goes wrong, which was only to be expected: the program only takes into account the frequency at the higher frequencies, while each vibration in vibrato takes much longer to complete than the normal vibrations that result in pitch for the human ear. At 200 %, vibrato results in high-pitched bleeps, though the underlying pitch is still audible. But for slowing down voices it works very well. You can decrement to 67, 50, 33, 25, 12, 6, and 3 %. A regular song at 128 kbps and 44kHz sounds OK at 50 %, is still reasonably audible (but lots of noise) at 25 %, fails at 12 % and lower. This most probably depends on the quality of the file: the more information there is per second, the more smoothly the file will still sound when slowed down. 

If I had to describe that group under one label, I would use nominal verb, but be aware that nominal has various senses and may not be unambiguous without some explanation. Nominal in this sense refers to nouns, pronouns, adjectives, and participles/gerundives/gerunds alike; in short, anything that can function in ways similar to nouns or adjectives. In inflexional languages, this includes declension (case endings) as opposed to conjugation (the personal endings that verbs have). Nouns and adjectives are intimately connected in various ways, at least in Indo-European languages. Verb and noun-adjective at the same time The interesting thing about these forms is that they are both verb and noun/adjective at once; that's why nominal verb is the only label that seems to cover what they are. Externally, they function as nouns or adjectives, in that they can be the subject or object of verbs and prepositions or modify nouns, etc. (I want [a pony | to run], she failed at [running | love], I see a [running | fast] donkey). Internally, however, they function mostly as verbs, in that they can have the kinds of arguments that finite verbs have, like subjects, objects, adverbial phrases, etc. Note that not every nominal verb can have all of these things in any situation, but in general they can have most. In short, whatever they depend on treats them as nouns or adjectives, while they themselves treat their own dependencies mostly as verbal arguments. That applies to participles/gerunds/infinitives in all languages I know, which are admittedly Indo-European; I'm not sure this category even makes sense in other linguistic families. The infinitive as a noun The infinitive is a dubious case, because it resembles a noun more or less depending on the language: in Greek, it can have prepositions and articles, whereas in Latin the gerund is used with prepositions and cases, not the infinitive. In English, the semi-preposition to still clearly points to the nominal origin of the infinitive in Proto-Germanic. In all of these languages, an infinitive can be the subject of a finite verb, and it can also be an object, in the sense that (ego) volo vivere / I will live / (egô) mellô zôein resemble the pattern finite verb + object. A note on clauses It appears that two current definitions exist. Some branches of linguistic studies and disciplines use the strict definition of clause, which is "a finite verb and all its dependencies, including its subject". I am not entirely sure about the broader definition and how it differs from verbal phrase, but I think it is something like "any kind of verb and its dependencies". What constitutes a "verb" is defined by the kind of arguments it takes, I would say (in both definitions). I am not sure whether the broad definition includes the "subject" of a participle in the clause (probably yes). 

The name Italian is used for the Romance language, so you probably mean the Romance languages came from some Italic language(s), which coexisted with Latin? We know quite a bit about the non-Latin Italic languages, which include Umbrian, Faliscan, Oscan and some others. They were spoken in Italy and were related to Latin. No doubt they had some influence upon Latin, especially before the classical era, but, from what we know, Latin resembles the Romance languages more closely than do the other Italic languages. So it seems extremely unlikely that e.g. early Italian should have developed from e.g. Oscan. We also know quite a bit about Vulgar Latin, 'Latin of the People', which was spoken by the common people in Antiquity. It is somewhat different from classical/literary Latin, but it's quite close. Information on Vulgar Latin is mostly from source such as graffiti, quotations, and comedy, which often emulated the Latin of the common people. The Romance languages are thought to have developed from Vulgar Latin, and we have quite a bit of information about intermediate stages, which match what one would expect. In case you meant "other, non-Italic languages spoken in Italy" by your Old Italian, then it would seem even less likely, for they would resemble the Romance languages far less than do the Italic languages. The major non-Italic languages spoken around Italy by the time the Romance languages took shape, in the early Middle Ages, were Latin, Greek, Germanic languages, and probably some scarce remnants of Etruscan. Greek is from the Greek branch of the Indo-European family of languages; Germanic is of the Germanic branch; and Latin is of the Italic branch, like the Romance languages. Resemblance is closest within the same branch. From the little we know about Etruscan, it does not resemble Latin at all, for it is not just of a different branch, but of an entirely different (unknown) family. I would therefore not take this Cortez very seriously, unless by Old Italian he meant simply "Vulgar Latin" or some intermediate stage between Vulgar Latin and Mediaeval Italian. In that case, I would want to know which exact stage this would be; but, truly, I don't think it makes sense to think that French developed from a local, non-standard Italian variant of Latin in the early Middle Ages, when there had existed old and established Latin-speaking cities in France for half a millennium. Why would they switch to a strange variant of the same language (Latin) from a thousand kilometres away (from Italy) only at that time?