The most critical thing is the "reach" -- how far forward and up/down the handlebars are from the seat, relative to your torso and arm length and, shall we say, avoirdupois. Too short a reach and the torso must curl up, compressing the lungs and causing strain, and the ability to assume an aerodynamic crouch (if you would wish to do so) is reduced. On the other hand, too long a reach places a strain on the arms and back and significantly increases the pressure on the hands. Moving the seat back to increase "reach" makes the angle between torso and legs more acute. Up to a point this moves one closer to the "sweet spot" of maximum power from the legs, but this can go too far, plus the problem with an over-ample gut compressing the lungs is increased. Moving the seat forward generally moves one away from the "sweet spot" and also increases the weight on the hands and arms. Moving the handlebar forward/back to adjust "reach" upsets steering stability/agility. A too-small bike may (in rare cases) not allow the seat to be raised high enough to attain full leg extension, or (more often) not allow the handlebar to be high enough for comfort. A too-large bike may not allow the seat to go low enough, forcing the cyclist to slide side-to-side as he pedals. 

First off, a good bike shop will have a tool for testing the wear on the cassette. Generally the rear sprockets wear out about twice as fast as the front, so the cassette is probably due for replacement if the front sprockets are gone. After you replace the chain, you may notice that the chain and cassette "don't get along" very well together, with the chain tending to skip, jerking, not shifting well, etc. Riding with the old cassette will likely cause the chain to wear faster, but not by much. Should not cause any untoward wear on the front sprockets unless you let the chain become too worn. 

Those are "sprues" -- bits of rubber that went into the vent holes in the tire mold. They serve no purpose. 

Get an inclinometer. They're not particularly accurate, but readout is instant and the price is right. 

The two are not directly related. On a conventional diamond frame the downtube angle is dependent on the length of the top tube and seat tube, and, of course, the seat tube angle. The length of the seat stay is dependent on the seat tube length and angle, and the length of the chain stay. Obviously, the two "share" the seat tube length and angle (which is related in part to the overall bike "size"), but the length of the top tube is determined by the desired "reach" of the bike, while the length of the chain stay is determined by the desired overall wheelbase (longer for road bikes, eg), and the wheel size and desired clearance (eg, for fenders) between wheel and seat tube. If you look at Google images for bikes you will see a wide variation in relative angles. Usually the seat stay is at a steeper angle than the downtube. 

Usually a clean chain is due to the bike simply not being ridden (much). You can look at the tires and see no wear, no scratches on the bike, etc. These bikes are ridden by CSOs -- cyclist shaped objects. But you can keep your chain relatively clean several ways. A chain cleaner/washer tool similar to what zenbike shows helps a lot (but don't overuse it). Then use a relatively "dry" chain oil. "Dry" means that the "oil" consists of Teflon and/or wax particles suspended in a solvent. When it is applied the solvent evaporates, leaving the more solid material behind, but not leaving the chain sticky. (The bike shop guy will be able to point you to the chain oils, and many/most will say "wet" or "dry" on the label.) (NB: For riding in wet weather, though, you should use a "wet" oil, one that is more like a traditional motor oil in composition. It's still best to use a purpose-made bike oil, though.) But mostly you need to embrace the grime. If you're wearing regular trousers, use a leg strap to hold the chain-side trouser leg tight to the leg. (This also prevents getting the cuff hung up in the chain or on the sprocket.) For your hands, carry a pair of disposable "surgical" gloves, in case you need to muck with the chain. 

See "J.C. Higgins Girls Flightliner" on this page. Perhaps not the exact bike, but quite close. And I think Western Auto was also fond of the "tank" between the bars. 

Shouldn't be a problem to leave the "quick release" of the trainer engaged. It's ultimately pressing on the ends of the axle, applying pressure the same way the skewer does. There will be some slight compression of the axle, with added pressure on the bearings as a result, but so long as the pressure isn't extreme (ie, it's on the same order as the pressure from the skewer) then the added bearing pressure will be minimal. If the added pressure were enough to be a concern you wouldn't even want to ride the bike in the trainer, because the bearings would drag. 

So long as the caliper attachment point is rigidly connected to the axle, precisely where along the circumference of the rotor (or wheel, for rim brakes) the caliper sits is of no consequence (other than to the designer, who must consider stresses on the "rigid" components). Braking force and forces applied to suspension components do not change based on the location of the caliper. Note that position will, to a significant degree, affect such factors as the torque put on the "tine" of the front fork, which may in turn result in such things as a slight twist in the caliper position while braking, but these effects can only occur to the extent that the "rigid" components aren't, quite. 

Generally you want the best tread on the front, as a front tire skid is much more dangerous than a rear tire skid. However, I tend to ride my tires until the cord nearly shows, and, given that flats are about 5x more common on rear tires than front tires (and front-tire flats are much easier to fix), I'd be tempted to put the better tire on the rear, to reduce flat potential. 

If the hole in the tire is large you need to install a "boot". This is some sort of heavy-weight material, installed on the inside. The purpose is to prevent the tube from bulging out through the hole in the tire and popping. The "boot" can be many different things. Many folks swear by simply folding a US dollar bill about 3 times, then putting the folded bill in place between the tire and tube, covering the hole. Some people cut pieces of sidewall out of old tires to be used as boots. You can also use a heavy-weight tire patch. And there are purpose-made boots sold by companies such as Park Tools. A properly booted tire should last nearly as long as an undamaged one. 

The bogus nerve activation situation can occur because of some sort of nerve irritation, or due to one of several somewhat rare and rather serious medical conditions. Given that the latter are unlikely, nerve irritation -- either in the spine or where the nerves pass through the piriformis muscle in the butt -- would be the possibility to be concerned with. But if you had this you'd likely be complaining of "electric" sensations running down the leg. So most likely the problem is with the muscles being unable to "reset". It's important to understand how muscle cells work. They do not need (new) energy to contract. Rather, a muscle cell is like a stretched spring that's been propped into the stretched position -- it's ready to contract as soon as the "prop" is removed. To remove the "prop" and allow the muscle to contract, the associated neuron causes calcium to be released into the muscle cells. This triggers a cascade of chemical reactions and the muscle contracts. To "reset" the muscle the calcium must be "pumped" out of the cells and energy (glucose converted to ATP) must be used to mechanically re-extend the muscle fiber. A cramp occurs when something prevents this "reset". The two likely causes of this inability to reset are a failure of the calcium "pump" and the simple absence of sufficient energy to do the reset. This can be more than a simply unpleasant situation, since if a muscle cell is fully "depolarized" for long enough (more than a minute or so) it dies. (Thankfully, this full depolarization occurs fairly rarely in healthy individuals, though it's not uncommon in football "boot camps" when run by clueless coaches.) Several factors are involved in the calcium pump mechanism, but, in addition to glucose/ATP, the "electrolytes" sodium, potassium, and magnesium play important roles. (There are also several genetic disorders such as myoadenylate deaminase deficiency and McArdle's Disease that can cause "reset" cramps in susceptible individuals. And MADD is actually fairly common, affecting about one individual in 50.) So basically a shortage of glucose, sodium, or potassium can lead to failure to reset and associated cramping. A shortage of glucose will generally affect a small portion of the muscle being most strenuously exercised, vs causing a cramp of an entire muscle group. So if your cramp is widespread and not isolated to a small portion of muscle then it's probably due to electrolyte imbalance. In particular, when major muscles are being exercised to the max and the body is running low on electrolytes, it will "borrow" them from muscles that are not being so vigorously exercised. So you may experience, eg, cramps of the muscles along the inside of the legs, even though you're not exercising those muscles to any significant degree. (But you might also experience cramps of the muscles you ARE exercising vigorously, depending on a number of factors.) A widespread cramp is thus generally a sign of a electrolyte imbalance, and ingesting more sodium, potassium, and/or magnesium is probably called for. (The body has substantial stores of calcium in the bones, so a short-term deficiency of calcium is unlikely. Plus, a localized shortage of calcium causes a sort of paralysis vs cramping.) Note that what you experience a day or two after the cramp gives some clue as to what happened. With a simple cramp the affected muscles are apt to be sore the next day (and for maybe a day or two thereafter), just as if you had overworked them in the gym. But if the pain takes 36-48 hours to appear (and the pain remains for weeks) it's likely some degree of rhabdomyolysis -- actual muscle injury due to depolarized muscle cells. This would be a clue that you're doing something seriously wrong.