In the UK one of the more dangerous sea creatures is the weever fish. They are often found in shallow, sandy water, particularly around Cornwall and the south west, and have venomous spines on their backs. Being stung is very painful and can result in severe swelling. Stings are generally caused by standing on them unawares while barefoot, so can easily be avoided by wearing footwear. Various types of jellyfish may wash ashore in the UK. In particular the Lion's mane jellyfish is common on the coast of Scotland and has a painful sting. Other than that larger crabs can be painful if you try and pick them up and get bitten. Another minor risk are barnacles which can cause very nasty scratches if you fall on them, but if you fall on rocks it will probably hurt anyway. 

In conclusion 5 days would be a reasonable time to do your walk in, although it is definitely good to leave a couple of days extra in case there are any unforeseen issues/interesting detours/you're not as fit as you thought. 

I also hadn't thought of tent hire. Quick search gives $URL$ and $URL$ for UK services. Cost about £20-30 for a weekend + ~£100 deposit for a 2-3 man tent. The deposit would make me nervous about taking a tent like that to a festival. Depends what sort of festival it is though... As mentioned by Aravona I would probably get a cheap/popup tent from Blacks/Millets. 

My friend has made a camping power box that uses (two?) car batteries to store the power. Instructions for making something similar can be found here and probably many other places. This more than supplies our needs including phones, lights, radio and electric 'fridge'. The major issue is getting enough solar power to recharge it particularly when it is not sunny the entire day. IIRC his setup currently has 2 ~40W panels which just about do the job provided the weather is decent and you don't use too much power. Obviously this setup is not appropriate for backpacking as it weights 5-10kg and lies in a tool box plus two large solar panels. 

Rinsing them in clean water when you are finished using them will definitely help stop them smelling. To deal with the current smell I would just leave them in a sink/bucket of clean water for a couple of hours/overnight. I wouldn't worry too much about drying them as long as they are cleaned. As you said using soap is not a a good idea unless you get specialized stuff. 

Another alternative would be to use bungee You would need 2 pieces of thinnish bungee per leg, probably no more than 20-30cm for your thickness of pole. Tie each bungee into a loop using a large knot such as a figure of eight, although a simple overhand knot would probably do. Then wrap the loop several times around the two poles until it is extended and reasonably tight. To tie it off just loop the remaining end of bungee through the knot in the other end. To make this more secure you can wrap knot under all the wrapping of bungee. You can also get hooks you can hook onto rather than looping through the knot which can be a bot unsecure if you're not careful. This is a very fast and easy way to attach the poles but is not the most secure and can slip a bit if left for a long time. Its also better suited to slightly thicker poles you may have difficulty getting the elastic tight enough on these poles. 

No the keel doesn't move. You can find the class rules for the Maxi 72 class here. The relevant rule is D.2.4 which specifies 

Flint is a particular form of Chert which is found primarily in sedimentary type rocks. Flint itself is primarily found in chalk and limestone, although other Cherts have the same sparking properties. In some places there is plenty of flint in the soil and it can be easily found. Your next best bet is to look in/next to river beds/lakes, where it is often exposed. Here is a somewhat helpful guide. Flint is fairly distinctive in appearance and can be best identified by is smooth, hard appearance and light grey/brown to dark blue color. It can also have a rougher white outer shell which probably has a special name. Once you have something you think is flint you can check by trying to spark it. 

The main issue with repairing plastic hulls is that is that most adhesives don't bond very well to the plastic. For temporary repairs duct tape is the way to go. Its quite adhesive and waterproof. If the hole is too big use the duct tape to secure something else waterproof (e.g plyboard or plastic) in place. If possible try and do both inside and out. If you want to do a permanent repair there seem to be two options: Repair in a similar way to fiberglass. I.e. Sand the surrounding area and apply a fiberglass patch and epoxy. The one significant difference is that the area around the hole should be flame treated before applying the patch by lightly heating with a propane torch or similar. This helps the epoxy bond to the surface. Be careful not to burn your boat though. The alternative, more conventional, way is to melt/weld more plastic into the hole. I suspect this is what a professional would do if you asked them to do the repair. Here's another good article on it. For smallish holes you want to get some polyethylene welding rod (presuming the boat is polyethylene) for large holes you need to get a patch. The basic idea is to melt the rod into the hole using a hot air gun or hot metal. As you've melted two of the same material together this repair should be very strong. Disclaimer: I'm mainly a dinghy sailor so haven't actually repaired any plastic hulls. This is just based on my general understanding of boat repair and reading the internet. 

I'd climb the fence at a post. First, place /throw you backpack over the fence as climbing with it on is significantly more difficult, especially if heavy. Climb the fence, with at least one hand on the fence post and your feet one the wires, in between the barbs, as close to the post as reasonable. Being close to the fencepost minimizes the chance of you breaking the fence and is more stable. With your other hand either hold the wire, being careful not to grab a barb, or put both hands on the fencepost. When you are sufficiently high swing one leg over being careful not to catch yourself on the top barbs and place your foot in the fence on the other side. Either twist your foot around or put your heel in on the wire if you are less flexible. Carefully get your other leg over and climb or jump down. This method is easiest for lowish fences where you can just take one step on the fence and get your leg over. I wouldn't do it for anything over about 4 1/2 ft as the top of the fence may get quite unstable when you put your weight on it at that height. The disadvantages of this approach is that it is quite easy to catch your leg/crotch on the top wire and rip your trousers as you don't want to climb higher than necessary (climbing higher is less stable). Also if you feel you are losing balance don't grab the barbed wire, jump off. It may sound obvious but your natural reaction is to steady yourself and the wire is generally the most obvious thing to grab. 

Benadryll is available over the counter and you should have it in your first aid kit. Epi is by prescription only (at least in the US), so the individual who has allergies should carry their own. If you're leading a large group, you may be able to get a prescription and standing orders for trained staff to carry and administer epinephrine to group members. Many people think that just injecting epi when somebody has an anaphylactic attack is the entire treatment. It's important to know that epinephrine does not fix the underlying issue! It only helps to reduce swelling, helping to re-open the airway. You must fix the cause of the reaction! As soon as an exposure to a known allergen occures – even if the person isn't having a visible reaction – you need to immediately have the person take an antihistamine. Antihistamines are drugs that suppress the histamine response, i.e. the body's overreaction to an antigen. This is what actually reduces the severity of the allergic reaction itself. Correct dosage depends on the person; consult the instructions on the antihistamines or talk to a doctor. The important consideration with an allergic reaction is maintaining a clear airway. If you get the antihistamines into the patient immediately, it's possible that the reaction will be contained and the patient will not develop anaphylaxis. In the event that they do develop anaphylaxis, that's where you need to monitor their airway and administer epi if necessary. If the patient is having difficulty breathing, encourage them to take deep, calm breaths, and to pace their breathing off yours. If the patient is unable to maintain a clear airway, be prepared to administer epinephrine. Epi-pen trainer kits are widely available through first aid training programs, so if you expect to be traveling in the wilderness with people who may require epi, you should do the training. The auto-injectors have clear instructions on them; typically you just remove the blue cap, place the orange end of the auto-injector on their thigh, push down hard on the epi-pen to trigger the injector, and hold it in place for at least 30 seconds. The epi is administered automatically at the correct dosage. Make sure to carefully follow the directions as individual auto-injectors may vary in how exactly they are administered. Epi wears off after 10-15 minutes, so most people will carry either a dual-injector or two injectors, so that a second dose can be administered if necessary. When injecting, always hold the injector gripped in your fist, do not place anything over either end of the pen to ensure you don't accidentally inject it into yourself! 

The ANSI FL1 Standard specifies measurement procedures and reporting criteria for measuring the output (lumens), beam distance (calculated from lux), battery life, and other properties of flashlights, headlamps, bike lights, and other personal lighting equipment. This provides a repeatable, verifiable, and trustworthy way for lighting manufacturers to report device specifications. Most reputable personal lighting manufacturers follow this standard, but random generic manufacturers - like those selling the light mentioned in the question - do not. These generic sellers tend to drastically overstate and even outright lie about specifications, claiming insanely high lumen values with no data to back them up. 

I don't know of a source for Europe, but The American Alpine Club published "Accidents in North American Mountaineering" annually. 

Of course. You can (almost) always cool down a 4-season tent, but you can't very well protect a 2-season tent from a blizzard. The primary concern is weight, but if you're going to be camping near a glacier with -5°C winds, you'll want a sturdy tent, so that's going to come at a certain cost of weight. To keep a tent cooler, you can pitch it in the shade, you can open the vents and windows, etc. There's nothing wrong with using a 4 season tent in the summer; I've done this on many a trip. The point of the quote you referenced is that a 4 season tent may not be ideal in non-winter conditions, as there may be a more convenient tent, but the a 4 season tent is certainly more than adequate for camping in summer conditions. 

A good alternative is a folding bike. They're not as efficient to ride for long distances, but can easily be fit inside a canoe. For just biking relatively short distances, a folding bike and a collapsible canoe trailer would probably work well for your needs. 

With a large enough canoe, you can simply put the bike in the canoe, albeit somewhat precariously. What's more common though is for people to bike their canoe to an input, lock up the bike on shore, then return to it. 

I think you already answered your own question. Most dedicated GPS devices are more rugged, have better battery life, and don't require a data connection to work well. A phone has a lot of power overhead and is fragile. There are a few possible advantages to a phone. If you're already going to be carrying one, it reduces the total weight required. It's often easier to update data on a phone than on a GPS device. On the other hand, there aren't in my experience very many good apps for phones which have full-featured GPS capabilities without a data connection. Most of the GPS type apps I've tried I've been unimpressed with, and would've preferred a dedicated GPS device. 

I've just recently gotten into climbing and so far the ropes have always been provided for me. I'm starting to look at getting my own rope for outside climbing, and am confused by some of the terminology. Many of the ropes say "dry rope", "non-dry rope" or "dry core rope". What do these terms mean, and what are the conditions or types of climbing in which you would prefer one or the other? 

So, it takes about 5 minutes with a PLB for the AFRCC to determine your location. Commercial Satellite Based Systems There are various commercial emergency beacons, like your SPOT Messenger, which use privately owned satellites to relay emergency messages or other messages. They usually require an annual subscription, whereas PLBs only have the up-front purchase cost. SPOT and many other companies use the GEOS International Emergency Rescue Coordination Center (IERCC) which is based in Houston, Tx. According to SPOT's info pages: