Generating intention before doing good will reduce the karmic reward. Generating regret after doing bad will reduce the karmic punishment. For deeper explanation see the chapter on the 6 Root Afflictions about Doubt in the book "How to Measure and Deepen your Spiritual Realization". 

Mindfulness is just awareness of whatever is there now. Why would be truly aware of things (non-depressedly or attachedly) ever lead to anything but greater clarity and energy? Try breaking down the sensations that you are feeling in and out of meditation. You are holding onto some concept either in Practice or normal life. More calm but consistent awareness is best following the Five Faculties. An in-depth study of this subject will be of great benefit to Practice and may help you find out what you are doing wrong with your attention. 

No. To even ask a question such as "can you do ____ without meditation" speaks of a weakness, namely that of being able to sit and focus the mind. A weakness I see in our generation of ADD and media-crazed, electronic-obsessed children and adults. Stream entry, means cutting off afflictions which means jhana attainment which means A LOT of meditation had to be done, whether it was sitting cross-legged or reclined. There is no stream-entry without jhana attainment. There is no jhana attainment without a tremendous amount of efforts at following the Noble Truths and stilling the mind and reaching effortless stilling of the mind. The Buddhists that are not meditating are NOT seeking to be enlightened in this lifetime. There are plenty of Buddhists that think that by chanting a mantra they will be able to gain entry into a Buddhist heaven. They are not aware that to be equipped to endure the death process, jhana is required. It's really up to the individual but I wouldn't consider someone a true Buddhist unless they meditate for countless reasons, one being that most of what the Buddha taught during his entire career regarded attaining the jhanas through many different methods including contemplations and loving-kindness meditations and literally hundreds more. Meditation is an absolute necessity of the Path. The methods though are many. Don't make meditation seem like so much work! Remember: the purpose of meditation, jhana, is actually an extremely pleasurable, clear-minded state, which if you achieve it, will get rid of your defilements because you discover this perfect mental-physical state and it will allow you to feel truly pure and empty of egoic creations and thus highly energetic and be able to multi-task and become extremely, highly functional in the world! Meditation is not a chore or a dysfunction. It is a pathway to becoming a happier, satisfied, powered-up version of yourself. Minus the ego though (you won't feel like showing off or being hurtful to others). Anybody that doesn't meditate is not taking the path of self-transformation and self-mastery of their karma, mind, and life. Anybody that has achieved stream-entry without lots of sitting meditation, has only done so because they have tremendous achievement from past lives and thus that weight of good karma carried over to this present life and enabled them to achieve stream-entry with ease (because they are already familiar with the jhana state and entered it easily). These are all things the Buddha said. If you like loving-kindness meditation... then learn to do it really well! There are stories in the sutta of bodhisattvas who attained jhana, stream-entry and even higher stages through such a method alone! In fact, the beings in the 1st dhyana-jhana heaven are filled with unconditional boundless love. Through loving-kindness meditation you can attain jhana. There are plenty of guides on the internet particularly on BuddhaNet. I reccommend doing one practice you like (you have karmic affinity with it from past lives) and also a method you hate and struggle with (it represents a part of the Path that you have travailed over for countless lifetimes). 

In addition to the clarity and calm that samatha, that practice you do already, provides, I would suggest vipassana. Dedicated vipassana practice I had found makes me more aware of my own thoughts and any chronic logical fallacies. I would suggest adding vipassana, aka cessation-contemplation, practice. 

Yes but within Early Buddhism there is less of a chance since the very first training--which comes before the training in wisdom--includes loving-kindness meditation, as well as compassion, and mutual joy. -- In Buddhism, Wisdom is seeing the Three Characteristics, seeing that our reality is impermanent and interconnected--not being confused into thinking that anything really exists on its own. In my own experience, knowing this does not necessitate compassion, but it certain makes compassion almost automatic. It is unusual to be wise (read: to see the interconnected non-self nature) about something and not compassionate as well. Usually it is because when one has wisdom To explicate the word "compassion" further, in Buddhism, there are four of these very wise emotions, the Four Brahmaviharas: loving-kindness, compassion, mutual joy, equanimity. These four qualities are interrelated with wisdom--especially the latter. When someone says "compassion" they are usually talking about the Four Brahmaviharas. One should read about or do these meditations to find out how closely tied together they are with wisdom. Nonetheless, the two are not always synchronous and there do exist states of mind during the Stages of Insight where the one's wisdom and ability to see the Three Characteristics is high but one's compassion for oneself and others not so easily attained. Basically, compassion/the Brahmaviharas often lend to greater wisdom, relative and absolute, but in my experience, wisdom only occasionally leads to compassion--especially because wisdom is missing the element of calm and peace. It may also answer your question to think about The Five Faculties (wisdom, faith, energy, concentration, mindfulness). After learning what they are and having an idea how they inter-relate to each other it would be worth noting the following: no single factor is in its true form unless supported by the other. They are one cohesive organism... every organ is strengthened by the others. These five factors are recommended as evaluative gradients to be mindful of to enter into concentration. The wisdom component has its opposite complement: faith. This is similar in energy to compassion in its unconditional love, acceptance, and understanding. Thus, contemplate about those 5 Faculties. Instead of just Wisdom and Compassion, there may be more fruit of thinking of Wisdom, Faith, Concentration, Energy, and Mindfulness and how they power each other up and may even be Ultimately the same thing. Also, another perspective: Dualism is the modality through which our thinking mind operates and is able to master the world--but it is also the very trap that sets us apart from Awakening. That previous sentence is a very trite sentence in Buddhism but it is valid and true: sometimes we can use our distinction-creating mind where it is not correct. At the Ultimate level Compassion and Wisdom are the same thing. Knowing is Loving, Loving is Knowing. 

Try the burmese posture and experiment with different levels of cushion. Do yoga postures which help open up the hips. One of the many purposes of yoga is to prepare and help the body for long periods of meditation. Controversial suggestion: Ultimately train yourself to do the lotus posture (which is the most blissful and joyful too) because all other postures have side-effects associated with them. 

This question "who am i?" is a koan. Koans are devices meant for you to attain Truth not actually have an answer to... I hope you don't put your faith in any solid answer (and lose probably the best koan that exists) because the real answer to this koan is beyond words... this is why the Buddha does a great job by always answering this question negatively, saying we are not ____ (e.g. form, sensation, conception, volition, consciousness) but never that we are ____. This is the classical vedantic negation (neti neti) that all true sages do to their students to encourage them to turn back their consciousness and answer the question "who am i" with their true inner eye. It's a great meditative practice to ask yourself "who am I"... totally gets you away from sensory perception and is a great route to samadhi and awakening. The most direct, Zen question that exists. 

Furthermore, this delicate exchange that I am referring to, if disrespected by letting other people "step on you" by not getting something back in value (whether it is the practice itself be it teaching or whatever service you are offering), then they will eventually form a debt with you and a chronicity of theievery in their own mind. In Buddhist tradition, monks don't just beg and run off after they get a meal. They tend to share dharma with their benefactor. Something to think about: by letting other people "step on you", you are enabling them to do an evil deed! Do not let them use you! This evil deed is not only their seed of retribution but your own to experience in the future as well. So be strong, be assertive. Make sure you are happy with the exchange! Give and take value. Even if that value is just the action itself, make sure you are happy with it before doing it and not doing it too much out of guilt or pity. If you have to do it out of pity, then try to assert that you are just "making one exception" so that there is no chronicity in the person's mind (which strangely enough is your mind as well!) I am sure I lost you somewhere and I would need to talk much longer in order to clarify this deep, deep matter but the following things will help you solidify and strengthen your thinking in this regard as you live in this world. 

This represents the practice of one of the brahmaviharas, namely compassion. Practicing any of these "divine abodes" is enough to enlighten a person if practiced deeply enough. In this case, Govinda, who had spent most of his life stuck in a state of "wanting Nirvana" (and thus being all the more distant from Nirvana) finally comes closer to it by kissing the forehead of someone who is Enlightened--symbolic of accepting one's innate Nirvana rather than being stuck in wanting. 

physical needs satiated (hunger, warmth, thirst, sex) no food in digestive tracts no feces in bowels did physical exercise (or yoga or some sort of physical tonification) drink some light tea no recent emotional/social problems plaguing the mind evening-time or early morning: not too early, not too late, not too much thinking on mind at these times (during the day it is business time) after reading some motivating dharma stories, especially Taoist after reading proper practice instruction 

If drinking alcohol is for the survival/continuance of your body (e.g. red wine) then it is OK. If it is to intoxicate, then it is not. 

Read "how to measure and deepen your spiritual realization"... it's the best book to answer this question as well almost all spiritual questions. Some would say it is somewhat too extraordinary but it has kept me motivated throughout my youth. Here is an excerpt. With that recommendation in mind, here you go: Important Buddhist measuring sticks (most of them analyzed in-depth in the 700 page manual mentioned above): 

Being a doctor is just another service that you can do for others in order to perform Right Livelihood. In Buddhism, you can do whatever you want as your Right Livelihood, so long as it is moral and doesn't violate the other precepts. Being a doctor is very good for spiritual devleopment since you are seeing The Three Characteristics ever single day. There are also many diagnostic powers that come from success in meditation that one can use in being a doctor. In many, many ways being a doctor is very complementary to spiritual practice. What else would the great sages of the past that became Enlightened and understood the laws of the unvierse do but transform and heal others? There are many concentration meditation practices that are helpful to the doctor's practice and profession, skeleton meditation being the most prized (many monks attained super powers through this practice). For further reading, I recommend meditationexpert.com articles on this. Anyway, every single profession has its challenges in integrating with your spiritual practice. Having good organization ability (of energy, time, and activities) is crucial. Daniel Ingram, is a doctor and holds Buddhist accomplishments. In his book, "Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha" he explains how he used original Buddhist teachings (Theravadin) to help him get through the hurdles of medical school... as well as controversial claims of Enlightenment and having achieved bhumihood/bodhisattvahood...