It boils down to simple mathematics. The US electoral system is mostly based on a winner-takes-all approach (BTW, that's mostly not written into the Constitution, but rather evolved ad-hoc, for similar mathematical reasons). In a winner-takes-all system, only the two biggest vote-getters will ever have meaningful influence, so it is natural for a dualism to evolve. The other factor is that in politics, nothing can be accomplished by yourself, only by teaming up into some form of coalition and alliances. For the most part, long term coalitions and alliances are far more valuable to all participants (because they allow calling in favors far in the future). Take that together with the natural dualism inherent in the electoral system, and you have the making for a very stable two-party system. Interestingly, the same mechanism is also driving another aspect: diversity within each party. Many European democracies don't use a winner-takes-all system, and as a result have more parties participate in the democratic process. The price for it, though, is that parties are far more homogeneous internally than US parties, to the point that party leaders can enforce party-line votes by controlling who will even be on the ballots. 

Citizenship, then as now, entailed a specific group of privileges and responsibilities. One of which was some degree of say in how Rome was governed (optimo iure). As the Roman Republic originally expanded from the city-state of Rome, full citizenship (Cives Romani) was initially limited geographically to Rome itself instead of outlying Latin holdings. Who got what level of Roman citizenship was used as an incentive model to recruit the best and brightest from outlying provinces, especially during Rome's early growth. Holding Roman citizenship also invested a personal stake in the welfare of Rome, since either you or your ancestor may have gone to considerable lengths to acquire it in the first place. Nobles in Rome would have always been full citizens of Rome. The status of aristocrats in the provinces would changed as Rome changed; but typically anyone you consider a "Roman noble" had, as a historical family unit, acquired full citizenship by marriage or adoption or relocation and naturalisation of the senior branch to Rome. When the Edict of Caracalla (Constitutio Antoniniana) expanded Roman citizenship to all free males in the Empire; no one lost their existing citizenship. Technically the expansion of citizenship was primarily an expansion of responsibilities (taxes, military service) than an expansion of rather diluted privileges. It was part of the barbarization of the Roman Empire. If feudalism marked a shift of citizens into subjects, this was due a shift in how the relationship between rulers and ruled was interpreted. Being rich and powerful was useful in and of itself, regardless of the concept of citizenship. Modern citizenship (from a Eurocentric perspective) arose from concepts of social contracts and popular sovereignty that preceded the American and French revolutions. If you were an aristocrat that successfully integrated into the new political paradigm, you would have had the highest level of citizenship due to your level of property ownership. In so far as citizenship was "reintroduced", French nobles quickly became full citizens once the head chopping phase had passed - that is, after the Thermidorian Reaction of 1794. The aristocracy and their descendants (private equity) have kept a lower profile ever since. (Roman section of this answer applicable to Revision 1 of the question.) 

The shape of borders reflects the history and commerce at the time. In the eastern US, borders are often formed by geographic features because transportation at the time was very relevant - and transportation largely depended on waterways. For instance, the northern border of Indiana is straight - but it's about 10 miles further north than it would be as an extension of the Ohio border. This was made to give Indiana access to Lake Michigan. The western border of Massachusetts is straight except for the southernmost few miles. This happened because of a mountain range. This little notch would have been almost impossible to police from MA, but is easy to reach from New York. Going further west, there are several factors that led to straighter borders. 

Removal of a source of friction with their British ally, as France's primary goals at the time were Eurocentric. To forestall a complete revision of the Skyes-Picot Agreement regarding the partition of the Ottoman empire: Giving away Mosul in order to keep control of Syria and Lebanon. The British (David Lyoyd George) might have promised to share exploitation of much as 50% of the oil found in Mosul. 

Probably no. Introduction of Yoga in earnest to the West only occurred from the late 1920s onwards. The likelihood of any of the few early adopters being on the Titanic is low; especially as no Indian nationals were on the passenger manifest. 

Biological factors play a major role. People, and in particular women, have a limited age range when they can procreate. When maximizing procreating (whether for its own sake, or to have many children providing social security) was the goal of marriage, that would argue for an earlier marriage age. Infant mortality would also call for women having more time for plenty of pregnancies. Maternal mortality would probably call for higher average marriage age. Very young mothers would be at higher risk (and people would have known that). Today, we are probably near the upper end of the age range where marriage for procreation purposes is feasible at all, and then only with very small family sizes. That would support the notion that historically, people did marry younger (although it does not say how much younger). Marrying late is, in a way, a luxury. During times of turmoil or disease, people would have children (and thus marry) as early as possible. During times of peace, prosperity, and longevity, people could afford to wait longer. Incidentally, it seems that @Semaphore's data also follows the same general pattern: a higher average marriage age in wealthy Florence, for instance, and it seems that generally the higher marriage ages seem to correlate with peaceful periods. Based on all of that, you will probably find the following patterns: 

I recently watched a new mini-series on the rise of Adolf Hitler and learnt an insight that hadn't been apparent in other material I had read and watched on the era: There were many proto-fascists in the aftermath of the Great War, but Hitler rose out of the general milieu almost solely due to his oratory skill. Put simply he was a great recruiter for the DAP and then the NSDAP; and so could name his own terms in the party. Was oratory was considered Hitler's fundamental political strength by his contemporaneous friends and foes? Because most documentaries don't touch on the matter very deeply. Which I now wonder may have been because acknowledging it would have to acknowledge that a generation of people had to have met him half-way on the road to evil. 

A peace treaty with just Poland really makes little sense; it would have had to be a peace treaty with the Soviet Union (and the US, Britain and France) as well. Until 1990, West Germany would not have considered a peace treaty because it would mean permanently ceding East Germany. The Germans preferred to have the formal status of occupied country. After 1990, a peace treaty really made little sense; it was made obsolete by historic events. If anything, it could have re-ignited old memories that everybody involved would prefer to bury. Poland and (post-Soviet) Russia both self-identified as having transformed themselves, and Germany was all to happy to agree with that. So WW II pretty much ended by mutually forgetting about it, rather than a formal peace treaty. 

If we assume that the trend to empire existed for generations before Julius Caesar was assassinated: Was the very expansion that eventually doomed the Roman Republic/Empire economically or culturally pre-ordained? 

For the purpose of this question, let us assume that is meant in the Hobbesian self-preservation and standard-of-living sense of the word; instead of a more pure free-will or pacifist sense. As in a pure pacifist sense Rome of course wasn't obliged to do anything; including survive, retain autonomy or feed its citizens. 

Christopher Columbus thought the world was spherical (like most educated people of his era) but he also thought the size of the Earth was small enough that a westward boat trip from Europe to Asia was achievable with existing ship building technology. In this regard he differed from the more accurate size estimates of scholars in Isabella and Ferdinand's court. Sustained lobbying won out through - and so off he went. Since he still believed the size of the Earth was small - when he bumped into land in the Americas obviously he would assert that the landfall was in Asia (India, Japan, China or somewhere) as: 

I think the premise of the question may be arguable. Scientific progress happened everywhere - it's human nature to inquire and explore. Scientific progress is also a threat to those in power. We have seen this problem in Europe, too (see the Copernicus trial). So the real question shouldn't be why scientific exploration took place in Europe, but rather why were attempts to choke it off less successful in Europe than in the Islamic world? I suspect that there were three separate reasons. One is that in Europe, science had reached a critical mass that the Church was unable to stop. A second one was that the church actually was split down the middle on that topic. The church actually was the major sponsor of scientific research, universities etc. The third reason may simply be the maturity of the religion. Islam is about 700 years younger than Christianity, and historically we have seen it go through similar steps of development. Maybe there is a "natural lifecycle" to religions. Islam in the 16th century may simply have been where Christianity was in the 9th century.