I've got one of those lazy "Ididntexerciseinalongtime" heels which is causing improper form on my squats. I've spoken to some knowledgeable fellas at my gym and they pinpointed my weakness in my squat form is my heels and their inability to flex when coming down (they lift up). My stats are 5foot9 (175cm) I'm 80kgs, 28 years old and as I first said, I haven't done a lot of exercising for a good 5 years. My personal trainer told me to stick some 5kg plates under my heels which has helped tremendously on my squat form, but I shouldn't and don't want to rely on doing my squats forever this way. He also gave me some stretching tips to try and gain some flexibility into my heels, which were doing free weight squats at home and squatting as low as I can go while maintaining my heel to the ground with both legs in uniform (1 leg in front of the other). I'm squatting 80kgs easily, to the point that I need to lift a heavier weight, but it'd be pointless to squat heavier with a crappy form (even with a mediocre form using the plates, I'm a bit worried I'll damage my knees). Specifically doing back squats, although I am practising front squats for power clean form. Is there any other exercises or something I can do to gain some more flexibility in my heels? [edit 29/03/2011] Added Youtube links showing me doing my squat 

The 5 weeks have passed, so you probably already have completed your half marathon :-), but here goes: There are a lot of things you're not telling, so my answer is based on what info you do provide. As a rule of thumb, you can (within reasonable limit, of course) run twice the distance you think you can run, and since you know you can run 12 km, a half marathon should be doable. If you apply general running wisdom (economize and don't run too fast, eat and drink something on the way, stop if it hurts in a bad way, etc), you should be good to go. In the comments you say you plan on going on a 15 km run before the actual half marathon. I think that's an excellent idea, and if you manage to get the feeling that you could go the extra 6 km after 15, you'll be more than ready. Remember to listen to your body, and try not to run too fast. Your achilles tendons and calf muscles take the highest strain when running minimalist, so those are the ones to focus on; if they start to ache too much as you step up your training, you should probably wait. Personally I have been running minimalist shoes for around 18 months now, the last 8 months exclusively minimalist. I have run a number of half marathons and one single marathon in traditional running shoes. I have run 15 km in minimalist shoes as a max (since I'm focusing on the 10 km distance). 

One of the players in my favourite sporting team the (Go the All Blacks!) does this interesting rotating exercise. My question; I'm wondering what the exercise is called, what benefits would you gain from the exercise/ the muscles it affects and how to preform the right technique. From the clip it almost looks like some kind of strengthening for the core. Please view Rotating and lifting heavy plates the exercise is at index 1.50 minutes. 

I've personally tried a couple of products available on the market in New Zealand and I also was a big fan of using grape juice with creatine and dextrose/gluclose. But after not using any pre-workout supplments for a month.. I've found no negating effects of just going in sober after an hour of my last meal. I say don't bother with any caffeine pills or powders, if you're under 35 years of age you shouldn't be worried about energy performance anyways. 

I would recommend stop using mass gainers, That ON Mass you are using has 10g of sugar per serve, I suppose if you are halving it, it isnt too bad.... but yeah not the best for carb intake! I'd also try to get the tuna in spring water and also get some healthly fats in there like flax seed oil (omega 6 & 9). I'm almost amazed you are making that many calories on that diet.. you must be drinking/eat a fair load of chicken soup :), I'd be worried if that is even real chicken in there? 

You really should state your age when asking such a question. If you're still growing, we will have to take a different approach towards guiding you, than is the case if you're fully grown. If you're an adult, it's really quite simple: 

So simply go through your calorie intake and your physical activity during a normal day, and you will know why you gain weight. If the above doesn't add up for you, go see a doctor - you might be retaining water or something worse. 

I have personal experience with shin splints, traditional "heel-cushioned" running shoes, and barefoot running in Vibrams and without shoes at all. For many years I suffered from extremely painful shin splints. I asked for advice on how to get rid of it every time I met a fellow runner, but the solutions suggested to me didn't give a clear picture; run more, run less, heat, cold, creams, herbs, ... you name it. After testing various things, I found that heat helped me; keeping my legs and feet warm seemed to do the trick. I also tried to run toe-strike in my traditional heel-cushioned running shoes, which actually seemed to help a bit - my personal explanation to this was that toe-striking activates the calves more, and active muscles produce more heat - but that is my own non-scientific explanation. After many years with shin splints I got rid of them by wearing thick wool socks and long legged underpants, and never run with naked shins. A friend of mine claims to have literally cured her shin splints with fenugreek seed powder, which she got wet, distributed on her lower legs, wrapped it all in plastic and left it there for an hour. Others will tell you that cooling their shins helped them. All in all, my experience is that shin splints are not so much cured by changing running style. And after I cured mine, I could run any way I wanted, and only when the weather is extremely cold, I can feel a tiny bit of the old shin splint pain again. That being said, switching from the heel-cushioned running shoes to Vibrams is the best thing I ever did for my running. But be aware that you can't just put on a pair of Vibrams, and then expect to do better on every parameter of your running; your body will have to adapt. The cushioned running shoes will pamper your feet and calves instead of letting them work the way they were made to work. That means, that after running with cushioned shoes for years, your feet, ankles and calves are not trained for this running style, and you will find it tough on your feet and calves - many people give up on barefoot running in this phase, since they expect miracles from the shoes, but only are suffering from the impact of their "old" cushioned running style. When you feel you get slower when running in Vibrams, it's just because you are doing something you haven't done for many years. If you are patient, and give yourself time to train and learn the barefoot running style, it can improve your running experience significantly. I was about to give up running 3 years ago, since my knees were hurting more and more from running. In an act of desperation (and after consulting a fair amount of the theory behind barefoot running), I decided to buy a pair of Vibrams. After a period where I ran once or twice a week in my cushioned running shoes, and once a week in Vibrams, I switched to exclusively to running in Vibrams. Before the switch, my knees hurt when I ran faster than 6 minutes per kilometer, and my typical cruising speed was 6:30min/km. Now my cruising speed is between 5:30min/km and 5:00min/km. I cut off around 25 minutes of my half-marathon time. My current goal is to run 10 km in 45 minutes - 4:30min/km on average, and I can now run 3 km at that speed. So my speed has increased. It didn't come with the shoes, it came from slowly adapting to a different running style. But most importantly, barefoot running is fun - I look forward to every training pass, and that's really important if you want to exercise several times a week. Note that this is my personal experience - Barefoot running might not work for you at all, so remember to listen to your body. Just because it was the right thing for me, it's not necessarily the right thing for you. Good luck!