keeping your feet warm while winter bike commuting For keeping your feet warm, I recommend NEOS overshoes. They go over your normal shoes, keeping your shoes and pant legs dry and clean. Even the non-insulated options add warmth due to the layering. I like the Voyager model, which is also light and packable. Keeping your hands warm while winter bike commuting If putting your hands someplace warm doesn't work well enough, you can try a little cayenne to improve your circulation. A small amount can go in your gloves (or socks!) It has worked for me. This worked for my son: 

keeping your face warm while winter bike commuting I recommend ski googles and Seirus "Masque" over a balaclava. This mask only covers the bottom half of your face, and can be paired with merino wool hat worn underneath a helmet. This is more versatile, as you can remove the mask, but still wear the hat off-bike. I also use a scarf underneath my jacket to make sure there's a good seal to keep the wind out. For my kids, I still use a balaclava for simplicity on very cold days. 

You also have to consider that a motorcycle has no trouble accelerating to and maintaining traffic speeds. In short, a motorcycle really doesn't need to look backward with anywhere near the frequency that a cyclist does. They also have mirrors mounted on their bikes which most cyclists don't have. For example. Coming off a red light, anyone on a motorcycle can just go without consideration for anything behind them. Lane changes require major planning on a bicycle, but are relatively simple on a motorcycle traveling at matching speeds with all the cars. 

If I had a single speed instead of fixed gear, I could do one thing that I really miss: Bunny hop a curb. That's something I've had to do more than once on a regular road bike just to avoid cars and it's something I do all the time on a variety of bikes just for convenience. For the life of me, I can't do it at more than a crawl with a fixie. I can shift weight over a pothole or the like, that's not too bad, but getting airborne is impossible for me. The Fixie keeps me off some of the types of locations I rode all the time in college: extensive sidewalks, railroad tracks, potholes, etc... Not a problem where I live, but it would have been years ago. 

I gave up on rain pants for bike commuting, after getting wet from sweat if I wasn't getting wet from rain. My ideal rain pants for cycling now are quick-drying synthetic pants, ideally with a DWR finish to repel water during light rain. Depending on the situation, either just keep wearing the pants at work to let the light rain dry off, or I pack spare pants in a dry bag. Currently I prefer the "Patagonia Men's Guidewater II Pant". They are not stretchy, but repel water, dry quickly and pass for normal enough pants at work. Previously, some microfiber polyester dress pants from JCPenney were a favorite. 

This is the perfect time to re-evaluate wearing unpadded tights. You might not need the padding on your recumbent cycle, but it adds just an ounce or two to your shorts and blocks the wind just where you need it. Consider the Ibex merino wool Trio shorts. The merino wool has a broad comfort range from summer to winner. They are also comfortable to wear without squeezing. Keeping the entire region warmer with wool ought to help some as well! To get a deal on the shorts, subscribe to the Ibex mailing list and be patient. Over time, it seems nearly everything in their catalog will be available at a good discount at some point-- that's how I got mine! Also consider altering your diet to improve more warming, circulation-improving foods and spices like cayenne, cinnamon and ginger. That was the best thing I did to improve my warm for winter cycling. I write more about that at Cayenne for Winter Warmth. 

There is a direct feel of the road. There is no slack going forward or backward before the "catch" on the chain. No derailleur maintenance. No clicking. No wait on gear shifts. No finding the right gear. Where I ride, it is completely flat, in and out of neighborhoods, constant speed changes. I could shift gears all the time, or I could just ride one gear and absorb it with my legs. It puts me out of my comfort zone. When I ride a regular road bike for fitness, the temptation is to pick the most efficient gear and go at the heart rate I can sustain for the distance I want to travel. All efforts are pretty much identical. With a fixie, the gear is picked and I must choose the effort expended to match the distance I'll travel. I don't really ride it for fitness but I've found it puts me through paces I never went through on a regular road bike. 

A track bike has no brakes because braking would cause a pile up. When a fixie on the road has no brakes it is because someone is being macho. They will insist they can stop just as quickly or they can always see the road and path ahead. The former being easily disproven and the latter generally being optimistic. There seems to be a fair overlap with the same crowd that shuns helmets in traffic. I ride a fixie with two brakes (rear rarely used). The bike store near me sells fixed gear bikes set up for both track (no brakes, swept handlebars so as not to catch) and for road (with brakes and regular handlebars). 

I bike with two children, now aged 1 and 4, and have tried a number of solutions. A couple specific suggestions for you: First, some child seats come bundled with their own rack. One of them is the Topeak BabySeat. Second, heavy duty racks include weight ratings. Old Man Mountain is a respected brand and has a rack in their line rated to carry 70 lbs. Their racks are here. (Beware, it's not cheap!). My personal experience has been with carrying my kids on a bakfiets, Xtracycle and an electric Yuba Mundo. If you are interested, I have a lot more information and photos about those options on bikes-as-transportation.com. Good luck! 

I had a bad case of sciatica due to a lower back issue, and riding my recumbent bike seemed to help a lot. I documented the experience in more detail on my blog. 

Let me tell you from experience what doesn't work: Putting a cell phone in a the pocket of a "waterproof" jacket. I lost a phone that way, and another one saw the light at the end of a foggy, damp tunnel before returning back to life. If you are able to, turn gadgets you are carrying off. Having electricity flow through the system just increases the possibility of problems. For extra paranoia, remove the batteries. My rule of thumb is that any important electric should be "double waterproofed". Usually this is accomplished with a plastic bag (not necessarily anything special), inside a supposedly-waterproof pannier. A small "dry bag" would be durable, waterproof choice for small electronics. For touring, I looked for and found extra thick and tough garbage bags to use as an inner liner for my panniers. These are far less likely to be punctured than garden-variety plastic bags. Again, nothing special-- just a grocery store product. In a pinch, use two plastic grocery bags, applied around the electrics in opposite directions. If the gear does manage to get wet despite your best efforts, let it dry out thoroughly before turning it back on. 

I have a large workbench with a bench vise mounted on it. I made a jig from a couple pieces of wood to hold the bike upside down, then I clamp the bike either high or low so it doesn't twist in the jig. This holds it in place, rock solid. 

The biggest benefit I see is convenience. You can just hop onto a bike with whatever you're wearing at the time and go. Not a big deal if you're planning a 15 mile ride, but a real big deal if you're riding around the neighborhood, hopping off to run into a few stores, etc... It's also possible to pedal on the flip side of the pedal and get moving without the cumbersome and slow start up that is required to get into clipless or straps. In an emergency you can even stomp on the straps and move the bike out of the way. It's rare, but occasionally you find yourself standing there and just want to get out of the way, in any direction. I've now switched almost entirely to riding clipless though. Between that and riding fixed gear, it makes the bike feel so connected to me. To compare: Straps are easier to get into. Clipless are easier to get out of (really!). I've never pulled out of my clipless pedals, I have broken a strap (no big deal if you're not in a sprint). At this point if I'm riding any distance at all, I change shoes. If I'm just going to the store to pick up groceries, I don't even have straps, just old school pedals. The middle ground for straps just evaporated for me. 

Rob, you are correct that a heavier bike will give you a greater fitness benefit over the same distance. The only real counter-point I have is that the most effective bikes for fitness are the ones that get ridden. So, if some reason a lighter bike would more fun or appealing to you (while still be a "good enough" commuter), than a lighter bike could be a better choice for you. In my experience, extra weight is not noticed much for commuting, so I'd rather have the durability of CroMoly over aluminum or carbon, and the practical benefits of fenders, racks, lights and bags. An anecdote: My wife rides a bike with electric assist. You might think electric assist would reduce the fitness benefit, but opposite is true for her. She takes more trips because she has electric assist (including carrying one or two children plus cargo), and thus ends up riding-- and pedaling-- more than if she had an unassisted bike. Some will suggest that you should get a lighter bike for "social" riding. That depends on who you ride with and what their fitness levels and interests are. I'm personally a stronger rider, and prefer to ride with my wife, parents and older friends, as well my children. For me, having a bike that's a bit heavier improves the social parity and helps to me ride naturally closer to the same speed with the people I prefer to ride with. If you want a hang with "Group A" club rides, lighter would be way the go instead. Whatever gets you out riding the most is best bike for you. 

You can avoid getting your pants dirty and save rotational weight at the same time by not wearing any pants at all. 

You might get into the habit of inspecting your bike before you take off. I check the tires and the brakes every time I pull the bike off its rack. Check your cages along with it. Mentally I classify water along with protective gear, probably giving it more weight than a helmet. It isn't something that's merely nice to have because you're a little thirsty. It's something that stops me from having a stroke in the heat (and cramps when I'm done). Vaguely related. I keep $2 on my bike so I can buy a bottle of water if I have to. You could also place something in your cage that won't let you operate the bike after you get off it when you're done. It's easy to remember your water bottle at the end, because you're thirsty. Pick up the water bottle and place your pump or something in the cage so you have to pull it out and remember the water before you leave next time. My advice though is to treat water with the importance is has. 

I'll take a guess that you didn't keep the bike upright during the flat change, which led to the chain coming off inside the chain case. I had the same thing happen to me on a bakfiets, which also has a fully enclosed chain and an internal rear hub, I have detailed instructions how I recommend removing the wheel of a bakfiets, but I think the "trick" you may be looking for may simply be to keep the bike upright. 

I regularly ride a 1971 Raleigh Twenty with a Sturmey Archer 3-speed hub. I do not maintenance the hub, and it continues to work fine, 40 years later. (Although I presume there were some years before I bought it a few years ago in which it wasn't ridden). I have also regularly ridden a Shimano Nexus 8 hub for the past 4 years, year-round in snow and rain in Indiana. I don't recall doing any maintenance on it yet, either. UPDATE: After about 5 years of regular use without maintenance the Shimano Nexus 8 hub eventually failed. Had I oiled and maintenanced it a bit, I presume it would have lasted longer.