Another important marker of lineage is culture, and in particular language which is by far the best studied cultural feature. The language of the Ashkenazi is Yiddish. This language is actually a Germanic language from the High German branch. This culture, including the language, is thought to have evolved in what is now Germany in the 10th Century, and only later spread east. So it would be quite reasonable to assume that most of the non-Semetic roots of the Ashkenazi are in fact German. German is in fact quite unrelated to Turkic Khazar, the language of the Khazars (and a considerable distance away). So there is really no good reason to believe there was any serious Khazar component to this culture. This appears to back up the other genetic-based answers. The most likely origin appears to be that the culture was founded by male Jewish emigres who intermarried with local German women. The children would have learned to speak the German their mothers spoke at home, while the fathers would have insisted the religious trappings of Judaism be adhered to. 

When most people think of "Huns" and "Mongols", they are thinking of Atilla's empire of the mid 400's and Genghis Khan's Mongolian Empire of the 1200's. Since there's a good 800 years between them, obviously the answer is "no" on that level. It sounds like what you heard is the story of the Yuezhi. As you can probably tell from the name, we know about them through Chinese records. In the 2nd century BC the Chinese report they were defeated by the Xiongnu. The Xiongnu were based in Mongolia, but predated the Mongol people by a long ways (and are actually yet another candidate for the ancestors of the Huns). The larger part of the Yuezhi were chased westward. There used to be a serious theory that these were the people westerners called "Huns", and this is how they came to be in the Caspian Sea area that we find the Huns in 600 years later. My sainted Penguin Atlas of Ancient History shows this on one of its maps. I couldn't find a copy online, but here's an intermediate map from that book that postulates the Huns being in the position they'd have to be in if they were descended from the Yuezhi (for historiographical purposes only!). Note that the date is actually prior to any historical record of the Huns, so this is just his supposition. 

The one people seem to be drawing on a lot (I found two recent articles about it) was the raid on Donald Manno in 2008.* The better of the two was here on Reuters. 

The Khazar's have no known descendents. Their language is dead, with no successor languages. It is currently considered to have been Turkic, of the Oghur branch. The only remaining living language of that branch is Chuvash in Central Russia, but those would at best be descendents of sort of cousins of the Khazars (the Bulgars). There have been lots of claims of Khazar ancestry for various Jewish groups around the world. However, no real proof of ancestry exists, and genetic studies designed to show such proof have so far failed to do so. Hungarians, Kazakhs, Kumyks, and Crimean Tartars also claim some amount of Khazar heritage. However, the Hungarians and Kazakhs didn't seem to have a really significant contribution from that source, and the other two speak Turkic languages of the Kypchak branch, which points to a slightly different cultural lineage than the Khazars. 

This was taken as a criticism at the time, but was pretty mild considering what others were saying, and that he was in fact the aggrieved party. You could even argue that his criticism was that Ford hadn't pardoned more people. * - This is the first election I remember well, and IMHO the linked Wikipedia page actually underplays how important it was. 

The trivial answer is he was executed for being a Protestant. The deeper answer is we aren't quite sure, but he had gained some powerful enemies. There was a lengthy list of charges read at his trial. While I don't have access to the full list, the first 7 appear to be unrelated to the actual act of translating The Bible into English, but rather are simply a list of typical Protestant beliefs. 

My personal favorite is the early history of the lighting rod. Lightning likes to try to ground itself via the tallest, pointiest thing around. This means that because of their architecture, Christian churches have always been particular favorites of lightning. This is obviously awkward theologically, so the theology that developed was that lightning was actually God expressing his displeasure (and/or demons in the air). In 1752 Benjamin Franklin proved that lightning contained electricity, and invented the lightning rod. This was a great boon to civilized mankind everywhere, and was immediately adopted, right? Well, no. What actually happened was that religious people worried that if you thwarted God in this way, he'd have to express his displeasure at you some other way. The other traditional act of God is of course earthquakes, so many people seriously insisted that lightning rods caused earthquakes(pdf). For decades thereafter, if an earthquake or some other catastrophe happened, and there was a structure with a lightning rod nearby, it was blamed (and often torn down by angry mobs). 

The basic answer is no. There is no better connection between the people of the Americas and the Chinese people than there is for any other groups of humans on the planet. Probably the best way to view the peopling of the Americas is that there was constant interaction throughout human history through Beringia. Land bridge not required. Human beings know how to make boats, and it now seems even likely coast-hopped around the glaciers back when they were a thing. So the source peoples for the Americas were basically all the groups of people who were living in far northeast Siberia through human history. The Chinese people linguistically belong to the Sino-Tibetan language family. Their ancestors were probably all living on the tibetan pleatau more than 6000 years ago. When domesticated rice and millet made their ways up the Yangtze and Yellow rivers respectively, the Sino-Tibetians who took to it fully were thereafter able to use their sheer numbers to push any non-farmers out of the various river valleys of China. Other groups of Sino-Tibetians pushed south into good river valleys that were usable for their rice. However, neither crop grows well in Sibera, so they have not until recent times ever colonized areas much further north than Manchuira. The land past there was just of no use to their rice/millet culture.