As MarkOxford pointed out in his comment, the argument appears that it could be classified as a cosmological argument. I can't say that I have ever come across a formulation of cosmological argument that closely resembles yours, although I am not terribly knowledgeable when it comes to them. The ones I am 'familiar' with are Aquinas' version, the Leibnizian version, the Kalām argument, the modal cosmological argument by Brian Leftow, and this cosmological argument due to Richard Gale and Alexander Pruss (a literal genius, by the way). I suspect there are many others. As far as objections to cosmological arguments, these are extraordinarily numerous, ranging from abysmal to formidable, so I don't think it would be worth going into detail in such a short space. By the way, where did you find this argument? 

Sorry for my ignorance, but is Bhagavad Gita in your list? (I have read a probably-not-so-good, truncated translation only.) Let me first define the word "religion". I use it only for monotheisms, since they are so different from other mythologies. Only monotheisms are in a desperate urge to define themselves as NOT mythologies. In the polytheistic Amazon I saw people describing their way of thinking as mythologic, in the sense of gathering information and analyzing it at each generation. (If the lack of writing made them better at this, I don't know, but it's a question adressed by John Gray in Straw Dogs.) So, do you think the Bhagavad Gita qualifies more as philosophy/mythology or more as religion, in a western, dogmatic style? How it is seen today, after a long english colonization, and how it was seen before? And may I ask what have you read from chinese ancient philosophy too? 

It's only a fallacy if you're basing an argument off of that insult that intends to be logical and free from flaws. Some ad hominens might not be fallacious in arguments about someone's character and morals, but it's easy to get caught up in the wrong details that way. At the very least ad hominens are poor form because they include extraneous information. For example, "Jill is a patsy, and patsies are weak, this is why patsies are weak, this is why Jill is a patsy, therefore Jill should not be expected to be strong" really doesn't benefit from calling Jill a patsy at all. The argument would be more concise if you just asserted that Jill is a weak individual and should not be expected to be strong. Calling Jill a patsy is just being needlessly mean. Another thing to watch out for with this sort of thinking is that fallacy fallacy. You can't discredit someone's conclusion because their argument is fallacious. For example, 1+2 = 1+1+1+1 = 3. Here the sum of 1 and 2 is not equal to the sum of 4 1's, but it is equal to 3. When someone accuses you of using a fallacious argument keep in mind that they're attacking your logic and not your premise or conclusion. It's bad form to dismiss someone because they use ad hominens or because they've brought up something that's not related to the discussion. That's just an excuse to leave a discussion. Another thing to realize is that debates usually aren't won with logic, but with ability to appeal to humans. If you're trying to win a debate instead of having a discussion then using a bunch a fallacious arguments well is going to give you a large advantage. This will piss off whoever you're talking to though. This is why sick burns end so many "discussions" on the internet. 

Science has indeed advanced a lot, as well as philosophy, but most people have no access to them, and no concern in learning them. We can even say there are too many people who cannot even read (they may read a line or two, but to read a full page and get all the meaning is too much). Of course some social classes benefits a lot from all this ignorance (see the postmodernist attack on modern science), and that's why things will be the way they are now for a long, long time. Another point: your question is focused in Western thinking ("one" god). Most people in the world have mythologies, they use many gods to explain things, and they don't seem to have the same "belief" kind of thinking that monotheists do. So, their mythologies may be adjusted to modern science more than monotheists beliefs usually are. So you may be entirely missing the point. I suggest you try to understand how other civilizations think (and please, don't go for it and stop at Buddhism, like most Westerners do). 

From what I gather, for realists who are especially fond of a good old-fashioned Mathematical Platonism incorporated in their ontology, there seem to be two ways of getting at it. The first seems to be the need for truth-makers for mathematical propositions/truths, hence the positing of mathematical objects as abstract objects which serve as truth-makers. The other route is to marshal the Quine-Putnam Indispensability Argument, or some contemporary variation, and deduce their existence (am I right in thinking this is a deductive argument, or is it an abductive argument? Perhaps their are versions of both) by noting that the existential quantifier is a device for ontological commitment. First of all, am I mistaken in thinking that these represent some of the motivations for adopting/positing Mathematical Platonism? Secondly, are there any other motivations for adopting/positing Mathematical Platonism? 

Sounds like a "non-phrase" typical of "postmoderns". Of course meaning exists as a natural part of language. Does one need to be "deaf, dumb and blind" to ask the purpose of language? 

I'm inclined to think that the answer depends on the belief. Those who defend monotheism will answer like virmaior, who denied the right of the question itself to be presented here, or like Alexander, who thinks B is the "correct answer". Those who think too quickly on the subject, and have no opinion whatsoever, will be inclined to go with the Zeitgeist, and also choose B. Those who see monotheism as a huge lie and essentially an evil enterprise, one destroying not only cultural diversity, but also intertwined with biodiversity erosion and other ecological problems: Laozi, Voltaire, Nietzsche, Freud, Russell, Sagan, Dawkins, Hitchens, Vidal and many others, including me, will try and be able to understand that A is, perhaps or probably, a viable definition. The first group will most probably: a) don't understand it; b) don't even try to understand it; or c) pretend they didn't understand it. Just my opinion on the subject. And if, on the Philosophy realm, we need to cite an author -- be on a question/answer website or any other modern Agora -- then I think it was much better to live in Antiquity, where Philosophy meant to do the questions that came to your brain, and there was no difference if they were your questions or someone else's, only that you wanted to gather more opinions about, i.e. try to understand. 

One belief that gets around a need for a prime cause is that the universe/reality is infinite. How'd it start? It's always been there. What was the big bang then? More stuff created out of a part of infinite stuff. This makes sense if you consider that it could be possible to expand in every direction in respect to everything. I can't imagine ever actually getting to the point of being able to observe this though. We'd have to get far enough away from where we are now to be able to observe part of the universe we couldn't before. Also I believe you have a misunderstanding of the big bang. It wasn't thought to have happened out of nothingness by the scientific community. The theory is that everything was in an infinitesimally small point, and then it exploded outward violently. All the matter and energy in the universe now was there at the start of the big bang, at least that's how I understand it. Fun fact: The big bang is a Christian idea; someone in the Catholic Church came up with it a while ago. I forgot his name though. 

Ethology is the field of science that studies the behavior of animals comparatively, including humans, of course. Sociobiology is another related term, also called "evolutionary psychology". Both are despised by many (mostly monotheists and postmodernists). Thus, in a philosophical sense, there's no rigid frontier between us and other animals, unless you believe in a rigid interpretation of the Bible, or have any reason to try to distract and confuse the audience, instead of try to enlighten and explain things to them. You can see some of the methods ethologists use in books like this and this. 

So, you could give it to charity (to unknown people) if you don't need it, and if your family don't need it, and if your town don't need it, etc. But if you give everything to unknown people to the point where you have no happiness of your own, then your family will be the first to notice (and miss it). So to reach an equilibrium one must first have it in itself. Sometimes it needs a beer or something, but probably never need expensive clothes, cars and so on (DDJ 53). Yet, you may want to read Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil, which will show you there's more than one way of measuring "good" and "bad" I hope I've been of any help.