This is actually pretty simple. Rather than any sort of ring, your overall landmass appears to me a single line of land with decreasing width that spirals at the end. As long as that also vaguely corresponds to height, this formation could well be generated by just a single massive hotspot, undergoing intraplate deformation (because e.g. it's near a three plate boundary, or is much weaker than the other plate). As the plate with the hotspot under it subducts its neighbor (as e.g. continental plates are wont to do to oceanic ones), that neighbor continues strong shear motion, leading to the fragmenting of the weaker subducting plate and the formation of that sort of spirally shape via accretion. This means lots of earthquakes in that region, at least during the formative process, but most/all the volcanic activity is on the other end of the continent. Your island also has a distinct bend in the chain a little while after the spiral. With a hotspot-generated landmass, that change would indicate a change in tectonic motion. This is reemphasized by the small gap in the landmass shortly afterwards: this gap is the location of the former shear/subduction fault that then became a regular subduction fault and is now recently divergent. While the western part of the continent used to be part of the same plate as the eastern part, it's now broken off and is its own tiny plate. The implications of this system are that the rocks in the tail end of this chain will be highly metamorphic, both in terms of the islands and the underlying seafloor. Expect a lot of exposed and submerged blueschist, with an unusually large amount of Eclogite in the seabed. The Eastern Island will be much more tame, with more typical basalt formations transitioning to blueschist as one travels west. 

Prof. Dr. Smart Person can totally figure it out. The object is an ancient historical relic from a past culture. A physicist is not the person who should be handling it. Prof. Dr. Smart Person is thus an Archeologist. After lamenting the incalculable damage done to the historical site by the erstwhile looters (but, alas, it is the middle ages: they cannot be arrested for this cause the king likes his shinies), our hero begins painstakingly cataloging all remaining artifacts (e.g. walls, flooring, doors, lighting fixtures) as well as other salient historical information (boot prints in the dust, fingerprints, wear on various surfaces, humidity, air pressure, etc), though most of the latter while have been destroyed by the intrusion of the ignoramuses who pawned off the bomb to the university. Much of this work will be done not by Prof. Dr. Smart Person but by aspiring students and adjunct professors in his service. While our hero is the world authority on technologically advanced ancient civilizations, everyone in the field has their own specialization. An esteemed academic like Prof. Dr. Smart Person has all the best books on the subject, but there's always more to be gained from acquiring more focused texts on the subject. Using (substantial) royal funding, our hero dispatches the university's uniquely skilled Bursar to acquire relevant material from the world over, working together to discern authentic texts from hoaxes looking to make a quick buck. Coordinating his past research with all of the emerging material, Prof. Dr. Smart person comes to the conclusion that this object was, and possibly still is, a weapon of immense power-- so much so that even the ancients feared it's wrath and thousands of time-worn writings in the ancient tongue forswear its usage. The vault into which the looters forced access was an armory of sorts, as can be seen by its architectural and civic similarities to other ancient weapon caches with better-preserved documentation, and this centerpiece of the storage facility matches the scant few extant drawings of the "fire-mushroom weapon" before its use (the "fire-mushroom weapon" is believed to be the weapon forsworn in historical documents mostly by their shared cultural significance in signifying the end of the world and that the same fears seem to apply to both of them). Upon Prof. Dr. Smart Person's report to the king, the sovereign is torn. On the one hand, the weapon represents unlimited military power, and thus further delving into its secrets to unlock its use is very, very tempting. On the other hand, the King was raised with a royal education and is well aware of memorials from the end-days inscribed with such inspiring quotes as "I am become Death, the Destroyer of Worlds -- , upon seeing the first test of the Weapon" and "I am Ozymandias, King of Kings. Look upon my works, ye mighty, and weep!" and "Whosoever shall make use of the Weapon, let him be anathema", etc. Perhaps some secrets are best left unknown. In any case, the king must now decide what to do with the last remaining fire-mushroom Weapon (Order Prof. Dr. Smart Person to research methods of destruction for the artifact? Order the University to unlock its full potential? Order it sealed away in the Royal dungeons for someone else to decide what to do with?). If they go further into the research, the next step would be to excavate the surrounding area to the original find in search of further information. It is definitely reasonably possible for them to ascertain the use and operation of the missile. Of course, the missile is no longer 'nuclear'-- the past millennia have certainly reduced its radioactivity significantly and it's likely no longer capable of a full-scale detonation. If the cache had some sort of preservation method in place, then this is not a problem and the missile can be launched if a launching place can be found to launch it and its security can be bypassed (both unlikely). But in any case, they can totally figure out what it does. 

This is not necessarily untrue as applied to reality There are lots of people who believe the real world works this way. You may not agree, but given that these people form a significant segment of the human population (about 20%, to one sig fig) it seems a little hard-headed to discount their history out of hand. Given that the Church seems to report that your scenario corresponds, in a very rough manner, with real life, it seems reasonable to look at what the Church teaches its role in real life is as a guide to what the Church's role would be in this fictional world you are developing. The Church has a lot to say about the raison d'être of the ecclesial ministry. A summary is given in passage 879 in the linked section of the Catechism: 

Now, then, we've looked a bit about what the Church says about itself in real life, now lets look at what's different between your reality and the Church's description of reality. 

Because (almost) everyone loses faith in Santa Well, everyone knows Santa isn't really real, right? I mean, sure, when you're a kid you believe in him, but then, one day, you find out he's not really there, that it was just your parents all along. You, know, if Santa's not real, there's probably no such thing as magic, after all. There's just people and rocks and space, and nothing special or magical or spiritual out there. And, you know, if there's nothing spiritual about the world, then we surely don't have souls, and God probably doesn't even exist. And, well, "if God does not exist, everything is permitted". 

Which, in non-Catholic terms says something like: Everything done by normal people is a part of their relation to God and by extension their role in the Church. It is the role of normal people to live in such a manner as to make holy everything they interact with, especially themselves. Which makes the point that almost everything involves the Church and Her actions, even if it doesn't obviously involve a priest. So the influence of God and by extension the Church in the hearts of the faithful (i.e. "lands not overrun by demons) is very big, but not so big as to exclude or obviate personal choice and self-expression. What limits the interference of the ecclesial ministry in the lives of the laity, then? 

The entire region will become a lake, probably with a substantial river flowing downhill from it to the ocean. This is because rainforests are wet. The Congo Basin, in central Africa near where the fictional county might be placed, gets 50-150 mm of rainfall per month. That means the saucer will have a near-constant rainstorm over at least part of it and will waterfall off water on all sides. With the death of all life beneath it due to the constant darkness and flooding, the water will slowly wash the region away downstream, creating an extremely lively river region. The center of the dead spot will erode last, so for a while there will be a circular lake with an island in the middle. Birds may be interested in the disk, and may colonize the edges eventually, in places the water is less frequent. Probably parrots and Eagles, with the parrots ducking under the waterfall and escaping the predatory birds when needed. Mud-based nest builders would colonize the underside of the edge if there's a mountain near by-- they don't normally fly up very high and they're not as curious as parrots. Depending on wind patterns, aeolian soil deposition may lead to plant growth on the center of the disk assuming it rains little enough there. The plant growth will bind the soil, allowing more deposition and thus starting off the succession process. At the end of 20 years you will probably have a tiny bit of grass up there. Eventually, you'd end up with a forest, of course, but that would take many hundreds of years. All of this, of course, is ignoring human interactions, which would make everything very different. Probably somebody (Magneto?) is going to colonize the top of the saucer and create a floating island country resulting in tensions between them and the local government. Human effort could drastically change the hydrological effects of the saucer, with various results. 

In order to prove it you'd need to rationally construct the world from necessarily true first principles in a logically valid manner. This means something like deducing you exist from the fact that you perceive (Descartes "I think therefore I am") and moving from there on into other things. According to some rationalist philosophers you would at some point have encompassed everything. A particularly salient example of this would be to allow Liebnitz's theodicy that this is the best of all possible worlds. Assuming one could prove the existence of Liebnitz's idea of God, one could then logically deduce from ethical principles the exact nature of reality except for those parts of reality with multiple equally good possibilities. Assuming that the physics bubble could be shown to be a logical necessity of this necessary being's necessary plan, its existence would be proven. If inferior proofs like abundant empirical evidence and such suffice, you could also use any accepted sufficiently binding metalogical form of reason within the confines of your world. This would make the question unreasonably broad, however. 

Do Worldbuilding Rather than presenting a society to make a single point (Western Civ is good/bad for XYZ reasons), build the society to make holistic sense in its world. A society grounded in both the best and worst humanity has to offer will convey a sense of holistic integrity and well-roundedness that proscribes utopian and dystopian interpretations. 

Other than those, though, the stuff should all be applicable, and those don't seem like they'd change terribly much from a non-Catholic perspective, I think. 

Such a development would be a massive change The requirements you place (no time travel, no commercial viability, no associated interim developments, cost only thrice the ISS) are not compatible with the development of FTL travel along the lines that modern physics is looking. In fact, FTL achieved while satisfying those conditions would necessitate an even bigger disruption of modern physics than just the development of FTL travel by more 'normal' (i.e. less theoretically disruptive) means. In the early 1900s, Albert Einstein and Max Plank (among others) published papers that showed widespread fundamental failings in the Newtonian system at that time underpinning the scientific community's understanding of cosmology. Einstein won a Nobel Prize for his work on explaining the Photovoltaic Effect, and a new age of science was born. Quantum Mechanics, General Relativity, these disciplines were born almost overnight and there was a veritable explosion of research, publishing, and general enthusiasm both in the scientific community and the global community at large for physics and the physicists creating it. As our understanding of the world fundamentally changed, we found ourselves swarmed with new technologies, wonders that would have been impossible in the old Newtonian world. LASERs, transistors, GPS (and anything else going really fast and really far away and trying to tell where things are), scanning electron microscopes, the list goes on. Some of these were sort-of overnight things. Some of these took a while longer. And, of course, each of these things building off each other makes even more things. So what would happen overnight? You'd see a couple people, the people who invented this, raised to the level of global heroes. They would have a lot of power, a lot of influence and funding and fame. Someone gets the Nobel Prize in Physics for this. This gives them a platform, and Einstein used this to accomplish a lot of good in the world. There's not much reason to think an inventor in today's time would be philanthropic. You'd see some effects immediately, here, though the full ramifications could take a while to come into effect. These effects last a VERY long time: we still quote Einstein and the effects of his support for e.g. nuclear disarmament and not locking liberal scientists up for being 'Commies' continue to shape the world in which we live. You'd see immediate financial policy changes. The fastest will be individual investors grabbing tech stocks in related industries, followed by investment groups, but within a year you'll have countries making serious changes to their research grant programs and of scientific focus in general. Medium-term? You'll have a revival of the physical sciences. Physicists will make lots of money and lots of people will go to school to become physicists and some sort of related engineer (probably mechanical) and, as a result, biomedical interest will slow somewhat. Education spending will go up, and the way it's spent will change. Textbooks for middle school on up will have to be rewritten. Some young college students will be inspired by the new field and towards the tail end of the decade begin a second wave of research and development expanding upon the first and truly revolutionizing everyday things by relentlessly applying the new paradigm. Space fiction will become popular again, like zombie stuff is now. We already did space-everything pretty recently, so this might go differently, but expect popular portrayals of FTL travel to change to match the new scientific results at the very least. Since FTL ships can't be used as weapons (for magic reasons beyond our current ken), expect warfare to change. Right now, we are very much in an attacker-wins sort of situation. If FTL ships or the technology involved in them can somehow be used for defensive purposes, the world will become briefly a much more dangerous place and then a much safer one. Our most pressing reasons for space colonization would ironically be defused by the very technology likely to make it easy.