Post-Revolution Well, I'll keep it short. There is an ongoing mess right now, and everywhere. Garbage is everywhere in the city, many roads are being ruined and not maintained any more, government services (health, transportation) are even worse, Internet is barely usable (have a 7mbs and get only 1mbs or less), Inflation is dreadful (food prices doubled comparing to pre-revolution). Worse, some government entities (like the local pharmacy for medicines) are being robbed and destroyed by "unknown" and their resources are taken across border (to Libya or Algeria). So that shouldn't be surprising for a Post-Revolution country. But the question is: With an uneducated/inexperienced youth, a corrupt government, a terrible infrastructure; what's the natural evolution/progress in this situation (based on history/other countries) and what's the very likely outcome? I don't want to overload the question with information, but if you need any other data/details to build explanations I'll be happy to add to it. 

Education 14 years ago, I started school (at age of 6). I remember that the system was pretty solid. I learned languages (French and Arabic), Maths, and some science. The teachers were quite old (50 years or older) but they had a great experience and also they loved their job. Moving from primary school, things started to change. The system was messy and also unfair. High-School was terrible and there were only a few old and good professors. I should call myself lucky that I had a great and free education. The system currently is pretty messy and unless parents have money to finance their children education, they are very unlikely to learn a thing. It's getting worse everyday. Higher Education Higher education is unbearable. I joined medical studies two years ago and I dropped this year. There isn't even the required equipments for teaching. Some professors don't even prepare their classes/courses. They steal it from French Universities (and sometimes it's plagiarism) and edit it a bit (and make many syntax mistakes on the way). I followed Medical studies because it's (the irony) one of the best higher education institutions in the country. The jobless Most of them are youth. They hold high-degrees from even worse universities. They don't have any formal/informal training. Few of them pursued other manual tracks (like becoming a carpenter) but most of them are protesting on the streets. Some of them are violent (block roads, prohibit governments institution from operating) and many of them rely on their parents for food, shelter and coffee. The government I have had many opportunities to visit some government entities (for paperwork, registrations and other things). It's a slow, painful, pretty corrupt institution. However, there is something that attracted me the most: It's very unproductive. We can get more productivity with something like 20% of the employees or even less. The government employs around half a million. The government wages are pretty low, but it's so far the best paying entity on the country. Here are some salaries (usd/month) 

Background The problems of East Germany and North Korea are very different. After World War II, the allies divided Germany into four parts, administered by the United States (US), United Kingdom (UK), France, and the Soviet Union (USSR). The US, UK, and France later merged their parts into West Germany. The Soviets turned their part into East Germany. The key point here is that the partition was mandated from outside. It wasn't based on divisions in Germany. By contrast, Korea was governed by the Japanese at the end of World War II. It was not occupied as a defeated power but as an ally. It chose to partition by forming a US-backed government and a USSR-backed government. There was a war. The result of the war was a formal division into two countries. Beyond all this, North Korea is effectively a dictatorship. The Kims make relatively unilateral decisions about how things will go. East Germany was more democratic. As the Soviet Union was collapsing, East Germany chose to reunify, democratically, with West Germany. North Korea has shown no interest in unifying with South Korea as anything but a ruler. Another issue is that the Soviets were in no position to stop Germany from reuniting. They were collapsing at the same time as Germany wanted to reunite. In fact, a movement to reunite Germany existed before the Soviet Union officially collapses. China opposes the reunification of the Koreas. China believes that there is too high of a chance of the resulting country being an ally of the US. And that would put another US ally on their border, close to their urban centers. China artificially supports the existence of North Korea. Otherwise, it would collapse. But China has never occupied North Korea. That was the Soviets. China also doesn't want North Korea to collapse because they worry about an influx of refugees. East German sanctions East Germany may have been targeted by sanctions as part of the eastern bloc. But once it was independent, it rapidly moved to unification with Germany. At that point, there would have been no reason to sanction it. Further, it never attempted to build nuclear bombs, so there is no parallel to the current sanctions of North Korea. TL;DR: East Germany was not targeted by sanctions as an independent country. 

Source: The Command of the Ocean, N.A.M Rodger (Allen Lane, 2004) derived from data by Prof. J.Glete However, these raw figures should be treated with some caution when trying to establish the true strengths of the various national fleets. The following points should be considered; 1) The figures represent the notional numbers of ships available to each navy. In addition to the ships in active service, the figures also include ships in harbour service (e.g. guardships, hospital ships, etc), in 'ordinary' (what we'd now call 'mothballed') and even ships that were being built/re-built. So the number of ships immediately available for active service with each navy is probably between 50-75% of the given figures. 2) The figures also give no indication to the make up of each fleet in terms of age and quality. Older ships would generally be slower, harder to maintain and lacking in some of the technical innovations compared to their newer bretheren. They would also, generally, be smaller and have a weaker armament than their more modern counterparts. Consequently, a large fleet made up of older ships would be at a disadvantage to a smaller but more modern fleet. 3) While these tables give us the notional fleet strengths (and, by extension, an idea of the actual serviceable fleet strengths), in terms of vessels, they don't show how many ships were actually at sea in any given year or how many ships the respective navies were actually capable of manning and putting to sea. With regard to the last point, it was common for standing navies to be drastically reduced in manpower during times of peace. When a new war started, it often took time to re-employ these experienced sailors (and to train new replacements). So, for example, where the raw numbers show a moderate increase in the number of British cruisers (from 130 to 160) between 1790 and 1795, the actual increase in the number of those ships at sea would have been far greater as the Navy shifted from a peacetime to wartime footing. In terms of losses, the following data was taken from the detailed lists in the "History of the Royal Navy" by William Laird Clowes, vol 4 and vol 5, covering 1793-1815; 

The first appearance of the phrase was that Arthur took the sword from the anvil and the stone. As others have pointed out, the phrase makes more sense if you view it as a miscopied version of took the sword from the Angle and the Saxon. Example source: 

East Germany was an independent state for months in 1990. It nominally had its own government before 1990, but in reality, the Soviets would not have allowed an anti-Soviet candidate to be elected. Because the Soviets would have expected exactly what happened in 1990. The Soviet Union left North Korea in 1948. So in 1990, when East Germany briefly became an independent country, North Korea had been independent for forty-two years. Even if we count East Germany as an independent country from 1949, when the government formed, that's still a year later than North Korea. And I reject any definition of independent that allows for involuntary occupation by the troops of a foreign nation. North Korea has not wanted to give up its current government to reunify with South Korea. This may not be a decision of the North Korean populace. North Korea is effectively a dictatorship. It's a one party state where the dictator controls the one party and therefore the winners of any elections it may hold. The dictatorship has been passed by inheritance only. So to say that the country does not want to give up its government is to say that the effective monarch of North Korea doesn't want to stop being the effective monarch. East Germany was also a one party state. But it was never controlled by a single family that passed control of the party through inheritance. And there is no indication that it ever desired to be an independent country. After the post-Communist government took office, it lasted less than six months before reunification. 

One theory has the original Arthur as a Welsh king named Owain Ddantgwyn (also spelled Ddanwyn) whose nickname was the Bear. Of course, Bear in Welsh is arth and in Latin is ursus. Put those together and you get Arthursus or Arthur. By that time, the Roman empire had given up on the British Isles, but many Romans had settled there. So it is sensible to think of a leader who tried to appeal both to long term native Welsh and new immigrant Romans by taking a name in both languages. This is also consistent with the view of Arthur as a High King who united Britain (under whatever name). Of course, the "High King" had responsibilities more consistent with a more modern Duke. The other kings were more like barons, earls, and counts. As you guessed, it is ridiculous to think of Arthur, the native Welshman who was resisting incursion from the Angles, as the king who unites the land of the Angles. He united against the Angles. If Arthur had been successful in the long term, there wouldn't have been an Angle-land (England). If Arthur had been less successful in the short term, it might have started earlier. England as England formed in the tenth century. Prior to that, there was Anglia. Arthur was the fifth and sixth century, after the time of Roman Britain. 

According to Brian Lavery's "Nelson's Navy"[1], communication between the Admiralty and the fleets (at least during the French Revolutionary/Napoleonic Wars) was performed by the navy's own vessels. As noted in a previous answer, these were refered to as despatch vessels or despatch boats[2], and the role was usually filled by a variety of schooners and cutters attached to the fleets for this purpose. However, as Lavery also notes, any warship that was heading in the right direction might be used. The term "despatch vessel" seems to have referred to a role rather than a type of ship in the same way that, at the time, a "cruiser" was any type of warship sailing on detached operations. The Admiralty Regulations[3] required that all communication from the commander-in-chief of a fleet or squadron on a foreign station (i.e. outside of home waters) to the Admiralty, was to be sent in duplicate and triplicate "by different conveyances". The aim of which, presumably, was to increase the chances of the communication reaching the intended destination. The most famous examples of these despatch vessels would be the schooner Pickle and the cutter Entreprenante, which were with the British fleet at Trafalgar. These vessels were both sent home carrying duplicates of Collingwood's despatches following the battle, with the Entreprenante following the Pickle a couple of days later. In contrast, Nelson sent the first copy of his despatches following the battle of the Nile on board HMS Leander (a 50-gun, forth-rate), as his fleet had lost most of its smaller vessels earlier in the campaign. Another copy was sent on the brig Mutine to Naples[4]. The Leander was captured by a French 74-gun ship and her copy of the despatches was dropped overboard, which illustrates why there was the requirement for multiple copies. The prior to 1823, packet boats were operated by the post office to move mail, goods and passengers. These operated on a regular schedule from a number of ports around the British coast to locations in Europe, the Americas (including the West Indies) and Africa. Mail to the East Indies would have been carried on HEIC ships. The cross-channel services worked on the most frequent schedule with 2-3 sailings a week, while sailings to more distant locations were once a week or greater[5]. While that sort of frequency would have been acceptable for delivery of personal mail, it would have been unsuitable for the timely delivery of wartime orders and despatches. After 1823, much of the work of the packet boats was taken over by the Royal Navy (who were trying to find a use for many of the small ships remaining from the Napoleonic period). So the distinction between despatch vessel and packet boat becomes less well defined. Although it's noted that the Navy's existing ships were ill-suited to the essentially civilian role and new ships were built to fit the purpose. [1] "Nelson's Navy, The Ships, Men and Organisation, 1793-1815", B. Lavery (Conway, 1989) Pg 263 [2] "British Warships in the age of sail, 1793-1817", R.Winfield (Seaforth, 2005) Pg 359 [3] "Regulations and Instructions relating to HM's Service at Sea" (1808) Ch.2, Article XI [4] "Nelson's Battles, the Triumph of British Seapower" N.Tracy (Seaforth, 2008) Pg 142 [5] "History of the Post-Office Packet Service between the years 1793-1815" A.H.Norway (Macmillan, 1895) Pg 8 

During the extremely brief period when East Germany was an independent country, it was doing things that the west wanted it to do. It wouldn't have been sanctioned. Germany (West, East, combined) does not have nuclear bombs. It's not trying to develop them. In particular, East German was not trying to develop them during the period when it was an independent country. When East Germany was part of the eastern bloc, it didn't need to develop nuclear weapons. The eastern bloc countries were under the Soviet nuclear umbrella. East Germany didn't separate from the Soviets enough that nuclear weapons would be useful until it was rejoining West Germany. North Korean sanctions Finally, North Korea is building nuclear bombs and attempting to build missiles to deliver them. This is dangerous. North Korea is perennially cash-short. Even if they don't use nuclear weapons, it is easy to envisage a situation where they trade nuclear weapons to a middle eastern state in exchange for oil or cash. North Korea also engages in extraterritorial actions in contravention of international law. For example, Kim Jong Un had his brother assassinated. Or the Sony hack. We don't know what actions they might take with nuclear weapons. We only know how they've used previous weapons. China has some influence on North Korea, as China subsidizes North Korea. But if North Korea were as controlled by China as East Germany was by the Soviet Union, there would be no need for North Korea to develop nuclear weapons. China already has them. I suppose it's possible that North Korea is acting purely as a front for China, but then it's unclear what China hopes to gain by the illusion of independence. It would see more to their benefit to openly control North Korea. East Germany Might East Germany have also taken actions that the US didn't like? Sure. But the US, at that time, would have regarded such actions as being part of East Germany's role in the Warsaw Pact. The US would have levied any sanctions on the eastern bloc as a whole. If the Soviets had claimed that the East Germans were acting on their own, the US would have laughed at them. This isn't excusing the East Germans. It's a simple result of how the Cold War worked. At that time, the US would have rejected any claim that any Warsaw Pact country was operating separately from the Soviet Union. Even if the East Germans had engaged in a separate operation, no one would have believed they were.