The shortest documented adult ever became only 54.6cm (21.5"). Even though this is quite small, I'd say it is definitely way too large to be able to fly with (butter)fly wings. I could rather imagine bird or bat wings. I also assume you cannot simply gain a human in a form as tiny as one wants to imagine as many of our organs probably have a limited minimum size to function properly. You'd have to change the internal body massively and throw out anything not absolutely necessary. Also they'd probably not as slim but rather have a stocky body and a quite oversized head. Retaining human intelligence with a brain a fraction of the size of ours is hardly possible. They may have a slightly improved efficiency but barely anywhere close to human intelligence. Also a more efficient brain would raise the demand of energy so they'd have to eat and sleep very much. In addition to the high energy demand for their flying ability I'd say that's a very limiting factor. As for your last question, that's a matter of supply and demand. Since human teeth are like ivory to them they create jewelry from, less people believing in fairies mean less teeth and thus higher value per tooth. The much more important question is: why would such a creature develop? Did they develop out of a hominid or an insect, and why would it shrink and develop full wings but not change anything else (or vice versa, why would it change its body into the human form)? The human body has specialized to living on the ground and it's obviously totally ineffective and useless if it was able to fly. 

The only examples that we have of multi moon systems is where either the multiple moons are very small relative to the planet or where a smaller moon is a much greater distance away than the larger moon. Two large moons would likely perturb each other enough to kick at least one of them out. It is very unlikely that they would chance into any of the very few (if any) stable systems. Now if one large moon orbited close and the other orbited far enough away to treat the planet and inner moon as a single gravitational source, it might work as well. In any case, if you have a moon that is 3/4 the size of its planet, you pretty much have a binary planet. 

As Anketam stated, the alien you described is on the other side of the Uncanny Valley. The UV comes from someone who looks so close to human that you you may have to give them a second glance to tell. Sometimes you don't even know consciously that the image isn't human but you feel something "wrong." There is a robot lady (really just a head and torso interface) that just creeps me out to look at or see it move. There is speculation that just as we see symmetry of features as a sign of beauty (because those with more symmetrical bodes tend to be stronger and healthier) that, subconsciously, we may see those very minor differences as markers for genetic deformities. Thus, we may be hard wired to de-select those people as potential mates. Of course, the UV doesn't affect everyone the same way and as Cort Ammon mentions, it can be overcome. 

In higher civilizations low class people had to fulfill physical work often in the outside, thus being in the sun all day tanning their skin. On the contrary high class people often stayed inside their houses doing more management work and a lot of delegating physical work to their subjects, hence the brighter skin due to a lack of exposure to the sun. That's also where the term blue-blooded originates from, the blue veins shimmer through the untanned skin. Personally I thought this philosophy originated in medieval europe but the concept could be easily transferred to earlier civilizations. As far as I know this has been the idea inside europe's civilization as well, which weakens the argument of caucasians conquering and colonizing the world as the main reason. No doubt, though, colonization did play a role in many non-european cultures but as said, later on in history. 

I would actually not take video games as a reference, especially not ones focusing on action. Historically spears started out as mainly single handed weapons but in a much shorter fashion probably somewhere in Africa. As different cultures evolved them to be longer for the advantage of greater distance especially agains cavalry they also became harder to handle. For the right balance and accurate control infantry started using them with both hands. The single hand usability actually differs from the weapons length and balance. Greek hoplite used a long spear single handedly in combination with a shield as seen in the movie Troy. For a compromise between balance and protection their shields had an indentation to rest the spear on, basically as a weaker second hand to lower the negative effects of the single hand use but it was probably still less easily controllable. I honestly do think the use of a long dual hand spear as a single hand weapon is anything but beneficial. Even the advantage of close distance combat with a dagger or short sword would probably not outweigh the loss of control of your main weapon. With the right shield that lowers the negative effects like explained earlier it can work but other than that, I'd rather take distance from such an approach. 

I once created a "take-off" on Civilization II to answer questions like that. While I have only a "beta" copy of my version, I could get some very interesting results using a "whole world" board for World War II (not just Europe as in the Civ II version). I'll supplement the results by using "real world" battles. The seven countries are America, Britain, Soviet Union, Germany, Japan, "Neutrals" (e.g. Spain and Turkey in a grand coalition), and "China" (four cities in the back country, Yenan, Chongqing, Llass, and Urumqi). My theory is that in order to win on the Soviet front, Germany needed to capture both Kiev and Moscow in 1941. And they couldn't. It was one or the other, and they opted for Kiev first, which is why the couldn't get Moscow, and ultimately why they couldn't win the war. If they advance on Moscow in the fall of 1941, they forego their attack on Kiev. They capture part of the city by December, but by then it's winter, and they barely hold their positions, more or less, as in real life. It takes them until summer to capture the city entirely, and by the time they have finished mopping up partisans (an important feature of the Civ II game), it's almost fall. By the end of 1942, the Germans have captured Moscow and possibly Leningrad, but have let the "big prizes," the southern economic zones, stay Russian. Meanwhile, the Americans have destroyed the Japanese navy in the battle of Midway, in June, 1942, and the Anglo-Americans have captured North Africa by early 1943. When the Germans resume advancing on southern Russia in summer 1943, the Russians are backed up by Anglo-American troops coming through Persia and the Caucasus. Other American and British forces open a "second front to the north and east; the British land in Archangel (after winning the battle of the Atlantic in the spring, 1943), and the Americans land in Siberia, joining up with the "locals," and attacking German holdings in Russia from the east. All, like the "White Russians" against the Communists in 1919-20 (the British actually occupied Archangelsk at the time. Joint Anglo-American-Russian forces beat the Germans west of the Urals, invade East Europe together (the Anglo-Americans invade Italy in 1944 to co-ordinate around the Black Sea. The key is that the Americans get involved with Lend Lease, and a modicum of ground troops. In that way, "locals" will rally around them. 

It only causes harm to the human body if the body is part of a closed circuit, otherwise electricity won't even move through the body. The effects on your body depend on whether it's AC or DC traversing through. The former causes the heart to try to adapt to the oscillation and a frequency of 50Hz may already cause ventricular fibrillation or even cardiac arrest with an increasing chance on higher frequencies. Also it can cause paralyzation on your muscles if the electricity is high enough. The latter may cause electrolysis in your body, which results in a sepsis that causes your death few days later. The mentioned effects both depend on the amount of electricity as well as the impact duration with both values rising the chance on increase. 50V AC and 120V DC are said to be perilous to the human body. Both types of electricity cause burns on your skin and your flesh. The shorter the distance the electricity covers through the body the smaller the resistance and thus the smaller the voltage. As your legs are usually the exit point to the ground hits on your legs are less violative than hits on your arms. It gets worse when your heart or brain are within the path. The resistance is composed of the resistance of your body and the transition resistances of the entry and exit point. Dry skin has a higher resistance so seemingly unintuitive being wet and sweaty reduces the voltage and thus the damage to the body. Defending a river might be a much more desirable point of defence. Just shoot in the water when the enemy tries to cross it. Bullets lose acceleration very quickly in water so they become quite harmless. Electricity does have a very high drop-off ratio in water (which is why a lightning hitting a lake doesn't kill all its fish) but on close distance it would be devastating. 

They are using the lever principle. By corrupting one company, it might lead to the corruption of other companies and since the companies are part of an economic system, that may lead to the corruption of that system. 

Put a bag around it. This isn't as far fetched as it might sound. I've seen numerous references to it in science fiction and other discussions. Sorry that I can't find them at the moment. Off of memory this was used in the Quantum Vibe web comic at some point in it's history. The main point is to cover the planet in a very thin plastic sphere and then inflate that sphere with air. If you build some support structure (a ring around the planetoid, for example, you can build airlocks and docking ports. That way you can get to and from the planetoid without ripping the bag. Minor tears from micrometeorites should be small enough to not cause a significant loss of air (small holes in a really big bag). It is best if the polymer is self healing but could be patched or replaced in sections. One story had the self healing aspect so high that ships could fly through it and the tears would heal before there was significant loss. One discussion talked about capping one of the Moon's craters with a mylar cover but that was a long time ago and might not have made it to the web. 

If they have fur, why? We started wearing clothing from protection from the elements and as armor. Even light clothing acts as protection. If you don't think so, try off trail hiking in the woods with shorts and a short sleeve shirt. Or, for an experience closer to reality try bounding naked through the forest. Unless you move slowly and carefully, you will be covered in scrapes and bruises. The leathers that you associate with primitive people not only helps us regulate temperature but it is a loose layer that can snag claws and fangs that don't quite get a grip on their target. If the fur did not thin out as they evolved, they would only need clothes in cold weather and armor for fighting or hunting. On the other hand, we didn't get our intelligence by being the the strongest, fastest or best adapted to our environment. We got it because being smarter was the only way we could survive. Maybe losing the fur and forcing our ancestors to come up with a solution to help them survive was a contributing factor to intelligence. However, I don't think that it is necessary for intelligence. Currently, we use clothing as climate control and decoration. As decoration, it is mostly an indicator of status. With decent fur, the climate control reason is out. As a status indicator, there are many ways to indicate status. Maybe they tie ribbons in their fur or weave it in patterns or wear jewelry. This gives another touch point in your story to show that the aliens are different. Also, clothing over fur might be irritating. I remember an Andre Norton story where the aliens hated the idea of wearing clothing because it was constantly dragging against their fur in the wrong direction. 

I will try to answer in the context of the "Civilization" game. Empires get unwieldly, and vulnerable when they are "too large." Too many people in a city makes some of them unhappy. Too many cities in an empire reduces the necessary number of people in any given city before it becomes unhappy. Cities (and military units) that are unhappy are susceptible to revolutions from within, and bribes from without. Also, the further a city is from the capital, the higher the levels of corruption and waste (relative to its size). In playing the game, I consciously do NOT try to maximize population growth. For instance, I do not irrigate land until relatively late in the game (e.g. when I have a government like Democracy that fights corruption and waste). Instead I use my settlers to build roads that connect my cities, thus reducing corruption and waste. I also tend to place workers on "resource," rather than "farmland" squares, which further slows population growth, but speed up the construction of buildings. Temples and colosseums calm restive people, courthouses reduce corruption, marketplaces and banks boost the economy etc. Basically, I want a high ratio of buildings (capital) to people. If I capture small cities abroad, I "depopulate" them by building settlers until the city disappears, using military units for "rush builds." Thus, I get a "free" settler or engineer to improve my other cities nearer home. The collapse of the ancient civilizations occurred when then got so "top heavy" that 1) other civilizations feared and envied them and 2), they were not "agile" enough to resist outside threats. Instead, managed growth for internal, rather than external growth seems like the better bet. But most rulers didn't see it that way until it was too late. Louis XV's quote, "After me, the flood," preceded Marie Antoinette's "Let them eat cake."