Hehe- I'm a fossil who still uses downtube friction shifters on my 1972-vintage Euro roadster... But I do admit that as I get even yet older the allure of those nifty "brifters" is there.. Once learned, they are easy to use, forgiving of adjustment, and accommodate a wide variety of gear clusters with no problems. I took my originally 5-speed rear end up to an 8-speed with no change at all to the shifters. As noted, indexed shifting does have it's problems as well.... I see many kids here at the university with multi-speed mountain bikes who get off and push the bike up hills, or struggling with a way-too-high gear. I have stopped a few and asked why, and the answer is usually..."It's too hard." or more likely, "It shifted OK when I got it, but now it doesn't work." Kind of sad. A well-adjusted gear-train is a joy to use, gears effortlessly leaping from cog to cog. Usually, after an initial adjustment after new-cable stretch, shifters will stay in adjustment for a long time. I'm surprised that riders who are not maintenance-prone don't use the hub-shifters more. 

Once you reach 130km, then you should in theory be ready for 200km, as at this stage its all about keeping the body fuelled - if you keep eating correctly you can keep pedalling too. Don't forget to include sufficient rest in your training, as coming into your target ride already fatigued will increase your chances of failure. Generally in the last 5-10 days before you should be reducing both intensity and volume. Different coaches advocate different patterns of work/rest, and in large part it is down the feedback from the athlete on how well they are recovering. If you are in a hurry to increase your volume for your events i'd suggest starting with a 16 days on, 5 days off program and seeing how you go. By starting on a Saturday this allows you to sacrifice a weekend long ride. In addition to training, there are other factors you should consider when planning a ride of this length. The first being nutrition, which you need to practice at - see RoKa's answer for good detail here. The second is acclimatising to spending such a long time in your cycling position on your actual road bike. You can easily get sore from sitting in the saddle for so long, hands can get numb, lower back can ache, shoulders/neck can get tight and feet can swell or cramp. You simply wont find these things out unless you practice, and you don't want to find out about them for the first time 150km into a 300km ride 

It's about keeping your energy up NOT about somehow generating 5kmph more from food. You'll go faster through training but it won't help if you bonk half way through a ride. I tend to "fuel" up before a ride then eat as I go along; usually rice cakes or cereal bars. For a bit of emergency energy if I'm flagging I'll go with a gel (some give me cramps tho) or something like shot bloks. However I can say with confidence that if I'd eaten properly as I rode, I'd never have needed them. As an aside, if your AVERAGE speed on a solo ride is 35-45kmph, I'd start racing pretty; that is pretty quick. 

Are the spokes correctly tensioned? You shouldn't get several mm of flex from a new wheel just from climbing or accelerating. 

Yes, you can absolutely use a hardtail for trail riding. In fact some manufacturers are making hardtails specifically designed for this, with slack head angles and beefy forks. As an example, here is the Orange Crush (plenty of other choices out there), with a 66deg head angle, 140mm fork and clearance for 2.4" tyres. For your budget I would look for a good quality second hand bike, as usually hardtails around this price point will have a steeper head angle more suited to XC riding and not so good suspension fork (both in terms of ride quality and stiffness). 

You can find the following table by Dr Coggan, who is generally seen a benchmark for modern training methods here 

Getting the adjustment right is sometimes difficult and is as much art as science. I rebuild lots of old bikes, and frequently have to rebuild wheels. Here's what I do... First, be sure to work from one side. Normally the non-drivetrain side; that way your axle will stay centered. Clean everything up and inspect carefully. Since you've already bought new cones... Should be no problem. The difficulty, as you note, is making the final adjustment. You can get everything all set up so that it's apparently perfect. Then you apply the cone wrench to hold everything in place and tighten the locknut....And it's too tight. The problem is that the axle itself will tend to move when you tighten the locknut. So...When I get everything set to tighten down, I then clamp a big pair of vise-grips on the other side of the wheel, and hold the thing in my lap so that the vise-grips are held in place by my knee. Then, you can hold the cone in place and tighten the locknut with little chance of the axle moving. As to the exact adjustment.... It's always been the paradigm that if you have QR skewers, you leave the adjustment so that there's just a tiny, barely perceptible amount of play so that when the skewers are tightened they take up that slack. I've never done it. I always set mine so that the axle rotates freely and there is no perceptible play. I also don't tighten my skewers nearly as tight as all the "industry" guys recommend. Don't think it's necessary. 

Unless the pedals have bonded to the thread in the cranks, a longer lever is usually the way. As that seems to have failed, I'd get the cranks off, pop them in a vice and drill the cranks out. 

They are most likely bosses for a "Crud Catcher", a type of mudguard usually clipped to the downtube. Some frames allow them to be bolted to it rather than fastened on with rubber o-rings. 

If you're really that concerned, get a roll of 3M "copter tape" and cut it to the same size as the cleat. Given the cleat should never move, the most you should get is a bit of marking where the cleat sits which you'll never see as the cleat should never move (and it's helpful when you're replacing cleats) 

Impressing your friends with your awesome skills should you master the thing? Potential work in the circus field? Vast improvement in balance? On the downside... Lost skin, closer relations with your orthopedic man... Good luck! I've always been rather balance-challenged. 

Two questions, actually... How fast can you go, and how fast can you go safely... Pro road racers have top-flight equipment checked on a daily basis and great skills as well...But even in that elite group there are descenders who can hammer and those who sort of cruise down the big descents.. As well, those are closed roads with no traffic guaranteed. As for us mortal men... Consider traffic, what shape your bike is in, etc. I've gone 45+, and felt solid, but more than that would be pushing. My now-deceased buddy said he passed a VW bug on a mountain descent out in Colorado once... 

This thread contains all the information you would ever want to know about the Edge 520. The bottom of Post #67 says that this is indeed possible. 

For those unfamiliar with the CTS system, there is a guide here The answer is a hard one without knowing the individual athlete, as a better trained athlete will be able to tolerate much more work in the tempo and sweet spot ranges. On race day HR is often a few beats higher and you can squeeze out that bit more due to a combination of adrenaline and motivation. I would be looking to target 86-90% for the first half and push on to 88-92% in the 2nd half if you feel you have more in the tank. Putting the HR monitor to one side, it is also useful to pay close attention to your RPE (Rate of Perceived Exertion) during the first half. You should feel like you are pushing firmly on the pedals, but if your legs are burning, you are probably going too hard and will pay for it later. In general push towards the top of the HR band on the inclines, and ease off a little to the bottom of the band on the declines. Using this minor variation in effort is more efficient as at higher speeds, wind resistance is higher, and you are gaining less speed for every Watt of power you are producing. 

It's part of the bottom bracket but it shouldn't be loose. I'd guess you have an older style cartridge BB but again, I don't think it should be loose. It could indicate that the bearings are going to be open to the elements. If you're concerned i would take it to a bike mechanic to have it looked at 

That screw seems the worst of all possible choices. I can't imagine a way that compromising either the waterproofing or the electronics doesn't seem likely. If it has to be permanently mounted, glue it into the out-front style mount and glue the tightening bolt into the mount. I have no idea how you'd charge it given it would make it hard to access the charging ports but there you go. That said, I've never had a Garmin fall off be it in a crash or just riding along with the out front mounts. Given it seems what your main problem is that you can't stop losing bike computers I'd recommend that you use a current generation 520 or higher and take advantage of the wireless sync (either wifi or over your phone data) then never take the Garmin off the bike except for charging. 

To dissent slightly... It's common practice for mechanics and bike-shop folks to recommend this... It does result in selling more parts... However, if your chain is all rusted up as a result of sitting out and not as a result of running it in that condition... The cogs and chainrings might be fine. The skipping while backpedaling might well be due to similarly gunked-up derailleurs. Before springing for a bunch of new parts, I would take everything off. Both DRs, chain, etc. Clean and lubricate everything. I spray the DRs down with WD-40 and let 'em soak for a bit, then attack 'em with a toothbrush and the wire wheel on my Dremel to get off any caked-on lube and road grit. Then just wash 'em in hot soapy water and re-lubricate. Make sure the idlers are free-spinning and unworn on the rear one. I restore old bikes for re-sale, and I've done dozens this way with only a chain replacement and they shift perfectly before I let them go. 

The main reason I don't use them is that they rattle when they come loose. If you're heavy handed when pumping though, the nut is useful. Just remembered one other reason to use them... removing them if you've got a tubeless setup is a recipe for disaster 

If you're talking about an old specialized bike with biopace chainrings it may well be that the chain set is worn. Take a look at the chainrings and cassette and see how worn they are. Measure the chain and see if its stretched. I'd imagine you're going to find that the whole lot is just worn out and needs replacing. Whether you can find spares on ebay or a local store I can't say. Generally, given that biopace chain sets stopped being made in 93 you (or you plus previous owners) have had over 20 years of riding out of it at least so it's pretty good value.