To attain any goal, it requires effort, focus and dedication. First of all, you need to cut down anything that's putting in excess of calories into your body. Eating clean is the best thing to do, but every human has temptation for what they like, so once a while it's okay, but don't get overwhelmed by junk and always stick to a limit. They day you eat more, make a point to workout a bit more. Also, eating healthy should be a habit to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Even after you attain your goal, you'd not like to spiral down again. So, try to cultivate the habit of healthy eating and healthy living. It's not an easy thing to do, but it fetches great returns on a long run. 

At what physical state the beginner is(Weight, genes, health history, fitness level, age, diet, rest). How much they spiral down after they stop. From what level they start the next phase of training after the hiatus. 

After your wake up, your body would be in it's lowest potential to do something intense immediately. All you need to do is, make it prepared first. That being said, I'd say just brisk walking on rest days would help. Or jogging, but nor running. Rest days means you are giving your muscles a break. Walking would also help you after sleep or nap, to get your system ready for anything you are up to next. 

Why not to isolate squats and jumps? If you are concerned about injuries, break down the whole thing into components and do it separately. Squat jumps require perfect balance and technique to implement. Also, the shoe you wear and the floor on which you do them make big difference. Regarding how safe it is, it depends on how you do it. People have been doing it for years and have no problem, while you may stuff things up on the first go. Safety is the first things you should take into consideration. If you have any doubts in mind, don't do it. Half-heated and doubtful approach won't take you too far. Having said that, if you separate squats and jumps, learn the right ways of doing them. Risk is always there in everything, but with proper form and technique, those risks can be minimized, or avoided. 

"I've read that cardio is really good at fat burning but works against maintaining muscle mass." This is not true in your case. 4-5 miles won't cannibalize your muscles, as you are already taking care of them by eating well and doing weights. Also, don't drastically cut down calories, because your body needs them to feed your muscles and keep you going all day. What's good for you, only you can find out by trial and error and check what works for you the best. As you are into a healthy lifestyle, you don't need to worry much. Also, 160 lbs for someone who's 5'10" is not overweight, unless you have very high percentage on fat in your body with very less muscles mass. I don't think you'd run into the issue of losing way too much with your life style, but as I mentioned earlier, keep tracking your progress and keep doing what you are doing, and bring in slight modifications whenever needed. 

Even if you do nothing and sit there, you are still burning calories, because your body burns calories when you breathe. You heart needs calories to pump, your cell needs calories to survive and your brain needs calories to think. The idea is, to consume less than what you spend, when it comes to calorie burning and losing fat. The idea of working out is to help you shed extra calories. So, don't be too concerned about if you are losing it all during a workout session or not, because you lose calories all day. Also, fat burning happens several hours after workout, because it's a slow process, not right when you workout. It's a cumulative and gradual process, and if you are working towards it, it's going to happen. 

Adding an inch at 23 is very unlikely, 6 inches naturally is impossible unless your body undergo some hormonal imbalance(which does more harm than good). At around 17-18 you reach almost 99% of your height. Any extra increase won't be noticeable. Whoever tells you otherwise, is selling lies or just trying to sell you some marketing scam. Just accept it and focus on getting and staying fit. 

If you are feeling discomfort in any part of the body, the best thing to do is not to strain it any further. I'd say get yourself checked. The problem may be minor, but if not given proper attention, it may aggravate in time. Yes, wait till you feel completely fine. Your goal is to gain fitness and reach your target without pain. So, get the root cause of the discomfort and get rid of it. 

As you have mentioned you find it hard to add 5 lbs progressively, I'd suggest using a belt every time you overload from now. What people have suggested may work for them, but I'd say you should consider safety first. It will give extra support to your spine and also help your form. That minimizes the chances of injury. Also, adding 5 lbs progressively in consecutive workouts may not work. Try adding 2.5 lbs or 1.25 lbs if you find 5 lbs difficult. Overloading is done progressively. So, adding 5 lbs every time means in a month you are aiming to add 20 lbs assuming you squat once a week. If you do it twice a week, you are aiming to add 40 lbs to your squats at the end of the month. That's a big difference. I'd say lower the overloading and let your body recover and get stronger to move on to next level. 

If you are able to maintain the intensity till half-time of your workout, you, then you are almost done with what you are doing. Pushing a little further till failure would help, but pushing yourself more is only going to have negative effect on strength and mass. Have a look at the graph of strength/mass vs workout duration. This is the site $URL$ Credits for the image goes to Scooby and the site above and not me. The person is a qualified engineer and always uses science in all his workouts. Now as you see in the image, after a period of time( which is usually between 30 minutes to an hour for strength training depending on the person), anything done in excess only fetches you negative returns. Your muscles crave for energy and they break beyond repair.So, stick to a time that suits you. There's no reason to push yourself for 2 hours and look for stamina, if your goal is purely strength and mass. 

I'd say try different sets and see what works the best for you. Everyone is different and different routines leads to different results in different people. Try out and check the results. The one that you find effective, stick to it. 

Okay, there are few things to keep in mind. Symmetry and load distribution. While the whole weight of the dumbbell and your body rests on the one leg you are using, and you are feeling comfortable, your body is not having the center of weight properly balanced through the line of symmetry. Though, it's okay in case of exercises like bicep curls and shoulder flys, in case of squats, having both hands involved gives you better stability. As you responded to my comment saying you are planning to go higher, why not use a barbell, or a kettlebell? As you go heavy, concentrating the weight on one side of the body will disturb the balance and may lead to injuries. 

All I can say is, you need to eat enough to gain weight. Eat something with that milk for breakfast(like a bowl of cereals, or some oats). You spent 6 hours at school, that's a pretty big time, and as you bike to school,so you are losing calories and also losing all through out those 6 hours no matter what you do. Can't you carry a small snack box with you, with something healthy in it to eat during breaks. Or a bottle with some home made shake in it? Also, try sticking to a diet that gives you complete nutrition. As you are growing, you need to eat well and eat more and eat proper, in regular intervals. Regarding workout, do free hand workouts at home if you don't have time. Pushups, free hand squats, lunges, stretching etc. Whether those 3kg dumbbells will help or not, it depends on what you do with them. Check out some you tube videos, if you want to know what you could do with them and how to use them to workout your overall body. If your goal is to put on some weight, and you are disciplined, sticking to the above would do. 

I see your question has been edited, and you are asking about tips to improve your personal best. You have also mentioned that you reached your current personal best of 100 kg, in 4 months after you started lifting. That's quite impressive. I'd like to share a few basics. When you start lifting, smashing personal records by progressive overloading is easier. Then you arrive at a point, where it feels like the saturation is achieved. 200 Kg is roughly around 450 lbs. That's a big goal to achieve in the time you have mentioned. Your goal is to lift 2 times your current max potential/personal best in 8 months. Progressive overloading is the answer. That means add 5-10 pounds to the weight a week progressively. You have around 34 weeks. Does that mean you'll be able to lift 170-340 lbs more than your current personal best? To answer that I'd say, overloading is not linear. It works in waves. Also, after reaching a certain point, adding anything extra would take longer than what it used to be, when you begun. So some days you may end up smashing your own record, and the other day you may struggle to lift even 80% of it. Why? Human body works that way. Several factors including diet, rest, stress and fatigue level, condition of your muscles, injury etc are linked to your performance. Now, to get stronger, which is your goal, you need to give yourself plenty of rest and go for the right kind of nutrition along with lifting. Your protein intake is good, but to make it great, consume somewhere around 160-180 grams everyday. That means, 0.9- 1 gram per body weight in lbs. That's pretty essential for muscle repair. You have mentioned that you are 83 kg which makes you 180 lbs, so that's how the math works. Along with that, eat enough calories to fuel your muscles and right amount of micro nutrients for complete nutrition. There are many risks involved. When you go that heavy, first thing to take care is safety. You said you want to wear a belt. Go for it while doing dead-lifts and squats, but that's not sufficient. Always and always have an experienced spotter to spot you, and a qualified trainer to check your form. Form is most important, and if you are just doing it to get it done, you'll face injuries. So try doing it right first. Use power racks while doing bench press and squats. You wouldn't like to hurt yourself and be out of training, or start again from ground zero. Move on gradually. Keep adding weights every week, and never rush no matter how tempting it is. If it's a challenge from a friend or another competitor, losing it is better than being hurt and not being able to move. If it's for a competition, you can always compete next year, if you fail to do it this time. Wish you the best.