Here is a list of sports and the average calories lost whilst taking part in them. Running, skiing, diving and cycling seem to lost the highest calories. However the best sport is probably one that you will do. The more you enjoy it, the more likely you will keep at it. Which ones do you enjoy the most? 

It seems a lot of form problems with the squats are caused by inadequate flexibility - I think mainly in the hamstrings and also the shoulders. What are some good stretches that can be used to enhance the squat form? 

There are plenty of body weight exercises that could keep you going. If you find pushups too easy (ie. you can do more than 5 easily) make it harder by doing inclined pushups, or try one armed pushups. If squats are too hard - can you do one-legged squats (pistols)? A good book to work through during the week would be The Naked Warrior. Pavel goes in intricate detail about mastering the one armed pushup and the pistol. What you learn from going through this book will be useful for your Starting Strength program. Also, pullups and chinups will give you a good upper body workout - if they are too easy, try them one-handed. 

I have recently started doing the overhead press as per Starting Strength. I am getting a pain when I get close to the full extension of the press. It feels like a tendon pain as it is in a very small area at the top of the shoulder joint. The pain only occurs if I press more than about 30kg or so. What could be causing that pain? Or if its not that easy to tell over the internet what is causing the pain, what steps should I go through to try to locate and fix the cause? 

If you can, look into the Strong Lifts program. WIth that, all you need is a barbell and other free weights. If you're not interested in building a lot of muscles, you can look into P90X. It doesn't require a lot of equipment and you can begin to see and feel results as soon as possible. It has flexibility, strength, and agility sections. Insanity is another great cardio program that works every part of your body. You can check out the programs at Beachbody to determine which ones work for you. In all of them, you don't need a gym membership or much equipment to work your whole body. The main disadvantage to these programs is that you must be ready to push yourself; otherwise, you might not perform them as hard as you ought. It's also fun when you do it together with someone; it makes the time go faster and the pain more bearable. Hope this helps. 

To correct your posture will take time; however, it's a possible and easy thing to do. Equipment needed 

As for losing weight, ditch fatty food, eat more nutritious meals and exercise regularly. You still have a natural metabolism that should make weight-loss easier for you. Discuss these ideas with your parents (PE or nutrition teacher) and see if you can try these ideas out. They certainly won't hurt you and would be good for you. Also (if you're fortunate), they'll increase your height as well. EDIT I actually found some sources that corroborate the above theory about people performing certain sports growing taller than average (this) and this. If a legitimate source is found, the answer will be updated with it. Good luck. 

Creatine- will make you gain 10 pounds in water weight real quick but its effect on strength during work outs is really helpful. Glutamine- helps with so much! recovery and immune system. Beta Alanine- its great for giving extra endurance and strength during workouts helping push mass and strength gains. 

Are these formulas close to every ones one rep max on varies exercises? and I would like to know how accurate this is for everyone and if you have anything better? Formulas to find your one rep max (or 1rm) 

Yes they do have a bulking period and then dieting down period. i have heard from a few bodybuilding coach's that they will have there clients gain around 15% body fat which helps gain muscle quicker than lower body fat percentages. When its close to there contest they slowly cut calories while doing low heart rate cardio in the morning before breakfast. They will also drink a amino acid fluid when walking in the morning to target fat break down and keep most of there bulking phase gains. For most bodybuilbers 'cutting' down to 4-5% body fat takes off more than fat. Some muscle comes off when dieting and doing large amounts of cardio. The professional bodybuilders you mentioned stay pretty lean in the 10-15% range thru out the year but they supplement like crazy. Plus 'hormones' help. i know personally that building strength and mass is to hard when you're trying to lose weight. You can either do what the bodybuilders do. Or strength train doing minimal cardio three times a week around 30-40 minutes, eat clean meaning skip on sugar, fried foods, potatoes, wheat and beer. It's difficult to judge what someone needs to do cause every ones body type is different. Its hard to judge when you dont know what the person looks like what kind of training they have been doing. man or woman? weight? age? current diet? injuries? A general answer would be a starting strength program and 30-40 minutes of cardio three times a week with a clean diet. 

How about hurting yourself and be unable to exercise for a long time (possibly never again)? Is that a good reason? And yes, bad forms can easily lead to short/long-term injuries. Programs such as Strong Lifts advocate starting the weightlifting program with an empty bar. This allows you to focus on the form. Then, you increment the weight periodically. Also, they advocate warming up with incremental weights during a session. For example, if your weightlifting session for the day is 80 lbs, you perform a few reps with the empty bar. Then, you add 5-10 lbs and another set of reps. You continue the process till you reach your required weight. Of course, you can increment with higher weights than 5-10 lbs if you're working towards a very high weight. Using these processes, you focus more on your form/technique, and you naturally get stronger as the weights increase. And yes, you might initially feel silly using an empty bar; however, the benefit is immense on the long run. 

This works for me and I usually burn about 450 calories at the end of the session. The afterburn is just icing on the cake :). If you increase the frequency of the daily workouts, you'll likely burn out after a few sessions or quit. But if you allocate specific times of the day and a location, you're likely to progress farther. I also have other daily routines I perform, besides those described above. But apart from my regular workout sessions, that is the most intense session I currently use. That's my routine. Find yours and stick to it. If you do so, you'll derive much benefits from doing so. 

Generally when lifting weights if you do a low number of reps it will increase your strength, and a higher number of reps will increase your endurance. However when it comes to the number of sets to do, I'm a little more confused. 

If all you want to do is lose weight, all you really need is a weekly amphetamine binge. Your goals are the wrong way round. Concentrate on being healthy first. The weight loss will naturally occur. Weight loss generally doesn't occur in a straight line. It fluctuates. It is hard to stay focused on a goal that is all over the place. If you work on health, 20 kilos in a year should be achievable. Weight loss is achieved through a combination of two elements - diet and exercise. Diet Diet is by far the most important factor. First of all work out what you are putting in to yourself. For a week write down everything you ingest. How much of it is junk and how much is whole foods? By junk I mean processed - white bread, sugar, basically all the convenience foods. This voyage of discovery will help you become aware of the challenges that lie ahead. You want to cut out all the junk. Eat only whole foods. Here is more information. Booze won't help as that is largely empty calories. If you cut out completely though, you are less likely to succeed in your goal. Just be aware every time you drink of what you are doing to yourself and drink less. As you get healthier your natural desire to get wasted does reduce, so just leave it up to nature... Exercise Exercise (cardiovascular) for losing weight is overrated. You have to sit on a rowing machine for 20 minutes just to work off a pint of beer. Don't have any preconceptions that you can just run for 15 minutes a day to work off that massive pile of fast food you are about to eat. However, exercise for health and happiness is vital. The more you exercise the better you feel about yourself and the more likely you are to stick to a whole food diet. Your first goal will be to just get yourself moving. I would recommend a Couch to 5K program. This will get you running 5 kilometres in 9 weeks. Once you are a fair way into the running program and are less sedentary you are ready to turn to the iron. Unfortunately you set the bet to lose weight rather than just body fat. The best exercise for losing body fat is weight lifting. As you build up muscle your body needs more energy to maintain itself and burns off yer fat. Unfortunately as you build up muscle you get heavier. However, it is still well worth doing. You will just have to lose more fat than you gain muscle. As a beginner this is certainly doable - advanced bodybuilders struggle here. If you can join a gym, I recommend looking into the Strong Lifts program. It is designed for beginners and won't take up much of your time. If you don't want to do this have a look at Convict Conditioning. It is a strength training program using minimal equipment taking you from beginner to advanced. Whatever you do, don't let anyone tell you to do loads of sit ups. They do not work. 

As long as the program works the whole body and covers almost all the body's muscles, the program should be good. How each program might differ is in repetitions, sets, and the frequency of the exercises. Also, the diet might be different as well. 

If I understand your question properly, you're asking if there's a point in measuring the whole body fat when the body is disproportionate, right? 

Caveat: If you're young (14 - 22), it's possible to counteract bad diet with exercises because your body's still developing and your metabolism is high; however, it still won't be sustainable over time. Although there are articles about ectomorphs that claim they can eat anything without gaining weight, many are being debunked. To answer your question, I cannot find the article (it probably was taken offline because it's inaccurate :)). 

I'm certain there are numerous exercises that can be suggested. But keeping the number of exercises to a minimum will vastly allow you to focus on a few exercises to reach your goal faster. Good luck! 

How would this sound: "I have a 18% upper body fat measurement and a 24% lower body fat measurement"? Not only is it weird, but it's also hard to accurately measure since the measurements have to take the entire body into account. 

The shorter answer is NO. Dumbbells, by design, exercise only an arm. Barbells, by design, exercise both arms. Since deadlift is a 2-arm exercise, it cannot be completely and effectively done by dumbbells. This doesn't indicate that you cannot use dumbbells; you can use the same dumbbells for various exercises. And you can even use it for deadlift-like exercises; you just cannot call those exercises deadlifts and you certainly will not obtain the benefits of deadlifting. Use whatever you have around you, till when you have access to your beloved barbells :). Whatever you do, don't stop exercising. Now, go lift some weights :). 

I am currently working with 5 sets. As I get into higher weights and have to rest longer between sets, it is pushing on my lunch hour and the boss is starting to frown. So if there isn't much difference between 5 and 3, I'll drop down to 3 sets to keep the job.. 

I am feeling pretty battered and reckon I really need to take a week off from lifting weights. What are some things I should take into consideration? Should I adjust my diet? Eat less? Eat less protein? More vegetables? Is doing some light cardio going to get in the way? 

I hear this term quite a lot - "if you exercise it will boost your metabolism". The implication generally being that if you do some exercise not only will the exercise burn some calories, but you will also continue to burn more calories throughout the day. This doesn't make much sense to me. We store calories so that we have some reserves to draw on when needed. If we burn a load of calories, the body wouldn't just think "oh ok, I'll just off load some more for the hell of it". I'm sure it would be the opposite, it would see you exerting yourself and think it would need to hold on to the calories to be used when you exert yourself again. So, what does boosting your metabolism actually mean? 

Eating anything will help you lose weight if you don't eat much of it. If you were to eat nothing but that cereal, given the most conservative estimate of 0.5 grams of protein per pound of body weight per day required to maintain muscle - a 150lb human would require 75 grams of protein. To get that from the cereal you would need to eat 892 grams of the cereal - almost 2 1/2 packets. This would also give you 700 grams of carbohydrates, 153 grams of sugar and 3321 calories. This is what is required for a sedentary person - an active person would need more protein so would have to eat more. You would get fat.