There are positives. Your stand is near the panniers so it is closer to the Center of Mass when the panniers are loaded. By comparison, a BB stand is more centered on the bike. Personally if you don't care about weight, look for a dual-leg stand. They're a lot more stable for loading the bike. Downside they're heavier, require a chainstay bridge with a mounting hole, and can interfere with the cranks or lower chain stretch. 

Alternative Consider selling on both of your working bikes, and buy the new-or-used bike you want to own. 

So your next step is to start browsing through $URL$ and $URL$ looking for a match. There are over 5000 bike photos to compare - good luck! 

I'd be contacting whereever you got the bike from and raise the question of warranty - given its a brand new bike. Warranty may be void if you attempt to repair it yourself. Also, check whether self-assembly voids the warranty... some have a rider that "bike must be assembled by an authorised dealer" I think Giant has this requirement. 

ASTM is American, so assume its degrees F not C. Summary, the downhill helmet has to pass harder tests than a bike helmet to be accredited to the higher standard. However, that all costs money, which has to be passed onto the end user as higher cost on that model. To paraphrase "you can crash harder on this expensive helmet and have a better chance of survival than with a normal helmet" so the thought process goes "I don't/rarely crash but I have to wear a helmet for law/competition rules/downhill park T&C" If there were cheap helmets for sale that met no standards, but ticked the box for "wearing helmet" then they'd sell quite well. 

Partial answer - you are looking at a frame design known as "crank forward" or "semi-recumbent" The backreset is an integral part of the "seat" because the rider pushes against the backrest to power the pedal, and cannot raise themselves off the saddle and onto their pedals. The rear suspension makes it a bit more comfortable given you can't unweight for bumps. I'm going to hazard a guess that its an asian-source bike, and probably aimed at the elderly. 

Additional suggestion is to turn your head a little, and often rather than holding the head still and moving your eyes. As you move your head, your eyeballs get a "line of sight" around any particular drop, and your brain ends up "gluing" the image together. Its a subconscious thing, but works well enough when combined with the other physical solutions presented. Give it a try next time it raining. 

If you get it cheap, then perhaps. However I use a marine grease for everything that needs grease, on the basis its better for water exposure, and perhaps salt depending on your winter roads. 

Would a two-legged kickstand help at all? In theory you could mount the bike with it on the stand, and then pedal off and the stand folds up under spring pressure. Your recumbent may not have anywhere it can fit. 

20 km a day, 5 days a week for a year is 5,200 km. Your chain will be worn, but maybe not worn out. Definitely time to check it though. 1/8" chain should last longer than 3/32" chain in a bike like this. Your sprocket's teeth may be worn also, but its hard to know without seeing how worn. Aside, your IGH will likely be due for its annual/5000km maintenance service, which is normally an oil change. Best do this to extend the working life of your bike. 

I've got these shifters on an old 1998 Mongoose bike. They were kinda okay after a burst of spray lube but not great. Some Previous Owner had use the wrong length of gear outers on the front so I changed the gear cable inners and outers, but I fitted the inner wire wrong, and it got caught in the gear mechanism. I watched this video 

When walking, the shortest route is normally the fastest. When riding your bike, you have a lot more speed and can go 10-20% longer while still being faster than a direct route. So explore options... look for 

Updated - I have fitted two layers of new bartape in the hooks, and one layer elsewhere. Padded gloves were moderately effective, but came with new problems like sunburned wrists and blisters on the web between my fingers. So I still wear my $4 gardening gloves but with the padded half gloves over the top. The camera is still poor at night, but the image has been improved by removing some of the padding and clamping the mount directly onto the stem rather than through layers of spongy shock absorber. I think the foams let the camera wobble about more than mounting it hard. Tyres, for other reasons, I changed the front tyre from a thickslick to something with a little tread. This has also reduced the perception of buzz. Its still a heck of a noisy bike ride though. The only other options short of a new bike is a replacement front fork in steel or in carbon, and I doubt 1" threadded steerer tubes are available on carbon forks! 

Sizes depend on the fasteners your particular bike has. There's a chance the required tools are on a bike multitool, if you have one then look closely at it. Stopping by dragging your feet is better than stopping with your face, but its a last resort. Footwear isn't cheap, and neither is medical attention. 

Some ideas: Find something that annoys you while riding and then work to resolve it, avoid it, or replace it. Example - There's a stretch of road that you don't enjoy. Perhaps its potholed, poor quality, narrow, filled with cars, or something. Find an alternative route that avoids it. For me - traffic lights are irritating because the effort to get moving again is so much greater than speed maintenance. So I have a route that goes down a one-way street with a 30 km/h speed limit. If I enter the street right I can travel ~5 km through the CBD non-stop. Adjacent roads will have 14 sets of lights and I would generally stop at 4. Traffic light anticipation - Instead of riding up to a red and stopping, try and predict the upcoming red lights sequence and slow down early so you're not having to stop/start. Or simply take the long way home on some pleasant evening after work. No stress to get there, just enjoy the trip. You're able to ride for 30 minutes twice every day - so on Friday night try a 60 minute ride home. Pushing your upper bound of endurance helps the average endurance to rise. Is there anyone living near you who would group-ride to work with you? Talk tends to make the time go faster even if you're travelling a bit slower. Are you the personality that is motivated by progress? Consider logging your ride distances and go for a monthly total. 30 minutes each way is probably 5-8 miles each way, (or 10-16 a day) which is quite a respectable distance! 20 working days a month is 200 miles a month and that is a lot of travel - I started with 100km/month when I lived 1km from work. Do you have bike transport on local buses, like this? You may feel more comfortable if there's an out for getting home in the evening without riding, as a fallback plan. 

The first sign is a very slow degradation of performance and an increase in friction. You'll not notice this over time, its only when fitting a new chain that the difference is clear. Bad and slow shifts slowly increase, as does chain noise. You can either run the whole transmission system in to the ground, and replace cassette/chain/ 2xjockey wheels and the chainrings, or you can change the bits that are worn while getting more mileage out of the chainring. Be advised that chainrings are stupidly expensive, and a cheap big single chainring costs more than a cheap cassette. The Jockey wheels are surprisingly important - if yours wobble side to side, consider changing them out too (they're relatively cheap) 

If its the back wheel you may need to remove a freewheel to get to the bearings, or maybe able to service the bearings in a freehub without removing the cassette. Depends totally on the construction. 

I get enough stretching while getting my pants on before a ride. I take the first 10 minutes fairly slowly too, because its in traffic with lights. A drink of water before you go helps with pre-hydrating. Afterward, do a cooldown ride for the last 5-10 minutes, not too fast. A hot shower helps, followed by clean fresh clothes. Then go clean your bike. Some people use sports massage or self-massage with a roller to beat up tense muscles. 

On most downhills you spin out your gears quickly. $URL$ is another good calulator for this. It shows that a 52 tooth chainring with an 11 tooth rear would give you 71km/h at 120 RPM, assuming normal road wheels. Thats really fast pedalling and feels crazy. At 90 RPM that same gear combo would be 54km/h. Hence why I used 0 Watts in the previous calculator, meaning coasting. 

Cable mounted switches exist, both in the motorbike world and the electric bike world. Two main sorts are available - switching via mechanical means, and switching via a magnet. Your application may require one or the other. 

Looks to me like you've managed to unthread the brake boss from the frame. That's not part of the brake lever. Normally you'd undo the dome-head silver bolt visible on the left side of your photos. If you stick a 5mm allen key/hex tool in that bolt, and mount the allen key in a vise would be a start. Then you need to grasp the thread and undo it without damaging the thread.... that's difficult. One "dirty hack" is to find two nuts of the same thread and internal diameter. Thread them on fully and cinch them up against each other as hard as you possibly can. Then put those two nuts in your bench vise tightly, and use a long arm 5mm hex tool to lever it off. 

Opening this style requires pressure between the two pins, parallel to the length of the chain. The proper tool is a special pair of pliers like this: 

Personally I've carried a large steel tool case in a tramping pack on a bike, and its no fun at all. There are better solutions, but they all cost money. 

There are companies that will plastic-wrap a car, its cheaper than a paint job and can be removed with no further damage to the skin. The downside is that if you get a crack in your frame, you won't be able to see it through the plastic wrap, when you do your periodic maintenance. Consider some coloured riding goggles if you want to change how it looks :-) Answer: ride it as-is. 

Related - recording your rides can be of massive value over time, to see how you're getting faster. Personally I use strava to record my commutes and rides for future comparison. Downside of this, your MAMIL might do so as well, and it may become competitive. Don't be put off if this happens, just use strava to record your own progress and don't compare with other people. Seeing improvement over time is an awesome ego boost, because it never feels faster at the time. 

This is a bad answer, but its been six months and noone else has a better one. For personal use only AND given there appears to be no other way, you could either 1) recreate it for yourself and take your own photograph, 2) Scale this one as big as you reasonably can and then manually retouch it. $URL$ Both would probably be derivative works, and as long as you're not claiming it as your own original work, then there's little chance of someone accusing you of stealing the image. Remember to give credit to the original artist. 

Suggestions: Ride it, clean it, lube it, service it, and care for it. The only upgrade I might recommend is to fit modern brake pads, because the newer compounds work better than the old black blocks. If you're refurbishing it, throw away the old cable inner and outers and fit new ones for brakes and gears. You're unlikely to find 27" wheels anymore, but a 700c wheel is close enough. The front brake I can see looks to have a lot of open slot below the nut, so you'll get the extra 4-6mm needed for a modern front wheel. Rear wheel is harder, because 5 speed cassettes are getting uncommon. You might end up rebuilding the existing rear hub into a new rim with new spokes. When 27" tyres become hard to find, this may be your only answer.