Why is meditation pleasurable and helpful in a materialist world that is run based on natural selection? How is the possibility of experiencing states of joy and peace and realizations through meditation possible through an evolutionary model? What evolutionary advantage would make the desire to end greed, anger and selflessness such the desire to become a monastic (not reproducing and passing on your genes) occur? 

Prior to this I could hardly make sense of the Heart Sutra or the Diamond Sutra. But now more often than not feel like very much self evident truth. And there you have it, this simple concept is all there really is into understanding emptiness. It's not some mystical transcendental experience. It is essentially a rehash of the truths of impermanence and selflessness that is staring at our face everyday. Yet the issue is actually what one do with this realization. It is not that the common person doesn't see impermanence, the common person simply refuse to accept and acknowledge these truths. As I have deepen my practice I start to observe how my friends and family including myself often act in ways that are unenlightened as if we are blind to the truths in front of our face. Our mindless cravings and anger when we don't get what we want. Our selfishness. Our attachments to very impermanent things. The teaching of emptiness is there to break our attachments to personal views of the world which we construct, even doctrines which are held sacred such as the perfection or infallibility of the Ariyas (Stream Entry, Arahantship). We treat Stream Entry as a magical state where the Stream Entrant no longer have any feelings of doubt, in contrary to what the Buddha have stated from the beginning, that all phenomena are impermanent, and why should doubt and confidence be any different. We treat Arahants as someone who's infallible with no shred of ignorance and other afflictions, someone who attained Nirvana and will never suffer again. Even when the Buddha said that the five aggregates are impermanent, so how can the birth of sankaras be permanently ended? Wisdom is dependently originated, attainment is dependently originated, end of suffering is dependently generated, how can any of them actually be permanently attained or ended? The realizations essentially allow us to see things we ought to have seen before but couldn't due to our ignorance and delusive state of mind. Ultimately learning the Dharma is to benefit ourselves and others. And maybe just maybe next time we face a difficult situation, we can calmly keep in mind that the situation we are facing is too impermanent and dependently generated, so that we can plant good causes and conditions while being unattached to our troubles and handle them with wisdom. 

The best posture? Simple: The posture that is most comfortable and affords the least distractions to your mind (aches, pains, etc). 

I guess the biggest difference is imposed by those that aren't either a beggar or a monk: "I see you as a monk, therefore you are allowed here. I see you as a dropout from society as therefore you aren't allowed here." The monk may have more knowledge of the Dhamma, and may live his life according to it, but who's to say the homeless person doesn't? He may be a devout Buddhist, which is why he was drawn to stay in the temple. The label of "homeless person" comes associated with a whole host of negative connotations. A monk is a "homeless person". He chooses to gather (as Buddha suggested) with others of the right mind (Right Association). By coming to the temple, is not this other "homeless" person merely enacting Right Association? Kudos to him/her, I say. 

Now you can take this story with a grain of salt, but I wouldn't discount the possibility of hibernation-like state for deep meditation... 

This is essentially from a Chinese divination ritual, in many Chinese shrines and temples, believers often have personal questions needing answers from the divine and one 'solution' to getting an answer is to perform a 'divination ceremony' through random chances by shaking a canister of sticks until one falls out. Each one is labeled with a number and you find your corresponding slip of message. (Similar divination rituals such as the I Ching utilize chance for the same purpose). The canister one is essentially a simple version of that. Basically 'Buddhist' fortune cookies. As we can see, the messages found in these are generally wisdom that are applicable across a whole range of situations, and therefore it is essentially a way of self reflection. From John's link: "Yield not to greed and hate; cast them aside. Let conscience be your only guide. Your heart will be open, pure, sublime and bright. Just like the full moon that shines high in the sky." So this is essentially a form of skillful means to preach the message of Buddhism to the simple often desperate masses. 

I have never found a "not so nice" leader to be a very good leader. A good leader knows how to lead without having to resort to not being nice to his or her followers. A great example of a Buddhist leader would be Siddhārtha Gautama. 

Being mindful means being awake to the present moment. When you are sleeping and/or dreaming you are not awake nor are you awake to the present moment. I do not think that there are any monks that are mindful when sleeping. 

I would say that our goal is to free ourselves from the notions of "life" and "non-life", from "before" and "after". "We are scared because of our notions of birth and death, increasing and decreasing, being and non-­‐being. Nirvana means extinction of all notions and ideas. If we can become free from these notions we can touch the peace of our true nature. There are eight basic concepts that serve to fuel our fear. They are the notions of birth and death, coming and going, the same and different, being and non-­‐being. These notions keep us from being happy. The teaching given to counteract these notions is called "the eight no's," which are no birth, no death, no coming, no going, not the same, not different, no being, no non-­‐being." No Death, No Fear: Comforting Wisdom for Life by Thich Nhat Hanh 2003 pg 51 – 53 

So I realized I have been far too harsh in judging Theravada Buddhism in the doctrine of unconditionality. I was asking my Mahayana teacher whether unconditionality is one of those deluded "confused imagination" described in the Heart Sutra. She replied: to not reach the unconditionality is to have "confused imagination". I was stunned by the answer and decide to do some reflecting. What could be unconditional? Then I made a realization, the Dharma, that is the Law, the Truth of Four Noble Truths, Dependent Origination, Impermanence, Emptiness are unconditional. Truth itself is unchanging. Change itself is unchanging. Impermanence is permanent. Certainly how we perceive and experience truth is changing and conditional, but it remain the Truth no matter whether anyone realize it or not. With this in mind, we can surmised that Nirvana is unconditional as the Truth of Cessation of Suffering. If we have made the complete realization of Nirvana, we would be able to end any suffering that may arise. This would correspond well in line of the cultivation of wisdom factor of the Noble Eightfold Path. The subjective experience of this truth is conditional, but the Truth itself was always present. 

You should have at least a copy of the Dhammapada. I would also recommend "In the Buddha's Words" (978-0-86171-491-9). I'd also recommend subscribing to BSWA (Buddhist Society of Western Australia) on Youtube. They broadcast all their dhamma talks and sutta classes, as well as guided meditations. A brilliant resource for the beginner and more advanced alike (as long as you don't mind Ajahn Brahm's corny jokes). 

You don't have to defend Buddhism. There is no deity to offend. Sure, pay your respects to Buddha as a great teacher, but you should do the same for everyone anyway. But I digress. So to sum it up: No, Buddha doesn't shelter you from offence. Offence doesn't exist, only your perception of it. If you choose that something will be offensive it will be offensive. Only you have the control over that, never the person "being" offensive. Buddha doesn't shelter you. He handed us the tools and an instruction manual. It is up to us to use them to the best of our abilities. "Taking refuge" in the Buddha doesn't mean hiding under his arm. It means trying what he taught and discovering reality for the first time. 

There is some confusion here, whenever you are looking for a parallel in the Theravada Pali Canon, it's in the Agama Early Buddhist Scripture. They are generally preserved in Chinese and generally translated from Sanskrit (among other Indic languages), and they are actually not considered Mahayana Sutras by Mahayana Buddhism, as Mahayana is very clear about preserving Early Buddhist teachings separately from Mahayana, but they are the foundation of Mahayana. So the best thing to do is to open up Sutta Central and look for the Sutta in question, then look for the neatly categorized parallel. $URL$ Where the Chinese Agama parallel is found at Saṃyuktāgama SA 470 $URL$ 箭 "Arrow" Unfortunately there is no translation into English here, but it's about the same story of getting shot by arrows twice. 

Try to understand her perspective. Why does she not support your choices? What is her intentions? Perhaps she just loves and cares for you and her thinking/rational is how she is trying to care for you. If you can better understand her it will help her to better understand you. Practice metta (loving kindness) meditation with her as your focus. Perhaps even practice loving-kindness meditation together. 

The Buddha knows everything in the universe because he understands interbeing. He undersands that everything is interdependent on each other thing. There is no separate independent black hole in the center of the galaxy that is separate then the keyboard I am using to type this response. The Buddha can look at this keyboard in front of me and see the trees, the sun, the people who designed and created this keyboard, the black hole in the center of the galaxy holding us all together, and even you and me. 

If you struggle with sitting and meditating then don't sit and meditate. That can come in time. There are more ways of meditating. Myself, I like to go for a walk. Walking meditation is an important practice, and is commonly interspersed between sitting meditation. In walking meditation I like to stroll slowly. It may just be around the room, or around the garden, or even a longer distance walk - it's up to you, whatever you feel comfortable with. Focus on every action you perform while walking. The feel of the floor under your feet as you set them down. The movement of the muscles as you move your arms and legs. The feel of the air against your skin. The sound of the birds singing. Oh, and your breathing of course. The feel of the air passing your lips... It's all calming the mind and bringing you thoughts back within yourself. You don't have to sit in the lotus position and go "Om". 

We do not even keep our memories from moment to moment and day to day. Memories are relative. They have no intrinsic self and are impermanent. Certain memories change over time, or are covered with a lens of delusion. Other memories are completely fictional. 

For me personally, things really changed once I joined a sangha. I view the joining of a sangha (Taking Refuge in the sangha) as the moment I became a Zen Buddhist. 

Of course. True love is full of happiness, compassion, joy, and equanimity. Non attachment is a condition of true love. 

This weekend I will be attending my first retreat with Zen monks. It is at a camp ground and I will be camping in a tent for the weekend. Does anyone have any advice on attending a retreat for the first time? Is there anything I should expect, or bring that I might not think of? Any advice or experiences with retreats and facing monks for the first time will be appreciated. May you be happy. Bowing to you.