What defines a human? When someone lost both arms and legs and get them replaced with prostheses, he still counts as human, no? But what if he gets replaced more, so that only the head remains? Would that still count as human? Surely many would say "He is just a head!" (as they said earlier "He is just a cripple!"). Are additions to the human make the humans inhuman? When a third arm is inhuman (and people grow third arms occasionally), why isn't the sixth finger on a hand (this also happens, humans are weird)? 

Funny. If that would work for people, our governments would be run by scientists instead of people which most powerful weapon is phrasing things and dodging questions. But aside from that, there are several reasons why magicians would not do that. Which apply depends on the setting and working of magic. Examples 

Because of a recent question I ended up reading through the Painkill-discussion on meta and in the linked question the_OTHER_DJMethaneMan wrote in a comment 

The problem is more of a philosophical one than a legislative one (yet). If all atoms in your body are replaced one after another (this actually happens over time), are you still the same person? If your "native U.S." atoms are replaced with "non-native U.S." atoms, are you not a native U.S. citizen anymore? That would mean a U.S. citizen who lives most of his/her time out of the U.S. would at some point become non-native. While I believe that some people really think that way, this isn't currently the shared opinion in court, as I believe. Now what happens if you replace the atoms faster or larger chunks at once? Does this change the reasoning. If so, then there must be a line. The court will have to draw the line, if necessary, but it is really a blurry thing. For example, you explicitly wrote 

The level of effort is disproportionate to the results. If I really wanted to attack the planet, I would probably drop heavy Kinetic Energy Impactors ("Rods from God"), which could be made from almost anything. Lunar slag would be quite cheap and easily available. I could also whip up a large body out of lunar rock and send it in orbit around your planet, clearing out a large path through the orbiting mines, if it was worth my while to actually land Marines or something like that. With a high enough tech level, I could simply park a giant xaser out in the edge of the hill sphere. The Atomic Rockets website and Rocketpunk Manifesto discuss giant x ray lasers, with the conclusion that they would be ravening beams of death from a distance of a light minute, simply sweeping the sky of enemy ships, stations and space debris. What would be more effective is a way to rapidly shoot something into the path of an orbiting spacecraft. A bucket of ball bearings or even a cloud of sand would do considerable damage if sent aloft unexpectedly by a very fast rocket or perhaps a railgun. If the enemy spacecraft is heavily built, then the last resort might be a "plumb bob" cannon, with a nuclear explosive at the bottom of a shaft filled with water and a heavy containment cap on top. The X-rays from the nuke turn the water into plasma in a fraction of a second, and the plasma couples effectively with the steel cap, shooting it into orbit at something like 6X escape velocity. Making a mobile version is an exercise for the reader... 

Conclusion As you see, there are a lot of settings where magic, in one form or another, is known and accepted. People grew up with it in some cases, which is the easiest way to install acceptance. In other cases, magic was to big to ignore. In some cases, magic is just too strong to allow a long lasting society, if it isn't watered down in some way. 

Question: Is it possible or likely possible to measure pain scientifically (including assigning some numbers/unit with the same seriousness as length, time, etc.) and build machines doing that with today's technology? My starting point: Wikipedia writes "Pain is a distressing feeling often caused by intense or damaging stimuli." It lists different types of pain: "Nociceptive" (pain is "detected" by sensor cells), "Neuropathic" (pain as damage to the nervous system) and "Psychogenic" (basically emotional pain). Wikipedia further writes "A person's self-report is the most reliable measure of pain." and quotes Margo McCaffery: "Pain is whatever the experiencing person says it is, existing whenever he says it does". It also has a long list of pain scales which are in most cases not further explained. Wikipedia also provided scales for humans that can not communicate pain, e.g. this one. However, I don't want patients telling their pain, but measuring it independently. I image something like this could be archived with brain activity per second or something like that, if there is a pain part in the brain. Wikipedia briefly reports on that too in this section. However, the linked FMRI page doesn't contain the word "pain" and the 3 references in the section I just linked are all from 2011 and I'm not a physician, so I dare not to judge if they are affirmative to my question or just wishful thinking. I also don't know if these can measure all three parts of the pain or not. If someone with a medical background could give some evaluation on that point, this would be great. Other insightful answers to the question above are appreciated, too, of course. Background, if you need one: While I think my question above (without looking at my own research and ideas stated thereafter) is specific and general enough to be on-topic here, I'll give some background that brought me to the question in case someone is interested. I insist that this is additional information not needed for answering the question, but some may find it interesting nevertheless. Feel free to edit this part out if it isn't in the spirit of the community. In my story there is a magic that is defined to inflict the utmost pain possible on individuals, and it is of course regarded evil and forbidden. Then there is this villain (basically evil incarnate) who, as part of that universe, cannot now that this magic is per definition the worst, so he tries to beat it with other means. Cruelty ensues, but the maniac takes a scientific approach and tries to measure just how bad he can be. When the heroes finally stop the villain on his never-ending conquest, just looking at the tip of the iceberg of what he has done disgusts them so much they destroy everything without a second look. The end. (Or is it?) Sidenote: Of course I can do the measurement magically, but it seems more evil to me if the maniac actually uses scientific methods. EDIT: I decided to move further on-topic discussions to chat.