There was direct migration from Finland to the USSR during the depression era. Presumably similar proportions of the Polish, Romanian and Baltic state populations did likewise. Similarly, several thousands of Finnish-Americans went to the USSR in the 1920s... but more generally countries that didn't border the USSR saw uprisings (and successful revolutions in places like China, Vietnam, Cuba and Nicaragua) rather than mass flight. Presumably this is because those that are the most disadvantaged in a capitalist society are those that are least likely to have the means to flee. 

There is a nice short summary of pre-Columbian trade in the Amreicas by David Carballo. It looks like Cahokian trade was focused on the North American landmass and did not extend to Mesoamerica in a significant way. From the text: 

Presumably a Roman Centurion would have used the Latin word sagittō. CAUTION - I neither speak Latin nor do I study etymology, so what exists in an online Latin translator today may have little or no bearing on the archaic Latin used two millenia ago. sagitto, no perf., ātum, 1, v. n. and a. [id.]. Neutr., to discharge arrows, to shoot with arrows (post-Aug. for sagittam jacere, etc.): hos equitare et sagittare docent, Just. 41, 2, 5; Curt. 7, 5, 42; Sol. 19 med.; Vulg. Psa. 10, 2; 63, 4. 

In terms of Allied propaganda being a root cause of the German revolution, I'd say Hitler's statement is not accurate. I'd further state that Mein Kampf is a political/ideological document, and any historical references in such documents should be immediately suspect. Ultimately, failure of an authoritarian ruling class in Germany had led to defeat on the battlefield and starvation/deprivation at home. This was the proximate cause of the revolution, as it had become clear to the general population of Germany as 1918 waned that the grand stalemate on the Western front had been broken and that defeat of the Central Powers was inevitable. Allied propaganda was not necessary. The troops marching back towards Germany every day could see what was happening, as could the hungry civilians behind the lines. The population was moved to change governments, and the only way to do this in an authoritarian system is through revolution. See for example $URL$ 

At a low level I doubt there would have been much difference between the average American/British/Russian/German soldier by early 1945 due to the simple fact that casualty rates were so high for all armies that they were scrounging up whoever could hold a rifle and point it in generally the right direction. Really the primary difference between Eastern and Western fronts was that the former was more generally no-holds barred. If the other guy is pretty confident that you aren't taking prisoners he will fight that much harder... Working your way up the chain the average US officer commanding a formation larger than say a battalion was likely less apt than his Russian or British counterpart, but that can be explained by the fact that in Europe the US Army didn't suffer from very many significant defeats after the unfortunate events at Kasserine Pass in 1943. Without the kind of "evolutionary pressure" that pushes the likes of a Montgomery and Zhukov to the top you can't expect excellence. 

It depends on which formations are being compared. The best Waffen-SS units (e.g. Das Reich, LSSAH, Wiking) were every bit as good as the best Heer units (Grossdeutschland, Lehr, Deutsches Afrika Korps). The worst ran away as well as the worst Heer units (e.g. SS Gebirgsdivision Nord at Salla in 1941). On the average the Waffen-SS were probably more effective, but I only say that because taken in aggregate the Waffen-SS was on average more heavily motorized than the largely horse-drawn Heer. Earlier in the war the fact that Waffen-SS members were volunteers rather than conscripts would have had a significant impact. 

The main protection used was artillery preparation. Goes right to the root cause of the disease (baddies shooting at you) rather than trying to address the symptoms (bullets landing in you). Conceptually this was nothing new, but the conditions for implementation had changed. Through hard experience things like creeping barrages, shifting fire to impede reinforcement, delivery of gas, etc etc were developed into a highly effective mechanism. And the same logic is used today. Generally the preferred approach is to call in a fire mission or fast air to solve your problem from a distance rather than test the ballistic qualities of your kevlar vest/helmet. Unfortunately for those fighting in the Dardenelles, circumstances mitigated against either side having enough boom to really move things along. 

One Reichsmark is worth exactly zero Euros today as the Reichsmark is not legal tender. You can go to eBay to find out what the asking price is for collectors, banknotes seem to be going for about US$2 regardless of denomination while silver coins are going for about US$4-5 to the Reichsmark. If you were in an alternate universe where the Reichsmark and Euro co-existed you would get a similar answer, but for different reasons. Prior to the German capitulation, you would not have been able to exchange Reichsmarks for Euros due to currency controls. After the capitulation inflation made the Reichsmark so value-less that commerce was done through barter. See Wikipedia for a brief overview. 

The main risk I can think of is observer bias. You wouldn't believe me if I told you how great I was (nor should you), why should you believe what the Aztecs said about themselves? But then again, there may be some level of truth in what they say. You can mitigate this risk by comparing accounts from different peoples that were antagonistic towards one another, and look for the truth where the accounts overlap. Another risk is that some cultures lacked a written tradition. For example the tribal peoples who inhabited the Great Plains had an oral rather than written tradition of passing on their stories, so much more risk of things getting distorted by the time they got written down. The myth of the minotaur is an example of how badly things can get distorted. 

There is a substantial amount of information on Wikipedia, with legendary use of family names going back to 5,000 years (plus or minus) and documented use going back at least 3,600 years. There is also information on that page around the derivation of English family names from occupations, personal characteristics, etc. Predating the use of family names are patronyms. These are used in Iceland (amongst other societies) today. 

According to a Fellow of the Royal Geographical Society in this article they used a mix of outs, corn and a meat-based supplement. 

They had different training. I don't have my reference book at hand, but my recollection is that the training centre in Bad Tolz focused on combat skills rather than Prussian-style robotic discipline. For example, the Waffen-SS pioneered live-fire exercises as a standard training method. 

The USSR's experience wasn't unique. Mao's Great Leap Forward had a significantly bad effect on the population at large (20 millions dead over ~ 4 years) due to the resulting famine. One impact of industrialization in the UK was increased urbanization, which seems to have led to horrendous mortality due to communicable disease. But it's difficult to find hard numbers on this without very strong Google-fu. In this context it will be interesting to look at the epidemiology of cancers in China over the next 20-40 years to see the impacts of industrial pollution on the health of their population. A big challenge when looking at the UK, US, German, etc experience with industrialization is trying to segregate the positive effects. Increased industrialization in the 19th century led to a generally increased standard of living. So you have to factor in what benefits industrialization gave (e.g. how many lives were saved by reduced levels of starvation) in order to figure out the total cost. 

The elites of several early civilizations co-opted religion for their own purposes through the deification of royalty. One of my personal favorites is Caligula, just because in general he took megalomania to a whole new level :-) 

From the Wikipedia page on Svalbard, the area was being used as a base for arctic exploration, so quite possibly he was hoping to run into another expedition that could evacuate him. Given that he walked across the ice-pack for a year it may not be as crazy as it sounds, though if he hadn't run into Jackson he would have had to wait until 1897. 

TL/DR; Hubris and false assumptions They assumed the economy didn't matter. The era of the US Civil war tended to see relatively short, decisive campaigns with a limited engagement of the population at large. Examples include the Mexican-American war (1846-8), Crimean war (1853-6), Austro-Prussian war (1866), Franco-Prussian war (1870-1). Largely, economic factors didn't really come into play... certainly not to the extent that the Confederate economy was savaged by the Union blockade over the course of the war. They assumed that they would win the few, decisive battles. For example you can read "Company Aytch" by Sam Watkins for a first-hand account of the average soldier's view. In an early chapter he relates how his regiment (First Tennessee) didn't get to Virginia in time to participate in the First Battle of Manassas, and how they were crestfallen that they had missed out on the war. They assumed that they were better soldiers. This is more iffy, but anecdotes in memoirs like "Company Aytch" tend to talk about how the Confederate soldiers thought one of them could whip an army's worth of Yankees. At the end of the day none of these assumptions held. With no way to get cotton out and money and guns in the Confederacy lost the ability to prosecute a very long and destructive war that directly impacted a greater and greater cross-section of Southern society. And contrary to @Gangnus, I don't think there would have been much to choose between the leadership and troop quality. The officers from the regular army were simply too diluted out by the sheer number of volunteers and political appointees to make much of a difference in terms of overall quality. You'd get a spark of genius like Lee or Jackson or Grant or Sherman, but there were more than enough McClellans and van Dorns to go around. 

No, there was at least one pre-Vietnam precedent for FSBs. During the Chindit campaign in 1944 the British used fortified bases that were FSBs in all but name. These were established behind Japanese lines and had landing strips, artillery, anti-aircraft etc etc to facilitate attacks on Japanese rear areas. 

The Romans attempted to do this when they settled foederati, for example the Goths of various descriptions, within the boundaries of the Empire in defined areas. These were done as a series of one-offs. Enforcement was through the "I've got a bunch of fellers with pointy sticks who will hurt you" and the "I've got a bunch of gold I will give you to cooperate" methods.