It's great that you are making this choice to change your health for the better. There are a few things that you can do to really improve your chances of success: 

First, distilled water is water that had its impurities removed by distilling. Essentially boiling the water to produce water vapor, gathering the vapor and re-condensing it into a new vessel. So let's start with health implications: 

Your TDEE (for lightly active) puts you at needing ~2300 calories a day to maintain your current body weight. Considering that you are not very heavy to begin with, you need to aim for slow weight loss. If you've lost as much as 1-1.5 kg you're going at the right pace. Aim for 0.5 kg / week. Your exercise has a huge cardiovascular component to it, which is good. However, if you want a firmer body you may want to trade some of your cardiovascular work for strength training. I wouldn't give up your cycling or running (whichever you like more), but perhaps spend only 20 minutes doing that and the rest of your time lifting weights. You may end up gaining a little weight, but losing fat--and fat loss is usually what people are after. Diet tweaking Lastly, there are a few tweaks to your diet composition that might be beneficial: 

A difference of 0.3" (a little more than a quarter of an inch) is within acceptable measurement error on something like this. The answer to your question is: 

This provides enough variation for many intermediate lifters to keep maintaining progress. If your goal is hypertrophy, you will still apply the same principles, but you will be using different rep ranges for your sets. I highly recommend getting the book "Practical Programming for Strength Training" by Rippetoe and Kilgore, as it goes into much more detail than I have room for here. It's a very balanced look at weight training, and does not presuppose you are only doing power lifting or any one specific focus. 

The most effective way to train for martial arts is to do it daily. I assume you have forms of some sort? By practicing those forms daily, you will increase your ability to do them correctly as well as to do it longer. This will help you with the type of cardio you need to do SAMBO. In addition, strength training does help. It's supplementary so it's OK to increase slowly, but stick with compound lifts like squats, bench press, overhead press, rows, and deadlifts. Your forearms/grip will improve as the weight goes up if you use barbells. Done correctly, you will also increase your flexibility. All the lifts I mentioned will increase your core strength, which will help with whatever martial art you do. 

The Wikipedia article you referenced provides a link between AGE and hyperglycemia (common with diabetes). Essentially, hyperglycemia and hypoglycemia are both related to the pancreatic function. The pancreas secretes insulin to store elevated sugar levels (hyperglycemia) as fat. In insulin resistant people, the pancreas has to secrete more insulin than in people with normal pancreatic function. The only link then to the food you eat and AGE is through the pancreas--or essentially the amount of carbs/fats/sugars you take in. If you have these in excess (defined as in greater quantity than your pancreas can process), you will have hyperglycemia or you will get really fat. Essentially, if you keep feeding your pancreas more than it can handle you will increase your AGE levels. A healthy pancreas needs time to work and time to rest. Unfortunately western diets are full of far more carbs/sugars/fats than your body can ever use. For many people, we consume so much our pancreas never gets a chance to rest--increasing the risks of diabetes and the AGE levels you asked about. When the pancreas gets tired from overwork, the quality of the insulin goes down and the quantity goes up. Essentially, in healthy people your pancreas will secrete more insulin than you need and trap too much blood sugar as fat--causing you to be irritable and hypoglycemic. Later in the article, AGE causes complications in the kidney, which gets rid of waste products in the blood. It seems that AGE affects are cumulative and will remain a factor even if you get the pancreatic function under control. Any more than this, I can't say. 

In programming for a lifting competition, a common practice is to have a main lift for the session. The main lift has plain old sets and reps at a set weight, with as much rest as you need to make sure you get the next set. The assistance work is where you get to have all the fun with the training variables. Trade-offs 

As you perform hypertrophy based resistance training (typically emphasizing sarcoplasmic hypertrophy), your body makes adaptations to increase the potential energy your muscles can store, and then fills those energy reserves. All of this increases your mass. Resistance training is also more anabolic than catabolic. Essentially it's telling your body to get bigger and stronger for short bursts. As you perform endurance based training, your body makes opposite adaptations. Since endurance uses the oxygen based energy systems, it no longer needs the same glycogen reserves in the sarcoplasm. Additionally, since the body wants to be efficient for the job at hand it needs to reduce mass. Your type II muscle loses its sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, and starts getting converted to type I muscle which takes up less mass. Endurance training is more catabolic than anabolic. Essentially it's telling your body to get lighter move longer distances. Assuming your body fat stays the same year round, you will still have more mass after extended hypertrophy based resistance training than extended endurance based training. 

In free weights, you can sometimes break through a plateau by a process called deloading. Essentially it is taking 10% of the weight off the barbell, and then slowly increasing back to where you were. Many times you can get through the plateau because you gave your muscles some more recovery time. If the deloading doesn't work a couple times in a row, you have to resort to cutting the number of sets. Applying the same principle to you, I would recommend that you: 

Swimming is probably going to be the best active recovery for you. Back injuries do happen, and they aren't to be trifled with. Depending on the severity of the injury, it might take as little as a couple days to heal or it might take a whole week or two. Either way, you don't want to overstress your back during recovery. When you get back in the gym: 

I'm going to caveat this answer by informing you I am not a physical therapist. The routine I'm linking to is from the American Academy of Orthopedic Surgeons: Rotator Cuff Shoulder Conditioning Program. Some high points are: 

Now, in order to perform the dumbbell row without a bench, you simply need to find something to brace yourself on. An article on T-Nation about Kroc Rows pictures Matt Kroczaleski (the namesake for Kroc rows) using a prowler handle. NOTE: Kroc rows are basically dumbbell rows done for high reps with as heavy weight as you can handle. The important aspects of doing a dumbbell row are: 

Your trainer believes that the problem you are facing is the second bullet point. In essence your body needs sufficient protein, calories and rest in order to build the muscle required to do more work. Underweight (by weightlifting standards) lifters will constantly run into this problem. Protein powders are simply one way to get that extra protein and in many cases calories. Another way is the "Gallon of Milk a Day" (GOMAD) approach which will have the same effect for probably less money and fewer risks of having too much of the disagreeable heavy metals found in the CR report. NOTE: if you do GOMAD, don't do it for longer than 8 weeks at a time. You will also retain water, which will go away after you start drinking a gallon of water a day instead of the milk. 

You are referring to Track and Field shoes, also known as Running Spikes. This will help in your searches online for the shoes. The running spikes are commonly made with metal spikes, as opposed to soccer shoes (or football as the rest of the world calls it) which tend to be rubber. Running spikes are intended for short distance running, particularly sprinting on the type of surface you would have in track and field events. One (expensive) example would be the Nike Zoom Ja Track and Field shoes. You can also find many other examples at this "Nextag" link. According to this link the spikes are replaceable so the manufacturer can sell one shoe and you can use the proper spike for your event. According to the article: 

That said it all depends on what you want to get out of your exercise. The 5BX/XBX style of workout provides an overall fairly balanced approach to getting and remaining fit. It's not the type of workout that will help you excel in sports, but it will help you maintain a modest amount of fitness that will prevent injury and help you live a healthier life. If that's all you want out of your routine it's a good plan. The important thing is that you have a plan you can follow and stick with for the long term. If it's not that type of plan, then you can start playing by substituting other exercises that perform the same type of work just for a bit of variation. 

He does a good job of breaking down otherwise complex topics and making them understandable. Here's some of the pertinent highlights: 

Starting Strength, while a great program doesn't work forever--and it's not meant to. The same goes for any other strategy. The stronger you get, the more you will need to change strategies. There are several reasons why people hit a plateau, which simply means they need to change something. Possibility 1: Too little training stimulus This can simply be put something heavier in your hands and lift it. Or it can be more sets and reps. Or more training days. It's a possibility if you only lift once a week. Possibility 2: You are doing too much If you constantly grind at 90+% of your max, you are going to feel bad all the time. Always fatigued. Never clear-headed. I ran into this myself last year after grinding my squats too often. Back off the intensity, and live in the 70-80% world for a while. While you are at it, perhaps cut back on sets/reps. Possibility 3: Too much focus on myofibril or sarcoplasmic hypertrophy This affects all strength athletes. Bodybuilders want more emphasis on the sarcoplasmic hypertrophy while folks who want to lift the heaviest total want more myofibril hypertrophy. Bottom line is you need both to keep progressing. Larger muscles have more capacity for strength, mainly because they can supply more energy to the lift. More body mass moves more weight. It's simple physics when you look at potential and kinetic energy, and transferring that to another object. At the same time, you can't neglect the protein pairs that actually contract to move stuff. I know you said you don't want to do sarcoplasmic work, but it may be what the doctor ordered for now. Possibility 4: Overtraining If you've ignored fatigue levels for far too long, added new stresses in your life (outside the gym), then it's possible you have crossed the overreaching threshold and fallen into overtraining. Common symptoms of overtraining include irritability, fat gain, regressing in lifts, anxiety, loss of sleep, and/or depression. If you seriously think this is you, then take some time off away from the gym. Don't think about training or going to the gym until it is calling your name. It might take a couple weeks, or it might take a couple months in the worst case. Possibility 5: Lack of training focus Your body responds to the demands you place on it. There comes a point in time where in order to progress, you have to focus your energies in one direction. This is where strength athletes start specializing in bodybuilding, power lifting, Olympic lifting, or strong man style training. Then you do the work that is necessary to get better, and only that amount of work. Even folks who successfully cross train, their energies are focused on one discipline at a time. Possibility 6: Diet, Recovery, and Environment The more you lift, the more you need to eat to support the lifting. That doesn't mean go out to McDonalds and eat 5 big macs a day. You'll need sufficient protein, fat, and carbs to support the activity. The old standby of 1g protein per pound body weight is more than you can use, but it will assure that you have enough to build muscle. Testosterone is manufactured from cholesterol, so you'll need to make sure you have some dietary cholesterol in your fats. Carbs are energy, and you will need a lot. If you make healthy choices, and try to minimize inflammatory foods, you can eat a lot more than you think and not get fat. Another recent issue come to light is xenoestrogens such as parabens, phthalates, etc. Xenoestrogens are environmental chemicals your body absorbs either through the skin or through eating that throw off your normal body chemistry. Estrogen receptors in the body react to them and they are stored in your fats. Parabens are common in grooming products, but are fairly weak so not a major concern. Phalates are in plastics to make them softer, and get transferred to your food when you heat the food in the plastic container. Most pesticides have the same effect, so make sure you wash your fruit and vegetables before preparing them. If you switch to glass containers to store and heat your food, that can also make a good difference. Of course, organic proteins (chicken and grass fed beef) that are not injected with hormones are also better sources of food. The bottom line here, is if you keep putting garbage in, you can't expect it to help you get strong. My assessment based on the information I have I see signs of possibilities 2-5. Since I don't know what your training regimen is, the fact that you don't want to hear about doing sarcoplasmic work, the fact you always feel fatigued and your social anxiety disorder seems to be intensifying, and it doesn't seem like you have a specific focus you've got a lot going on. I recommend taking a break at least for a couple weeks, maybe even a month. When you get back, change the way you've been training. It's not working anymore. Find a good focus, and a program that someone knowledgeable in that discipline wrote. Stick to the program as it's written for at least a couple months. If you feel you need to make slight adjustments then, do it. NOTE: strict dumbbell curls are a great exercise, but they will do you better if you keep it relatively light and do high reps with them. That will help get blood flowing through your elbows and prevent or correct inflammation.