Primoridial black holes can be found (hypothetically; there is no experimental evidence yet) of any small size above the Planck mass. Stellar black holes, however, cannot have a mass below the TOV limit (1.5 to 3 solar masses) There does seem to be an upper limit1 of 50 billion solar masses. However, I suspect2 that this takes into consideration formative constraints (i.e. the constraints posed on the formation of such a BH); and does not prohibit such a black hole from existing. After all, the Schwarzschild metric certainly does not impose limits on the size of a black hole. Note that talking about the limiting dimensions of a black hole is slightly meaningless as the dimensions change in different reference frames. It is far easier to talk about the mass of a black hole; the radius can be calculated in various frames from that information. 1. Natarajan, P. and Treister, E. (2009), Is there an upper limit to black hole masses?. Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, 393: 838–845. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2966.2008.13864.x 2. but cannot confirm yet; I will have to read the paper more thoroughly 

the circular area around the Earth is more or less the area (there's a velocity dependence here which I'm not getting into) in which a moon-like body can form a reasonably stable orbit. The size of the small "well" will increase as the planet moves farther from the sun, and also when the planet is more massive. Jupiter is both pretty far away from the Sun, and is very massive. This leads to a huge sphere of influence. The asteroid belt may have something to do with this too, but I doubt it (it's pretty far away). However, if we assume the "half-baked planet formation" theory for the formation of the belt, Jupiter may have leeched off much of the mass that would have otherwise become part of that planet during the formative period. 

For a star to become a nova, it needs to have a mass at least 8 times greater than our sun. For a supernova, it needs to be larger. The first stage is the hydrogen fusion into heavier elements. The energy created pushes the hydrogen outwards. If there was no fusion, the star would be a low smaller. When the hydrogen fusion in the core slows down (due to a lack of hydrogen), the star shrinks and helium fusion takes over as the main process. At this time, it is believed that the core of the star is about 25% hydrogen and 75% helium. The outer layer of hydrogen doesn't change. Eventually, the star makes iron as a fusion product. The fusion to make an element heavier than iron consumes more energy than what it produces, so when the "iron fusion" (creation of iron) process slows down significantly, the star collapses. This collapse causes a massive pressure and temperature increase in the core, which triggers the fusion of heavier elements; although it is a net loss of energy. This burst of energy blows the star apart. The difference between a nova and a supernova is the amount of fusion that happens before the core is blasted apart. Since fusion only takes place in the core, and the core is less 1/100 the volume of the star, when the star goes nova (or supernova), the outer layer of the star is blown outwards. 

The only light you would see, would be from the stars outside the black hole. Any light that is generated inside the event horizon would be refracted towards the singularity. You wouldn't see the object in front of you since the light would not reach your eye. 

Any gas that has a lower atomic mass than iron. The only condition on the gas is that nuclear fusion with it should be exothermic (the energy required to fuse the nuclei should be less than the energy obtained). However, usually a majority of hydrogen is the best. If the majority gas is of a higher element, we'll need a sufficient gravitational force to initiate the fusion, and that's not always easy. While it is possible for just hydrogen to start fusion in a star, some carbon or nitrogen is a good thing to have to start fusion more efficiently. Different initial conditions lead to different kinds of stars. 

With all this in mind, the simple solution of heliocentrism explains everything in a much cleaner fashion, without leaving much doubt in mind. Kepler's laws make much cleaner predictions. Remember that people had catalogs of astronomical data to verify things with. Later on, once Newton came up with his theory of gravitation, Kepler's laws made even more sense (though I believe that Newton formulated his theory with some inspiration from Kepler's laws). I'm pretty sure that there were on-Earth experiments to verify the inverse-square as well. Nowadays, sending probes to space and getting a different perspective has confirmed this with 100% certainity for us. More or less. 

Currently, there's no single explanation for this. The simplest explanation is that there isn't any imbalance — there are large antimatter bodies in the universe; just separated from us. However, these would have to be pretty far away (otherwise the boundary annihilation would be detectable). Theoretically, this requires antimatter to have clumped early on, which is rather unlikely/impossible. A far more likely explanation is that charge-parity symmetry is violated. In other words, flipping the charges and parities in a reaction may not lead to the same dynamics — the outcome (when the charge/parity is flipped back) or distributions of outcomes may not be the same. Usually, we expect that if we flip the charges on both sides of a reaction, the reaction proceeds in the same manner (with same probabilities, etc). There is evidence that suggests that this may not be true. If this is indeed the case, then the matter-antimatter imbalance is not that hard to explain. 

Sometime after 4.5 billion years, the sun will change into a red giant star and expand to about 1 AU. Some people think it will be beyond Earth's orbit. (In any case, Earth's orbit would have changed and likely to have struck the surface of the expanded sun.) The asteroids would experience a stronger solar wind and their orbits would become more elliptical, so Jupiter's influence would be significant. 

How fast does the blast front of a supernova expand at? Is it close to the speed of light or is it less than a quarter of the speed of light? 

I agree that the crater needs to be lined, but you also have the problem of maintaining a satellite in stationary orbit above the crater. Nearly impossible unless the crater is on the equatorial plane. Also, a stationary satellite around the moon would be influenced by the Earth, so you would need to burn fuel to keep the satellite in position. 

When the galaxies approach together, gravity will effect the orbits of the stars. Since momentum needs to be conserved, the orbit of most of the stars will be changed radically. The different orbits will hide the spiral arms. Now that I have thought more about it, it is very likely that a few stars will collide, maybe it will take a few billion years. 

I've read that a gas giant, like Jupiter, doesn't have a rocky surface. But planets must start as a rocky conglomerate of flotsam. 

Bigger is better. Most moons, especially those of gas giants, are not "formed", they are just "captured" (unlike our Moon, which could have been captured, but probably was formed in a much more exciting way). Jupiter is the most massive planet in the solar system. It stands to reason that it has a larger region of gravitational influence (where its influence outweighs the force due to the other planets and the sun). So, it's easy for it to capture rocky masses. If you have a look at the contours on the following image (Ignore the Lagrange points marked on it, I only want the contours) 

There can be stars (and small star systems). Stars need not be found only in galaxies. There can be gas clouds. Most nebulae are in intergalactic space. Indeed, for a while, both galaxies and nebulae were termed as "nebulae" until the differing nature of galaxies was discovered. Almost any (small) structure that can be present in a galaxy can be present in intergalactic space, for that matter. Black holes (neutron stars, white dwarfs, brown dwarfs, ... ), star clusters, star systems, etc can all be present. Finally, there's a very rare (rare in the density sense) plasma, mainly of hydrogen, that makes up almost all of the intergalactic medium. Zero pressure is an unattainable ideal case. 

Basically, if two particles are placed with no other interaction between them, the distance between them will increase. Imagine living on the surface of a balloon which is being blown up. Your size stays fixed, because you're more or less rigid, but items not attached to you will move further away. Your ruler, another rigid body, stays fixed in size (though it may bend to accommodate the new curvature — this isn't so important). But two rulers (which are not attached to each other) move further away.