Although most answers are about not mentioning your personal hobbies, I'd advise just the contrary, but only put one of them, the one you feel most comfortable talking about and of which you know the most: as you mention yourself you are just a student, so during a hiring process it makes no sense talking about your career or other professional achievements. So one thing you might be asked to talk about, is that one hobby you have mentioned. If you can explain this hobby in a clear and motivated way (don't overreact though), you might be able to demonstrate that you are a highly motivated person who knows what he's talking about, which is exactly what lots of firms are interested in. Example: you like playing the clarinet and the oboe. If asked about this you might explain why you play both, I'm guessing that you play in some kind of group, and you can say that although you prefer the clarinet, sometimes you fill in a gap in your group by playing the oboe when desired (which demonstrates that you are a flexible person, ready to change when needed). Be cautious not to sound like "it's just something I'm doing to keep myself occupied", and try to show a positive attitude, e.g. "First I joined a group not far from where I live, but I felt too restricted by the limited repertoire, so I decided to leave the group and create a new one, I'm playing both instruments in my newly group, we have a more elaborated repertoire, which is a more challenging environment, exactly how I like it!". Good luck 

Like this, you explain to your boss that his behavior is not good for business. He can react in two ways: 

have respect for other people (you are willing to help that person) have respect for yourself (you are capable to express yourself) 

As you say yourself, you are not capable of performing while being yelled at, so I advise you to communicate this to your boss (using an e-mail), something like: 

You can counter problem 2 by solving problem 1: Tim : "Can I try your food?" You : "No." Tim is going through your bags when you buy things: "Tim, I'v noticed that somebody has gone through my bags while I was absent. I find it particularly unpleasant and if it happens again, I'm seriously considering informing management about it. Do you know who that was?" I believe Tim won't admit that it was him and he will seriously think twice before doing it again. :-) Be aware, when dealing with the techstore issue, he has a point: when going to one store would have taken less time, then he's right, so don't go into that discussion. Next time, when you need to do some shopping (like the Visa place), don't mention it to him. You just get up of your chair and wish him (and the other collegues) a good afternoon or say you'll be back within ±15 minutes, and when he asks what you will be doing, you just answer you're taking care of some personal things. Tim: "What things?" You: "Personal ones." Good luck 

I'm missing one thing in most answers here: the team you are supporting is a team, which means it's a group of people. I have the impression that, when an individual from that team is having a problem, his/her first actions is to come to you and ask you for help. This is wrong! The situation should be: when an individual from that team is having a problem, he/she should write it down, and try to continue until a new problem comes up. He/She should also ask for help from his/her collegues inside the team, and at fix periods the team should send you a list of issues they are not capable of solving by themselves. Those lists must be visible by your boss, so that he has an idea what you need to deal with and this procedure must be agreed upon by your boss. This is in fact a good test for your boss: you are creating a procedure to enhance your situation, if he's not supportive to such an approach, you might conclude that your boss is not benevolent, which is indeed a good reason, either to go higher than your boss (if possible) or to leave the company. Next point is your ability to enforce such a procedure: it's one thing to invent and propose it, it's another to enforce it. From the fact that you are exhausted by the current situation, I derive that you are not able to say no to a person, an attitude which is commonly referred to as being non-assertive. For a good understanding, by assertiveness I mean the capability to: 

I have the impression that you are too picky on this subject: you say that typing on a French keyboard is not an option for you. Can you please tell me why? On a French keyboard, you have access to the typical French letters, like (é, è, à, ù, ç), and in top of this it's very easy to type the accent circonflexe (^). Ok, you need to bend your fingers a bit in order to type '@' but every character present on a US keyboard is present on a French one (and not the other way around and what is that super special character you're talking about? When I need to type 'Ç' or 'œ' I press Alt+0199 or Alt+0156, for the one or two times a month I need those characters). So it's no surprise, seen that you seem to be working in France, that French keyboards are used in your company. In case you disagree, just tell me how much buttons you need to press to type the French word for "student" (élève), on a typical French keyboard this is 5. I'm telling you this because I've worked on a laptop with a double keyboard: the keyboard on the laptop itself was US, the separate keyboard was French, and yet I had no problems switching from one keyboard to the other, it's simply a matter of adapting to the situation. As you mention in the title, you have just started working on a new job, so I'd advise you not to be so difficult on something that easy to overcome, you might end up make a very bad first impression. 

=> It's the second one. As you can see, my current task is an enormous disappointment, and I need to get out of it: every morning I'm dragging myself out of my bed to get here, two days ago I started getting sedative feelings in some of my fingers (which is a sign of my body that my stress level is getting too high, I have a past of emotional and psychological issues). Is it possible to return to my previous department? Well: four persons are involved: 

You are absent regularly, but your employer does not fire you. You feel being paid too little. You get blamed for things you are not responsible of. You work too long without getting paid. 

I'm really sorry but I don't understand you: you say that you like beer and metal music: I also like beer and have been fond of metal music (Slayer, Metallica, Amorphis, ...). When I was dealing with such people, that was just funny for me: 

If you live in a country where losing your job means having enormous troubles finding a new one, then it's ok to be reluctant telling the guy is bad. This also applies if he has troubles finding a job, even in a more flexible country. In other case, if finding a new job is not a big burden, there is no reason not saying that the guy is doing a bad job. In top of that, there is the question whether or not the guy has potential: again looking at my own experience, I started off quite badly, and after six months my boss wanted to fire me (so did the two key collegues of my department). However there was one collegue who stated "You have been training this guy for half a year now, and you think he's bad, which is right, but I see motivation and an increasing progress over the last two-three months, which makes me believe he has potential. Let him stay for another half year and by that time, if the performance still isn't good, then you can decide to fire him.". As a result, my boss kept me, half a year later my performance had increased drastically and indeed it was proven to be a good idea to keep me. 

Two things: you do what is asked by your boss, and most important: your boss has asked you this question in writing, so in case the hiding of these costs become a problem, you can always refer to this email, which puts you off the hook. 

I don't understand your problem: you are working in a programming environment, where regular reviews are done. In top of that there are other tasks to be performed, like planning, testing, documentation, ... If the guy is not sufficient at programming, then it should be very interesting for him to do some reviews of his collegues: like this he learns what good code looks like, which might be a serious benefit. About those other tasks: when I started programming, I was also not very good at it, which was (amongst others) due to a personality issue: when I needed to focus for a long time on one subject, I got bored, and as a result my performance dropped. My boss gave me some other tasks (which were boring for him but not for me) like testing, documentation, quality assurance (writing and setting up procedures), ..., and as a result my mind was refreshed regularly, which boosted my motivation and finally my whole performance. Some more thoughts after the first comments: 

You can propose your idea to your manager: "Sir/Madam, you don't want to introduce new technologies and I don't understand your reasons for it, and hence I don't agree. Therefore I'm thinking of developing the new project together with some collegues in our free time, just to convince you that that new technology has major advantages. Obviously we will monitor everything in order for a realistic comparison to be possible. If we manage getting this new project to work using the new technology and we can present a working product during a demo, what arguments would you have at that point for further blocking the introduction of that new technology?" As answer your manager might agree, or (s)he can come up with arguments maybe you didn't consider yet (financial aspects, maintenance and other contracts with technology supplier(s), ...) As an example: my company is working with a very old-fashioned installer creation technology. I've proven that using a newer technology would heavily reduce development and maintenance costs. My manager then pointed out "You are right, but we are not only buying installer technology from that firm, but also other technologies, all together in a package, causing a price reduction. If we would decide not to use anymore one of those technologies, we'd still need to pay for the whole package in order not to lose the reduction, so we'd face a financial loss anyway." 

Last year in July, I started working for my current employer, a software firm with ±250 employees worldwide (just to get the picture). We are working on a client-server based software product, and I started working as a support engineer for the serverside department. Although I didn't program anything (I was just receiving problem tickets and tackling them), I was really excited by the task and I did it really well: during my performance review my team manager gave me a better rating than I gave myself :-) Shortly after that performance review, my second line manager (there are three levels of managers) proposed me to change to another department, where more mathematical skills are needed, it seems to be very difficult to find persons who have deep mathematical and software skills, and I have both of them. In top of that, I really like mathematics and in the back of my head I had already been dreaming to change to that department, but only once I worked here for several years. So, that proposal came as a very pleasant surprise: I could again combine software development and mathematics, the two things I love to do, so I said "YES!" to the proposal. Now we are two months and lots of disappointments further: The software in this department is an ununderstandable mess: it's based on namespaces and templates, which is turning debugging into a real nightmare (this morning, while debugging, I stumbled upon a type definition of 8036(!) characters in the watch-window). I've already seen 11 (!) subsequent typecastings from one template to another. Some pieces of source code are automatically generated, leading to enormous lines of source code, the biggest I've seen was 17980(!) characters long, ... Within the department, there are two software people (me and my direct manager, the others are mathematicians who have no idea about software engineering and who just believe what a programmer tells them (and I don't blame them for that)), and my direct manager (who has written a big part of the source code), is a person who loves to read about and try new things (from the moment a new feature is released, he finds a way to implement it in source code, completely neglecting stability issues). As I have a past experience of functional testing and support, my first priority is to deliver a stable product to the (several hundreds of) customers. As far as the mathematics are concerned: although this is was had lead me to this department, even after two months I've done nothing with it, I don't have the slightest ideas what those mathematicians are actually doing, just to give you an idea: Two weeks ago I was again being stuck in the software mess, and my neighbour (one of the mathematicians) said he had a problem. For me that was a big relief: finally I could get acquainted with the mathematics they were using here and I could find some motivation to do my job again, so I said to him "What's wrong? Can I help you?", on which my direct manager immediately answered "Dominique, there are more urgent things to work on", and not even a minute later, he said "You are working on those urgent things, aren't you?". => Who the ... does he think he is? I hate being patronised like this! I know, you might say "But don't you talk to your direct manager then?", but that's the point: 

Lacking of 1 is referred to as aggressive attitude. Lacking of 2 is referred to as passive attitude. Lacking of both is referred to as manipulative attitude. In case you recognise yourself in one of the "Lackings", I propose you to follow a course on assertive behaviour, and so again we have a test for your boss: if he's benevolent to the procedure, he should also be towards giving you the possibility to enforce it yourself, so he should be easily convinced to let you follow such a course. Good luck 

This is a problem I'm facing already during the entire course of my career (I'm 45 years old now): regularly I get stuck with something. I look at the problem and I can't find a solution. As I don't find a solution I ask for a collegue to help me out, and at the moment that my collegue arrives at my desk, I see the solution. It all comes down to the ability to take a step behind and let go of the problem, but I have the impression that I'm bound to my problems like with an elastic band: I try to take a step behind but my mind keeps on getting the focus on it. When I give up and I decide to ask a collegue, my mind gets at ease, the elastic band gets broken and I see the solution. Let me give you a typical example: I had compiled a program but it did not start up. This was due to the fact that I had compiled as a 32-bit program while the program was 64-bit. So, I re-compiled as 64-bit and copied the result again to the right directory (in a command prompt, using the "Arrow-up" key, but it was copying again from that 32-bit directory): so silly are my mistakes, and only after having asked a collegue I realised the issue. Does anybody knows any tricks for easing my mind so that I can "let go" of my problems and see those easy solutions myself?