Many leading Austrian thinkers propose a 100% reserve gold standard banking. They agree that such a system leads inevitably to monetary deflation if productivity continually improves. Austrians also believe that markets free of distortions are optimal. Thus, some Austrians must either believe that (a) the monetary deflation resulting from the proposed monetary system doesn't distort credit markets, or (b) it does, but there is no practical alternative that does provide for free credit markets, or (c) something I've not thought of. Which do they believe? I am having trouble seeing how deflation could NOT distort credit markets, since if the free-market real interest rate for a given loan, as determined by time preference for consumption, is less than the expected deflation rate, no transaction will take place even though both parties would benefit by making one. But then which rationale is given for 100% reserve banking with gold standard? 

We need to get cause and effect clear. It is incorrect that "deflation is a result of decreasing prices". In fact, the price level at a given time is determined solely by the preferences of the people (to the extent the society is cooperative, i.e., not coercive.) At a higher price level than the actual one at a given time, there would be more suppliers who prefer money to goods than there were buyers who preferred that amount of goods to that amount of money. The market sets the price to the level where supply equals demand. For the moment we are assuming for simplicity that people don't want to save, only consume. What causes deflation? Since deflation is a decline in the price level, from the above we see that it must be caused by a change in human preferences. The (aggregate) preference for goods and services relative to money must have decreased. Last year I was willing to produce a pumpkin and trade it for 2.00, but not 1.90. This year I will produce and sell it for 1.90. So, the correct cause-and-effect relationship is: deflation is caused by a change in human preferences for money relative to real wealth. It is also incorrect to say that deflation causes changes in spending ( quantity supplied, which equals the quantity purchased.) Both the aggregate quantity level and the price level are determined by human preferences: the quantity and price both adjust to the level at which the market is cleared, where supply = demand at that price. Likewise, deflation (price level) does not cause the level of saving. Saving level is the result of the aggregate of human preferences, in this case the preference for current goods over future goods. 

I hope this clarifies that the 5y/5y inflation rate swap is the only sufficiently liquid measure of Eurozone-wide inflation. 

The ECB's mandate is to maintain price stability for the entire Eurozone. Other measures of inflation---for instance the difference between French fixed-rate OATs (Obligations Assimilables du Tresor) and OAT linkers---measure only regional inflation, and suffer potentially from artifacts related to low liquidity. Capital mobility within the Eurozone is quite good. The EU banking sector dominates swaps trading volume, and the interest rate swaps market is extremely deep and liquid. Therefore the swaps rate reflects Eurozone wide term structure. What's more, fixed income traders tend to quote Euro pay issues' spreads off of swaps. They are the benchmark rate. There are EFSF (European Financial Stability Facility) and ESM (Eurpoean Stability Mechanism) bonds which also price to reflect Eurozone-wide term structure. However these SPVs have not issued linkers, so it's impossible to use them to price inflation. Some commenters here have forgotten their fixed-income math. You can price counterparty risk-free interest rate swaps directly from fixed term structure. This is because in an arbitrage free world Treasury curves reflect market participants expectations for forward rates and swap rates. Any answer that suggests that swaps compensate for premiums and risks that are not purely term-structure related is false. Swap rates pre-Dodd-Frank/MIFID used to reflect bank credit risk. Now that they are centrally cleared in Swap Execution Facilities (SEFs), any credit risk associated with the swap is paid in margin, not as an interest rate premium. The choice of term and tenor (5y/5y) is arbitrary. The Federal Reserve also uses 5y/5y forward breakevens. 

Here's the thing: fundamentally, I think the intellectual grounds supporting technical analysis is, at best, very weak: you can't drive forward by looking at your rearview mirror, and that's effectively what technical analysis is. Empirical study has shown that trying to predict the price movement of a stock isn't that beneficial with tech analysis; however, many traders use the techniques anyway. I believe that if one was to use tech analysis to gauge the positions of other traders who use tech analysis, that trader/investor could hedge accordingly. In other words, if you and I are traders at different firms, and I know you use tech analysis, I will use tech analysis to guess what your position is on some security. When I call you up to make a deal, I'll have a good idea what your valuation is of the security, and I could negotiate a price accordingly (or not bother at all), while you may not necessarily know my position. Think "game theory." 

U.S. equity market returns and U.S. Treasuries returns exhibit strong negative correlation (roughly -35%) over all time frequencies for sufficiently long time horizons. We attribute this inverse correlation to the fact that Treasuries are "safe-haven" assets, while equities increase in price as risk premiums decline. Your question mentions price data. Your correlations will improve if you look at log-prices or returns. There are many other examples of positive and negative correlations in finance, though many can prove ephemeral: utilities stocks and interest rates, long interest rates and life insurers, gold miners and gold prices, airlines and oil prices, and so on. 

A government that issues debt in its own currency can always print currency to make its debt payments. This is an extremely important point, despite that certain political actors would like you to forget it. Central banks set rates at the short end of the Treasury curve. They do not have an effect on the long end of the curve, which is set by market participants' expectations of long term inflation and real growth. What's more, central banks today are data dependent---they state explicitly that they will react to data that the market already has priced. For example, this month the U.S. Fed's FOMC will likely increase rates due to stronger economic data (GDP revisions upward, better than expected inflation, decline in unemployment and jobless claims). However the Treasury curve has already steepened massively over the last month in response to these data releases. Many governments issue debt in foreign currencies like USD and EUR (e.g., Brazil, Mexico, Ukraine, and almost every other emerging market). Because of uncovered interest rate parity, rate rises push up the value of the domestic currency relative to the currency in which external debt must be paid. This actually decreases the cost of servicing the external debt. 

Sadly, this is meaningless; simply because courses, journals, and practitioners exist for any given field doesn't validate that field. 

I believe the question is easy to understand, but I'm unsure of the methodology to collect proper and relevant data to solve the question. The answer, I'm sure, is a bit complicated. Though I'm not completely certain, I suspect the relationship is such that time, $t$, is a function of the change in price, $\Delta P$, of a given item (i.e.,$\quad f:\Delta P \rightarrow t).$ The price change could be relative or absolute. There might be a schedule of different coefficients, depending on the price bracket of different items. For example, one class would include items that many households could afford on a weekly basis (video games, books, t-shirts, etc.), while another class would include items that the average household doesn't buy every week or year (refrigerators, cars, overseas vacations, etc.), and another class would include luxurious items that only the top 2-5% percentile of income earners could afford (court-side tickets to a basketball game, a Ferrari, a bottle of Dom Perignon, etc). So here's my question to the community here: does anyone know of any study or previous work that addresses this question? If not, does anyone know how I could go about researching this topic? I guess "SurveyMonkey" would be one route, but it seems like a daunting task, considering how many variables I might have to account for. 

Consider that the dollar bill in your pocket is a zero-coupon perpetual bond, payable by the U.S. Treasury for bank reserve balances held at the Federal Reserve. The world is awash in perpetuals. Also, government bonds that are issued by a country that prints its own currency have no credit risk. For data-driven proof, look at what happened to 10 year Japanese Government Bonds (JGBs) after each successive downgrade by Moody's, S&P, and Fitch. 

The short answer is no, rate hikes have no effect whatsoever on whether a government can service its debt and repay maturing issues. Here's why--- 

The simple answer to your question is that inflation happens when the money supply outpaces the productive capacity of the economy. What's more, government borrowing does not increase the money supply in and of itself. First, let's recall that inflation happens when there is an undersupply of goods relative to the amount of money in circulation---or when there is an oversupply of money relative to the quantity of goods available for sale. Increasing the money supply may lead to inflation depending upon the level of output. As I wrote above, if a government borrows an additional dollar from the public markets, no new money has been created. For example, the US Treasury coordinates Treasury bill, note, and bond auctions to ensure that the government has available to it funds to meet its ongoing expenses. Certain banks called primary dealers must submit bids for those Treasuries, hence those bonds are always bought, no matter market conditions. What's more, those primary dealers buy those bonds with customer deposits, the savings of institutions and households. The Fed and other central banks can make minor adjustments to the size of the money stock by influencing money creation among private banks. I urge you to read about the money multiplier to get a better handle on how central banks change policy to influence money creation among those private banks. You'll want to read about M0 and M2, and you will want to read carefully how M0 expands into M2 as banks make new loans to businesses and households. I should stress that central banks are highly data dependent and respond to figures that not only indicate current GDP growth, but projected growth. They do not influence money creation proactively. Let's think carefully about a couple of different scenarios so that we see your examples in action. Example A Imagine your government borrows $50bn to build new roads. When there is high unemployment and low utilization---demand for cement, rebar, trucks is low---building roads will likely not be inflationary. If the construction sector is at full employment, however, orders to build roads will drive up wage costs. Likewise, if private and public developers compete for cement, additional plans to build roads will likely bid up the value of cement. Example B Imagine the government borrows $50bn to insert into everyone's bank accounts. The answer depends upon whether that money will be spent immediately. If it will, then yes, consumers will likely bid up the value of goods with their new money, hence such government action will lead to inflation. If, however, that money will not be spent, then the government has done nothing but engaged in an accounting transaction. Imagine that everyone took their share and paid down mortgage debt. What has happened but that the government replaced private sector mortgage debt with public debt? Lastly, there are those that would like you to believe that "inflation is everywhere and always a monetary phenomenon." That line comes from Friedman, and should be interpreted loosely. If you were to look at M0 in the US from 2008 onward, you would be shocked by its growth. However inflation has been extraordinarily subdued since the crisis. Look at M2 however, and it becomes clear that despite extraordinary Fed action, the supply of broad money has not grown. That's why inflation has remained low. How you measure money matters. 

This question is more so geared toward anyone with research experience within economics, though of course, anyone is welcome to respond. I'm an undergraduate math major with a minor in economics. I'd like to know which textbooks are decent for introducing one to research methods in economics? Graduate level is fine, perhaps even preferred. If a student was to take his research to "the next level" (publishing worthy), which textbooks would provide the rigor and insight to develop said research? Also, any introductory recommendations for econometrics? Thank you in advance. ANNENDUM: From the limit experience I have in economics, I've found the following areas to fascinate me on multiple occasions (in no particular order): 

A good question. I highly encourage you to ask this on other StackExchange sites in addition to this one. 

Behavioral economics is distinct from technical analysis. The former is based on empirical data stemming from psychological study; the latter, off strict historical price data, and nothing else. In fact, the "founder" of technical analysis specifically said he wouldn't let any outside factors- anyone's mood, the weather, a catastrophe, etc.- get in the way of his analysis.