The document is in Hebrew, all the English text was translated by me. Where braces ([]) appear in the text, they contain a clarification note by me that doesn't appear in the original text. I have probably misspelled the Arab names. The source talks about a 4 year period which ends in 2004, after the aforementioned law was passed, and it doesn't give all of the instances (23) that it mentions in the summery, so we don't know how many of them happened before the law passed and how many after. But we do know how many of the specific examples happened before the law passed. The law was passed by the Israeli Knesset on July 31st, 2003 meaning all of the four specific examples given by the source predate the law. As explained in the original bil The law is based on a previous Israeli government decision from may 12th, 2002. The first example (The Matza restaurant bombing) happened a month and a half before it. 

No it is't. Your first source states by itself that in the state of California any two people can get married, as long as they are of the opposite sex, even if they can't bring forth children, such as elderly couples and even prisoners. More over, the Jewish law , on which the Judeo-Christian marriage is based says the fallowing things: Inability to bring children after 10 years of marriage, is a reason to force divorce, but only for the man, and only if he doesn't have children already. However, through history this was not forced on couples that didn't want to get a divorce, even if their community wanted them to divorce. while other couples used this as an excuse, even though they had Other reasons to get a divorce. The source tells about two separate occasions, one that was brought before Maimonides, where the community wanted to force a divorce on a childless couple, even though the couple didn't want to, and they were allowed to stay together if they wanted. The other case, was in Tunis, where a case was presented to Rabi Itzhak Bar Sheshet Parpat (1326-1408), where a man with no children wanted to marry a 90 years old woman. The community wanted to stop the marriage on this cause, because they claimed that he was only after her money, the marriage however were allowed. The source summarizes by saying that by law a couple must separate if they didn't have children after 10 years of marriage, however this was not enforced by Rabbis. Also I want to add that it only valid for men with no children, so women and men that already have children can marry into a childless marriage. The source for it is this page written by Dr. Yoel Shilo from the Ashkelon Academic College, the page is in Hebrew, I didn't translate it all, only summarized the main parts. The page is showing its sources for each and every claim it does, including citations from the sources. The catholic church, also, doesn't see infertility as impediment to marriage: 

Yes, pigeons were used to carry messages, sometimes even after radio communication was available. Some of them even got medals for their role in combat: 

In some cases intersex people have ambiguous genitalia, even as adults, so a "mix up" on the birth certificate of an intersex person, especially one written in Myanmar 21 years ago, is very plausible. The same happened for example with Sir Ewan Forbes, who was registered at birth as a female, but later formally re-registered his birth as male and married. 1: I realize that the issue of how to call people with sexual anatomy that doesn’t seem to fit the typical definitions of female or male, is still going on, to the best of my knowledge "intersex" is the most appropriate and accepted term. 

The results are not conclusive. There are two main studies that regard that Issue. The study Chicken Soup Inhibits Neutrophil Chemotaxis In Vitro, suggest that: 

1 - Epidural procedure can have side effects on the mother which are explained in the sources, but the question asks specifically about the child. 

Those numbers are wrong, but even if we take the numbers as true, that would put the Jewish overrepresentation at 13.9 times and not 47 times. 

One additional factor that should be taken in, is that the symptoms of flu and the common cold include fatigue and loss of appetite, which may cause a sick person to not want to eat any food and by thus preventing the intake of important nutrients. Chicken soup, which is made primarily from chicken and vegetables, contains many nutritious substances that can be digested through drinking and by that help the recovery process. As the NYT article states: 

Some apes don't even bother to peel their bananas, as is depicted in the video Orangutans eating bananas at feeding station in Borneo, where several Orangutans are seen just putting one or several whole bananas in their mouth and eating it as is, with the peel. Also, a note about the wording of that particular claim, there is no "right" way to peel a banana, while the claim says that peeling from the floral end is the "right" way, what they actually mean is that it's an easier way, which is subjective. 

From looking at the transcript of a longer fragment than what most sources cite, it's clear that Al-Bardawil is talking just about the deaths of May 14th. Firstly he speaks specifically about 50 Hamas members and another 12 "regular people" which sums up to 62, the number of dead on May 14th. Secondly, he speaks about the previous days separately and separates them from the 50 dead on May 14th, saying that at least 50% of the dead on previous days were Hamas members. 

And the study Effects of drinking hot water, cold water, and chicken soup on nasal mucus velocity and nasal airflow resistance compares chicken soup to hot water and concludes that chicken soup is better that hot water: 

Putting those number into the nonsensical formula of the chart would yield the following results4: Jewish overrepresentation in Harvard compared to other ethnicities overrepresentation: 

A list of all currently banned games, and games on which the ban has expired (the ban is for 10 years) appears in the wiki article. It should be noted that the list is relatively short, because game publishers publish edited or cut versions of their games in Germany in order to comply with local laws: The game Return to Castle Wolfenstein was edited to not mention the Nazis directly by name or symbol: 

Partially Outdated Information: It's legal in Saudi Arabia, but the situation seems to be improving. According to a source at MSN News which depicts an anti domestic violence campaign: 

The studies that the decision was based on are: Use of Head Guards in AIBA Boxing TournamentsA Cross-Sectional Observational Study: 

However studies did show that headguards can protect against other types of injuries to the head, and that when hit the headguard can reduce the chance of concussion: Boxing headguard performance in punch machine tests: 

A total of less than 1.18 million war casualties up to 2016, and more than 1.38 million death from gunfire between 1968 and 2011, which is considerably more. 1 - The report has a number for only union forces at 364,511, the number 525,000 for all deaths is given by politico. 

Yes. Here is a summery of the ISA (Shabak) of the first 4 years of the second Intifada. In it they have a section about Palestinians who got Israeli citizenship through family reunification (pg. 18-19). The report states: 

The Graph is Misleading Instead of showing the representation of different ethnicities compared to their percentage in the general population, which is what we are accustomed to see, we are presented information in a new way, where the numbers compared are the representation percentages, a very strange and unusual way to show data. It's shown like this in order to convey a higher representation percentage for Jews than the real one. They try to claim: 

Their source for the number of tires manufactured by Lego is a book called "Lego: A Love Story" by Jonathan Bender (2010) which states on page 105: 

Yes it does, according to medical studies, but the reasons for it are probably behavioural and not physiological. The AIBA's decision came as a result of scientific studies that showed that the number of concussions on matches with headguards is higher. A Vice article that talks about the International Olympic Committee's decision to allow boxers to not use protective headgear in the Rio olympics sums the issue pretty well: 

In addition to 22,000 annual suicides, which means that the total number of gun death in 20151 was 35,480, and divided by two gives 17,740 dead every six months. According to this list, the number of US dead in terrorist attacks between 1992 and Jan 6th, 2017 (The shooting attack at Fort Lauderdale Airport) is 4,9572. According to icasualties.org the number of US death in Iraq and Afghanistan (up to 2016) is 4,512 in Iraq and 2,392 in Afghanistan. All in total 11,861 which is less than the 17,740 died from guns in one half of 2015. 1 - I used 2015 for the number of gun death because the article is from Aug 2015. 2 - Or 5,186 since Apr 14 1865, the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 

In the end of the conversation the mufti wanted a secret agreement of some kind and Hitler assured him that that is what had just happened: 

Electrons and protons are matter and not energy, photons are energy particles. However, when we talk to a 13 years old kid about transferring energy from the power station to their home, then saying that the powerstation is providing energy in the form of a current that moves electrons, it's a completely reasonable simplification. 

It should be noted that according to Melania and various news sources, she speaks 6 languages, from Vox: 

And in Canada in 2011 a similar attempt was made but the Canadian postal services identified it and rejected the request, from Daily Mirror: 

Post stamps bearing the image of Prabhakaran and other LTTE symbols were issued in France, not by the French government but by private users using the ability to create personalized post stamps from an image uploaded by a user. The French government has issued an apology for this, as they consider LTTE to be a terrorist organization. Images of the stamps (from Colombo Telegraph): 

He has also admitted in a tweet that he talked about "peaceful ethnic cleansing", linking to the same speech. A screen grab of the tweet: 

source: WebMd In an article by the American Pregnancy Association it's also suggested that an Epidural procedure can cause some babies to have trouble "latching on": 

Abraham Lincoln would disagree. Texas was part of the confederacy during the American Civil War and wasn't spared or allowed to secede. Gov. Rick Perry have announced that the state of Texas has no such aspirations and will remain within the Union. 

Original answer: The "Huvr board" is most probably a hoax product. In addition to Jwenting's answer depicting the problem with the fact that a breakthrough technological achievement wasn't published in any form, professional, scientific or popular. Several sites on the internet have found evidence suggesting that this is a hoax. From Nerd Reactor, the lead engineer depicted in the videos is an actor named Nelson Cheng: His site, His IMDB page. Also, according to Mashable a costume designer who worked on the shoot revealed that the shoot was produced by funny or die on her online resume by mistake. I've also uploaded a screen capture of the cached page here. Also, this Heavy.com article explores other aspects that support the theory that it's a hoax: The cinematography style of the videos: 

They probably do. While I couldn't find evidence for Louis Vuitton destroying their unsold products, except for the original article, there are proof for other companies doing it. H&M and Wal-Mart: 

So while it is possible (from self proclamation) that the Mungiki were 500,000 men strong, they have lost power since then, and now count substantially less members. 

Again, assuming that Jews count as Non-Hispanic White, the percentage of "European American" is 61.5%. Which makes the representation of each group: 

emphasis by me Snopes has an article on the picture which also include the history of the post, and also a note about the use of the term "alpha" for wolf packs. 

For the number of casulaties of war they cite a study of war-related deaths published by the Congressional Research Service, according to it, the number of casualties in wars and conflicts, up to Dec 22nd, 2014 was: 

True, a proton has a positive charge by itself. However since most subjects in nature come with a neutral charge, then in order to have a positive one you will need to take a way a negative charge (electron) and get an Ionized atom with a positive charge. Since kids are taught what is in nature, and nature doesn't have free positive charge without taking away an electron, again, acceptable. 

In an earlier article by the NYT sevral small bookshop owners asked what are their most shoplifted books: 

In the Sandy Hook Shooting, the total number of bullets Adam Lamza shot is unclear (source: The New York Post), but according to CNN he shot 

They do seem to be involved in beheading of opponents, and with rituals that involve blood and/or human mutilation and sacrifice. However, it should be noted that the reports are by western reliable sources, but are given as local police statements, a police that fights the organization, and might be inclined to over emphasis the more gruesome sides of that group. The Mungiki behead a policeman: 

No they don't. Snopes have covered this rumor already. Beyond the official McDonald's publication and advertising, Snopes also cites the Federal Trade Commission Act which has the power to: 

The author doesn't suggest that churchgoing is the cure, but that there is something in it that should be studied further. In the July issue of the same magazine a letter was published by Peter S. Millard, MD, PhD, which says that the study wasn't really good because it disregarded all the other factors that sarround the issue, I really liked it, so I'm citing it fully here: 

also: Saudi Gazette In a video done on this in the Young Turks it's also said that there is an anonymous hot-line, I wasn't able to find it mentioned in other sources. 

rounding the number to 150 rounds (5*60*1/2) and assuming that he hit each victim with only one bullet will give 17.3% hit rate or 13% if we round the number of bullets to 200. In the 2014 the Mall in Columbia shooting the shooter shot 6-9 bullets from a 12-gauge shotgun and hit 7 people, even assuming that only 1 bullet hit all the people (some ammo for 12-gauge shotguns has a high spread) and shot 9 bullets gives 11% hit rate. 

Yes, at least sometimes. In the 2nd episode of the 2nd season of the British TV show Scrapheap Challenge the challenge was to build a cannon. They tested the cannons in a DERA facility where "real" cannons are tested, and the test was supervised and lead by DERA personal. When firing the second time, the host of the show asked the DERA person that was in charge (identified only as Maj. Reid): 

Positive charged particles, i.e. protons can't flow inside a solid matter, only electrons can, in some instances, we will say that there are "holes" that hold a positive charge and they are flowing inside a material, but holes are but a real particle, only a representation for a lack of electrons, protons don't move from their place inside a solid (they can vibrate in place). See first point. 

The survey was published in the year 2000 and it analyzes data from November 1995 to May 1996, so its conclusions are about data which is almost 20 years old. Nonetheless it's cited in many credible places: The American Bar Association, The CDC, The National Coalition against Domestic Violence and others. The CDC used this survey as a source on their 2003 study Costs of Intimate Partner Violence Against Women in the United Stated. However, there are some sources which claim a different figure, one example is the CDC itself, who, in their 2010 The National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey summary report put a higher figure: 

The entire episode can be seen in this YouTube video, and the answer quoted appears at 36:36 in the video. This doesn't show that it's used in all parts of all English speaking militaries, it does show that at least one English speaking defence organization uses this. 

No. This flower is the flower of the Metrosideros excelsa, the tree is also called pōhutukawa tree and New Zealand Christmas tree. According to its wikipedia page the tree: