Those familiar with the architectonic nature of Immanuel Kant's philosophy argue about the difference between the three critiques (Critique of Pure Reason; Critique of Practical Reason; and the Critique of Judgment) and his popular writings and lectures completed after 1790. While Calvin O. Schrag suggests that Kant's transcendental or critical philosophy is not complete without Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone, neo-Kantians like Ernst Cassirer contend that Kant should have written a fourth critique providing a phenomenology of culture. Cassirer associates his paramount Philosophy of Symbolic Forms as fulfilling this role. Is Kant's critical philosophy fully articulated with the third critique where his later works are just regurgitation or should we infer a deepening of his thought by incorporating a philosophy of religion or culture? How are we to judge and situate the character of Kant's architectonic, which seems to be systematic but not prone to the confines of system-building? Understanding presupposes judgments or subsumption. The analysis of determinative judgment (particulars under generals) in the first critique presupposes the other cognitive powers (reason, imagination, judgment) treated in the second and third critiques under the domain of action and the purposiveness of reflective judgments (particulars in search of universals). Kant asks how we could even be aware of intuitions and synthesizing of the sensible manifold without reflective distance. Further, aesthetic judgments of taste (feelings) are pre-cognitive and non-cognitive. Kant addresses this in sections 39 and 40 of the third through the notion of sensus communis and universal communicability. So although the cognitive powers conform to the lawfulness of the understanding, they each have an independent legislative function. But more importantly, it seems that computers and other technologies can perform the mental operations laid out in the treatment of the understanding in the first critique. I have understood the transcendental philosophy accounting for the fuller human context when he gives shades of a philosophy of culture in section 83 of the third critique and the anthropology. So I am more inclined to accept that the critical philosophy does not arbitrarily favor or subordinate any of the cognitive powers, but they are posited as equiprimordial. 

It was Nicholas of Cusa who famously challenged the notion of divine omnipotence and this move becomes the basis of F.W.J. Schelling's Philosophical Investigations into the Essence of Human Freedom (1809). Each argue from their peculiar standpoints about the weaknesses confiding in such a God, which is ironic. Cusa did not make the distinction between appearance and reality, which has been a philosophical and religious mainstay since Plato. Rather, there is a distinction between relative and absolute knowledge. Only God can possess the latter, while we as creatures are subject to a relative viewpoint. Cusa identified this difference empirically, claiming that at any time humans consider their viewpoint there is always something closed off, as for instance, right now depending on your seating you can only see the front or back of another’s head or since we don’t have eyes in the back of our head we can’t navigate behind us. Whereas our knowledge is limited, God sees everything in its full transparency constituting all-knowingness. Cusa tries to overcome the difficulty by allowing for the movement of becoming within the divine nature, which allows for things to be known as they are revealed. Quite controversially, Cusa dismissed the notion God would create creatures without them revealing anything to Him truly. If God knows everything in advance by means of universals that can be applied to all particulars, then what does creation really have to do? How did God create out of love ex nihilo if He will not let the Other (creation) truly be in itself? And obviously the slam dunk question is, how are we free or responsible for our actions if we are simply fake acting according to the design of providence or the mechanical pre-established harmony of cause and effect? These are the questions Cusa thought were the most crucial but it was the former who sought to really move outside the dogma. On Cusa’s explanation God is still all-knowing, but it’s not foreknowledge! Not at least in the sense of classical theism. Rather, foreknowledge here means to see everything not in advance, but to see ineluctably everything that is “before-hand.” Creation reveals things to God on the spot by which only He can see and understand. One need not be all-powerful to appreciate the breadth and width of the manifold of relations intricate to the divine life. In order to allow for human freedom in the fullest sense, which stems from God’s grace unblemished, Cusa gives up the “omnis.” How severe is Cusa’s sacrifice for our own theological convictions, especially since divine sovereignty must be preserved at all costs? I suggest that Cusa is seeking to think divine necessity and perfection more dynamically, whereas the reformers (scholastics included) have merely a static view of sovereignty and freedom. After all, how can we love God while realizing that forced love is a logical contradiction and a sham? Schelling cuts right to the chase and asks: suppose God had things to do and becomes preoccupied with the other-worldly for a day, year, or whatever. When or if God comes back then what was missed? NOTHING AT ALL. If one assumes divine foreknowledge in the traditional sense then why does God need me or the world? Especially when he knows everything perfectly? Why does God need us to run some DVR re-run of life on the ground to confirm what is already known? It is not a shock then to hear talk about divine boredom or the death of God under such conditions. In an effort to emphasize the importance of love and freedom these thinkers challenge the view that God has OCD or is a control-freak. They leave us justified in re-considering and re-working what power means for any semblance of the Godhead. From Cusa's and Schelling's speculations, God is more of a companion or fellow-feeler than a despot or dead-beat dad! 

Given that Peirce’s naturalism is more anthropocentric than Hegel’s, he sought to revise the Kantian powers of feeling, knowing, and willing whereas Hegel just circumvented them. These translate for Peirce into the spheres of value and experience that are aesthetic, scientific, and moral. These are the cultural instantiations of consciousness as Peirce writes: 

A thorough analysis of what happened, both from inside-out and outside-in perspectives is in Peter E. Gordon, Continental Divide: Heidegger, Cassirer, Davos (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 2012). The Davos Debate is seen as the point of origin responsible for many of the conflicts and alliances that led to the development of continental philosophy. That is why “Continental Divide” appropriately marks that nature of its result. It was a drama-filled event between these towering giants symbolic of a highly-anticipated confrontation between the old and new guard. Two years after Cassirer died in 1945, Eric Voegelin wrote a review of his Myth of the State which you can read here: $URL$ As you will see it is short but sweet! “It is a melancholy task” to write this review according to Voegelin, because Cassirer represents “an important phase in modern philosophy, that is the neo-Kantian movement” and its “passing away.” I would claim that the paramount shudder that Levinas and so many others felt from Davos and the dominance Heideggerian philosophy assumed thereafter speaks to groundbreaking, yet eclipsing shift in Western philosophy. Like Voegelin says about Cassirer’s death, and I believe the same can be said of his philosophical fate post-Davos, it “is rather the mark of a passing age than of the author.” The Davos encounter brought about the rupture of a new epoch where Cassirer’s humanism is called into question as an intellectual dead-end. It symbolizes the triumph of the post-humanist age. This is partially why Levinas could not ignore Heidegger, as can no one, despite his emphasis on ethics and our obligations to the “other.” To the younger students, Cassirer represented the neo-Kantian relic despite any evidence to the contrary, whereas Heidegger was like a cultish, philosophical bad-boy who refused to take off his riding gear while Cassirer lectured. Heidegger, as Cassirer stated in one of his Davos responses, can also be labeled a neo-Kantian, although not of the Marburg school of Hermann Cohen’s tradition as was Cassirer. We are all philosophical cousins of Kant’s and the various philosophical schools throughout Germany subscribe to a unique interpretation of Kant’s life and work. For Heidegger and the Nazis, Cassirer comes from the idealistic-internationalist reading of Kant; what is called most harshly the Jewification of Kant. It is the camp which is known for its emphasis on logic, epistemology, and science. Heidegger’s Kant, on the other hand, lays the foundation for “fundamental ontology” and is a forerunner of phenomenology. Heidegger studied under Heinrich Rickert in Freiburg. When he moved in the direction of Husserlian phenomenology and then attempted to establish an existential ontology this led him farther away from the neo-Kantian movements. This certainly added to the characterization of Heidegger as a kind of philosophical maverick or renegade. Much of the motive behind Heidegger’s interpretation of Kant and others is to clearly distinguish his project from these schools. The crux of the matter partially lies with the historical embeddedness of Kant which is why the exchange at Davos was published in one of the appendices to Heidegger’s Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics (1997, 5th Ed.). So the essential confrontation is about who has Kant on their side or who can take possession of Kant and continue in that great tradition. It is quite clear that Heidegger won the day, but Cassirer’s work is undergoing a resurgence currently which I think his work is rightly due. Thanks for asking the question and there is no doubt that it was a pivotal moment in the history of Western thought. 

Despite his legacy as the father of capitalism and authority on jurisprudence especially toward the end of his career, Adam Smith is usually known in ethics and philosophy classes by his classic The Theory of Moral Sentiments. In the way Aristotle’s Nicomachean Ethics is meant as a prelude to the Politics and The Athenian Constitution, I have read Smith’s seminal work in morality as a precursor to the economics and social philosophy laid out in The Wealth of Nations. Although Smith doesn't say so explicitly, I believe these seemingly separate works are constructed around the same indispensable principles and interests. It came as a shock to learn that many of the principles affirmed in both of these works seem to be greatly at odds with the conventional wisdom about capitalism, from its opponents and advocates alike. As Noam Chomsky wrote: “He's pre-capitalist, a figure of the Enlightenment. What we would call capitalism he despised…” The crux of Smith’s theory of justice developed in Moral Sentiments lies at the heart of the Wealth of Nations: “To hurt in any degree the interest of any one order of citizens, for no other purpose but to promote that of some other, is evidently contrary to that justice and equality of treatment which the sovereign owes to all the different orders of his subjects” (WN IV.viii.30). Rather than being a symbol for free markets Smith’s philosophy is more consistent with the themes of the Scottish Enlightenment and a critique on the abuses of crony capitalism (a term he never used). Should we accept this caricature of Smith or are the principles of sympathy, imagination, and intuition (all contributing to his articulation of justice) compatible with the self-interested value or the evangelical globalization being outsourced by capitalist?