Leave messages. This seems to me to be the only way to do it. If a Short Race's lifespan is the blink of an eye compared to a Starmaker's thoughts then there will be no opportunity for back-and forth communication, at least not unless the Starmakers succeed in their goal of increasing the Short Race's lifespan for long enough for that to happen. So, leave a message. Encode it in the alignment of the stars, or the cosmic microwave background, or just bury it on a convenient nearby Moon*. Any form will do, as long as it can last long enough to still be there when the Short Race reaches scientific maturity and is ready for the knowledge it contains. Then, if all goes well, they can use its contents -- the great knowledge of the Starmakers -- to extend their civilization's life span to a duration that would permit a conversation. Some work will need to be done to make the message comprehensible. The message cannot be written in the Short Race's language, since it must be written long before the Short Race even has a language. But with some care a message could be constructed that contains its own key for how it should be read. (Humans have tried this with the Arecibo message.) This might not work the first time. Perhaps the Short Race will not understand the message, or will use it to create a terrible weapon that wipes them out in the blink of an eye, etc., but that's okay. Another Short Race will arise before long; the Starmakers can use the knowledge they've gained to improve the process next time. Perhaps many iterations will be needed. Perhaps one Short Race will send a message saying "our Sun is dying now, but we've got this far, and we've discovered this technology that would have helped us escape if we'd had it sooner," and the Starmakers can pass that knowledge on to the next speicies. Or perhaps the sticking point is not technology but civilization itself - how can you create a society that will be stable for all that time, neither destroying itself through war or overshooting its resources? That might take a lot of trial and error. But once it's perfected, if it works, the result will be that the Short Race becomes a Long one and can finally meet their companions. *ok, so that's basically the plot of 2001. 

Abundant resources, low/weak predation, female dominant breed selection. You look at peaceful megafauna and they tended to get there by simply having enough to grow larger, and predators that couldn't easily take them... There are multitudes of variations on how this could happen. Think of an evolutionary path where the "smaller" ones would get killed or die, leaving the larger ones to continue to breed. As long as the environment can support the increase in dietary/shelter/space needs relatively easily, they can grow larger. This isn't too far from what you see in disparate races here on earth, different environments have different requirements of our bodies skin tone, muscle mass, and size until they become "traits" of our heritage... your world just takes it to another order of magnitude. Ensuring that the females are fighting over the males, or at least choosing the males in a method other than who can punch who the hardest, will remove the genetic benefit of males growing larger. === Edit for the clarification about the "matriarchal" requirement === You get larger females the same way you get larger males... have them fight each other. It benefits a male to have a breeding pool, multiple females he can keep pregnant and safe... A matriarchal society tends not to fight over males... cause why? There is no genetic advantage to them keeping a harem. There is no "downtime" for the male where he will need a strong female to provide for him or protect him. You would have to find a motivation, a genetic one, not a social one, to enable this. Extremely long (months) refractory periods where the males are not only unable to breed, but maybe too lethargic to hunt or protect themselves? Even then, at that point the female, biologically speaking already has what she needs, there is no reason to "protect" the male... she can just find a new one later. An argument could be made that the females have to be bigger and sturdier to be capable in a predatory environment during pregnancy... but that only makes sense if the males are somehow not able to provide them with safety. This doesn't add up... whatever time it took for the females to get stronger would make the males stronger as well. The "easiest" way would be socially... but there would have to be cultural motivations in place for tens of thousands of years before this would be significant... which is extremely unlikely. 

The asker says in a comment that "there is so many layers of bureaucracy and indoctrination that the aliens themselves don't even know why they are invading Earth or any other planet, other than if they don't they will be executed for insubordination." This seems to me all that's needed for an answer. The commander continues the invasion because to do otherwise would entail filing the appropriate paperwork - and that would be a far more difficult and dangerous task than simply continuing to send more troops indefinitely. I actually quite like that as a basis for a story. It does what it needs to do, and has a darkly comic message about the futility of war. 

Humans who prefer to be completely alone are rare, but they exist. Perhaps with dragons it's the other way around: perhaps, very rarely, a dragon comes along who is outgoing and charismatic towards other dragons. With a sufficiently Machiavellian mindset, perhaps such an exceptional dragon could convince the other dragons to put aside their instinctive indifference to one another and unite as a single force. In order to do this it might be useful for this new dragon to have a scapegoat, an enemy for the dragons to unite against. Even if the human threat is not in reality all that credible or severe, the charismatic dragon might be able to drum up fear and resentment against them in order to achieve its aims. ("My fellow dragons, yet another of our number has been senselessly slain. How many more dragon lives must be lost before we put an end to the encroaching human menace once and for all," etc. etc.) Then the humans would suddenly find themselves under siege by a powerful force against which they are not really prepared to defend themselves - which might make for good drama if that's the sort of thing you're going for. 

It's a flightless bird As others have pointed out, a creature would not dive if it was unable to do so due to being too buoyant, and if it had no reason to. As for reasons for diving, one is to get food and another is to avoid attack from aerial predators. The latter reason is taken care of by the armour, but we have to ask why a surface-dwelling organism would evolve armour instead of evolving the ability to dive, which is probably the easier solution for most organisms. This is where buoyancy comes in. If the animal is very lightweight it will be hard for it to evolve diving behaviour, and it might take the armour strategy instead. Buoyancy means low density, i.e. light weight for the size. But why would an animal be so light weight? One obvious reason is flight. So: we have to imagine that this organism's ancestors were birds, or pterodactyls or similar flying creatures. Think of something like a large sea bird, though not necessarily a whale-sized one. It eats something that lives near the surface, so it doesn't need to dive very deep (if at all), and it spends a lot of its time resting on the water surface, using its feet to paddle like a duck or a swan. If food is very plentiful and predators are few, then birds will often lose the ability to fly. We just have to imagine that this happens here, resulting in a bird-like animal that spends all of its time paddling in the water, never taking to the air. (One difficulty is that a bird would need to lay its eggs on dry ground, but if this is not an Earth species we can imagine that it has live young instead. Or it could evolve a special body cavity in which to incubate its eggs or something - you'll have to be inventive here.) After that, we just need it to evolve its large size and armoured back. Sea animals seem to evolve a large size quite often. The reasons for this are not completely understood (though see here), but the same thing might well happen to a flightless sea bird. It would be easier for it to stay warm, it would have bigger fat reserves, and it would be so big that no predator could eat it. However, since it's sitting helpless in the water it could still be attacked by other aerial predators, who peck at its flesh without killing it. An armoured skin would be a sensible evolutionary response to this. 

It might be an interesting challenge, but a curious experiment... but even at the time, the south insisted the north didn't care about slavery, they were just using it to galvanize their people into action. Assuming slavery WASN'T as important as independence/taxes/commerce as they claimed there is a move they didn't pursue. The south could pre-emptively abolish slavery... sorta. They could replace it (as is the way of our species) with something that was nearly the same thing (a company store creating debt slavery, for instance). Their "property" becomes "free" but has little choice but to continue to work for basically nothing, while knocking the arguments of the north out from under them. It would be a lot harder to rally people to fight and die for interstate commerce regulation. Of course, it does NOTHING to correct the moral issues related to the conflict... in fact, it probably puts in place structures that would take much much longer to deconstruct... but it could stop the war itself. Todd... if he could use his skills to become important and valuable enough to the confederacy, he could eventually get the ears of those who could hear the logic and be led to make those decisions. 

Hollow is potentially a problem because it could be designed to strike and stab well enough, but when you tried to block with it it would crumple (think chicken eggs, ridiculously strong against pressure in one direction, but flimsy against it in another). My recommendation would be bird bone structure. To maintain weight and strength bird bones are "hollow" but with internal struts that protect them against being flimsy... Not an "easy" solution in terms of manufacturing, but it would be worth exploring. 

Organic speech changes over time. If the androids were programmed to be able to track and adapt to variations in speech, which they almost certainly would be, this is a non-issue. The androids are capable of learning new slang and dialectical variations at least as fast as teenagers. The critical thinking and decision making involved with making deals is actually considerably more complicated. I would expect it MUCH more likely the androids would succumb to charlatans and predatory exchange rates LONG before they were challenged by shifting languages. 

Look at the Front Range of Colorado. Not a desert, but it gives you good parallels. If the mountains are RIGHT THERE, you have access to the water, vegetation, habitat for animals... traveling along the mountains on the desert side is easier, you can see for a very long way... so you have feasibility and a good reason to be there... harder to defend if invaded from the mountain side, but probably not to detrimental. Its seems practical and reasonable. 

From a science point of view, yes, if life were discovered on Venus, there would be an immediate switch in priorities. Scientifically this would be huge. (And contrary to other answers, science rather than colonisation is the main reason for funding space missions in the current political climate.) It would be our first discovery of life anywhere away from Earth, so there would be a huge wave of media excitement and popular interest, and as a result, funding for space missions, especially Venus ones, would go up for a while. Scientists all over the world would be intensely excited to answer all sorts of questions about Venus life: did it arise independently of Earth life, or was life transported from one planet to another via meteorite impacts, which is thought to be possible? Does Venus life use the same amino acids and nucleic acids as Earth life, or is its chemistry completely different? How does life survive in the incredibly harsh environment on Venus, and how many places on the planet can it live? There is basically nobody in biology or planetary sciences who wouldn't immediately want to know all that. Then there's all the potential medical applications of a whole other biosphere full of biologically active molecules that are probably not found on Earth. So basically it's a no-brainer: there's no doubt that if this was discovered there would be at least one follow-up mission, perhaps several, designed specifically to study it. This would indeed quite likely involve cuts in funding for Mars missions, because that's just the way things work. These Venus missions would not be manned, due to Venus' thick corrosive atmosphere. This not only makes it extremely hard for even an unmanned spacecraft to last very long but also means that you can't blast off from Venus unless you manage to take something the size of a Saturn V with you and land it on the surface - that's currently quite some way beyond what humans are practically capable of. So these would be robotic missions with specifically designed experiments for studying Venusian biology. Perhaps people would consider a sample return mission - i.e. an unmanned spacecraft that picks up a sample and takes it back to Earth - though I would guess that would be unfeasible at our present stage of development. However, there is a big caveat to be mentioned. Life is thought to be very unlikely on Venus, due to the extremely high temperature and sulfuric acid rain - certainly no known Earth life can survive there. We can suspend disbelief and imagine that life finds a way to survive there anyway, but it also poses another problem: no probe sent to Venus in 2022 will include equipment to detect life, because nobody expects to find it there. Detecting life in non-Earth-like soil is hard - even the recent Mars probes don't carry equipment designed to do that, because it would be prohibitively expensive to do so. So the probe will not carry PCR equipment for detecting DNA; it will not carry an experiment to culture any bacteria it might happen to find, and it will not carry the microscope and special dyes that would be needed to attempt to observe cells directly. Even if the soil on Venus were teeming with as many bacteria on Earth, it would look as lifeless as Earth dirt to the rover's sensors. If you're really lucky a growing bacterial colony might be observed by the cameras, but it would just look like a small stain that changes slowly in size, and it would be impossible to be sure that that was actually life rather than just a chemical phenomenon. For these reasons, it's extremely unlikely that a near-future Venus rover would find life on Venus even if it were there - they only way I can think of it happening is if there is not just bacteria but actual complex multicellular life that can be directly and unmistakably observed by a camera.