The most common use for "mountain" bikes is city riding. Usually the Walmart variety are a bit overdone with shocks and the like (what the kids like to see), but probably better suited for city riding than actual off-road riding. As stated, if the tires are exceptionally "knobby" you may want to replace them with smoother ones (though not "slicks"). Tire pressure should be adjusted to suit road conditions -- higher for smoother roads, but never so low that the tires "bottom out" going over bumps. (And, if you replace the tires, you may want to get Kevlar belted ones, for puncture resistance.) And, also as stated, it's very important that the bike "fit" -- that it's not too large or small for you, that the seat and handlebars can be adjusted to your comfort, etc. 

The answer is ... it depends. Normally, by reducing/filling the vacuum that exists behind the lead rider, the drafter would be expected to give the leader a slight boost (though nowhere near the boost the drafter gets). But fluid dynamics is a tricky thing, and there are probably configurations (based on a few millimeters movement one way or the other) where the leader can be slowed. I wouldn't expect the negative effect to occur very often, though. The bigger effect on the leader is the demands placed on him to maintain a steady pace and better signal his intentions. Many are apt to find this responsibility stressful. 

Looks perfect, if the bike fits. You won't set any speed records, but it's probably about as comfortable for the trip as you could hope for, and certainly rugged enough. There are several different lists around of what to bring on a trip. Depends in part on whether you'll have any "support" or not, but basically, in that part of the country, with a cellphone and money you're equipped for any problem. (Though I'd recommend some rain gear, assorted foodstuffs, including some salty and some not, pump and patch kit, and as many tools as you feel competent to use.) And, of course, plenty of water. Take a break about every 15-20 miles to stretch your legs and let your rear end restore the blood flow. (Looks like a fun trip!) 

I have a pair of Polartec tights from Col d'Lizard that are the cat's pajamas (or some such metaphor). Definitely not baggy (when you see them you'll understand -- "I'm going to fit into THOSE???"), and plenty warm down to maybe 5-10F, but they breathe well -- never get clammy. I no longer do winter cycling, but I often use the tights when I run the snow blower. The snow doesn't stick to them and they keep me warm in the wind without overheating. 

The coating is generally a form of wax, which is an excellent chain lube, and less apt to attract dirt than most chain oils. All you really should do is wipe off (with a dry cloth) any excess. If the wax seems excessively heavy you can add a little solvent to the cloth, to just wipe off the outer coating. You want to leave the lube on the inside of the chain, where it's really needed. 

It really depends on speed. If you go slow (and there is no headwind) then riding on the flat is almost effortless (rolling friction is a very small factor with properly-inflated road tires). What slows you on the flat is wind resistance, and the faster you go the more wind resistance you face. On the other hand, climbing a hill of a given height consumes a fixed amount of energy regardless of how fast you do it (once you factor out wind resistance), and, in theory, regardless of how steep the climb is (though of course once the hill gets too steep to climb "theory" falls apart). You can probably come up with a way to convert a given % climb rate into an equivalent headwind for you and your bike, but there's no way to convert % climb into level miles with any degree of meaningfulness. At best you can come up with a conversion factor that assumes a given speed or energy output. And this would obviously be different for every rider. 

I've always used both. Among other things, if you apply both brakes you're in much better shape should one of the brakes fail suddenly (eg, broken cable, unanticipated wet rim, etc). But then, I've never pretended to be a racer. Added: It should be noted that, unless you're riding like a maniac (or at least like a BMX rider), 95% (at least) of your braking will occur in situations where there will be no chance at all of a wheel lockup. In such situations either brake is equally effective, and, if you use both, you spread the wear evenly between them. This means you can go twice as far before having to worry about replacing a brake pad or a worn-through rim. 

The joints. Better quality frames would be "lugged", with the steel tubes brazed into fittings (called lugs) that secured the joints. Cheap frames would just have the tubes welded together. (Welding, as used then, would destroy the thin, high-strength steel used in better frames.) The dropouts. Cheap frames would have rear dropouts that were quite clearly just stamped from sheet metal, while the front dropouts would be similar, or would simply be slots cut in the ends of the flattened fork tubes. Better quality would use forged dropouts. 

In terms of climbing at a steady speed, weight on the wheel is exactly the same as weight on the saddle. In terms of acceleration, weight at the rim slows acceleration (but also deceleration) by 2x of the same weight on the saddle. 

A front derailer is a bit more complicated than it looks, and can be quite complex to adjust if you're starting from zero -- just having installed the unit. There are five (and a half) adjustments -- 

There may also be a slight chance that certain insects would infest the foam, if stored in a buggy shed or some such. (But storing with moth balls would be a bad idea, as the moth balls release fumes.) 

Worn, "stiff" or bent chain Too much slack in chain Worn sprockets or missing teeth, front or rear Bent sprocket (more likely on front than rear) Chain line misalignment -- frame is bent or something (misplaced spacers, etc) has caused the crank or rear axle to move "sideways". Vaguely possible that the axle could get cocked sideways (due to loose nuts) and cause this, but usually tire rub would become intolerable first. Some object (heel, shoestring, fender, etc) getting in the way of the chain. 

I think a lot depends on where you are. If you're on a forest trail where cyclists are the exception, then a lot of deference to the horse (and rider) is wise. If you're on a multi-use trail (or the open road) where horses will often encounter cycles (or other vehicles) then you can be relatively confident that the horse will not spook so long as it has fair warning. In a way, you've got to know the horse. 

Pump Peg A pump peg is a small protrusion on a bike frame which is intended to facilitate the mounting of a "frame pump". Depending on the style of the frame, the peg may be positioned to allow the pump to fit on the underside of the top tube (of a standard diamond frame) or on the trailing side of the down tube. The peg is designed to mate with a corresponding hole in the end of the pump. Some schemes have a peg at each end, while others reply on the other end of the pump being wedged into the V formed by the top tube and seat tube.