In the Republic, Plato advocates a taxonomy of five regimes which comprehensively describes all (ideal) forms of government. In descending order of virtue they are Aristocracy, Timocracy, Oligarchy, Democracy & Tyranny. Where does a theocratic state come into this description? In fact is there such a thing? Priests & Kings form an axis of political power (compare with Platos Philosopher-King), a theocratic state presumably is a collapse of this axis into one body. As priests are ideally the embodiment of the Good are they in fact a form of Aristocratic government? 

Its worth placing this in context a little, in Platos time it would appear that poets, rhapsodes and playwrights were held in far greater esteem than philosophers were. They had, as Socrates admits in this dialogue the reputation of being 'wise' whereas he merely speaks the 'truth'. 

Rational means many things. One can use the common-sense understanding of the word rational - if one is religious, say a Christian or a Muslim, then it would be rational to worship the deity. Rationalism in the history of Western philosophy, given your interest in metaphysics, is one term that is used to describe a way of looking at Being as the necessary Being; Spinozas system is called rational for this reason, and he is called a rationalist; a more descriptive term would be onto-theology pioneered, I think by Heidegger - who wanted to move away from this notion of Being; it's also surprising, since in today's secular society a rationalist would be more akin to an athiest - which Spinoza wasn't. Metaphysics is a set of lecture notes by Aristotle, and as Heidegger pointed out has very little to do with the mystical sense of metaphysics, and much more to do about thinking through and about physical concepts. 

It appears, that she means that constant capital refers to that value embodied in the means of production whether they produce consumer or non-consumer goods; where consumption means consumed by the labouring class. So a non-consumer good could be the production of iron girders, which though, consumed in the production of sky-scrapers, are not consumer goods in her sense. This is not the fixed capital of Smith, but she is able to draw some relation with the constant capital of Marx. What is fixed capital, and what is this relation? (I had thought that it was that part of constant capital embodied in the means of production, whose produce is non-consumer goods. But I don't think this is right). 

Famously, Heidegger unconcealed aletheia; one can say he removed the privative. ἀ–λήθεια, uses the privative ἀ; letheia (λήθεια) is semantically connected to the Hadean river of forgetfulness lethe (λήθε), and of oblivion, it also underlies the Latin lateo, 'am hidden', 'remain unnoticed', from which English derives 'latent'.now the sanskrit vowel अ is related to the greek ἀ, and is also used as a privative in Sanskrit. Is there then, a Sanskrit term which matches or overlaps letheia linguistically & semantically? Given the semantic overlap in the Greek & Latin - one rather suspects that there should be. 

The interesting part of this question, at least for me, is that there is no way of distinguishing which side of the coin landed heads. But nor could you do this when it was between your fingers before you threw it. You could in principle simply track the motion of the thrown coin with a high-speed camera; and then look at the film at your leisure to see which way up it has fallen. But this would have to be done continuously for it to have a stable meaning - if the camera 'looked away' for a moment - then one has lost track. This turns it into a paradox of subject-object epistemology; in the sense of a dichotomy of continuous/discrete observation or measurement which is interesting in a different way. 

In brief, his myth explains the origin of love in man & woman - and in fact of man & woman too. He suggests that originally that human beings were doubled creatures with two pairs of everything - hands, feets & heads. They were enormously powerful and attempted to scale heaven so Zeus threw a thunderbolt down and sundered them in half. These became man & woman. They then ran looking for their other half and if they found them they proclaimed themselves whole. If we take this myth seriously rather than comic relief, then Aristophanes is suggesting that true love is true and makes wholes out of halves. He doesn't suggest that these halves (men & women) will always find their other halves. 

But then what does he mean by this? If Nature 'resists' our laws forcing us to 'discard' them; then it appears he is describing the scientific laws - those of chemistry or physics, say. Surely he cannot mean the laws grounding experience - those of space, time, causality & quantity? One might suppose that these laws are distorted in the hallucinations or dreams - but I suspect that these states of the mind is not what Kant was discussing; that is he took it as implicitly read he was talking about the human conscious when it is awake and functioning normally. 

The legitimate applications of Godels theorems are to mathematics, anything outside of that, especially to applications to theology is generally a form of mathematical superstition, it's a contemporary form of numerology or astrology. 

In Descartes philosophy Mind & Matter are two substances which he then found difficult explain how they affected each other. This, on the face of it seems wrong. Conventionally, one supposes one has a mind, and that ones body is real; I think of moving my left foot one inch forward, and it does; empirically & observationally there appears no impediment between thought an action, between mind and body and thus matter. Hence this cannot be Descartes starting point. Perhaps the key concept here is substance. What is substance? It is free of all accident, and is causally self-subsistent. From this one deduces that mind and matter are substances. The question is are they the same substance. Where there is two, the possibility of reducing to one presents itself. Now given that we have stipulated that a substance is causally self-subsistent, and given what we have observed above, mind moving matter, it seems that matter must be of the same substance as mind. But there is another distinction that holds for substance, to remove all accident is to uncover the essence of a substance. For mind differs in quality from matter in an essential way; mind has qualia, matter does not appear to do so. So these two substances are essentially different, yet they are causally active on each other. For if my mind is causally inert, then my mind, my stream of consciousness moves nothing - a quotation from Yeats is opposite here: 

Great question: I think Kant may do so, he takes a mid-point between Berkeleys pure idealism - all mind, and the materialists - all matter. Qualia for him come from the interaction of mind on matter. It was Humes pure scepticism about causality that awoke Kant from his 'dogmatic slumber'; and the same critique that Hume makes about causality, seems to have a family reemblence with the scepticism that Berkeley makes about space, judging from the extract. The primary qualia, of space and time are the very conditions of experience, which is why he posits them as synthetic and a priori - a priori because they come before any possible experience; and synthetic - because one can't deduce its existence simply by logical means. If one is given a theory of space, one can't deduce the immediate sensation or qualia of space. His theory allows for the empirical investigation of extension (in the sense that Spinoza means) and causality, so this means physics is possible, so one can argue that even if, for example, a brick looks such and such a size to me, and it looks like such and such a size to you, there is in fact a conventional sense in which we can say that it has a certain size. Because Kant allows for physics, we can say that in a certain sense spacetime is a 4-dimensional manifold, even though in our direct experience, space and time are very different phenomena. He also has a systematic account of Aristotles categories which he places on a foundation via his philosophy. Your remark about 'the universe at large' being awfully like God is interesting. It was Spinoza that theorised that the material universe (as pure extension) and mind (as pure thought), were two attributes of the single, indivisible, immovable and neccessary substance called God; and Newtons description of space and time has a qualitative, at least to me, link with that idea. I'd be interested to know if that could be drawn out further. This letter to Nature, for example, shows a possible sphere of influence from Spinoza to Newton, and also Berkeley remarks in his adventure of Ideas: 

Notably the mind must be involved - and it is that picture that we make in our minds that have truth or falsity, that is they have logic, which is confirmed in: 

Its mostly because philosophers are looking for a monistic theory of will that deniers of will go for determinism. Personally, that why I like A's claim that, in the phenomenal world, contraries obtain. Thus to demonstrate determinism, pick up a stone and drop it, it moves in a determined manner until it hits the ground. To demonstrate free-will, just wave your hands. Free-will is generally constrained by the facts of the world, when I wave my hand, I don't then see it float away into the sky; but then so is determined motion. Actually spontaneous motion of my limbs doesn't demonstrate free will, but might demonstrate epilepsy; this is involuntary motion, ie motion not connected to will, as the name itself says: voluntary comes from the latin volutarius, which means of ones free will; and so involuntary, a lack of free will. If I was locked into a cupboard which is exactly of my dimensions so I couldn't move my limbs, that doesn't mean I no longer have free-will, but simply that I can no longer physically actualise it. 

How does one understand this in terms of his philosophy? John Koethe, the British philosopher & poet says he can't mean it literally, given what he means by the world. To expand: Wittgenstein defines the world as the totality of facts: 

Theoretically, yes; though of course we can't know in fact, since these physical characteristics aren't something we can change; so also, theoretically, no. David Lewis, the philosopher, in his book Plural Worlds, develops a cosmology where logical coherence is the only constraint; were we able to compare time across these worlds, then we might find worlds where the notion of time does differ - the duration of a second in this world differs in kind from a second in that world. Smolin, the physicist, implicitly takes advantage of this framework where he develops a cosmology of evolving worlds where physical constants - that specify the basic features of the world, as say in the Standard Model - are driven towards the values of our own world. There are also physical theories which allow for such variations close to the Big Bang in this world as an alternative to inflation. 

Theres an implicit value judgement in Aristotles Poetics which judges the higher better or nobler than the lower; he wouldn't say that it is'sick' but that it is 'low'; and thus the appropriate response is laughter; but to laugh at misfortune proper; the kind of mis-fortune that dogged Oedipus is, according to Aristotle, the wrong response; and thus 'sick'. 

But then goes onto propose a pseudo-myth that does this! And one ought to regard this myth, as a myth in its proper sense; despite its contemporary idiom; which is the construction of a narrative that illustrates contemporary realities; but it is a pseudo-myth because its not one that has sunk deep roots into the popular consciousness; but one could argue that it is an expression of a certain popular consciousness in the States that Nozick is stating in the terms of political economy. The real point of Anarchy, State & Utopia was to make Libertarianism as a political ideology academically respectable again, as this article points 

Is there some theory that explains this. When I reflect on how I reason through to an understanding of something (the Eureka moment), it appears that to me that the steps are never sufficient and that something irreducible is being missed. That irreducible bit where actually new understanding happens seems to me important - has anyone theorised about it? Would it be tied to a theory of consciousness? To epistemology? That is how we gain actually new knowledge. That difference is explained - once we have learned to read a map, looking at a new map has new knowledge but not the actually new knowledge of what a map is, how to read it, and what it represents and is useful for. If anyone has I expect it to be in the continental tradition... 

One, also supposes, that through his theory of opposites that he considers both the law & religion as a neccessary good & a neccessary evil; and similarly for prisons and brothels, that they are also a neccessary good and a neccessary evil. 

In mathematical Platonism, a mathematical cousain of Platonism proper numbers are seen as ideas that are outside of the phenomenal world. It's an obscure doctrine Consider, the mathematical apparatus describing QM; this uses a hilbert space of states and this is an infinite dimensional space; although it is dependent upon spacetime it is not itself within it in anyway; it supervenes on it. Can this be used as circumstantial evidence for mathematical Platonism? Or should we argue that this is merely consequence of using mathematics to describe QM. (Though the latter seems plausible, this can't quite be the case; consider Classical Mechanics, this is also described by mathematics; yet the the primary quantities of position, mass and vocify have a direct physical analogue; this is no where near the case for QM). 

Addition is a very basic mathematical operation. It seems that there is nothing more that can be really said about it. As an idea it has been around for millenia. Of course originally it was solely defined for the integers, then this was extended to the rationals and so on through other number systems. Once it was realised that there were more than one number system, it was understood that one could add a number system to another; and that this had certain formal resemblences. However each case was ad-hoc. With the introduction of structural reasoning in mathematics, and particularly in its formalisation in category theory through a diagram of arrows, it was seen that all of these situations had a uniform treatment. several points can be made here: 

I'm not sure that this is possible to solve philosophical questions by such a method; first it is true that to formulate a question correctly is important; but one might be asking the wrong question; and even if the right question is asked there still remains the hard and difficult task of solving it; it may simply be insoluble. 

Presumably as a term it decentres the human subject as inherited from Renaissance humanism; this continuing the Copernican revolution of decentring the human habitus. This suggests it bypasses Kants Copernican turn - which returned or re-enthoned human subjectivity as the originary point of metaphysics and its associated epistemology. One supposes also its an ancillary project of post-modernity. How does post-humanism effect this detour around Kant or through him? 

Yes, I think the reasoning is valid. More generally we can say that lying is justified by the categorical imperative so long as it's for a noble reason, since everyone agrees that noble reasons are noble. It's lying for ignoble reasons that aren't justified. Of course this then puts the burden of understanding on what are noble purposes, but in the example you quote this is straight-forward and this comes under the categorical imperative. 

Of course this isn't to say that it can't be superficial, obscurantist, petty & corrupt. But this is as much true for all human activities including science: the petty bureacratisation & divisionalism of knowledge, superficial pop science & big science. Although Science is claimed to be an objective representation of facts & theories of the world, and to some extent this is true - and this mainly when deeply studied ; but also it has an ethical, moral & religous outlook that needs to be examined. When one looks at one of the work of one of the very early materialists schools - epicureanism -as detailed in Lucretious poem de rerum natura, one is struck by how much the work is also about human life in all its ramifications - Lucretious understood materialism affects not only your view of the non-human world, but also of the human world of social relations, ethics, & religion as traditionally concieved. 

One thing that brought me to atheism, a long time ago was the idea that the universe arose spontaneously; when I read it - as a quantum fluctuation, but its also in Aristotle: