You can still go hammock camping and stay warm without buying a expensive hammock. The trick is to zip your sleeping bag all the way around your hammock so that you're not compressing it underneath you. Results will of course vary depending on your hammock and the zipper of your sleeping bag. 

Access to climbing areas is an ongoing issue in many climbing areas. In the United States for example, it is claimed that 1 in 5 climbing areas is threatened by an access issue. There are many funds, societies, and advocacy groups who work on behalf of climbers to protect public access to climbing areas, to keep them open to the public for recreational climbing. Try searching for an access group that works in your area. The issue of access is not always so simple, as there can be multiple factors to consider when it comes to certain crags. Around where I'm from, there's pretty much open access to everything, because most of the climbing areas are on crown land. There are however a lot of cliffs and boulders that are on private land, and private land owners have the right to prohibit trespassing on their property. The biggest concern with climbing on private property in some countries is liability. In North America for example, If someone gets hurt climbing a private crag, then the landowner is legally liable, and can be sued. Most land owners prefer to restrict access to their lands instead of risking the possibility of even one lawsuit. Local authorities are especially likely to restrict climbing on municipally owned lands, because they are regularly subject to a plethora of ridiculous claims (people frequently sue towns and cities because they can't be bothered to be accountable for tripping over their own feet on the sidewalks, and hurting themselves). In the USA this is especially common because in many cases suing is the only option an injured person has for paying their hospital bills. One sensitive issue with a lot of climbing areas is the presence of native art on the rocks. I know of several areas nearby that are prime climbing areas, but climbing there is somewhat controversial because it can do damage to the ancient art on the stone. Access to areas where native art is present is often restricted, and it just so happens that in most places where native art is preserved on stone, the rock is prime for climbing. If climbing has been banned at your crag "for safety reasons" then it sounds like a local authority issue, in which case your best chance of restoring access is to partner with a access group, and petition the local authority. If you can show the authority that an area can be responsibly climbed, then they may work with you to open access to climbing. Talk to the CAO or City Manager about presenting to your council, that should always be your first course of action when seeking change in a policy in a municipality. As far as preventing access issues, what you need to do is demonstrate that the area is being used responsibly. Leave No Trace ethics will ensure that no flags are raised about improper use of an area. I've seen crags full of garbage and covered with graffiti. 

There's really not much else you need to be concerned about in a well forested area except for critters, which everyone knows Australia has in abundance - all sorts of little deadly creatures that could easily kill you in your sleep with a single bite, but I digress. The Great Dividing Range looks awesome, and rich with natural shelter: 

I'm not a big guy, but I can sit in a cold pool of still water for a long time if I stay still and control my breathing, my skin gets cold, but after you get past the cold shock I can sit there rather comfortably without any signs of my core temperature dropping (shivering, etc.). One of my favourite things to do is sit up to my neck in the cold spring pool (4°C) at Ainsworth Hot Springs for about a half hour at a time and watch the shocked expressions on peoples faces as they dip their toes in the water, or try to take a quick dip, then look at me in bewilderment as I sit there seemingly unfazed by the temperature. When we were kids we used to tube down the Elk River in BC, which is fed by a glacier lake. I have one sibling who was quite a bit thicker than the rest, and while the rest of us tried our best to stay on top of our tubes and out of the cold water, they would just float in a life jacket with the current, without any signs of really getting cold aside from hands and feet. I've been pondering this lately, wondering how much having a good layer of fat on you can help insulate against the cold. There are a plethora of animals in nature who rely on a thick layer of blubber for insulation; narwhals, beluga whales, walruses and many others for example who don't also have fur. Fat obviously won't protect you from frostbite, your skin can still freeze, but I wonder if it might help prevent advanced stages of frostbite (freezing down to the deep tissues like muscles, tendons and bone). Or how about hypothermia? Are obese people less likely to become hypothermic? One thing I was considering was in the case of severe exposure, where frostbite and freezing are a serious danger. Would a large person have better chances of survival if they were to submerge themselves in water? Liquid fresh water is typically always warmer than than zero in nature, if it was 20 or 30 degrees below zero, could a person with a thick adipose layer survive the cold and protect themselves against frostbite by sitting up to their neck in a pool of still water? Would their fatty layer help insulate their core like a layer of blubber? 

As safe as you make it. Don't fool yourself, bears are there, and they will attack you if they feel they are being threatened. The Canadian Rockies are wild and full of large predators, it's not not a zoo or game preserve, the danger is real. You must understand that you are in their territory, the most important thing to do is to properly educate yourself for travel in bear country. Treat the bears and wildlife with respect, be wise, and you will be fine. Thousands of people hike and camp in those mountains everyday from all around the world, notices are posted at trail heads and advisories of bear activity or aggressive animals are always available at the visitor centre and often online on the park websites. The Parks Canada website also provides a page for educating yourself on Bears in the Mountain National Parks, I suggest you read it. In addition to that link there are many other questions that address bears on this site, so I suggest you browse those as well. As long as you go into the backcountry with at least one can of bear spray, something to hang a food cache with (if you're staying at any campgrounds that don't have caches or bear boxes, which most do), and a good amount of bear wisdom, then you'll be plenty prepared to enjoy your trip and be safe. 

My personal opinion: Method 3 is essentially just a more bomber way a of doing meathod 2. Either would be the preferred, safer methods of doing short lowers while multi pitching, but I don't think either are intended to be used for top roping a group of people. Or doing long lowers in general. It's my impression that lowering with an autolocking device is only supposed to facilitate giving the second some slack in the event they need it. I think it would be easier to top-rop belay from above the same as you would on the ground, except with the belayer closer to the anchor. Alternately, you could belay them straight off the ACT without going through the anchor as is demonstrated in this video. 

All our kids have been coming on hikes with us since they were newborns. We have two types of baby carrying hiking packs, two more snuggly baby carriers, and a variety of baby wraps. The answer to your question is to carry the kid in the carrier suitable for their size and age. When your baby is brand new and can't sit up on it's own, then you should carry it in a wrap, after it gets to about 6 months old, then you can carry them in a back pack. We had our pack and a couple snuggly carriers before we got our first baby wrap. I highly recommend getting a wrap first, the babies like them much better because they keep their arms and legs tucked in and hold their heads too. They literally just sleep the whole time when they're in the wrap. 

If I had to fancy a guess I'd say it sounds like you're suffering from Patellofemoral Pain Syndrome (PFPS). What is patellofemoral pain syndrome? Unfortunately, the only sure way to prevent it–in your situation–would be to avoid the hilly inclines. Aside from that you would likely need professional help from an athletic therapist, or surgery. There's not much by the way of solid science that tells us what the sure causes or treatments of PFPS are, so you either have to self treat through trial and error, or see a specialist. 

Having actually hunted and killed squirrels for food before, if you're planning on keeping the meat, then you don't want to shoot it in the body, shoot it in the head. A squirrels head is just as big as it's kill zone, if you shoot for the body you'll likely damage the precious meager morsels. One squirrel isn't enough food for one person to begin with, so you really have to make the best use out of it as you can. Some people go to the extremes of crunching up all the bones and eating literally everything. If you only quarter the critter, then all you've got is 4 small chunks of meat to stick in your stew. Aim for the eye, but you don't have to hit their brain to kill them, I've taken squirrels out of trees with rocks by knocking them in the side of the head with a well aimed throw. 

After spending quite some time researching what you can do to avoid tiger encounters, the best advise I can give you is–don't put yourself in a position where you might encounter a tiger. Tigers are man-eaters, estimates put fatalities due to tiger attacks at about 373,000 since 1800. The only truly effective safety measure is a big gun. 

I have a friend with cerebral palsy who likes to climb, and can only use one arm, he did fairly well belaying with a Petzl GRIGRI: 

According to the Centre of Outdoor Ethics, which runs the most widely accepted ethics program used on private lands for outdoor recreation, there are seven principles to leaving no trace: 

One of the most effective splinting materials is birch bark. Peel it off the tree just as you would if you were going to use it to make a canoe. It's very stiff, and it has some natural curl to it. Wrap it around the broken limb and you can use anything from triangular bandages to strips of torn clothing, duck tape, or even a sock to keep it in place. Wilderness first aid is all about improvising. Other items you could use for a splint include: 

They weight of the extra pole is counteracted by the energy saved using it. Poles do more than offer stability, they also save you legs precious energy on the climb, and on the descent. At 16,000ft you'll sing praises to your hiking poles, and I guarantee you'll find yourself resting on them a lot more than you would have expected. Get two poles, you won't regret it. 

If you end up with a snake on your chest while sleeping, you can rest assured that the snake is not in an aggressive mood. It's on top of you because it thinks you're cozy and warm, if it's cozy then it's going to be pretty mild tempered. I imagine you could easily grab it behind the head and take it out of your tent. If you don't want to touch it, just flip the top of your sleeping bag over it, get out of your bag, gather it up, then go shake your bag out away from your tent. Snakes only strike when they feel threatened, if a snake is getting snuggly with you, then it obviously doesn't feel threatened. The most important thing to do would be to remain calm and don't make any sudden movements that might startle the snake, chances are good that it could be asleep, the next most important thing to determine is what kind of snake is it? You only need to worry about it if it's poisonous. One way to prevent snakes from slithering up to you is to clear away everything on the ground around where you're sleeping. Snakes don't typically like to slither out into exposed areas, so if you clear away all the leaves, sticks and grass then the snakes may just stick to the shrubs and go around you. Sleeping in a hammock or off the ground some other way is also advantageous in preventing this kind of critter encounter. Your situation could be worse. My aunt was camping alone one time and a big black bear found her and snuggled up to her in the middle of the night, it laid down right on the zipper of her sleeping bag, trapping her there. She had no choice but to wait it out. After a long night of loud bear-snores the bear eventually woke up and just wandered off. My experience with snakes is that they typically want to get away from you, if I had a snake on me I'd probably just bat it off and away from under the bag and roll away from it, chances are good it'll be like, "Holy crap that was a living thing I was on!" and just slither away back into the bushes. 

Side Question: Water boils at higher temperatures if it is impure or has minerals in it. Supposing you wanted to boil an egg on Everest (in the name of science) how much salt/what would you need to put in the water in order to bring the boiling point back up to 100°C or a temperature high enough to cook the egg solid? 

Don't scratch! Mosquitos inject an anti-coagulant under your skin as soon as they puncture you, this is to prevent the blood from clotting so their noses don't get glued to the inside of your dermis while they're sucking. This is what makes you itch, scratching spreads the anti-coagulant around over a greater area and makes the itch worse than if you had just left it alone. Your natural immune system will have a much easier time containing and eliminating the annoying toxin if you simply do not touch the area around the bite, the itching will not last as long, and you may not even show a bite. It takes some mental training and some will power to overcome the urge to scratch, but you'd be amazed how fast they go away when left alone. Of course there are times when you don't know you've been bit until after you've already unconsciously scratched the area. To alleviate things, I've found that you can control the itch by 'containing' the anti-coagulant. This can be accomplished by gently scratching towards the bite from just outside the perimeter of the itchy area, but don't scratch the bite itself. This accumulates the anti-coagulant into a smaller area, the smaller area the itch covers, the less itchy it will feel. 

To answer your question, "Which two handed fly casting style should I learn?" the answer is all of them. After you've learned every style then you'll know which one suits your needs best in any situation, but whenever you have something behind you I always recommend the roll cast, which is very effective with a double handed rod especially. As for what gear you should buy, this is never a question that you should ask an enthusiast, because it's a never ending list. But if you want my recommendation on what you should do in your big river, it's to quit throwing your arm out trying to cast 30m+ every time from the shore and get out in the water in a float: