I personally went from overweight to gaining muscle using jogging twice a week and bodyweight exercises three times a week. The run was a C25k program. Once I hit 5K I focused on improving my time slightly but haven't gone any further as it suits my schedule (25 mins) As for the bodyweight exercises, I went with using a suspension system (TRX) for safety purposes. This is because I was far to obese to safely carry my own weight through a program safely. The exercises is a mix of 5 exercises; Pushup, Pullup, Squat, Lunch, Plank. I do these for 10 reps for as many sets as I can do. All in all I don't do a large amount of exercise but have noticed a massive amount of muscle build. This could be due to having a good big frame. I suspect it has more to do with consistency though. 

All, I started working out 5 / 6 days a week since December previous. My routine involves alternating days of bodyweight training and running. All in all I am happy with my routine and see noticeable consistent results. Unfortunately as my strength improves, I am beginning to hit the limits of my body's flexibility when attempting more complex movements. These issues stem from being grossly overweight for many years (23 stone @ 6ft) but I know they can be fixed since I my bodyweight and running training routine has done wonders for my general health and fitness. I have been researching yoga as a way to improve my flexibility, would yoga be a good match? Is there a specific type of yoga I should look to, or are there other forms of flex training people have experience with? I have included my current routine below. I would like to incorporate flex training into all 6 days if possible. Cheers Bodyweight Routine (3 Days) 

I have been getting fit an healthy the last couple of months. I have been toying with the idea of doing 10 reps x 5 exercises (set) as many times in a given session as I can. My thinking here is that I should see an increase in sets over time as my endurance increases. My question is, assuming I am doing my exercises correctly, does this sort of endurance training have any long term negative effects? My reasoning for doing this is that I find I stick to exercising more when I don't try to over track it. By following the routine above I can just go until I cannot complete a full set. At this stage I cool down and stop, regardless of the number. 

In terms of my physical make up, I am currently 17st down from 23st. I work out 6 days per week, a mix of body weight training and jogging. My goals are simply to improve my diet in line with my exercise regime. Ultimately I just want to be fit and healthy, no specific training goals or the like in mind. My previous diet consisted of pastries and other fat laden goodies that shouldn't really be eaten at all, never mind for breakfast. To the down voter. I would have thought physical fitness and nutrition go hand in hand? While I am new to this it does seem one without the other is not a good idea? 

All, I have been trying to improve my breakfast situation from no breakfast or a really crappy breakfast. Because I changed by diet and cleaned it up a bit, I no longer binge eat at night. This of course leaves me legitimately hungry in the morning. After attempting a few different ideas and taking into account travel and other factors I have found self made smoothies fill me up. My question is, is this a reasonably healthy meal to have in the mornings? Sometimes I also add a slice of brown toast with some natural peanut butter if I am really hungry but on average it does me right till lunch. Smoothie consists of: 

As it was written befor, 3 weeks isn't really long. Try again and again and keep doing sports. Also it depends on the kind of push ups you are doing. There are hundreds of different kinds. If you are stuck at one, perhaps try switching to another kind. Wide arm, close arm, diamond, elevated... Also, look at your form. Is your back straight, your belly tucked in, are your arms like they should be for this kind of push ups? When I restarted doing sports some times ago I could do 20-30 push ups. But I tried e.g. Convict conditioning where you start doing push ups against a wall. It seems easy and silly, but if you do in slowly and if you concentrate at that time on all your movements you will greatly increase your skills. then I moved after one or two month against a wall to doing push ups against a table. Still easy enough to concentrate on your form and so on. There a plenty different body weight books and programs out there. Convict conditioning is just one of them I tried and had fun doing it. Have a look what suits you best. tl;dr: look at your form, try different styles but keep doing push ups :) 

In addition to Alecs good answer and the comments I wanted to add, that there a a lot of different dodyweight trainings availible today. Starting with different polpular Books like Mark Lauren - You are your own gym $URL$ or perhaps in your case better: Paul wade - Convict conditioning $URL$ which are delivering a huge amount of knwoledge and how to increase your strength and "health" without a gym/equipment. (Also there are autors like Ross Enamait, Pavel Tsatsouline, Kelly Starrett... just to not only give you two names and countless forums and homepages online, google hundred push ups program). Especially Paul Wade has a program to increase your ability to do push ups, pull ups, squats and leg raises from the very basic in Step one to extreme hard (one arm variants) in the last Step. Just have a look into one of those to better plan your training/extend your knowledge. Now back to your first question. The needed rest in between workouts depents strongly on the amount of excercise you have and you perform as well as genetics. There are athlethes who can train several times a day without the need of a specific rest and others who have to plan their training very carefully to not overtrain/get enough rest. To be honest, just try whats goof for you. If you can perform push ups every day, do so (while at best mix in some other exercises to train the whole body). If you feel sluggish or you feel pain while trining stop and increase your rest. Try to listen to your body. He knost most of the time what's good for him. 

As said before, yes, the loss is normal. I wanted to conribute to your question about adding weight. I would not reccomend that. Yes, you can use a weighted vest to increse your weight but that will normally be bad for joints, form and back. Best, try first to get a "perfect form". If you try wide arm push ups, have a look, that your ellbows are over your wrists, your legs are firm and your body is straigt. perhaps even start and try this against a wall or a desk to make the p.u. easier and have a better position. Also utilizing planks or a sling trainier helps developing the core muscles to have a a better form. If you are doing close p.u. o diamond pushups, have your ellbows tight on your ribs and your hands under your body. If you now awant to add intensity, try raising your feet utilising firs a box, then a chair or even a ball to make it more challenging. Otherwise try going from wide arm to close arm, then uneven push ups and perhaps one arm. I personally like the convict conditioning porgram from paul wade ($URL$ which goes in ten steps (recommendet over years) from wall push ups to one arm push ups. 

The "how" is briefly explained in the instructions from page 14 onwards. In essence: Weight is measured; height is entered; BMI is calculated from those; body fat and water percentages, muscle and bone mass are calculated using a tiny electric current; I would guess the metabolic rates are based on average levels using all of the above plus the user's entered age and activity level(s). It's not going to be entirely accurate, but if you're just using it for the purposes of tracking, I would say that it's "accurate enough". Essentially the values may not be exact for you, but assuming you're taking measurements at the same time of day with similar conditions (e.g. every Sunday morning before breakfast) then you should be able to track a downward trend to the results and see progress. Also don't forget that numbers aren't the only side to the story. Regular progress pictures are a great way to see how you're progressing. For most people it's really less about the exact number on the scale and more about how they look and feel about the way they look. 

If you absolutely can't do the required reps with good form I'd argue that you're not truly following the program. It's not just about lifting X weight for Y sets of Z reps, you also have to be doing the lifts correctly and safely. The weights you're lifting aren't big enough right now that I'd expect it to have an effect on your form, so the likely answer is that you haven't yet learnt to do them correctly (not surprising, this can take a lot of time). If your form is definitely incorrect, and you definitely can't fix that while continuing to increase the weight, you need to stop increasing the weight - or even deload - while you fix that. Poor form means you're more likely to get injured, especially as the weight on your lifts goes up. It's also generally easier to do the lifts with heavier weights when you're using good form, so there are still gains to be had from fixing it. It's easier to learn to do them correctly now, even if that means you're not necessarily increasing the weight you lift each session, than it is to fix bad habits later or recover from an injury caused by poor form. That said, if it's just a matter of struggling to do the required reps with good form, but you are able to do them while keeping your form correct, then that's nothing to worry about. It's expected that you won't necessarily find it to be a breeze, and that the rate at which you're increasing the weight will begin to exceed the strength gains you're actually making. 

Note that I'm not a swimmer, but I do a reasonable amount of strength training, have a "good enough" foundation of knowledge, and can apply some common sense to the situation. As has already been noted in the comments, the water is going to provide some resistance. However, that's probably not going to be enough; even if it is enough resistance to start with it's definitely not going to stay that way for long at all. The fundamental principle for successful strength training is progressive overload. You may go to the gym for the first time ever and only be able to bench press for the desired number of sets and reps using an empty bar. That may be difficult for a few sessions, or even a few weeks, but it will eventually become easy. Once that happens, in order to continue to grow stronger, you'll need to increase the weight (resistance). Now let's say that the water resistance is equivalent to bench pressing with the empty bar. That's fine until it becomes easy, but what then? In order to keep making gains you need to increase the resistance but there's not really any way to do that. Your strength workouts should be supplementary to your swim workouts. The strength training will give you a decent foundation of strength to work with as well as increase your muscular endurance for the swim training, while the swim training will provide you with the specific skills and stamina you need.