The main problem isn't the theoretical maximum size of the animal (as hinted already, that can be achieved in earth gravity). It's keeping the animal in food. A blue whale is a slow filter feeder, gulping up tons of plankton while slowly swimming through the water. Sharks are active hunters, would need very large prey items if they get that large. And that means an entire population of megafauna in the oceans. Such of course existed at the time of megalodon. And that one died out when the saurians it preyed on died out. 

Governments have far more effective ways to control children (and through them entire future generations). It's called the public school system in combination with Child Protective Services (or its equivalent in other countries). Train/indoctrinate children to report/snitch on their parents for any anti-government activities (rewards in toys, candy, whatever works). Parents get arrested, children put in foster homes or orphanages, problem sold. 

Quite simply put: if there were a planet there the orbits of the other planets would be different. How different, well, that would depend heavily on the planet. But given the narrowness of the habitable zone it's quite conceivable that the earth would no longer be inside the zone. 

A bigger question is how to explain a massive increase in air pressure as having been caused by your apocalyptic event. And of course building a world where such an extremely dense atmosphere (it'd have to be just about liquid) can exist and your creatures survive in it who previously survived in a far less dense atmosphere. The atmospheric pressure would be immense, and their bodies probably incapable in dealing. 

It's been done, essentially, in John Norman's Gor novels. Though the numbers required there weren't mentioned, the aliens involved were eating not just humans but any meat, and avid and feared hunters as well as warriors. They employed humans to act as slavers for them, capturing and buying (on legitimate slave markets) humans for transportation to their location (in this case an artificial moon in orbit around the planet). There these humans would be used as cattle, and bred, as well as employed as traditional slave labour and as pets. The humans thus farmed were trained to obedience and fattened for slaughter, then driven to mostly automated slaughter houses. While the level of technology is higher than what your aliens are likely to have available, the concept might well remain. Though Nevada is a bad location because of the absence of a large scale slave trade in the modern USA (you need to go to Africa or the Arabian peninsula for that) human trafficking in illegal aliens can probably substitute. Mexicans promised a better life in the USA by human traffickers are instead delivered to your alien enclave, there to be either ate on the spot or used as livestock in their breeding operation. They could even organise hunting parties in the scrublands along the Mexican border, though on earth, more civilised then JNs Gor, the evidence that'd leave behind is likely to cause trouble quickly. 

The two are related but cause different problems within your manufacturing process. The unreliable supply situation can be alleviated by stockpiling supplies. This is expensive but it can be done IF supplies when they arrive arrive in large enough quantities to allow stockpiling until the next shipment arrives. If demand for your manufactured products is highly variable this will be even harder. Which leads to point 2. The long transit times of the raw materials may well mean that by the time a shipment arrives at your factories there is no more need for it because either the demand for the manufactured product no longer exists and the factory has shut down, or because the manufacturing process has shifted to using other, more convenient, raw materials. In both cases you're now stuck with a pile of possibly worthless raw materials that took a lot of effort (and thus money) to acquire. If you're lucky some other industry can use them, if not you're suckered. A small but significant twist on this can be that your society develops faster transport methods while your shipment is in transit, and by the time your ship gets there after its 20 year journey (out and back) you've gotten 10 shipments already using your new ships that can do the same trip in a month. 

A hive society could not survive a trip to another star system if they couldn't take enough of a group with them (basically an entire culture, think transplanting bee colonies, this would be similar). A species that reproduces very slowly, especially if it also depends on larger social groups for its survival, is at an even greater disadvantage, obviously. A short lived species may not have members that live long enough to make the trip and settle at their new home AND raise a new generation before they die. 

There's a constant stream of gas drifting out into space. It's a trickly, but it's there. There's also a constant stream of matter entering the system. Asteroid impacts, solar wind (which are charged particles), etc. etc. 

I'd not think hauling it away would be useful (easier to just dig up some already loose gravel if you need small stones to pave a path or something like that). but why not leave it in place and use it as a foundation for your own buildings? Concrete tiles used for terraces and parking lots are a different matter. You can just lift those out and use them again elsewhere. 

Even were you looking in the right direction and for the correct signal, the inverse square law says that the emissions would be detected at extremely weak levels. A 1W transmitter for example would at 200 light years be received at an energy density of 2 microwatt per square light year. That's not a whole lot for your typical radio telescope that has a size of maybe 400 square meters (for a 20 meter diameter dish, not exactly a tiny one). And that's the order of magnitude of most radio transmitters in use, even a kilowatt transmitter would only change that signal you receive to 2 milliwatt per square light year. Remember that a light year is 9.5e15 meters, squared that becomes 9e17 square meters. Of course that goes out the window if the transmission is highly directional, but the idea holds (as the signal will always spread out, even a laser, parallel by design, will spread out over long distances to where a beam shot from say the moon will have a spot size of several centimeters in diameter when arriving in low earth orbit). 

These same birds are also used for high value cargo and messenging services, so the netting is only put in place in times of war. Of course the attacking power may try to cut the nets using hooks and other devices wielded by their raiders. 

Based on your scenario, you have rum and an internet connection. Use the internet connection to order some pizza or Chinese food delivered, then feed the delivery guy the rum until he's too drunk for him to notice your stealing his boat. Now you're home free, the boat will have everything you need to get back to civilisation, and history will remember you as the guy who freed the world of the terrors of long distance pizza delivery, you'll be a hero. 

Make the vessel a hollowed out asteroid, set it on a slowboat trajectory with an engine cluster to slow down to capture speed hidden in the rock (you'd need to get some people go EVA to remove the rock when it gets there, probably), and just let them drift. Sure it's going to take you a few thousand years (if not more) to get there, but nobody is going to bother tracking a lump of uninteresting randome space rock for that long. Unless it was seen speeding up to escape velocity from the asteroid belt and even at that time recognised as being a colony ship heading to your forbidden planet, it'd never be envisioned to be anything of the kind by any race capable of and willing to launch a military expedition to do anything about it. It's so ridiculously primitive, nobody in their right mind would do it :) 

Limit what your mages can do, limit how often they can do it, and tailor that to make them roughly equivalent in abilities to your soldiers. That way the eventual outcome of the story will remain in the balance until you decide to have one or the other make a plausible mistake or get lucky in some explainable way, not have it predetermined by the mechanics of the battle. 

John Norman in his Gor novels envisions birds flown by humans for both combat and transport. Anne McCaffrey talks about dragons, tamed for humans to ride in the Dragonriders of Pern series. Both work great in stories. In reality of course, even if the flying creature can carry the weight of a human being (and his saddle and cargo) on its back, how do you explain the animal evolving to have that capability? Birds on earth just don't have the physical strength to do anything similar in scale, their spines can't handle the strain. And even though some can carry a weight that would (relative to their own) be high enough in their feet, they typically don't have a lot of endurance doing so, severely limiting the usefulness of using them to carry humans. Of course in a fantasy setting, you don't really have to explain such things to your readers, but it helps if it's somewhat believable (JN pretty much hints at selective breeding and the lower gravity of his planet, for example). 

Your society would be extremely oppressive, seriously dystopian, and extremely weak. Outside threats would be ignored publicly while the government and military wage secret wars against both their own population and foreign countries, hiding the casualties through censorship of all media and instilling so much fear in the civilian population that the families of soldiers killed in battle won't so much as grieve for their lost ones.