It's called a back hyperextension. If 3x15 is "barely doable" then you feel it the most in the lower back (I assume you mean when compared to other muscles you've exercised) because you're stressing it near the max of what your body can tolerate. The muscle is engorged with blood ("pumped"), tired and stressed. It doesn't sound like you're injured, it doesn't sound like there's anything out-of-the-ordinary. You're feeling it because you're at your limit and sensitive to the input the muscle is giving you. You could also just so a sanity-check postural check to see if there's a large phsyical difference, or if it just feels like there's a big difference. Compare your posture before and after your workout session. I'd add lower-back self-myofascial release work and possibly massage, and keep an eye on it. It doesn't sound like anything acute or damaging at this point, with the caveat that we can't know that. 

I rested for about 3 weeks, then started doing some cardio (on an elliptical) daily for a week. Yesterday I started working out again and things seem to be moving forward again. I just need to make sure I don't overwork my lower back muscles again. It just took some time of rest to heal. 

You could work on improving overall core strength and doing different variations of pushups (standard, military, wide, decline, etc). Work at increasing strength and eventually working up to one armed pushups. Remember, you are doubling the weight that your arm must push when doing a single arm pushup as compared to a two arm pushup. That's like if you normally curl 30 lbs. at 8 reps and then suddenly start trying to curl 60 lbs; you will strugle. Increasing strength isn't the only option to making them easier, but sheding unnecessary weight (fat) will also help. I don't know what your body fat percentage is, but if you lower your body fat percentage it should make it easier for you to do pushups. 

If you've just started, it doesn't make a significant difference. The caveat I'd mention is that pushups engage the triceps, so a completely random order might put them next to each other, which could have some impact. The pushup hand location modulates tricep engagement. I wouldn't call this a mass-building routine, either, although again–if you're just starting, it's fine. 

A "normal" pair of tights cannot be injurious; no way. Right now the only differentiating factor is the weather: cold. Under 2mi/day is nothing. Since you mention ITB issues, I'm far more likely to attribute the issues to cold/lack of warmup/inherent tension. Your specialist should have given you a number of stretches; I suffer (still) from ITB issues and if I don't do a few stretches I notice it within days. 

I have 'necklected' neck exercises so far, and would like to change that. What are some exercises for a strong neck? Is a one of those head harness necessary? The only device I have and use regularly is a kettlebell. I don't want it to be bulky, or strong enough for martial arts, I just want toned muscles. 

Does the Stomach Vacuum have some opposite exercise to it, like expanding the stomach? Or is this useless? 

If it unhealthy to lose too much fat, build too much muscle too fast? What would be a health and realistic pounds of fat reduction or pounds of muscle gain in a week? 

How would be a good farmer's walk routine for a beginner? How heavy should be the weights? How long the distance? 

When refrigerated, I would expect it to last at least 48 hours. If not refrigerated, I would suspect that you wouldn't want to leave it sit at room temperature for more than a few hours. For lunch, you could try freezing it overnight and taking it out in the morning, then it should stay mostly cold until lunch time. Although, @Salsero69 's suggestion of measuring the powder then mixing when needed is probably the best solution. 

You can really work out as many days per week and you want. Any specific recommendations on how much and often will depend on your goals. 

There are a few reasons that could cause your muscles to be shaky after exercising. One likely cause is Low Blood Sugar and this can be fixed by having a small snack/drink that contains a little carbohydrates. You'll likely want to try this after your spin session to give you a boost to keep you going for your resistance workout after. $URL$ 

I got suggested some exercises to reduce my double chin. They normally involve tilting the head back and, looking at the ceiling, and either making a tense kiss in the air or sticking the tongue out for some seconds, or putting some tension on the neck muscles, like when pushing the under jaw forward. An alternative are neck rolls. Do these exercises work? Are there better alternatives? 

What difference does it make for my training if I don't use a barbell, but have two kettlebells (or two dumbbells)? To restrict possible answers, imagine a comparison for deadlifts, squats or bench presses. Deadlifts specially interest me. I'd be using the weight training as a complement for bodyweight exercises. Specially the deadlifts seems difficult to substitute for some bodyweight exercise. I can't think of any bodyweight exercise that engages so many back muscles. In summary, does it really matter whether the weights are connected by a bar or disconnected from each other? 

Is it really necessary to do Creatine Loading when first starting to take it? Or, doesn't it really matter? 

$URL$ I like to think of it this way: Resistance training strengthens your arms, legs, etc. and Cardio strengthens your heart; which is really more important if you think about it. If you have a low calorie diet without any exercise you will likely loose muscle mass due to your body burning protien (muscle) as well as fat. If you do at least some moderate exercise it will keep your body from feeding off muscles (which may include the heart!) 

I have read that Creatine must be taken with juice, such as Grape juice, because the sugars help it get absorbed by the body. Is this true? Also, what time is it best to take Creatine? Before or After working out? First thing in the morning? Also, what cycling interval should be used? Is 8 weeks on, 4 weeks off, ok? Or is 4 weeks on and 4 weeks off better? 

You're not going to lose "only belly fat", but maybe you meant to differentiate "fat" from "muscle"? HIIT and a very strict diet will increase your odds of making a significant difference. Adding a thermogenic supplement may also help, but different people react to those in different ways, especially if you're already caffeine-tolerant. I differ from Dave in that I'd not worry much about muscle mass--HIIT dings mass much less than long, steady-state aerobic work. Personally, I'd stay in the mid-range of both weight and reps, if anything tending towards higher reps, and aim for "ripped" rather than "bulky". You're basically trying to cram typical "pre-contest" prep into a really short period of time--it's too late for mass, now it's about presentation. 

Red meats such as Steak and Salmon do contain some creatine and provide a natural source. However, much of the creatine is destroyed from the heat as a result of cooking the meat. At what temperature is the creatine destroyed? Can you cook steak medium and still have creatine, or does it need to be rare? Also, when cooking salmon, does the creatine get destroyed if you cook the internal temperature of the meat to 140F as recommended? I am pretty much wondering how practical it is to actually get a little extra creatine from eating red meats. Links to sources would be greatly appreciated. 

So many people say Saturated Fats is bad for you and you shouldn't eat too much fatty meats or dairy because they lead to high cholesterol. Everyone just takes this as fact without asking for proof. Does anyone know of any studies that show proof of this? If someone eats a number of calories that are equal to or less than their daily caloric needs, does the amount of Saturated Fat in their diet really make a difference? Additionally, body fat is saturated fat. So, if I'm burning my own fat, isn't that just like eating the same amount of calories worth of saturated fat as I have burned? What's the difference. Please post links to sources with your answers. Thanks. 

Is there such a thing as residual fat? That means, fat that will stay there in your belly, thighs or other place? Does your body save fat just for emergencies? It might sound as a silly question, but this is a pretty demotivating thought of mine when dieting or doing physical exercise. I always think that I won't manage to have a flat belly, no matter how hard I try. Maybe my body only lets me reduce my fat up to x% before getting sick and leaves my belly fat untouched. 

For me, the best outdoor fitness equipments are push-up bars and parallel bars. There are many different exercises that can be done on them: pull-ups (obviously), dips, muscles ups, inverse push-ups, 'the monkey' (grabing the bar with one hand for some seconds). My experience with the sort of devices that you posted a pic of, is that they are useful only for the totally untrained or for the pretty old. But you probably would be better off with more intense bodyweight exercises. And don't get obsessed with your weight (measured in kg/lb). Measure your size check your appearance. When building muscle, you are also increasing your weight, even if you have a lower body fat percentage. But there is nothing bad about it. 

Wear a wrap to the shower and back, wear sandals, that's about it. If it's too much, don't bother. Keep your clothes/etc. in your locker, use either your own towel (my preference) or the gym's for a towel, if the towel is big enough you can wrap with it, otherwise bring something meant specifically to wrap. Don't make a mountain out of a molehill. 

High reps isn't the primary metabolic booster--increased muscle mass is. Increased muscle mass comes from lifting heavy and increasing base strength. HIIT increases mass, ergo resting metabolism. At the same time, HIIT isn't the only way to increase base metabolism. 

To further stress the muscle/muscle group, to get that final pump, to force more blood into the mucle. I can't search for efficacy studies at the moment. Personally, I just think it feels good to really work the muscle to completion, but it's not something I do all the time. Also bear in mind that just because "experienced" lifters do something it doesn't mean it's effective, safe, or something done all the time. Also note that it is not necessary to do pyramids all the time (and most lifters don't always follow the same routine).