...he goes on to describe Adam and Eve, the ark of Noah and so on. Even then Josephus is considered one of the most important and reliable historical sources. We just have to read it all with a critical mind. Or take Tacitus, considered "the pinnacle of Roman historical writing". He writes about Christianity: 

So the woman does not necessarily have to marry the perpetrator, but the decision is not up to her, it is purely the decision of the father. This is not surprising since it is laws by a tribal patriarchal society. There is a bit of discussion in other questions and comments whether "seizes" here actually means rape or it indicates something different like statutory rape or seduction. The answer is that it covers all instances of a man having sex with an unmarried woman, including rape. We can see from the context by comparing the similar laws for an engaged woman: 

No ancient language anywhere in the world had a word for "blue". All languages acquired a word for blue at roughly the same time around the world The Himba people in Namibia cannot distinguish blue from green, but can somehow see some shades of green we cannot. 

Sources: Bart D. Ehrman; Did Jesus Exist?: The Historical Argument for Jesus of Nazareth is one book which draws the same conclusion (but in more detail), but what I'm stating is not controversial. The Historicity of Jesus page states: 

So the only mention of Jesus is really talking about his brother. And it doesn't give us any information about Jesus, except that somebody thought he was the Christ (ie. the promised Messiah), which we already knew. Nonetheless, given this paucity of non-biblical sources, almost every reputable historian believe the Jesus did live. Why? Because of the evidence in the Gospels. It might seem bizarre that the gospels can be taken by historians as evidence for anything, since they are clearly religious and not historical writing. But this is actually the case for almost every source we have from antiquity. You explicitly ask for non-christian sources. I'll asume you do this based on the assumptions that the Christian sources (i.e. the Gospels) are inherently more unreliable than other sources. Sure, the Bible is biased and makes outrageous claims about the miracles and divinity of Jesus - but be aware that all ancient sources are unashamedly biased and filled with with outrageous claims by modern standards. Take Josephus. He is considered a serious historian, but starts out his history book with: 

Now the story is less embarrassing. No crying or loosing faith. Instead Jesus bravely accepts his fate. Now see the latest version in John: 

Yes. According to Deuteronomy, if a man rapes or otherwise have sex with a woman who is not married or engaged, he is forced to "set things right" by marrying the woman. Think of it as a shotgun wedding. 

The question is kind of nonsensical since it assumes a contradiction between being a clergyman and being recognize as a scientist. Historically most scientists have been either amateurs and hobbyists (i.e. somebody with a day-job), or nobility or "gentlemen" - people earning enough from land possessions that they didn't need to do regular work. Before industrialization very few people were employed specifically to do science or research. (To verify this, check out the fellows of the Royal Society through the years. This is a selection of eminent scientists of their day, and you will note how any of them are nobility, gentlemen, clergymen, officers etc., up until modern times) Charles Darwin wasn't "employed as a scientist" for example. Nobody paid him to do his research. He he just happened to have the means to be able to devote all his time to his hobby. Still, he is clearly recognized as a scientist. Even Albert Einstein had a day-job (at a patent office) while he developed his theory of special relativity and the photo-electrical effect, which earned him the Noble price. Given how rare "professional scientists" were pre modern society, it is not surprising they would be outnumbered by amateurs of a different occupation. The quote explains why many amateur scientists were clergymen: They were educated, had a relatively comfortable life, and had time to spare. Furthermore, even people we would confider full-time scientists could be clergymen. Fellows at Cambridge, where Isaac Newton was employed, were required to be ordained priests. (Newton avoided this by special permission by the King though, because of his unorthodox views). In short, seeing a contradiction between clergymen and scientists does not make sense. 

And provides numerous references. The "Jesus was a myth"-theory is basically a fringe theory at this point. What is still controversial is exactly how much of the gospels actually happened and how much is later legends. This is an ongoing discussion, and a far more complex question. 

Here there is a distinction: If the woman did not scream for help, then she is also guilty and has to be killed along with the man. If it is possible that she did scream for help but nobody heard her then the woman is not guilty. So in this case there is a clear distinction between rape and non-rape sex. Verse 25 makes it clear beyond a doubt that the term 'siezes and lies with her' covers rape. In other words, Deut 22:28-29 covers consensual sex and rape, and the consequence is the same. 

Now if we take the gospels and strip away anything slightly supernatural, we are left with a pretty plausible narrative. A Jewish guy walks around in Galilee and Judea and talks in parables and preaches about the coming Kingdom of God. He gains a bunch of followers (a cult would we probably say today) and is rumored to be the long awaited Messiah. The Romans consider this cult a threat, and execute the leader. Not only is this pretty plausible, it actually happened more or less like this several times. The historian Josephus describes several such "mad prophets" and even a similar episode where a guy claiming to be the messiah gets a bunch of followers, leads them into the desert where he claims to want to part the Jordan river (like Moses parted the Red Sea) ... but before he gets that far is slaughtered by Roman soldiers along with his followers. Whats more, the Romans actually acted rationally (if cynically) by killing anybody claiming to be the messiah before the cult became to strong, For example the bloody Bar Kokbha revolt was instigated by a rebel-leader claiming to be the Messiah. (Though reading the gospels critically it is not totally clear if Jesus considered himself the Messiah, but what is clear is that some of his followers did, which was enough that the Romans considered him dangerous.) The only really unique thing about Jesus compared to these other prophets and cult-leaders, is that his cult survived his death and turned into a major religion in the Roman Empire. But this seems to be more due to Paul, which transformed an obscure Jewish sect into a religion acceptable to non-Jews and started missioning among the polytheists in the Roman empire, at at time that were ripe for Monotheism. Now lets examine the alternative hypothesis, that Jesus is a purely fictional or mythological figure. Even if that is the case, someone wrote (or composed, since it was initially an oral tradition) the sermon on the mount, the parables and so on, and created the narrative of his ministry, followers, crucifixion etc. This theory is really hard to believe, since the story about Jesus simply do not make sense as constructed fiction. There are some urban legends circulating in dark corners of the internet about parallels between Jesus and the Horus myth or the Bacchus myth or some other myths which is supposed to the be "true origin" of the Jesus myth. Forget about this. Sure, there a few parallels across religion (ie. resurrection is a recurring theme, miracles surrounding the birth of demigods etc), but the vast majority or the religious content of the gospels are very specific Jewish culture. There are numerous references to mosaic law and the OT prophets, discussions about interpretations of the laws and tradition, references to temple cult, references to groups like Pharisees and Sadukees and references to the roman occupation. If Jesus is fictional, the author was without a doubt a first century Jew. However if we look at it as a work of fiction it has some strange strange choices. If the purpose of the narrative is to show that Jesus was the Messiah / the Son of God, then why invent the story that he was crucified? Why don't say that he killed a thousand Romans with a flaming sword and then was lifted into the heavens by the hand of God or something like that? This is the criterion of embarrassment. It states that if some account in the gospels is embarrassing to the Christians, they probably didn't make it up themselves! The crucifixion is the clearest example of this principle because this was absolutely not supposed to happen, and it did in no way help the Christians convince others that Jesus was the Messiah. (Note that the Messiah at this time was supposed to literally be a triumphant king beating the enemies and restoring the kingdom to its former glory. It was only after Christianity re-interpreted the prophecies we got the idea of the "spiritual messiah".) If we examine the gospels chronologically we have in the oldest version, Mark: 

This doesn't suggest that the Himba can perceive fewer or more colors, only that the language influence how quickly we categorize colors. This points to some complex interplay between the parts of the mind that organizes the sensory experience with words and the parts that see a continuum of color shades, which is quite interesting. 

This faience hippo from the Middle Kingdom Egypt (a thousands years before Homer) is not blue by accident. It is blue because it is painted with the dye Egyptian Blue. [Source: Egyptian Blue ] Since the ancient Egyptians went through the effort of manufacturing this dye and use it to paint various objects, we can conclude that not only were they able to perceive the color, they actually liked it at lot. The dye was used from 2500 BC onward throughout the eastern Mediterranean area up to and including the Roman empire. The word coeruleum is the Latin word for the dye, and is used in first century (so classical Latin, not medieval - the formula for the dye was actually lost in the middle ages). We can conclude that the the color blue was appreciated throughout the ancient world. And why shouldn't it be? There is no indication of major physiological changes in color perception in historical times. (Color blindness presumably existed in a minority then as now, but note that the most common form is red/green color blindness, color blindness towards blue is exceedingly rare [Source]). So where did the myth start that that the ancient couldn't see blue? It originated with the observation that Homer (the ancient Greek poet, author of the epics The Iliad and The Odysse) doesn't use color descriptions the same way that we do in modern language. He likens the sea to wine and the sky to bronze. Does this mean he was color blind and thought the sea was purple and the sky was orange? (Well, according to tradition he was actually blind, but never mind that. Most likely Homer was not a single person anyway but an oral storytelling tradition which developed over centuries.) No, this just means the terms are used to describe the darkness/lightness rather than the hue. The sea is as dark and opaque as wine. The sky is as bright as the lustre of bronze. When you think about it, these terms are much more vivid than just saying the sea was blue, the sky was blue. The controversial claim is that because Homer doesn't use the exact color terms we use, then he couldn't see the colors we know. This is an extreme form of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis which have been thoroughly debunked by linguists. The theory states that if a language does not have words for a concept, then the users of the language will not not be able to perceive or understand the concept. For example many languages have distinct words for male and female cousins. English only have a single word, cousin, which covers both male and female. Does that mean English-speaking people are not able to distinguish the genders of their cousins, or are not able to fathom that cousins can have different gender? Of course not. It just makes it tricky to translate a sentence like "I have a cousin" to or from English, without cheating by adding or removing information. The strong version Sapir-Whorf hypothesis is rejected by linguists [Source], but lives on in New-Age mythology because it playes into the "if you believe it, it is real" philosophy which underlies much New-Age thinking. For example the New-Age pseudo-science classic "What the bleep do we know?!" used the SW hypothesis to claim that when Spaniards arrived in the new world their ships where literally invisible to the Indians, because they did not understand what they saw. (If you follow this logic then the Americas should also have been invisible to the Spaniards.) The pseudo-science "Neuro-linguistic programming" is also to some extend based on the strong version of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. Incidentally, color recognition experiments have been used to reject the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis. The consensus seem to be basically that "the domain is governed mostly by physical-biological universals of human color perception" [Source] or in short: The Ancient Greeks saw blue the same way we do, whether they knew a word directly translatable to "blue" or not. (Linguist generally does support a weaker form of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis which states that our language influence how our minds work, it just doesn't put hard limits on our abilities to perceive or understand the world.)