The Fed also conducts discount window borrowing. If pure profit maximising were the goal, they might only provide reserves through the discount window. They might even shake down weaker banks. If confined to buying only Treasury securities, they would just need to maximise the real rate differential between currency and the nominal rate (plus, shrinking their balance sheet so that they no longer need to pay interest on reserves). The maximum level of the real policy rate that is sustainable depends upon your view of the natural rate of interest. If the belief is that the actual real policy rate cannot greatly depart from a natural rate, we would see little difference in policy. Buying bonds and keeping rates low works to lock in profits once, but the profits will dry up as bonds mature, and are replaced by low-yielding ones. 

Unless the other sources of cash (1-3) rise enough to cover higher house prices, mortgage lending has to rise. One can try to do a lot of statistical analysis, but the usual relationship is that mortgage borrowing rises at the same time as house prices going up. Returning to the part of the question I highlighted above, one could argue either way. One argument is that house prices rose (for some reason), and so mortgage borrowing has to rise in response. In this view, the amount of mortgage loans is not a driver of anything, it is just a mechanical response to higher house prices. Going the other way is possible. However, we need to remember that mortgages are inanimate objects - in what sense can they drive behaviour? It is safer to say that some humans have changed their behaviour, and the rising loans is a consequence of that behavioural change. The driver is the behaviour change (a possibility not covered in the question.) The likely suspect is that the behaviour of bankers has changed. Their "effective lending standards" have changed for any number of reasons, and so households can borrow more. (One possible factor is lower interest rates; although formal lending standards may not have changed, the same household can qualify to borrow more under the existing standard.) This extra mortgage borrowing capacity allows households to bid up the price of houses. I do not think I have fully answered the question, but this discussion may help you rethink how to pose the question. This website has a difficult time with extremely broad questions, so you may get more responses if you ask a few very specific questions. 

Bank regulations vary by country, but it is a safe bet that they would frown upon having such a concentrated loan portfolio. Furthermore, there are presumably restrictions on lending to related parties, but how that would be defined would definitely vary by jurisdiction. By doing a quick search on the internet, it was possible to find this FDIC letter about concentration risk. Link to FDIC page On that page is a link to a PDF which indicates that concentration risk is defined as 25% of capital. Unless the owners can get others to buy capital of the bank (which is unlikely if the only business plan of the bank is to lend money to the owners), the owners can only lend themselves back 25% of the money they put in before the regulators shut them down. (And in practice, I doubt that regulators would even let them get close to 25% of capital for related party lending.) From a business perspective, it's not as if deposits can be attracted for free. The bank has to either pay interest for deposits, or else has to offer services (branches, ATMs, lending) which requires employees and cost money. A bank could not survive without having a lending portfolio that is paying a market rate of interest. Finally, the bank needs equity, provided by the owners. Any sweetheart lending deals the bank offers the owners would reduce the profits on their equity. If the bank does not have a credible business plan, it is not going to attract other investors to supply capital needed for regulatory purposes. The Savings and Loan Crisis in the United States offers a lot of examples of the breakdown of the regulation of small banks, but even then, the self-dealing was generally hidden. 

As a disclaimer, I read the description documents quickly, and I am unsure that this is the convention used. However, the key is that it is consistent across maturities, and so if you want to compare to longer maturity interest rates, the discount curve data has the advantage of internal consistency. The discount rate data presumably reflects market conventions for the rate quotation. You would need to find a source for the convention used in the U.K. market, I do not have a reference. Treasury bill discount rates were developed in the pre-digital computer era to offer an easily-calculated interest rate that was roughly comparable across maturities. (The invoice price for Treasury bills depends upon the maturity, even if the discount rate is the same.) We need comparability so that we can answer questions like the following: would I get a better return from holding a 3-month bill, or rolling the 1-month bill 3 times (assuming the interest rate is unchanged). The mathematically clean continuously-compounded interest rate answers that question, but it is not easy to work with if you do not have digital computers/calculators. In pretty well all analytical applications, you want to convert from the market convention to a clean discount rate; you might only convert back to the market convention if you want your final results to be comparable to market quotations. In other words, the liability curve data is probably a better starting point, as otherwise, you need to track down the market convention formula to do the conversion to a clean convention in order to do your calculations. 

I think the safest answer is “it depends.” Firstly, the terms “stronger economy” or “enjoy prosperity” are subjective, so I think if you want a stronger answer, you would need to tighten that part of the question up, with more concrete phrasing. Secondly, we would need to pin down the reasons why GDP and GNP diverge. Ireland is a well-known example, where GDP is much larger than GNP. This is usually ascribed to multinational corporations funnelling revenue through Ireland to take advantage of low corporate tax rates. In this case, GNP is viewed as being more representative of the state of the Irish economy, since those corporate revenues have very little to do with the Irish economy. I am unaware of examples where GNP is much larger than GDP, but I believe that it would be easy to create theoretical examples where GNP is telling us very little about domestic economic conditions. (A country with large ownership of foreign assets, where production and income is almost entirely the result of the economic conditions facing those foreign subsidiaries.) In other words, you need to know exactly what question you want to answer, and see whether GDP or GNP is closer to what answer you need. 

I will only attempt to give a partial answer, since the full answer is very large. You could possibly create new questions that are narrower to follow up. (My feeling is that this website works best on narrower questions.) 

FED Funds represents reserve trading between domestic banks; it is considered a risk-free rate (no credit premium). LIBOR is a rate for unsecured lending between international banks (in London). It has a credit risk premium embedded in it. 

Then, interest received is equal to $(1-r)D i_l$, and interest paid is $D i_d$. Therefore, for the bank to not lose money, $$ (1-r) i_l \geq i_d.$$ In other words, the average interest rate on loans has to be greater than the average interest rate on deposits (assuming non-zero reserve holdings). This is going to be true regardless of the size of the bank’s balance sheet (the amount of the money multiplier). If balance sheets get more complicated, the equation needs additional terms. However, the basic principle remains: by forcing banks to hold an asset that yields 0%, they have to increase lending spreads to remain profitable. This makes banks less competitive versus non-bank financial firms, creating an incentive to move towards less regulated entities. This perverse incentive explains why many countries (such as Canada) have abolished reserve requirements. (I am unsure which developed countries still have reserve requirements, other than the United States.) 

The Fed normally only change rates during their regular monetary policy meetings, of which there are 8 per year (roughly six weeks between meetings). Therefore, they cannot change rates every month. The amount 1/4% comes from interest rate quote conventions; historically they also used 1/8% (12.5 basis points). If they were to go to smaller increments, it would probably be 1/16%. The first reason why they do not announce finer increments is that the Fed Funds rate that they target is a market interbank rate; they do not have complete control over it. The Fed publishes the "effective fed funds rate" in the H.15 report, which is their estimate of where the market is trading; it does not exactly match the target. Therefore, they cannot credibly deliver such small incremental changes to the overnight rate that matters. The second reason is that such a small increment would probably make the Fed look silly. How do they have enough confidence in their ability to fine tune the economy so that moving the policy rate by 1/16% is now the right level? Realistically, the current level of interest rates does not matter, so much as they expected path. At 25 bps per meeting, the total change over one year is 2%. That should be enough to match changes in economic conditions. An increment smaller than 1/8% would not be enough to keep up with conditions. As for the current situation, it is unusual. Interest rates are very close to 0%, and it is difficult for them to go negative (the "zero lower bound"). Everyone knows that interest rates can only go one way (assuming no negative rates), so it is just a question of timing. This creates a different mood for interest rate watchers than when interest rates can go either way. Fed Reserve officials have been cautious about raising rates, since they have no leeway to cut rates if the economy rolls over. For this reason, they would not have considered any rate hikes until they were certain that rates needed to be well above 0%. (Even when the rate hikes occurred, they have been quite tentative.) Furthermore, if you want by news stories, "everyone" knew that the policy rate was "unsustainably low" every year after 2010. In other words, we need to be careful about what "everyone" knows. 

Your question appears to be just: why would they issue foreign currency debt? If an emerging country is growing rapidly, it often attracts capital flows. This is typically associated with a strengthening currency. Firms and investors extrapolate this tendency, and so they lend to the country in the currency of a developed economy (typically the U.S. dollar). If the local currency continues to appreciate against the U.S. dollar, it should be easier to cover the payments (since local currency earnings are worth more). Things break down if this extrapolation fails, as discussed in the question. In terms of an example, you could look at the developing Asian countries ahead of the Asian Crisis of 1997. Borrowing in U.S. dollars by local forms was the root of the problem. The post-1997 tendency to accumulate large foreign currency reserves by central banks in countries pursuing an export-led growth strategy was a reaction to that experience. 

One possibility is that New Keynesian theory is just plain wrong. As a disclaimer, that is my view. However, that is a controversial view. The next issue are practical problems that standard New Keynesian models ignore. 

The only thing we know for sure is that for banks, the two sides of the balance sheet balance. That is, assets = liabilities + equity. In simplistic money multiplier discussions, the only bank assets are loans, the only liabilities are deposits, and there is no equity. So in that case, loans = deposits. In the real world, equity is fairly small as a percentage. However, there are other large entries on the balance sheets. 

As noted in a comment, GDP is associated with a country, not a firm. But if we are talking about the contribution to GDP, the operating assumption is that calculations are based on observed (market) prices. So the value of consumption is \$100 if we are calculating GDP based on expenditures. If we are looking at domestic income, it would be \$100: \$200 wage income, and -\$100 business income. Statisticians do not attempt to decide what goods are “really worth”, they use data based on actual transactions. Since GDP numbers are estimates based on a variety of sources, it is unlikely that they capture when particular firms have promotional sales.