It may be worth asking about MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheets) MSDS are simple, plain language, documents that explain everything you need to know about working with a potentially hazardous material. In them you should find basic information on: 

I know I'm a little late here, but it looks like the company was showing a lot of the tell tale signs of going under before your predecessor resigned... I don't mean to take the wind out of your sails, you did the right thing, but I suspect that the company was already circling the drain. Anytime an employer starts reeling back promised compensation there's​ almost certainly major problems further up the chain. They either made promises they had no intention of keeping or they're going broke. (Usually the latter) Paychecks being late or bouncing is a pretty huge red flag. Promising bonuses and benefits that never pay out is a huge red flag. I guess what I'm trying to say is that the company was already well on it's way down, you just happened to be lucky enough to notice and raise the alarm before it sank. They're likely trying to shift the blame away from poor management, and overextended budgets towards you and your predecessor. But let's be honest, if the company was sustainable it could have, and would have, survived by just hiring a couple new senior engineers. You made the right decision when you resigned, and you're​ not responsible for the company's failure. With that out of the way... Likely the best thing you could do for your junior co-workers is to offer to write letters of recommendation and encourage them in their future endeavors. They've all gained at least one valuable piece of experience through this unfortunate event, they are now probably a little more aware of the red flags​ thrown out by a failing company and that's more valuable than you might think. 

Finger-pointing in the workplace can lead to this sort of environment, people can become more concerned with making sure the finger isn't pointed at them rather than working together to overcome the problem. If I'm leading a team I would accept responsibility for the problem even if I didn't cause it directly. If one of my subordinates failed, and I'm responsible for overseeing their work I'm ultimately responsible for their failings. This may be an outdated view of the chain of command, but I think it's respectable and it can help to build loyalty within a team. That is not saying that accountability isn't important. Occasionally the guy who makes a habit of provoking the bear deserves to get bit, but don't let him get mauled by your superiors. Take the brunt of the abuse from the higher management, and then dish out what you think is appropriate within your team. Eventually the right sort of management will recognize the pattern of you taking responsibility for your team and they will probably stop asking who's fault it is. They may even respect you more for taking this approach and your team will definitely respect you for stepping in on their behalf. 

The company I work for has a habit of shutting down around the holidays, usually a week for Thanksgiving and a week for Christmas in order to save a little money and give their staff a little time off. The practice seemed like a good deal at first, most of the staff accrued enough paid time off to cover the shutdowns and having some extra time with the family is nice, but in the last year or two the shutdowns have been getting longer and we're shutting down for more holidays, like a week off for Easter and now we're off for another week for the 4th of July. I'm growing a little concerned that by the time the Christmas shutdown rolls around that all of our paid time off will be used up and it will create a bit of a problem, not to mention that these shutdowns force us to save our paid time off, eliminating paid time for sick days and other random needs. What would be a tactful way to address these concerns? 

I tend to think that shared commissions will lead to friction no matter how you slice them, so your best option may be to divide the shop based on your product line. Basically split the responsibilities and commissions into departments. Given that your shop sells clothing and shoes it may be best to make "employee A" responsible for selling clothing and "employee B" responsible for selling shoes and rotate them as needed. This will hopefully reduce the direct competition between the two employees in any given day and offer clear lines on who gets what commission. So, "employee A" may sell the customer a dress and get the commission on the dress alone and then send the customer to "employee B" to get the matching shoes and "employee B" will get the commission on the shoes alone. 

I've definitely experienced this in more than a few workplaces... It's​ annoying to say the least, but it's not usually deliberate. I usually chalk it up to a manager not realizing that something is worth worrying about until they've heard it from more than one person. Often it helps if the second person is more experienced, but that isn't always the case, sometimes it really is just repetition. Try not to take it personally, just keep plugging along. When you get another idea to improve production it may help to bring backup. 

Welcome to entry level work. I say that because in most situations , as in your employer at this stage doesn't expect you to be an expert. They probably expect you to do exactly what you're doing and from the sound of it they are pleased with your performance so far. It is good that you are aware of your shortcomings and are pushing yourself to over come them, just be careful not to burn your self out doing so. I suspect that it is a fairly common practice to hire entry level workers at larger firms because their salary expectations aren't as high and they can be counted on to to have a strong desire prove their worth, this eagerness can make them a good investment. Don't forget that. Your willingness to learn the trade and expand your skills is what makes you, even with your lack of experience, a good investment. This is probably why you were hired. 

It appears to me that my department has been running dangerously understaffed for quite some time now. The work that used to be done by 8 people is now being done by 3. I've raised my concern a few times, but the attitude from management seems to be: "The job is getting done and we're saving money with fewer people on the payroll" This has been the "status quo" for a little more than a year now and so far the remaining members of the department have been able to put a shoulder to the wheel and get things done, but lately it looks like everyone is getting burned out and most everyone is looking for employment elsewhere. How can I convince the management that the situation is turning from bad to critical? 

Even though recreational marijuana use may be legal, driving under the influence is still illegal. "Driving" is usually qualified as operating any "motor vehicle", this would include riding mowers. It also looks like public intoxication and "open container" laws may still apply. 

At a certain point, it's time to pull the contract and reread the fine print. Generally the most difficult clients are the ones who never bothered to read the original agreement, started throwing their weight around, and were repeatedly apesed despite their bad behavior. If you have a contract go through it carefully and keep in mind what you are actually on the hook for and what the cleint has arbitrarily added or changed. Sometimes saying something as simple as "sure we can push up that deadline, it'll cost this much extra..." Or "sure we can wait for that content, but we may not make your deadline..." Or "sure we can edit your content for errors, but keep in mind that those are billable hours..." Often times reminding a paid cleint that they are just that a "paid" cleint can clear up some of their nonsense. Particularly if their nonsense starts to cost them extra. Of course this all depends on the original contract... If the contract doesn't cover the edge cases consider it a learning experience for next time. 

Here is an example of an MSDS for fiberglass MSDS are required to be provided by international, federal, and in many cases state and local laws. Just ask your employer for the MSDS, if he doesn't have them or refuses to provide them, mention that they are required by law and that the shop could face serious fines if they get inspected and the sheets aren't readily available. In that context your boss may be a little more likely to comply. You're not only looking out for your own health, and the health of your co-workers, but you're also protecting his/her business from fines and lawsuits. 

I had a similar situation with a former employer. The shop boss was an "alpha male" type and felt the need to belittle his employees in order to maintain a sense of superiority and dominance​. Often this would take the form of questioning gender and sexual orientation... (Which honestly said a lot about his world view and insecurities if you ask me) As soon as he took over the shop I started looking for another job. When he made direct comments towards me, I would pretend to play along, but rather than questioning his sexuality, I questioned​ his maturity. More or less "Wow, highschool was a long time ago. I didn't realize people still talked like that." Obviously returning fire may get you fired, so tread carefully, but in my experience guys like this see it as some sort of deranged male bonding. Hence not participating may make you more of a target. Most importantly, start planning your exit. This is a toxic and unprofessional environment. Unfortunately sometimes you have to vote with your feet.