MDISC I would like to offer a digital solution. There is a DVD-like format called MDISC which has a theoretical lifetime of 1000+ years. The rest of my answer will be in support of this format. The problem then comes to the reading/writing of the media. Here's where I haven't done enough research, but I know what the requirements would be, and I think it would be possible to construct a device that can reliably operate over millennia. 

A power source Computing power (a processor, RAM, etc...) that's durable An MDISC reader/writer Human interface device(s) 

In your world described above, there can be forms of renewable energy, and I would imagine one computer could run on such a power source, so #1 is covered. This could be implemented with Solar, Wind, even a Water wheel. A water tower can be an energy storage solution as well (instead of deteriorating batteries). Numbers 2-4 are where I'm not sure as much. Here's what I do know: Military computers are designed to last. They take into account impacts, water damage, rust, particulates, and even radiation. Satellite computers use radiation hardened circuitry that resists radiation interference. They are also designed to tolerate extreme temperature environments. Hence I believe #2 can be overcome with some design work. This of course assumes it's not too late to acquire such technology. Numbers 3 and 4 are more difficult: Current MDISC technology seems to be used with our modern DVD/CD reader/writers. I haven't looked very hard, but it doesn't seem like a durable (withstanding hundreds of years) reader/writer currently exists. I suppose the assumption of MDISC is that we'll still have those around in the millennia. That's the problem of #3. I would guess that similar Military designs could be applied to a keyboard and a screen that would make them durable enough for a long amount of time. Ditch the mouse idea altogether. Perhaps create a custom OS that's optimized for keyboard-only use. This would help the case for #4. Of course then this durable computing machine would have to be replicated, along with the ~700 MDISCs (15,000GB / 23GB = ~653 discs and let's be sure to have some replacements) and then distributed to the several "knowledge safe-houses" that would be set up. This again assumes it's not too late to acquire the necessary components. Pros: 

Jump starting the agriculture is the first thing your “primitives” will be interested in. If they find one or more of the aforementioned children’ books on farming, they will get some interesting ideas how to advance their farming techniques. Finding pictures of modern plows drawn by a tractor will give them a massive head start. The plough was first used in Egypt around 5,000 BC (give or take). Having access to much better plows will greatly help farming, increasing yield and taking less time. While tractors will likely not be used by the primitives, they can use oxen to draw the plough. They will also find hints to modern irrigation techniques. Even better for them are the modern domesticated species. While around 5,000 BC the Neolithic Revolution already had happened, the much better “optimized” farm animals of our modern age will provide an immense multiplier to food yields be it milk, eggs, crops or meat. This requires of course, that seeds and animal herds have also been left for the primitives. Another very important domesticated plant is cotton, which would also come with a significant advancement in the timeline. 

In the dystopic/post-apocalyptic world I'm building, civilization has been split into two different societies. One is the rich who live in very large, protected cities that have giant walls surrounding them to keep out the other society, the poor. I haven't been able to figure out a material that would be plausible in this situation, as it would have to be strong but not top heavy and light but not fragile. Cost, time, and availability doesn't matter as it is fiction, however for the plot I am looking for a material which has a major weakness. The poor society expose said weakness in later chapters and bring the walls down in one fell swoop using something such as fire. They do not have access to extremely modern weapons or anything of the sort such as nuclear weapons. Would it be possible, under these circumstances, to have the walls be made of an already existing material? If so, what material could be used? 

Your primitives would have easy access to lots of high grade tools. The most interesting here are those which are easily understood and used and do not need to be powered by electricity. Axes are already known, they will get excellent steel versions. Hammers are easily understandable. Saws will be a new tool, but easy to figure out. Again, children’ picture books come in handy. The problem with these is that they will degrade over time. It will depend on how much is stored in advance. Further interesting tools are shovels, pick axes, cooking ware, high end ceramics, steel needles of all variants, surgical tools … oh and foam filled rubber wheels (great for much better transportation). Replacing these tools will not be easy. But the people will have experienced a basic understanding of these advanced tools and will want to reproduce them. Most likely they will first use bronze, but they will look out for the metal, these tools were made from and work from there. 

In my story, I plan on having one of my main characters lifted off the ground by a dragon-like creature and carried a couple miles away. Of course the plan involves them surviving the encounter whether or not they leave with a few wounds as well, however there is no modern medicine for them to heal anything remotely fatal. The creature is, again, dragon-like; large, reptilian, curved teeth and talons, and with bat-like wings for flight. Its behavior is predatory with a preference for human flesh, but they have a tendency to take live prey for their young in which case my main character is the victim. For the flight, they would be dangling for quite awhile and again I'm not sure if its realistic that they could last that long being upside down. Would it be realistic if the creature snatched the character without initially harming them, carry them a few miles through the air, and drop them from a decent height without killing them along the way? 

EDIT 2: For the sake of this question "visible" means visible to the naked human eye and/or technology available in the late medieval period of our world (ca. 15th century). A solution using atmospheric conditions are perfectly fine as long as this does not infringe on the habitability of the planet and these conditions are the same from any point of the planet. EDIT 3: There are no restrictions on the perceived colour of the moon in the sky. It can be any colour, as long as it stays visible in the night and still give some light during the night. You can postulate any changes to our system that have no or marginal effects like described above and achieve the desired result. If this effect is not achievable with the restrictions declared above, please state why. 

Another note: We might assume that some of the higher-ups still have access to some types of technology. They would likely be the only people even worried about implementing such a system. Not to mention people who have already implemented systems today. I don't know of an example, but I bet someone in the world has compiled human history and knowledge and already thought up and implemented such a system. In a "Slow Apocalypse" as has been described, such a system that was already implemented (pre-slow-apocalypse) would be in effect. It would already be doing the action of preserving knowledge. 

On earth there can be hours where the moon is up during the same time the sun is in the sky (daytime moon) due to the combined rotation of earth and orbit of the moon. I would like to have an earth-like planet which never has the moon and the sun visible in the sky at the same time from any point of the planets surface. Is this possible without too much interference with the earth-like state of the planet? Ideally the reason for the lack of simultaneous visibility does not effect the stabilising function of the moon for the planet's hability as well as has no significant effects on the planets seasons and day and night cycle. In general consider the planet, the moon and the whole solar system to be the same than ours. EDIT for clarification: Ideally the planet has a 

My main character is going to be readily exposed to death in my story, and I'm not sure when it is she will stop feeling so affected by each body. She's gone through a decent amount of trauma and lived through it without serious mental damage so she's not dainty by any means. However, she will experience seeing her first dead body in the story line followed by many more. How many dead bodies will it take for her to become "desensitized" or used to seeing them? She will also be killing a few herself through self defense. How many kills will it take for her to become used to killing? 

As other answers pointed out, reading and understanding the manuals, school books and scientific monographs will be more or less impossible for your “primitives”. But there is one source of knowledge which will be understandable: Children’ picture books! And there are quite a lot of them purely focusing on explaining how the world works for children. Moreover, any pictures in books will grant additional help here to understand how this advanced world worked. Even better might be children history books and otherwise illustrated history books, which will provide much easier to follow “instructions” for the primitives. This will not allow the “primitives” to start up the steel factory, but it will allow them to understand the usefulness of many modern tools and techniques. They will also gain an idea of what is possible, if they finally understand how these things work. It is the difference between wanting to have something better, but not knowing what will be better and the clear knowledge of what is better, but not knowing how to produce this. This will significantly cut the trial and error period down.