The ritual calendar(s) are quite detailed, with minor differences between cultures. The Maya were no special case in the following list, because the ritual calendar was more-or-less driven by the imperialism of the Aztec empire. Simply, the 'corners of the year' (solstices and equinoxes) were the major ritual times because the sacrifices governed the prosperous / abundant transition of the seasons. Omens were another large governor of sacrifices: 

Not all sacrifices were human, and other events called for blood (cutting) or animal sacrifice. Such non-human-death sacrifices were often evoked by personal omen-istic experiences like 

Because of the complex inter-linking of planetary calendar phases (sun, moon, venus, mars, saturn, mercury), certain calendrical intersections were times for sacrifices. Places where the count reset itself (such as the 2012 long-count incrementation) were also times for awareness. Since many of these intersections are dictated by solar cycles, the seasons sacrifices would have had special meaning at these epagomenal times. 

I wrote a paper related this topic, for peer review. Basically, the general story (maybe "propaganda") of state ritual sacrifice was that those sacrificed were becoming god-like, and so were elevated to the holiest status achievable - perhaps (in a distant way) like suicide bombers today. The Aztecs saw that representing yourself as one of these Divine Powers was a 'holy' thing - but only those representing the 'big 4' divinities had the national stage, and even then the selection process was something of a random lot. No one charged toward it. Being chosen for one of the lesser Divine Powers was probably even less attractive, to the individual. Whether this was a way to 'clear out undesirables' is not yet clear. Certainly, it is known that these people (ixiptla) were drugged. The way that songs were written, and evolved over time, about these ixiptla, we can infer that people took this practices as vital, if not serious, part of the cycle of life. In my paper, I present evidence that the upper classes saw the sacrificial practice as a way to glean necessary insights about the future of the civilization. A mix of augury and science. 

HE had little to do with the outcome. Japan failed mainly because of American air power and Japan's refusal to press the attack. 

The 1920s was when rural areas and smaller urban areas started to get electricity. All major cities had electricty long before then. The minor cities and towns electrified in the 20s are probably too numerous to list. $URL$ The electrical revolution had begun; and like no other force in history, electricity completely transformed how people lived. By turn of the century, residents of every major city in America were enjoying its benefits. In fact, its distribution and application in cities was so universal and met such basic needs that it became an absolute necessity for modern life.3 By the 1930s, however, the failure to electrify the whole country had deprived the millions of people who lived in rural areas of the convenience of a modern standard of living. For nearly half a century while urban Americans enjoyed the pleasures of electricity, rural Americans continued to toil in darkness. 

$URL$ Happened in 1981 under John Marsh. Remember that the army was doing the crack epidemic thing and was recovering from Vietnam. Probably people were displaying the flag incorrectly and someone decided to make it official policy. 

Either never or in hunter gatherer days, depending on the meaning of your question. The oldest recorded civilization is the Sumerians, which historians apparently claim practiced "fair trials". $URL$ 

Matters of language are probably best handled elsewhere, so I'll try to answer the question that I think is answer-able here: 

Has a person elected to the US Presidency ever held a government position in a nation besides the United States? I think any government-related role would be an interesting answer. I think the focus here is the role acts as a representative of the country, or to officially influence sovereign matters. I do not think the role must have been voted by the people of that nation. 

If I were in your shoes, I would pay for this even if your relatives cannot. I would travel to be with them for the start of this process, and when the conservationist arrives - so that my relatives understood that I share their values regarding this documentation of birthright. Advice I glean that you do not have much affection for the noble system nor the meaning of your family's title. I encourage you not to push on your relatives regarding matters that I have outlined are against their values, as this will only distance you from them and limit the positive impact that you can have on the preservation of this relic. Apologize to them for any insult, and affirm that you will help them with proper preservation, within their household, under them control. Convey to them how lack of a consultant conservationist could risk the condition of this document. It has survived 500 years — ensure that it can survive no less than 500 more. 

Although the Spanish militia and citizens were to some extend coordinating with the Spanish Army, I think the Peninsula War against Napoleon's army fits. The guerilleros weapons were much less sophisticated than the Frenchs', but they prevented the invading army from controlling the country for 6 years, until it retreated in 1814. This episode is the reason why the Spanish word guerrilla is widely used nowadays in a variety of languages, including French and English. 

In the case of Luxembourg, the country's independance was established during the early 19th century because of the strength of its main fortress in the capital, Luxembourg-ville. But not so because some fierce nationalists would have used the fortress to defend the country against imperialist invaders. Rather because the fortress was such a huge advantage for whoever controlled it, that giving full sovereignty to either France, The Netherlands or Prussia/Germany would have been a threat to the security of the other two. The balance of powers was considered during the 19th century, and possibly untill WWII, as the main garantee for peace. This concept drove the European policy of UK, and of some continental leaders like Metternich. As a consequence, the Congress of Vienna (1815), the first Treaty of London (1839) and the Second Treaty of London (1867) gradually led to the small, independant country of Luxembourg, and to the dismantlement of its capital's fortress - to make sure no imperialist power would take advantage of it. Remaining neutral for the next 150 years must have helped Luxembourg to maintain or recover its independance ever since, even if it has not prevented its occupation by Germany during both World Wars. $URL$ 

The Mesoamerican Ballgame was played in more-ancient times than the Grecian games (1600 BCE) - but there is not a strong opinion about whether it was played as an inter-nation event in such ancient times. Certainly, for the Aztecs, the ballgame had a ritual significance, also we know that their conduct of ritual was a political stage that hierarchically organized tributes. Those tributes often involved people, that were ultimately used for human sacrifice – and such sacrifice did sometimes occur after these sporting events. 

Carbohydrates were the basis for nutrition stores (silos), which were not possible with meats and fruits/vegetables due to availability. Such storage allows longer forays (time spent doing an activity rather than gathering/preparing food); which probably enabled more scouting/exploration, conquest, design / 'science'. People today do not need to eat so much grain / carbs. Our nutrition only expanded since agriculture. So we cannot say that we had better nutrition back then. I suppose you could try to argue that, per capita, nutrition was better. This argument would require proving that fewer meats, fruits and vegetables exist per-capita today than in pre-agricultural times. If you cannot show that, then the situation is purely that we have more options for nutrition today (and possibly worse choices) 

Great answers have been given regarding the general lack of warfare between Mesoamerican peoples, and North American peoples. 

It is right to understand that this book is a book of title. Internal Affairs First, your assertions that this belongs in a museum are very-evidently part of your friction with those relatives regarding documentation or movement of the book. Many families treat these relics with intense protection, and would consider any outside personnel purely as consultants in the preservation of their family's relics. To such a mindset, transferring such document to another person, even as a service, is maybe what we can call a 'secular form of sacrilege'. If you are uncomfortable with that or cannot grok it, you will not be able to ally with you relatives in any significant way on this matter. In some societies, noble title grants a birthright to land, political interaction, or other affairs. I do know know Spain's noble system well enough to say more. For people that value their family's history with this kind of 'hallowed' conscience, the suggestion that such a relic be appraised for monetary value is just plain insulting. One could ask the question "You would peddle your birthright for a meal?" Preservation I cannot say yes/no if relinquishing this documentation of title to a museum would forfeit your family's title within the royal system of Spain. Preservation of this relic is absolutely critical. If you family has no money to preserve the document, and they have no care for their noble rights, then turning the document over to a museum is a [small] gift to the nation of Spain, as it preserves the history. Preserving History is, itself, an 'act of noble stature'. But preserving the document within the family is the more respectable thing to do. You are correct that a preservationist should come in to inspect the relic and evaluate: 

$URL$ Aqueducts did, in some cases, freeze over. Aqueducts were built underground in the northern provinces to even out the temperatures over the day, and this helped a bit. $URL$ $URL$ Flow rates are 5 to 70 L/s on modern models of Roman dropshafts. However, you can't prevent water from freezing over long distances just by increasing the flow rate. Presumably there was no running water if it became too cold. 

Ivan the Terrible did restrict the movement of peasants, and entrench the institution of slavery. But at the same time, he persecuted the nobles and apparently was seen as protecting peasants from exploitation. Thus, just based on the limited information we have, passed down through folktales, Ivan was seen as an ally of the peasants. Being terrible to boyars might be a compliment. Source 

Mussolini was basically someone Hitler bribed to stay on his side. Italy was probably a net burden to the Axis; its main contribution as an ally was as a buffer. Mussolini himself has been survived as grandiose and egocentric, and his rule eventually destroyed Italy. There's your paragraph. Germany sent at least a quarter of its oil production to Italy just to keep Mussolini afloat. Germany also sent some token forces to Africa to delay the British from taking over the African colonies, even though British blockades made this difficult. Eventually Mussolini was overthrown and the new government switched sides. After this point he had little impact on the war and was eventually captured and shot by partisans. The aftermath of his rule was that Italy was totally wrecked and defeated. The only brilliant part is before the war, when he achieved power with his political goalpost shifting and charisma. Some more reading - $URL$ 

Already in prehistorical times, it seems that the arrival of Human was the cause of major changes in ecosytems. Even before the rise of agriculture, the use of fire is supposed to have had a huge impact on the environment. For instance in Australia: 

This explanation is sustained by Y.N.Hariri in his best-seller Sapiens although the scientific debate is not completely settled (see wiki). 

In this question, it is established that the Czech Legion went back to Europe in 1920 merely on US boats along three different naval roads. @Felix Goldberg quotes a master's thesis by Major Robert Dziak of the Czech army that says: 

I am a bit skeptical though : why would the Czech Legion, who didn't plan to play a role anymore in Russian civil war, bother to bring POWs all around the world to their newly founded homeland, Czechoslovakia ? Why not rather release them, or handle them to the Japanese Army that was occupying Vladivostok ? Possible explanations that I could imagine : 

Did the Czech Legion really bring POWs during its evacuation ? If yes, who exactly, and how many, were those POWs ? What motivated the Czech legion to bring them along ? What happened to them when they reached Czechoslovakia ? In addition, any more precise figure about how many family members, civilian personnel, and POWs did accompany the Czech Legion evacuation would be appreciated. 

"POWs" here means Prisoners of War. As far I understand, they would be fighters captured by the Czech Legion during its long adventures in Siberia, most probably Bolsheviks. Dziak doesn't explicit further who are those POWs. There is only one additionnal endnote: 

So let's tentatively estimate 10,000 surviving works from the Library of Constantinople and other European sources plus elsewhere, and see if this makes sense. Since less than 2,000 Chinese works likely survived, let's just focus on the European corpus. $URL$ $URL$ Ancient Rome had roughly 100 million people, of which roughly 10% were literate. $URL$ $URL$ Countries the size of the literate population of the Roman empire publish at least 10,000 books a year. Given the explosion of low-quality ebooks, its probably safe to halve this number. Over 500 years, the demographic peak of the Roman civilization, this would come out to 2.5 million works. If 0.4% of these survived, it would accord with the 10,000 estimate. It is below the 1% survival rate cited above, but within an order of magnitude. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

It's a hard request to fulfill. The interesting economic stuff happened later, so there aren't too many books covering what you're looking for. Arnold Toynbee is your best bet. $URL$ After that, I recommend Eric Hobsbawm. 

In Dante's Inferno, the eigth circle of hell is for insincerity, which includes politicians. The second pit in particular includes the prostitute Thais from classical mythology, who falsely aggrandized her lover. But these aren't real people. I think that the lack of historical figures displaying sycophantic tendencies shows either the ineffectiveness of this tactic, or conversely, its extreme prevalence and lack of notability. 

Before germ theory, there were similar concepts of infectious disease- bad humors, bad air, etc. Miasma theory held that decaying organic matter transmitted infectious fumes to other organic matter. Girolamo Fracastoro went further and developed a proto-germ theory in the 1500s. So people got the idea.