There's many different kinds of "down" filling: "100% down" must legally be only down, while "down" can be any mixture containing down. Then there's "fill power" ranging from about 400 to 1200, which basically measures how resistent the feathers are to crushing by weight. Higher "fill power" provides more insulation and is significantly more expensive. Is there any quantitative data about just how much the thermal insulation ability VARIES from the "worst" down to the "best" down? In other words, is it possible that spending 10X as much $$$ on high-end down can make a significant difference in insulation, or is it negligible? 

Grab all three loops, and adjust left or right, until the force on each end feels balanced, then tie a figure 8 (or a figure 9) behind the loops. The pros of this method are its simplicity, and that any one strand or piece of pro could fail, and the failure wouldn't cause much change in the rope's position or exert a lot of stress. The con is that you're using essentially one rope and so there's a greater risk if something happened at or below the knot. Two/Three point anchor with static rope or webbing 

I use 7mm PowerCord cordelette that was about 25ft, tied together with a double fishermens. You can also use a webbing cordelette, or a piece of webbing tied with a waterknot. Loop the cordelette through your protection, and ensure the knot is not in the way. Then pull the strands between the pro with your fingers, until it looks about like the image below, draped towards where you want the rope to fall. 

From a beginning fisher: Can I, say, float a raft out into the middle of a lake, with several fishing lines/hooks/bait hanging into the lake, with the whole thing tethered to the shore by a long rope, and hope to catch some fish? In other words, can I put some baited hooks in the middle of the lake and walk away for a few hours and then pull the raft back with some caught fish, or will they have gotten away during that time? Or is it necessary to cast line out from a pole with reel and start reeling in as soon as a fish starts tugging the line? 

In some cases, you need a longer anchor than you can easily get with a cordelette. In these cases I'll use webbing or static rope. I often use two separate ropes here, which could be cordelettes or single strands. It's more difficult to equalize since you'll need to approximate where the ropes should meet before you fully tie off extra slack. The same basics apply though, and the upside is that although if one piece failed, there would likely be more change in the ropes position, there's overall more redundancy since the carabiners holding the rope go through the loops of both separate strands. In conclusion Neither of these methods are the best or end all be all of top rope anchors. There's always a few ways to set an anchor in a given spot. I'd love to hear others chime in with common top rope anchors they use, or hear critiques. One setup that is always difficult for me is top belay systems over water. As always, test your anchor, and double check yourself and your partner, before climbing or rappelling. Also, apologies on the images, since they are not mine and don't do the best job of showing an anchor over a near vertical cliff. 

My white full Dyneema backpack is old and dirty and stained. How do I clean it? Can I wash it in chlorine bleach or some other fabric bleaching chemical? If so, how? Even if the bleaching agent does not damage the fabric, is there a chance it could damaged seams and stitching? 

I'm about to purchase a full 4.2oz/yd Spectra/Dyneema woven groundsheet (with no coatings) to use under an inflated raft with a 150lb person sleeping on top of it. Question: Is woven full spectra/dyneema fabric the best I can do to prevent sharp rocks and sticks from sticking through and puncturing the raft, or is there something else that would be better? 

I'll preface this by saying I've never tried this in a real world application myself, but I was curious and found some instructions for creating quick harnesses out of webbing from a web search. I want to add that I am in no way endorsing this for climbing or prolonged use beyond a static hang or an emergency situation. I've heard and read that rope/webbing harnesses can be quite painful and can possibly cause injury if someone were to fall in them, due to lack of padding. The first way I found is from the American Alpine Institute blog, which, half-way down the page mentions the diaper sling shown below, and then another alternative called the Swiss Seat shown in a Youtube video or similarly here. 

These days, almost every sleeping bag sold is given a thermal insulation numeric "rating", either the USA version or the more accurate European version. But vintage bags did not have this industry standard. Is there any way to get a good idea of the insulating ability of a vintage bag other than getting your body inside it for a night of sleep? 

Dyneema (which is the same thing as Spectra): Ultra high-end fiber stronger than Kevlar. Packs made of full Spectra/Dyneema cost $1000-2000. BEWARE there are lots of cheaper packs that claim Spectra or Dyneema, but which only use these high-end fibers for "rip-stop"/"grid-stop", with cheaper fabric in-between. Cuben: Ultra-lightweight, durable, and waterproof. Also very expensive. Silnylon (Silicone Impregnated Nylon): Lightweight but can be ripped. 

In English, that means if you have an ACE wrap (like this) you should wrap it around the bitten extremity, starting further away from the center of the body (distal) and moving towards the center of the body (proximal), then back. The purpose is to apply a small amount of pressure to slightly slow flow through the lymph nodes as this is one way the venom can move through the body. Checking CSMs means checking the circulation, sensation, and movement below the location of the bite. You want to ensure that the wrap doesn't cut off circulation, and should monitor whether the patient's ability to feel and move their fingers/toes is decreasing over time. You may need to remove and adjust the wrap if swelling occurs, this is why it's important to check CSMs every 10-15 minutes. You can also optionally take antihistamines (like benadryl) to slow the body's reaction to the venom. This will not prevent tissue damage, but can prevent an anaphylaxic reaction. Once the wound is cleaned and optionally wrapped, you can walk out, but walk slowly to avoid further injuries. Make sure to take frequent breaks to check if swelling has progressed and to monitor CSMs. 

First off, there's tons of information out there on various types of anchors, different ways to equalize and secure them. One book I'd recommend is How to Rock Climb. Different anchor types each have their pros and cons. The best way to learn to build solid anchors is to have a more experienced climber, particularly someone who knows the area, walk you through building an anchor step by step. Personally, I've been taught and often use two different methods for top roping, depending on how far away from the cliff edge I can place protection. Specific to top-roping, you have more time to place gear and double check everything. While there's often more stress in the system, you can also find more bomber placements and use sturdier rope, etc. In many places, two points of solid pro are just fine, but three is almost always better. One point should almost never be used, even if it's really solid, except perhaps in specialized situations. Anchor position and attaching the rope In both cases, the anchor should be long enough so at least the carabiners you're going to attach the top rope to are hanging over the edge. Many people use two locking carabiners facing opposite directions, as a just in case, though one burly locking carabiner is not unheard of. I've never had any specific issues building an anchor at the top of a cliff. If needed, I'll place an extra piece of pro to clip myself into, or use the same pro as the anchors. I make sure the anchor falls where I want, and test it from the top before I toss the rope down. Sometimes it helps to have someone below looking at the route to make sure you've got the right spot. They can also give the rope a good tug while you inspect the protection. Two/Three point cordelette anchor 

There's a lot of dubious assertions in the answers here, and frankly some bad advice regarding how long to wait before treating a blister. We just had a lecture on blister management in my WFR class yesterday, so I'll give this a go. The answer to "should I deflate this blister" comes down to a very simple question: Will it pop itself if I don't? Any blister on the foot is likely going to pop itself if you don't. Blisters in other locations (typically the hands) may be less likely to. 

Candela is the unit for a point measurement which doesn't depend on the distance. Candelas are inversely proportional to the square of lux. You can convert lux to candela using the inverse square law: where d is the distance in meters from the light source. 

I used the instructions to create a test diaper sling myself, and it seems like it would hold me, but if i really needed a harness I'd probably opt to spend the time making the Swiss Seat. As I mentioned above, mountaineering harnesses can be little more than stitched webbing with some added thickness which might be a better alternative if this is going to be more than a one time use. One last comment addressing your question. I don't know your exact use case, but using rope while crossing streams/rivers is generally risky business. For example, "The two hikers had tied themselves onto a rope that had been placed across the stream earlier this summer. They lost their footing and were pulled under by the current." Though there are techniques to use rope and anchors to successfully cross streams/rivers, when misused the rope can get pulled into the water, creating lots of drag and usually taking whoever is attached right off their feet. You might be quite experienced with this, so I'm just leaving this as a general fair warning.