Protection was traditionally purchased with goods. The local lord's men would come by and remind you how they protected you. When they left, they would take a bunch of your goods. They would call this taxation. Similarly, one would pay a doctor or even a lawyer with food (see Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird for a relatively modern example). Food (and for a traveler, a place to stay) would be a common payment for labor. Until they can industrialize, food production will consume most of the time for everyone. It will be relatively scarce. That's why our grandparents were often smaller than us. They weren't fed as well as children. Paying in jewelry is also an option. It won't work in the first few years after the apocalypse, but a century later? It will be common for jewelry to be traded. Really advanced economies might coin money (stamped precious metal discs) or even use paper money. Respected money will be used outside its natural environment. Prison I don't know that prison would be a good model here. Part of the problem in prisons is that they don't let the prisoners have actual money. Instead the commissary manages balances. Pretty much the only things they can trade are things that can be bought in the commissary. This includes cigarettes traditionally, as well as canned food. The better something stores, the better money it makes. But it also needs to be desirable and a little scarce. Canned tuna makes sense in a prison where it may be consumed frequently to add to one's diet and where one can store it. Post apocalypse, they can't can things and even if they could, it would weigh too much. The traveler would eat it rather than use it as currency. Food works better as a currency paid to a traveler. It would be paid from a farmer. A goat, cow, or sheep would be better, but I can't see them as commonly traded by travelers. A traveler might trade excess wheat paid by a farmer for an animal from a herder. Services A traveler might pay with mail. Stop in at the local general store or inn. Perhaps they have some mail that needs taken to the traveler's next destination. The recipient would be expected to pay for the mail. Sender-paid mail wouldn't work because then travelers could just throw the mail away. But recipient paid mail gives an incentive for the traveler to make the delivery. Similarly, travelers might pay with deliveries. But then the traveler would probably be expected to pay the manufacturer part of the cost of the item. The recipient would pay the the full price. Travelers might commonly use a wagon so that they could carry a bit of freight. They might keep trade goods on hand. So a few knives or pans might be scratching around in the back along with a barrel of beer, some spices, and a few pieces of mail. The beer and mail are deliveries. The spices, knives, and pans are on speculation. 

Originals would not be any more important than now unless sparks degrade as they are passed. If a spark is just as good if I get it from the tenth recipient in the chain as from the person who originally had it, then the original is only briefly valuable. Once the spark is shared, everyone who has it is equally valuable. This suggests that the initial transfers of unique sparks will be expensive. Synthesizers may become valuable. These would be people who are good at mixing particular sparks in order to make new ones (e.g. someone who synthesizes karate and aikido into a new art). If they can do this consistently as new information (sparks) is developed, then they may have as much or more value as someone who develops new sparks. Dead brain access would be limited. Note that people who have near death experiences can lose memory. Harvesting dead brain sparks would need to be done within minutes of death. Digging up graves wouldn't help. Cremation would be irrelevant, because sparks would be long gone by then. Reality sparks may become the new media. Instead of watching or reading about someone's experiences, live them yourself. Lying would become more difficult. If you don't trust someone, force them to give you a spark demonstrating the memory. It would be interesting to see how trials work in a world with sparks. Do the witnesses give sparks directly to the jury? Intellectual property would be unaffected. The reason why we have patents, trademarks, and copyrights is so as to limit things when the knowledge is already out there. Making the information more available won't impact this. Espionage would get an interesting new tool. What happens if you are able to fool someone into transferring a spark to the wrong person? Physically securing the data becomes less effective if someone still has it in memory as well. Transferring secrets just became easier so keeping them became harder. Native intelligence would remain valuable. Note that some people are simply better at certain things than others. For example, Johann Dase could multiply hundred digit numbers in his head. There is no evidence that he had any particular trick to do this. He was simply better at keeping track of the intermediate results. Some things simply won't spark and this might be one of them. Employers will expect people to already have all the experience needed from the first day. This will greatly reduce both the official training time and the unofficial period of learning how the job works. Politics would stay the same. Note that in politics it's not what you know but who you know that matters. Even if Harry Reid and Mitch McConnell transfer all of their knowledge to someone else, that doesn't mean that that person can be as effective as they are. Giving Ted Cruz or Alan Grayson the skills to compromise doesn't mean that they would use them. Politics is ruled by personality and who wants to change their own personality? We also might discover other interesting ways that sparks won't work. For example, if a man gets a spark from a shorter female gymnast, it might be that the muscle memory simply won't work. Because of their different builds, the man might not be able to use her memories successfully. 

Demolish the damaged tower I'm with those that say that they'd probably demolish the second tower. Change the attack order I think that you're approaching this from the wrong angle. A less successful 9/11 would not, in and of itself, make the response stronger. If you want a stronger response, you should change how it proceeded. Instead of going in the actual order, change it to 

Currently there are different opinions among the rich. Some are conservative, some liberal, some authoritarian, and some libertarian. The largest problem here is not the people who control the money but the corporations. Corporations will be incented to grab control. To them, it's just another expense. Buy coal and iron to make steel. Buy votes so as to be able to burn the coal in your factory.. What if the system blocks corporations? Then you'll find that such businesses will switch to structures that do allow them to buy votes. People like George Soros and the Koch brothers may be able to make money directly. Votes cost $1 billion. But create $10 billion in income. That increases the concentration of wealth that was already concerning. No checks and balances One of the things that keeps government weak is the system of checks and balances. This bypasses that. Just buy enough votes and you can pass whatever you want. Then the government gives you more money, so you can buy more votes, and give yourself more money. All it takes is one election. Someone says that they want to do one thing, e.g. reform law enforcement to reduce the number of fatal shootings by police. Then they win and do something totally different. But there is nothing holding them to their original platform. They've already bought the authority that they need. Too few voters Some voters would refuse to sell their vote. But the majority of people don't vote. What's to keep them from selling their vote? It's not like they were going to use it. How might something like this work? We do have an example of a system where large numbers of people were given small shares of a large organization. After the fall of the Soviet Union, one privatization method was to give all the employees shares in their factory or whatever. And we know what happened. Most, instead of keeping the shares, sold them immediately to whomever would give them money for them. As a result, business ownership in Russia is very concentrated. People are notoriously bad at valuing things like this. You argue that people may suddenly value their vote because they can sell it. It's just as likely that the reverse would happen. If people can sell their votes, then that takes the burden away from them. Just sell it, and let someone else worry about it. Look at the primaries in the US presidential election this year (2016). Instead of nominating two broadly popular candidates, the two parties nominated the two most disliked candidates ever. How? Most people didn't vote. Much has been made about Trump getting more votes than any other Republican primary candidate, ever. Yet all the candidates combined received fewer votes than Mitt Romney received in losing the 2012 general election. Think of how much money you could save by picking both candidates in the primaries. And then the general election is easy, as you have no serious competition. Why didn't people value their votes enough to vote in the primaries? The candidates were better then, particularly on the Republican side. Yet most people didn't value their vote enough to use it. Will such people value their vote enough to hold out for a good price? Especially dangerous is the idea of selling your vote to someone who agrees with you. What if they lie? There would be tremendous incentive to misrepresent your position when buying a vote. What if you promise to do more research because you are undecided? That appeal might work for someone who is unsure. Doesn't it sound great to let someone else do the hard work to make this difficult decision for you? 

If the male escapes the female, then she would seem to be too weak to produce good offspring. He's better off looking for another candidate. If the male is caught immediately, then she may reject him for another, studlier male. If they can both maintain a chase for the same length of time, then they are compatible parents. The offspring will get about the same amount of strength from each parent. 

Lightning A superconductor at the surface would draw lightning. Lightning will try to follow the path of least resistance and the superconductor portion of the path will have zero resistance. This isn't an absolute. The rest of the path matters as well. Lightning might prefer to hit a wet tree at the top of a hill over a superconductor at the bottom. But if there were a superconductor and a bush next to it, the lightning will probably hit the superconductor over the bush. Source matters I know that you said that you don't really care about formation, but you should. The big question is if the superconductor can be synthesized. Because it would be hard for us to make a maglev track out of gold, but making it out of a particular alloy of common materials would be simple. I.e. if an aluminum-iron alloy were superconducting when some common element were added, then superconductor-based technology could be everywhere. If it were an element as rare as gold, then that wouldn't work. There'd still be a mix of superconductor and copper wiring. In medieval society, the alchemists might search for a way to turn lead into superconductor rather than gold. Of course, that won't be as important until they start finding uses for electricity. Computers A significant portion of our computers' electrical consumption is cooling. But with a superconductor, there is no resistance to produce heat in the wires. Computers would require less cooling and be cheaper to operate. You could probably pack computer chips more tightly. Currently a big part of chip design is wicking away heat to a heat sink for cooling. Without that concern, there would be more options for chip design. This is not to say that superconductors would eliminate all heat concerns. But they would reduce a big portion of them. Of course, they may add a new concern. A room temperature superconductor may not also be a superconductor above room temperature, say at the boiling point for water. So they may require cooling for a different purpose. Long distance Currently if we put a power plant (e.g. solar) in New Mexico, we wouldn't send the electricity to New York City. But in this world, that would be perfectly practical. Beyond that, ignoring water issues, it would be practical to run lines around the planet. So solar power generated in the Sahara might power night time use in the United States. 

Do mermaids have human ears? Or do they have something that is shaped like a human ear with their real ears elsewhere? Note that dolphins use their jawbones to funnel sound to their ears where we use the external portion of our ears for that. Searching for information about how dolphins manage water pressure in their ears finds $URL$ which says: 

Nature vs. Nurture Note that this doesn't matter to the question. Let's assume that intelligence and moral qualities are 100% nurture. There would still be an evolutionary effect. The people being removed are the most nurturing. Remember that one teacher who really connected with you? She or he is on the island in this story. You don't meet until adulthood, if then. Short term Initially, this pulls all the best people out of the populace. Which may explain why the mainland is essentially one big slum. We don't see any middle class people. Medium term With only second tier teachers, the next generation struggles to learn. Worse, the moral standard drops. As the inspiring leaders are pulled out of the population, there is more and more premium on day to day living. Lots of Clintons and Trumps; very few Kennedys and Reagans. Long term Eventually we'd reach an equilibrium. The people being removed are essentially the same as everyone else. Positive effects There are also positive effects of the system. Note how potential strongarm dictators like Alvarez are also pulled out of the system. They aren't rejected and sent back. The system kills them. It's unclear if the system embraces this effect. I.e. if it had recognized Alvarez from the beginning, it might have passed him through the early tests. 

All water Total amount of water in the world: 1,386,000,000 cubic kilometers Total amount of water in the world: 1,386,000,000,000,000,000,000 liters Total amount of water in the average human: 42 liters Number of humans: 7.6 billion Total amount of water in humans: 319,200,000,000 liters or .3192 cubic kilometers So we'd have a huge decline in the total amount of water. As a practical matter, there wouldn't be enough water left to grow crops. The water in us would boil off as sweat and could not be replaced. The crops would dry out and die. Only people in closed loop recycled situations could survive. Just freshwater Now, if you literally meant just freshwater, then we're better off. Most of the world's water is salt water. So we only lose about 4% of the world's water. For the first week or so, the air would be very dry. The days should be hotter and the nights cooler, as there are fewer clouds. But after a week or two, there should be enough evaporation to replenish the atmospheric water. Total amount of atmospheric water: 12,900 cubic kilometers Total amount of water that enters the atmosphere daily: 1170 cubic kilometers Water should evaporate faster in the beginning, as the air is dryer. But there are fewer places with water, so by the end, it should be slower than previously. This might leave the air somewhat drier but not a lot. After the first couple weeks, we should have about as much precipitation as evaporation. But only some of it will fall on land. Let's figure about 30% (the world is about 70% ocean). This may be generous, as most of the moisture will be coming from the ocean. It's not clear how far inland it will take it. Anyway, call it 330 cubic kilometers a day. Freshwater: 10,633,450 cubic kilometers That's about 30,000 days of precipitation to restore the freshwater. However, we'll also be losing water to evaporation at the same time. And the difficulty getting water inland. So we're talking a century or two. Things might not be back to what we consider normal now, but they will be mostly in balance. There would be more inland deserts. These might take millions of years to disappear, as they soak up any precipitation into groundwater. Of course, that means that they don't generate precipitation from their own evaporation. The source of the numbers is the water in the world link at the top of the post. Billions of people would die in that first week, with no source of water except food. More would die in the next couple months, as disease would spread rampant due to the lack of sanitary hand washing. Billions would die over the next year due to crop death during the week and an inability to replace the crops that died. This could easily lead to only millions of people worldwide. Don't forget things like nuclear power plants. They rely on water for cooling. They also may require water for shutdown. Some flood the nuclear chamber or immerse the rods to stop and cool the nuclear reaction. Plants may meltdown or require catastrophic measures that ruin the plant. No restart. Cars also need water to run, but perhaps the antifreeze saves them. Places with desalination plants may be in the best shape. At least they can provide drinking water almost immediately.