Your question is essentially about precautionary savings, i.e. the response of savings to risk. What determines precautionary savings is the coefficient of relative prudence: $CRP=-\frac{U'''}{U''}C$, where $U$ is the utility function, $C$ is consumption and primes denote derivatives. As we always have decreasing marginal utility in economics, i.e. $U''<0$, then the sign of the savings will depend on the sign of the third derivative, as you mentioned. Think of this coefficient as similar to the risk aversion coefficients. The difference is that prudence means that agents act in anticipation of risk by saving more, whereas risk aversion reflects how agents react when presently faced with risk. With quadratic utility, the coefficient of relative prudence is zero and there are no precautionary savings. Hence there is no effect of risk on savings. With such utility we therefore have certainty equivalence, which is quite convenient and hence often used. Mean preserving spreads don't matter then. So no, it is not the same as in the positive case, where savings would go up in resonse to risk. What is crucial here, as you noted, is the third derivative. The coefficient really only uses the second derivative as a normalization. A mean-preserving spread keeps the mean/expected value of consumption the same. However, it does not neccssarily keep the derivatives (marginal utility) the same, which are what matter for (savings) decisions. If the marginal utility is linear (quadratic utility), then a mean-preserving spread keeps the expected marginal utilities the same as well. Hence, there are no precautionary savings (no reaction) in that case. If the marginal utilities are convex, then the mean-preserving spread changes things in a way that matters, i.e. it becomes beneficial to save more. This follows from Jensen's inequality. If it is concave, the opposite is true. So the relevant function to look at is $U'$, as this is how the agent makes decisions. When we want to see whether a function is convex or concave we look at the second derivative. So the second derivative of $U'$ is $U'''$, which is why the third derivative matters here. 

The use of the word “spurs” is incorrect. Higher interest rates -> people borrow less -> people spend less -> aggregate demand shifts left (falls) -> prices fall (prices falling means inflation is reduced; definitely not increased (or spurred) As for the relationship between a country’s exchange rate and its interest rate; it’s actually very simple. Basically there’s a whole lot of money managed by all the big global banks and as soon as they think they can get a better % return on those large chunks of cash, they’ll shift their money into those assets So say JP Morgan think the Reserve Bank of Australia is going to increase Australia’s interest rates. JP Morgan will buy Australian dollars in order to put their funds into an Australian bank account (or other Australian dollar denominated assets) in order to take advantage of the better interest rates A lot of other global investment firms would probably do similar.. this extra demand for Australian dollars will put upward pressure on it and it will appreciate against other currencies Long story short, as soon as money markets believe a country’s interest rates might go up, they’ll buy that currency (and vice versa). The more certain they are, the more the currency will appreciate as they buy it and park their money there NB: the handy way of remembering this relationship is to simply think about what you’d do with your own money if you knew two countries offered different interest rates - all else equal, you’d probably want to put your money into the one with the higher returns, meaning you have to trade whatever currency you currently hold for the new currency, causing it to appreciate in value. 

I learned from the Fischer Effect that Real Interest Rate = Nominal Interest Rate - Inflation Rate . But in today's class the professor told us that due to money neutrality, an increase in money growth doesn't affect the real interest rate, just nominal interest rate. The reason this is confusing to me is that when money growth increases the nominal interest rate decreases. so it definitely affects the real interest rate. I'm aware that this is the short-run affect. Nominal interest (decrease) - Inflation rate (increase) = Real interest Rate (decrease) So why, in the long run, doesn't real interest rate change? Why is nominal interest rate the only variable affected? Everyone's been answering "its because money neutrality applies to the long-run". I don't really like this answer because it still doesn't explain why money growth doesn't affect "real interest rate" out of all real variables. So my question is this: Why does the increase in money supple not affect real interest rate? Could someone explain this in an economic context, containing the behavior of agents, not in some kind of mathematical way like "its because of money neutrality" which has no economic logic to explaining why money supply doesn't affect Real Interest Rate in the long run . 

You could be taxed some/all of it (T: Tax) You could spend some/all of it (C: Consumption) You could save some/all of it (S: Savings) 

someone's spending (C: Consumption) - this goes to businesses and is paid out as wages, as interest on business loans, or as share dividends or profits to owners government spending (G: Government Spending) - payments to government workers and for anything government buys (e.g. materials to build roads, defence spending etc etc) banks making loans (I: Investment) - loans made to businesses or individuals sales to foreign economies less what is paid to foreign economies for their goods and services (X - M: exports minus imports) 

Until now I've learned that the Fed controls the interest rates and that affects the money supply. For instance, The Fed increases Interest Rate ----> makes firms/households reluctant to borrow and Banks loan less ---> less money supply. However, what is the economic intuition for the opposite sequence? So "Fed increase money supply ----> interest rate decrease" "Fed decrease money supply ----> interest rate increase" I have never thought of this sequence - I have always thought of the interest rate as the causal factor and the money supply change as the result. I would appreciate it if somebody could explain how the opposite sequence is also possible. So to put it simply, if Fed increases/decreases the money supply, why does interest rate decrease/increase? not in economic theory, but in real-life explanation please. 

A concrete example makes it easier to think about: Let's say during the week you receive \$1000 income. Only 3 things can happen to your $1000: 

In this example we've used your $1000 income. The distribution of income (Y = C + S + T) is exactly the same but not just one week of your income, but 52 weeks of everyone's income. So it's a measure of how much income was received across everyone in the economy for the whole year. Now, all this income had to originate from somewhere, and there are only four possibilities: 

Adding these components together gives aggregate demand: C + I + G + (X - M); it's the $ amount of all the goods and services purchased in an economy over one year. GDP is not a perfect way to measure the size of an economy, but it's probably the most common way. So when we talk about GDP = Y = C + S + T = C + I + G + (X - M), what we know is that GDP can be measured in a few different ways, and that more spending will mean more income (and vice-versa). 

When the price level increases in the economy, we generally know that the value of money decreases. However, what is the definition of money here? Is it just currency? Or does it include assets, such as stocks and bonds? Because if the price rises, due to the interest rate effect people sell their bonds and stocks. So the creditors charge a higher interest rate. Then the means that the value of assets becomes higher right? Could someone explain this logic clearly? Thank you! 

When the interest rate increases, I learned that money supply decreases because people put their currency back in banks in forms of assets and tend to save more, spend less. However, money supply includes deposits as well as currency. So what I'm really curious about is whether a rise in interest rate actually decreases money supply. Doesn't a rise in interest rate just decrease the ratio of currency in the economy and increase the ratio of deposits in the bank, the sum (deposits + currency) remaining the same? So shouldn't money supply technically stay the same?