I am by no means a cricket expert, but this page seems to suggest that the bowler determines the bowling end based on his technique, preference and variations of an individual pitch. 

In most cases he is actually saying "53 is the Mike". There are four types of linebackers that are used in typical 3-4 and 4-3 defenses, respectively: 

This is where it is a little strange, Team A will never have an ensuing kickoff. Because Team A kicked off to start the game, they will receive to start the second half. Is the penalty still enforced on Team B's kickoff? In the game I saw, the officials did not allow Team A to elect to enforce the penalty on the ensuing kickoff (after Team A actually already had elected it, and the referees had to discuss) and instead enforced a penalty of half the distance to the goal and had Team A retry the PAT. However, as I said, it did not appear that the officials knew what to do and may have enforced it incorrectly. 

Also I know that, unlike the NCAA tournament, the NIT holds games at the home courts of teams instead of at predetermined regional sites. The article notes that prior to 2006 home court advantage was based (in part) on a team's expected attendance in the tournament. Is it still based on this, or the team's seed or something else? 

Is this contract legal by rules of the NFL Collective Bargaining Agreement (or just general NFL League Policy)? If so, what types of individual player incentives are allowed or disallowed? 

Recently, ESPN (and others) reported that the New Orleans Saints had instituted a "bounty" program. This program awarded players for inflicting game-ending injuries against the opposing teams and awarded different amounts of money depending on the type of injury. These types of individual player incentives are obviously deemed illegal by the NFL. However, there have incentives written into player contracts regularly regarding total number of team wins, playoff wins, interception totals, sack totals, total number of yards rushing/passing or touchdown totals. As recently as March of 2012, San Francisco 49ers Linebacker Ahmad Brooks signed a contract extension that included incentives for wins and sacks. 

Technically the play cannot end with two runners on the same base. If two runners are occupying the same base, then the trailing runner is considered "In Jeopardy", or able to be tagged out, and must either retreat to the previous base or, if it is occupied, the leading runner must advance a base. However, if the trailing runner was forced to the base then the leading runner is considered "In Jeopardy" and must advance or be tagged out. 

It appears that Peyton Manning was not actually "waived" but "released". According to the NFL CBA, once a player has completed his fourth year in the league, he is no longer eligible to be placed on waivers and is instead released as an unrestricted free-agent and can be signed by any club at any time. 

Since the team who bowls first is determined by the captain who wins the coin toss, it seems that there could conceivably be a considerable a strategic advantage to winning the coin toss, choosing to bat second and allowing your bowler to choose his end. 

According to this Wikipedia article, the selection process was changed in 2006. According to the article, teams are no longer required to have a .500 record and conference champions will receive an automatic bid. However, I am still unclear on if there are still any other restrictions to a team's record for them to be eligible and how the other teams are selected. 

I remember in the "old days" that if a referee caught a team playing zone defense that they would blow the whistle to stop the play and call "Illegal Defense". I haven't seen this foul called in a very long time so I'm not sure if it is because teams have gotten smarter and stopped playing zone or if the rules have been changed. Also, I have noticed what appears to be a newer foul of "Defensive Three Seconds" where if a defender stands in the lane for 3 seconds then it is a foul giving the opposing team one free throw attempt and the ball back. Is this a replacement rule of some sort? 

The gap refers to the empty space between offensive linemen on the opposing team at the line of scrimmage. If you have a 1 or 2 gap defensive linemen, it means that he is responsible for keeping the offensive team from advancing through either one or two gaps, or responsible for advancing himself between the gap and tackling the ball carrier behind the line of scrimmage. See the below example for an illustration. 

Yes, high tops appear to help with ankle injuries. A study was done by the National Center for Biotechnology Information to determine if there was a difference in ankle rotation when wearing high tops compared to wearing low tops. In the study the participants stood on a platform on one foot and the platform would be released at a random time which would turn the base of the foot by 35°. The degree and rate of ankle inversion was measured to determine the amount of stress that was being exerted on the participant's ankle. The following is the conclusion of the study: 

While the Mike Linebacker typically carries a microphone, the quarterback is not referring to the microphone that he is wearing, instead he is talking to his blockers and informing them who should block the "Mike". The term Mike linebacker has been used since well before any electronic communication was worn in the helmets. The Mike is considered the "quarterback of the defense" and is typically one of the biggest and most athletic players on the field and deserves much of the blockers' and running backs' attention. So, when a quarterback says "53 has the Mike" he is not saying "53 is in possession of the microphone" but instead he means "53 is very important and deserves your attention". Now, it is important to note that when the quarterback calls out the Mike, it is not necessarily what the defense considers the Mike, nor is it necessarily even the middle linebacker. In running plays, the offensive tackles and guards are typically responsible for blocking the defensive linemen, which leaves the center and fullback left looking for someone leftover to block. When the quarterback calls out the "Mike", it is typical that the guy who is being singled out will get a lot of attention on that play (maybe they will run right at him, or right away from him). If a fullback's defensive assignment is to "block the Mike" but not necessarily a particular player, the quarterback is basically saying "[for this particular play, and for your blocking assignment purposes] 53 is the Mike [so block him!]" In passing plays, the Mike is called out similarly for pass blocking reasons. Often when a team is in a "max-protect" scheme (where running backs stay in the backfield to help block for the the quarterback), the Mike is called out to the running backs to let them know that they need to block him if he blitzes. The reason that this is important is that if the Mike Linebacker does not blitz, then the running back is often free to running a short passing route into the flat in support of the quarterback. 

Now, as to why some players prefer to play in low top shoes, this article from ESPN explains that Kobe Bryant was originally inspired by soccer players who exert similar strain on their ankles in low top shoes. According to the article, low top shoes weigh 20% less which provides the player with more energy and greater ability to change direction. Also, most professional players have their ankles taped and wrapped before each game whether they wear high tops or not which also helps with preventing ankle injury. Kobe Bryant is quoted in the article: 

In this example the defensive linemen (the four shaded triangles) are all playing a one gap technique as they are only responsible for a single gap in the offensive line of scrimmage. The offensive team often uses the terms "A-Gap" or "B-Gap" to refer to the gaps on the offensive line. The A-Gap's are the gaps on either side of the center. The B-Gap's are the gaps between the guards and the tackles. The C-Gaps are the gaps between the tackles and the tight-ends. So a running play that was meant to run to the "Strong-side B-Gap" would run to the offensive right (strong-side is determined by the side that the tight-end is lined up on) between the Right Guard (RG) and the Right Tackle (RT). 

This happened recently in a high school game I was watching and it appeared that the referees did not know exactly how to enforce it. While this happened in a high school game, I am curious about the enforcement at all levels of play. Scenario: 

Based on limited research that I've done recently, it seems that the triangle formation is an attacking formation used primarily by midfielders to advance the ball by forming a rotating triangle pattern on the field and exploiting the many passing lanes that it can create in the defense. Is this understanding correct? What kinds of things are important when trying to execute the triangle? (good passing, good dribbling, fast, disciplined, etc...) What formations or techniques do coaches and players use to stop teams that rely heavily on the triangle? 

Those movements are treated the same as a shift prior to the play or a tight end going into motion. From page 98 of the college football rule book (emphasis mine): 

One problem that you will probably face is that most of our hand-eye coordination is developed at very young age and it is hard to develop further once you get older. And because of that, most tools, games and programs will be geared towards toddlers and younger. However, there are things that can help. First, the most important thing you can do is play more tennis (or whatever sport you are interested in improving) nothing can match the experience of the actual sport since you will not only be tracking the ball, but you will also get familiar with tracking the correct colored ball on the correct colored background with a racquet in your hand, etc. Also, it is most valuable to play with another person and not against a machine so that you are able to track the ball without knowing in advance which direction it will be traveling or what kind of spin there will be. However, playing more tennis requires another player which is not always an option. Another possibility is buying a Reaction Ball which is basically a strange shaped rubber ball that you can drop on the floor or throw against the wall and it will bounce off at unpredictable angles and you try to catch it before it hits the ground. This will improve both your tracking ability and your reaction time. Another idea is a very easy one: Play video games! Many video games, especially fast-paced first person shooters, can really test and improve your hand-eye coordination. If you are not into first person shooter games, almost all video game consoles have a wide selection of "whack-a-mole" type games that are geared directly towards increasing hand-eye coordination. Finally, for a DIY answer, a common technique is to use the hammer and ball drill. To do this, you take a ball peen hammer and lay it flat on its side, then you take a tennis ball and bounce it off of the side of the hammer while holding the hammer in your hand. The goal is to be able to keep the ball bouncing off of the hammer for as long as possible without hitting the ground. Once you get good at that, you can start walking around while performing the drill, then move on to using a golf ball instead of a tennis ball. Finally, if you get really good, you can turn the hammer 90 degrees in your hand and bounce the ball off of the hammer head instead of the side of the hammer as demonstrated in the video above. Another added value to this technique is that it will also improve the strength in your forearm and grip which is beneficial for tennis as well.