These different senses will be differentiated in English by context. There are also other words that refer to drinking that add some additional meanings (e.g. quaff). Other languages will differentiate between these different senses lexically and others will do both. For instance, Czech has two sense of the word drink: 'Franta pije vodu' vs. 'Franta pije'. But it also has the verb 'chlastat' that only means 'to drink alcohol excessively'. 'Chlastat' is lower register so the neutral 'pít' would be used in more formal situations. 

has separate forms for imperfective and repetitive does not have a clear perfective counterpart has irregular non-analytic future tense 

The dirty little secret of English is that syllable boundaries mostly do not matter (unlike other languages). What is important is the syllable nuclei which are easily identified either as the vowel or a syllabic consonant (such as / n / in 'sudden'.) As @robert says, the Onset Maximization Principle is most commonly adopted when trying to determine which consonants belong to the nucleus. This principles states, that all things being equal, consonants should belong to the start of the syllable. However, this principle is subject to a number of phonotactic constraints. Such as a prohibition of a short stressed open syllable. These constraints are generally derived from what is observed in monosyllabic words (because we know those are possible) as well as from an attempt to have a system that is consistent. This latter aim lead the phonetician John Wells to offer an alternative syllabification principle, stated thus: 

There's a lot of types of signed languages (some more like sign vocabularies), so not all have the same properties. Also, they are not limited to deaf communities. Most famously, the Plains Indian Sign Language was used both within and across cultures. It certainly wasn't just a sign encoding of spoken language which is what many non-deaf sign languages are. However, there are no instances where signed languages developed prior to spoken languages. Nor are there non-deaf communities that only use a sign language as opposed to spoken languages. Again, why questions in linguistics are not a safe place to go but if I were to venture a guess, I would be very skeptical about any explanations relying solely on communicative utility. You can make the argument that in many situations (combat, hunting) signed language would be much more appropriate. I would suggest that a better candidate for an explanation would be a simple co-evolution. Symbolic communication was simply associated with vocalizations from the start. Since the origins of language have as much to do with socialization and expression of emotion as communication, I would imagine that mapping symbolic meanings on vocal expressions is more productive than with gestures (although paradoxically, now, gestures are used mostly to supply affective content - although in a much more subtle way than just emphatic waving around of hands). So any grammaticalization would happen on the vocal part of language first. But it's a completely speculative guess (although one that would probably have been endorsed by Jespersen). 

There are many other suffixes used for various other semantic purposes: translate > translation, agree > agreement, etc. Your examples, teach > teacher, and kill > killer make actors out of the verbs. This is a very productive method that works on any English verb (even though you won't always get an idiomatically straightforward result, e.g. inspector v. inspecter). If you have agent nouns, you can also have patient nouns. E.g. the taught, the killed. Or a special, more limited, case train > trainer > trainee but not teach > teacher > *teachee. There are a slew of other suffixes used for Latinate roots. E.g. officiate > officiant, translate > translator, etc. It could also be that you're actually looking for morphological derivatives of verbs which are called deverbatives or deverbals. These can be either nouns or adjectives, and in English, they're simply the participle or infinitive forms of the verb used as nouns or adjective. That is very simple both morphologically and syntactically. But you need to be careful about the semantics. There's also a subtle semantic and syntactic distinction between sentences like 'the running of a company is hard' and 'running a company is hard'. But that would probably just complicate things. This article will show you some of the complexities. 

First, there is no such category as a 'borrowing language' equivalent to 'agglutinating language'. Second, whatever variation there is among languages is cultural rather than linguistic. Although individual speakers may perceive this more viscerally (and report it as such). But it's probably that there is not even a single scale along which you could grade cultures/languages. You will have to look at areas of linguistics practice, historical periods, registers and source languages. For example: You could compare English and German, Russian and Czech, Czech and Slovene and would find interesting differences. English will appear to borrow more technical words than German (cf. history vs. Geschichte) but the languages may be more similar at the colloquial level (cf. German 'Handy' for mobile phone). Czech will have been more resistant to borrowing at the literary level from German than Russian was but rife with borrowings at the colloquial level. It will have consciously borrowed words from Slavonic languages in the 19th century but not in the 20th. Czech will further differ from Slovene in how it transcribes foreign names. For example, Mr Beech may be transcribed in Slovene as Bíč but kept as Beech in Czech texts. However, Mrs Beech would be almost always converted into the female for form Beechová. They will not differ much in exonyms (such as London). These are not strictly borrowings but they indicate how the languages tend to integrate 'foreign' elements. Also note above how easy (convenient) it is talk about languages when what you're talking about is the practices of different groups of speakers of those languages. 

The confusion in the answers here arises that in different traditions (and different languages) jargon and argot are used to describe the opposite concepts. This is further complicated by the term slang which is gaining popularity and is more and more used to describe both. But the problem is mostly with the labels, not the concepts. Essentially, there are three concepts that differentiate a particular sub-code of language based on the social context of its use. 

The distinction between lexical and grammatical aspect is not particularly relevant when it comes to cross-linguistic comparisons. Each language has a number of ways of describing events with respect to their duration, completeness, repetition, etc. which is broadly labelled as aspect. Sometimes aspectual meanings are separated from other types of meanings (like mode, manner, time, sequentiality, evidentiality, etc.), more often they are blended together. Each language has a unique blend of these expressions that determine what gets routinely said by its speakers. Each language forces speakers to make different commitments as to what is specified and what is not. This could be at the level of grammar or lexicon or somewhere in between. (One of the reasons 'construction' is a better model for this than grammar or lexicon.) For instance, most Czech deverbatives contain information about progress or completeness. So for instance, there are two different ways to say 'Shopping is tiring.' that clearly indicate whether it's the process or the complete event. In English, there are ways to express that distinction but they would require a discursive solution. What happens, however, is that most of the time English speakers just don't bother. It's not information that is all that relevant most of the time to Czech speakers, either. But the language forces that commitment. When you're translating, you may discover that this commitment makes things difficult. This is something translators deal with every day. So, in this sense, languages are broadly commensurate when it comes to the communicative needs of their respective speakers. But they are not commensurate when it comes to replicating each other's grammatical commitments. 

The largest Czech monolingual dictionaries do report gender but they are a bit unwieldy for the learner. Some of them are now available to search online. The best for look up of gender is here with the added advantage of being able to look up any form of the word and seeing all the other possible forms. There are no English equivalents in this dictionary. 

Which one of these I choose depends on background knowledge as well as what sort of thing I'm trying to analyze about the conversation. Am I trying to look at traditional truth-conditional values of each conversation? Then most likely, 2 is the answer I will find more useful. Am I trying to analyze presupposition or power relations? The it will be one of the others. The one downside of Grice's maxim's is that often what is useful about them is lost in pointless quarreling about irrelevant minutia. 

The plural politeness (or T-V distinction as it is sometimes called) first developed in European languages in Latin. It has spread through language contact to other European languages. For instance, English was influenced by French post Norman conquest. Developments within individual languages have transformed the T-V expression of politeness/formality/social distance in various ways. For instance, making the plural 'you' in English the only form of address, using 3rd person plural in German (and from German extending it to Czech in the 19th century only for Czech to go back to T-V). Or the development of pan/pani (Mr/Mrs) + 3rd person sg in Polish. 

I think you're combining three questions. 1. Can you learn to speak fluently without speaking? The answer to this is obviously NO. You need to practice what you want to do. You can learn to read fluently without being able to speak very well (I've taught courses doing that), although you need to learn some sort of subvocalisation. But obviously there are fluent readers of dead languages like Ancient Egyptian who don't speak them. 2. Can you learn to speak fluently without visiting the country where that language is spoken? The answer to this is obviously YES. Champollion (the man who deciphered the Rosetta Stone) could famously speak Arabic fluently enough to confuse native speakers without ever visiting Egypt. And this was before audio recordings were available. But he kept diaries in the language and practiced all the time (I assume with native speakers but I don't know if that was the case). 3. Can you improve your spoken language by reading? The answer to that is also YES. Reading will expand your vocabulary and your grasp of the idioms and underlying constructions of the language. Ideally, you will want to combine this with speaking practice so that you can translate this knowledge into conversation. Reading will also give you cultural background to the language that simple exposure to it by living in the country will not. Imagine how much you have missed by not growing up in the country. Books will contain so much of that background knowledge. But so will films and TV shows, so I'd recommend a combination of both. [UPDATE] It is also important to note that living in a country where a language is spoken does not guarantee that you will learn to speak it at all, let alone with any degree of fluency. Other things to remember are that there are many languages (most languages in fact) that are only spoken by relatively small communities within larger countries so living among them is not as visiting a country and takes a lot more effort to make happen. Finally, fluency and language competence in general are fluid concepts without clear boundaries, although there are certain folk pre-conceptions. 

This question has been dealt with in literature on grammaticalization. The Wikipedia entry has all the detail to get you started on further research. In short, there are a number of processes through which lexemes lose their original meanings and through processes like enclitization become morphemes. We can even see some of these in progress as in the English will going from will=want to 'll. This type of development has been famously summarized as: 

This looks very similar cross linguistically, although, some sets that are incomplete in one language are complete in another. E.g. Czech: 

There is no straightforward definition of what constitutes a native speaker. This is partly because there's no straightforward definition of what constitutes a language. There are vast differences between the ability of even highly educated monolinguals to utilize the complete resources of a given language. Once you factor in education, register and dialect, you're in a right mess. It is easy to differentiate between native and non-native speakers at the extreme ends of the scale but in between you have to look at: 

One of the benefits of lexical sets is that they make communication possible across dialects and IPA conventions without positing a single reference dialect which would also have to include an idealised speaker of that dialect. If you say, dialect X has pronunciation Y for vowel X, you may not know what you're talking about because of the way IPA is used as well as the great variation across dialects.The lexical sets also don't just correspond to individual sounds but rather to collections of words that have a particular sound which can generally be identified. The distribution of the vowels is also not uniform. So you cannot say, in dialect X, replace ɑː with æ but you can say that BATH and TRAP vowels have merged. Or you could say, that some speakers pronounce the i in the HAPPY lexical set as schwa without saying anything about the pronunciation of i in general. None of these things are an issue with consonants. The IPA is consistent across all dialects, the variation is less and the distribution is more uniform. So you can say things like in context Z, consonant X is pronounced Y. (E.g. intervocalically, voiceless stops are pronounced as glottal stops). Having a lexical set here would only confuse matters. It seems that what you want is simply examples of consonants in English. And those, of course, are readily available.