I am going to attempt a weak answer, mods feel free to delete it, but I'm fairly certain I'm right. Shortly - no. It's not possible. Even if you balance gravity and centrifugal force perfectly at ground level at the equator, they will very, very quickly become imbalanced as soon as you move north, south, or up from there. So quickly in fact that the gradients may be too big even for a human being not moving at all. Maybe if you're laying down, with your body oriented along the equator, but even then I think the gradients would be too big. Maybe bacteria would survive, briefly. I'm sure the math could be done quite easily to estimate the gradients. This is based entirely on intuition. 

It is also possible to build everything from scratch, including making the lenses and/or mirrors yourself from a piece of glass. But that is a MUCH bigger commitment, and a much more long-term project (a few months to a year). 

If the black hole is rotating, things are a bit more complicated. This is an object described by the Kerr metric, and it has two important surfaces: the usual event horizon, and the outer skin of the ergosphere: 

Okay, so that's a 130 mm newtonian with an f/5 focal ratio. Per the manufacturer's website, it comes with two eyepieces, 10 mm and 20 mm, giving 66x and 33x magnifications respectively. First off, make sure your scope is collimated. The procedure is described in their generic Telescope Maintenance document, and also more specifically in the Astromaster Manual. See links on the site. The performance of your scope when observing planets depends a lot on collimation. I made it a habit to check collimation every time before I use the scope; I'm so used to it that it only takes 5 minutes now. The topic of collimation is huge, just google "telescope collimation" and learn. I'm still learning new things after years in this hobby. Once the scope is collimated, you could try to push magnification even higher, by using a 2x ... 3x barlow with either of the eyepieces - that would double ... triple magnification. Please be aware that more magnification is not always better; for any observation there's an optimal magnification, not too big, not too small. But I doubt your scope would do well above 200x, even though the theoretical limit is 260x. Probably not worth trying anything beyond the high 1XX values - that is, for your eyepieces, a 3x barlow. For the Moon, any magnification works. Low magnification gives you broad images with lots of stuff to see. High magnification zooms into particular details. Good collimation is critical. For planets, it depends. Saturn looks good at any magnification. If you can see the rings, the shadow of the rings on the surface of the planet, and the main split inside the rings (the Cassini division) then you're doing fine. It doesn't have a lot of detail to justify very high magnification, unless you're looking for the finer ring divisions, but your scope can only see Cassini. Jupiter is a bit tricky. It has enough fine detail to justify high magnification, but it has low contrast - and then as you increase magnification it gets more washed out, more dark, and hard to see. "Medium-high" magnification works best. Just try different eyepieces, with and without barlow, and see what works best for you. It also helps to keep your eye at the eyepiece, keep tracking the planet, and let your eye adapt - in time your brain/eye system will start pulling more detail out of the image. It takes me at least 2 ... 3 minutes to start seeing the really fine stuff there. Mars - don't even bother unless it's at opposition. It only looks good when it's closest to Earth. The next Mars opposition is in July 2018, so there's a bit of wait until then (will start to look good a few months before that). Even then, you need several things to see Mars well: 

No. It's entirely your subjective perception that has changed. The Sun is pretty close to a black-body radiator. That means the amount of energy we receive from it depends on two factors: its temperature, and its apparent size (the angular size of the solar disk as seen from Earth). The apparent size of the Sun has obviously not changed. Way too many things would go completely haywire if that happened - I'll leave that as an exercise to the reader. Its temperature has not changed either. This could be measured in various ways - but there's another way which is simpler: this being a black-body radiator, its temperature and its apparent color are correlated. The color of the Sun has not changed, obviously. TLDR: The Sun is still working as it always had. 

EDIT: As shown in the comments, it's more accurate to think of Alpha Centauri as not a single soccer ball, but instead a larger soccer ball and a volleyball separated by a few hundred meters - it's a double star. Then Proxima Centauri would be a pingpong ball hovering 100 km away from Alpha. 

Longer focal length eyepieces will naturally have bigger field stops, keeping everything else in proportion. Eyepieces with a wider field of view will also require a bigger field stop. IMPORTANT: the field stop, obviously, must be smaller than the diameter of the barrel of the eyepiece, otherwise it would not fit in. This is what dictates the lower limit for the diameter of the barrel. The barrel must be bigger than the field stop. You need to increase the barrel diameter when the field stop grows too big. So, when you stick to short focal length eyepieces with a narrow field of view, the required field stop is pretty small, and it can easily fit into a 1.25" barrel. But with longer focal length eyepieces, especially with modern eyepieces with a wide field of view, the field stop can grow pretty large, and eventually becomes bigger than the 1.25" barrel. That's when you need to move up to a 2" barrel. That's what drives the need for larger size barrels. Long time ago, there used to be eyepieces with 0.965" barrel diameter, because back then opticians didn't know how to make wide field eyepieces. Then the field of view kept increasing, so opticians moved up to 1.25". Eventually the newer 2" standard was adopted, as the field of view kept growing. At 32mm focal length, a Plossl eyepiece with a 52 degree field of view can fit in a 1.25" barrel, but a more recent 68 degree design requires 2". Nowadays there's a new standard emerging, with a 3" barrel diameter, imposed by the very wide field eyepiece designs invented recently. At 30mm focal length, an eyepiece with an 82 degree field of view could use a 2" barrel, but if you demand 100 degrees FoV at 30mm, you need to move up to 3". Of course, larger barrel diameters make heavier and more expensive eyepieces. So you need to mix and match. At smaller focal lengths, the 1.25" barrel works well. For longer focal length eyepieces, as you move up in terms of the size of the field of view, eventually you must switch to 2". If you only use Plossl eyepieces, you can have all of them in the 1.25" format, because even at the longest focal lengths that make sense in practice, the Plossl field of view is narrow enough to not require a big field stop. As a practical example, my collection of eyepieces currently is about evenly split between 1.25" and 2", with the 2" barrels being reserved for eyepieces over 18mm focal length. All my eyepieces have an 82 degree field of view. 

For the planets and the Moon, what's important is the so-called seeing, which is the inverse of turbulence: $URL$ When seeing is good (turbulence is low) then you can push the magnification all the way up to the limit. When seeing is bad, you have to reduce magnification, or else the image is soft and foggy. Mars only works well with the best seeing; it is possible that seeing might be consistently bad for the whole duration of an opposition - or it could be consistently good. It's weather basically, so it does whatever it wants to do. Use the Clear Sky Charts site to get a seeing forecast: $URL$ On that site, select a location closest to your home. Use the Seeing line in the chart for an estimate. Keep in mind this is weather forecast, so it's not always 100% accurate, but usually it works well enough. When seeing is good, observe planets. When seeing is bad, observe DSOs (deep space objects, like galaxies, nebulae, star clusters). Light pollution does not matter at all for the planets or for the Moon. You could observe these objects from the biggest city and they look about the same. 

"Allowed for" does not mean "necessarily cause". What the professor implied is that the solutions look, from a mathematical p.o.v., just like what you would expect from a bridge between universes - IF multiple universes exist, and IF the bridge is passable. That's all there is to it. A mathematical solution that looks like a bridge. But has it ever been verified experimentally? No. Do we have proof that other universes exist? No. We have the math that describes what looks, for all intents and purposes, like a door. But is the door separating this room and another room, or is it just a fake door built into a solid brick wall, like in movie comedies? We don't know. Would the door open at all? We don't know. Has anyone actually seen such a door yet? No. That doesn't mean the professor was wrong. It only means this is just a hypothesis at this point. We don't know yet if reality matches it or not. 

It is safe to observe anything during the day, as long as you don't point the telescope close to the Sun. Just stay away from the Sun and you'll be fine. Be careful to not accidentally swing the tube in the direction of the Sun. E.g. Mercury is pretty hard to observe at other times than during the day (or dusk), and yet astronomers have been observing it for a very long time. One trick that works is to stay in the shade of a tall building, therefore screening off the Sun, but obviously in such a manner that the object you want to observe is still visible. You can almost always do this, unless the object is very close to the Sun, in which case you may want to cancel that observation altogether. 

Otherwise it just looks like a red dot. Seeing will affect all solar system objects (Moon and planets). When seeing is bad (when atmosphere is turbulent), any object will look bad. It depends on the weather - not just weather at ground level (what you think of as "weather") but weather in the whole thickness of the atmosphere, all the way up (the stuff only airplane pilots usually care about). If you live in North America, the Clear Dark Sky site can give you a prediction of a few parameters including seeing. When seeing is bad, high magnification is worthless (the image is fuzzy and keeps shaking like jello). Another thing that helps: if there's a large temperature difference between inside and outside, leave the scope outside for a while to catch up with the air temperature. This will reduce internal turbulence and improve image quality on planets. I always leave my scope at "outside" temperature for about 1 hour before observing. When there is no temperature difference between inside and outside, then don't worry about this. This is like seeing (turbulence), but inside your scope. Please note that light pollution has absolutely no effect on solar system objects (see below re: light pollution). Even when light pollution is very high, the Moon and the planets still look the same. Dark adaptation does not matter for solar system objects (see below re: dark adaptation). You don't have to be in a dark place when observing them. I've looked at Saturn from a sidewalk under the bright lights downtown (city center), with cars and people passing by - no problem. 

Using this technique, the distance from Earth to Moon can be measured with very high precision. This is the APOLLO system in action: 

Chris, you are actually on the verge of understanding how special relativity works. You're very close. You only need to take one extra step. 

For pulsars the relation is complex. The magnetic field tends to "freeze in place" after the star collapses, but I'm sure there are all kinds of perturbation mechanisms that may change its initial orientation. For blackholes (the Kerr-Newman metric, rotating and charged black hole) the relation is very simple: the rotation axis of the BH and the symmetry axis of its magnetic field always coincide. $URL$ There is a simple and intuitive justification, although perhaps not rigorous. If the magnetic field was not aligned with rotation, the BH would appear to be "blinking". But a BH cannot "blink", nor can it otherwise send any signals to the external universe. Therefore, its magnetic field axis must coincide with its rotation axis. 

Now here's the essential detail: no matter what other curve you're trying to obtain (parabola, hyperbola, ellipse), for the purpose of making telescope mirrors all these curves are very close to a circle, within a fraction of a micron. So a typical process has an initial goal of making a sphere (cross-section is a circle). This is not mandatory, but it's easier to first make a sphere, and then apply "corrections" to it. You can definitely make a parabola directly, but the process is more complex. For telescope mirrors, the parabola that's needed is basically a circle that's deeper in the center, and more shallow towards the edge. So, if you start with a spherical mirror (circular section) and use polishing strokes that tend to deepen the center in a gradual way, you can get pretty close to a parabola. This is known as a "parabolizing stroke". 

Congratulations on taking the right steps. Many, many people don't care about collimation, and it's so important for overall performance. Keep that scope collimated. The tuBlug is an excellent tool for collimation, it makes the process a snap. Great choice. Catseye is another great collimator, but if you have the tuBlug and a Glatter laser (one of the most precise lasers out there, BTW) you probably don't need anything else, unless you have some extremely low f/ratio on your scope (not your case). I use the tuBlug every time I do an observation. It's taking maybe 2 minutes to do the adjustments. Totally worth it. 

A coma corrector is used in some cases, such as the TeleVue Paracorr, but I strongly recommend that you DO NOT use one - I suspect your instrument is aberrating in ways that overwhelm coma anyway. Jupiter would not be too blurry even at full f/4 coma at the edge. This paragraph is for informational purposes only. Coma should become a concern with large telescopes, using high quality optics, with a focal ratio of around f/5 and less. E.g., you have a 20" dob with an f/4 mirror, then you should worry about coma - provided that collimation and so on are taken care of. Optics quality An f/4 parabola is not super easy to make at any size. I've made my own optics, and the lower the f/ ratio, the more difficult the process is. Many small, cheap telescopes are made in a hurry, and the difficult focal ratio poses additional problems - as a result, many manufacturers do a poor job. There are even cases where the primary mirror is left spherical, with disastrous results. This is something you can do nothing about. If the primary mirror is bad, then that's just the way things are. An optician might try to correct it, but it's a difficult process, and quite expensive. I only added this here so you are informed. 

EDIT: Saw your comment below. It's an f/4 parabolic mirror, you're always going to have coma at the outer edge. But the center should be aberration-free if the scope is collimated. Beware - it's an inexpensive scope, so depending on your luck some residual aberrations may remain even after perfect collimation. But that doesn't mean you should stop trying to collimate it. On the contrary, the better the collimation the better the performance, always. 

If you have a telescope and use it often, there are things that you could definitely contribute. Discovering new comets is still something that amateurs do well. Tracking variable stars is also worthwhile. 

You'd have to line the surface with something reflective to microwaves, like a metallic mesh, or similar materials. Secondly, the shape of the crater is probably not quite ideal, so it would have to be adjusted a little, carved up a bit in various places. But it's a good start, and definitely better than starting with a flat ground. There is also the question of stability - you need to make sure that whatever changes you make (carving a different shape, lining it with mesh) do not affect the stability of the crater, or else various parts may slide or collapse. This is an engineering problem.