This article investigates the ocean's dissolved carbon content (ocean reservoir) and the seafloor's methane hydrates ("methane ice") as a source of CO2 fluctuations in ice cores. They discuss three ways the ocean may release CO2. 

Sound travels fastest through warm air and conditions such as temperature inversions can help to amplify the sound of thunder (source). Conversely, during a thundersnow event the falling, and accumulated, snow can act as an acoustic suppressor (source). Originally I was thinking that the loudest thunder at ground levels would simply be at higher elevations, however the atmospheric conditions mentioned above, and others that I'm not aware of, have me wondering where the loudest thunder would actually occur. 

The rupture velocity of earthquakes is another factor that determines the magnitude of a tsunami. The term tsunami earthquakes was coined by Hiroo Kanamori in 1972 to describe when an earthquake having a slower rupture velocity (~1km/sec), compared to a more normal velocity (2.5-3.5 km/sec) of a typical earthquake, causes a tsunami greater in magnitude than expected. This paper investigates the effect of a horizontal movement of sediments due to an 1896 earthquake that may have created a tsunami earthquake. 

I'm not sure if this is a standard per se, but I found it useful. These definitions are from a 1923 publication of the United States Department of the Interior entitled Outline of Ground-Water Hydrology. Here is the link to the PDF and the specific definitions below can be found on pages 57-58. Hope this helps. Perennial: 

Meteorological seasons are based on temperature, whereas astronomical seasons are based on the position of the earth in relation to the sun. So meteorological winter is the three coldest months of the year (December, January, and February) and meteorological summer is the three warmest months of the year (June, July, and August). More information can be found on this NOAA web site. 

Australia does have chromium ores. This table from the World Mineral Production Report (2011-2015) published by the British Geologic Survey shows that chromium ores were mined in Australia as recently as 2013. 

I also found this in an article from currentaffairs.gktoday.in where the lead paragraph, without a citation, concludes with: 

The Deep Water Horizon oil spill occurred in 2010 and is known as the largest marine oil spill ever. I heard on the radio the other day, from a not so reliable source, that contaminant levels have dropped in the 90% range since then due to naturally occurring organisms that feed off the hydrocarbons. Is there any good current research out there now that shows what current concentrations are compared to what they were after the spill? 

Short answer is no. Earthquakes often occur in clusters but the problem is there is no way of knowing when the largest quake has occurred until the series of quakes is completed. Studies in fault areas measuring changes in magnetic fields, changes in the local water table, radon gas and radio wave emissions have shown to not be reliable indicators of an impending earthquake. The United States Geological Survey (USGS) has a publication discussing the possibility that animals feel earthquakes before people. The basic premise is that animals can feel the P waves, the fastest waves coming from an earthquake, that few humans can feel. However, a baseline behavior for each animal would need to be measured and the stimuli that an animal would react to would have to be present before the earthquake. So again, animals are not a reliable precursor to an earthquake. Given no reliable indicator of an impending earthquake, the most important development in saving lives is the use of early warning systems. There are several countries that have been implementing these for years including Japan, Mexico, and China. Many seismologists believe that a warning of up to a minute could be given. Three of the many factors that determine the effectiveness of an early warning are: 

In a general 40 mile radius of Keokuk, Iowa many sedimentary geodes can be found. They are abundant in the Warsaw Formation with the type section at Geode Glenn in Warsaw, Illinois. In one specific area in Hancock County, Illinois geodes filled with oil can be found. 

I do realize that some news organizations and publications will over-exaggerate these results, and some may try to ignore these results, based on their political views (and possibly those of their audiences). What I would like to know is whether or not nitrogen weathering from rocks would change any of the projections of climate models, and if so how? Update: I came across a Chemical & Engineering article with statements from two biogeochemists on the implications of these findings. One states that constraints on plant growth under high CO2 conditions may not be as large as we think with the knowledge of this addition nitrogen source. One the other hand, the other states that nitrogen from rock weathering is likely too small on a global scale to make a difference that would fall outside the margin of error of current climate models. Perhaps it's just too soon to tell what the implications may be. 

Earlier this year 'river-effect' snow was reported in the Quad Cities (Western Illinois) along the Mississippi River. Per the local news report: 

Source: $URL$ The first time I heard our local station talking about slight, marginal, and enhanced risk I had no idea which was worse- nor did anybody else around me at the time. After doing some research I understand the differences but still don't necessarily remember which is worse, whereas the previous slight, moderate, and high risk categories were pretty much self explanatory. What additional meteorological information is presented in the additional categories that may affect how the general public reacts to the threat? I'm also wondering how these categories compare to the information given in other countries? 

I doubt your rock is a septarian concretion, as shown in the picture below, but I'm having a hard time finding any other images of concretions similar to your rock. 

This rock looks very similar to a Petoskey stone which is the state rock of Michigan. The rock is made of the six sided coral Hexagonaria percarinata. They were deposited in this area during the Pleistocene glaciation around 2 million years ago. This fossil is distinctive of the Travis group strata in the Petoskey and Charlevoix regions of Michigan. They come in many sizes and the hexagonal patterns really pop when wet or polished. More information can be found at the wikipedia link below. 

Intermittent streams are divided into spring-fed intermittent streams and surface-fed intermittent streams. 

The soil and rock type are one factor that determines the amplification of the shaking. In general, the softer the underlying material is the greater the shaking. This table, from the USGS, presents the velocities of 5 soil types in the San Francisco Bay area and their shear velocities. 

Just based on my previous experiences a wetter snow, in general, has larger flakes. Some online sources say that raindrops do have a maximum size before they start to break apart when surface tension can no longer withstand air resistance, however the maximum size of a snowflake is less defined (1&2). One source also states that light winds and a wetter snow is more conducive to larger flakes because the light wind helps keep them from breaking into pieces, and the additional moisture creates a film which helps the flakes stick together (2). I understand that it may be difficult to measure a snowflake before it melts and that may be why the only non-confirmed size that I have found is from the 2014 Guinness Book of World Records of an eye witness account in 1887 of a snowflake 15" wide by 18" deep (3). So my question is twofold: 

The above quote is from the Geological Time Conventions and Symbols manuscript from 2011. More detailed discussion can be found at this source. This Science Blogs article from 2009 has some interesting discussions regarding this issue. 

I've seen a few articles lately about research published in the Journal Science that concludes that 26% of the nitrogen in the ecosystem is from rock weathering. These results seem to fill in a nitrogen gap when analyzing the amount of nitrogen in soil and plants from the atmosphere alone. From here I've noticed a little bit of divergence in the reporting of the results from different sources. The American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) article seems to basically just quote from the Journal Science article: 

Looks very similar to the mineral jasper. Jasper is a microcrystalline form of quartz commonly known as chalcedony. The reddish color in your sample is likely due to the mineral hematite (iron oxide). Some consider jasper a rock since it often contains impurities. Jasper has a white streak which can make it hard to see on a white plate. 

There are two papers produced by the NOAA's National Weather Service investigating the claims regarding the Bering Sea Rule (BSR) and the Typhoon Rules for long range forecasts. Some insite for your immediate questions: 

This appears to be an irregularly shaped concretion. According to the National Geologic Map Database there is a Geologic Map Unit named Terlingua which contains some thin layers of concretionary limestone. This map from the same publication shows the rough extent of the appearance of this rock unit. 

Low visibility, say <1km (3300 ft), can be caused by fog when there is no/little wind present. On the other hand, high winds associated with blizzards or wildfires can also create low visibility environments. Living in a temperate climate I'd be inclined to believe that a lack of wind is the most likely cause because fog seems to be more common, however I'm not sure if this would be the case when other latitudes are also taken into consideration. 

The United State Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) uses six indices to determine the overall health of a watershed. 

The slower the shear wave velocity, the greater the shaking. Source: $URL$ Additionally, the composition of the rock that the seismic waves are travelling through is a major factor in determining the speed of the waves. Two rock properties that determine the speed of the waves are reflection and refraction: Reflection 

Flash Flooding: The first thing I would do is establish who is responsible for maintenance of the ditch. The capacity may need to be re-established or increased if run-off from additional developments have been added to it. If increasing the capacity of the ditch is not an option, I would see if I could construct either berms (a slight rise in topography) or swales (a minor trough in topography) to direct the water away from any structures on my property. However, you would need to make sure that you are not increasing flow onto any other neighboring properties or impeding flow from any other properties. Ponding: 

Judging by the appearance it could be either quartz or calcite. Try scratching it with a steel nail or knife blade. If the rock is scratched it is likely calcite. If the steel nail/knife doesn't scratch the rock it is likely quartz. This is because quartz is a 7 on the Mohs hardness scale, calcite is a 3 on the Mohs hardness scale and a steel nail/knife is around a 6. 

Both mega-annum(Ma) and mega-year(Myr) designate one million years. The distinction is that Ma is used to designate the time before present or geohistoric dates and Myr to designate a duration or span of time. So if you want to say a rock is dated to 10 million years before the present you would use 10 Ma, and if you want to say that a rock is 10 million years old you would use 10 Myr. There has been debate among scientific disciplines to simply adopt Ma as the standard unit. However, the distinction that geologists have been using to distinguish between dates and durations for decades can best be illustrated as such: 

Again, I would definitely contact the local jurisdictional authority before I do anything. There are many government agencies that have codes that need to be met. Additionally, they would know what works best in your area and may have subsidies that would help defray costs. 

Source: $URL$ More detailed information about how each one of these six indices is analyzed can be found at this link. Here are two examples of these types of watershed index reports: $URL$ $URL$ 

I image most people have heard stories of fish, frogs, or other small animals raining from the sky. I found quite a few articles on line with many instances of such occurrences but they were mostly from historic times and often from second or third person accounts. Then I came across this article from National Geographic which mentions two more recent accounts. The first they mention is a fish drizzle which occurred in Lajamanu, Australia in 2010 and the second is a frog fall which occurred in Odzaci, Serbia in 2005. Both of these events seemed to be backed up by meteorological claims of either tornadoes in the Australia case or waterspouts in the Serbia case. What I'm curious about is: 

I have only found two other short articles of 'river-effect' snow which occurred along the Missouri River in South Dakota and over the Ohio River in Cincinnati. Both of these events occurred in 2014. My question is if there are any other reports of this phenomena world wide and has there been any research published? 

Unfortunately, I'm not able to find the source of the research backing this statement. It seems plausible that oil from an overlying formation could be the source of the oil in the geodes and enter the geode via the pore space or any cracks. Please correct me if this supposition is off base. I've also heard that oil filled geodes have been found in quarries in eastern Iowa. However, I have not seen evidence of these geodes myself or seen anything written about them. My question is if anybody could provide any information about oil filled geodes from any other locations globally? Revision: I discovered another location associated with the New Albany Shale in Kentucky where geodes containing bitumen have been found. There is also a geochemical report investigating the source of the bitumen included with this publication. Hopefully there are still more sites out there or are the conditions that create these geodes really this rare? 

In the United States the National Weather Service (NWS) Storm Prediction Center (SPC) now has 5 categories for the threat of severe storms. These five categories replaced the previous three categories of slight, moderate, and high risk in October 2014. 

Judging by the cleaved surfaces and shape this looks like a piece of rhombohedral calcite. Just to make sure, try scratching it with a steel pocket knife. If the knife scratches it, it is likely calcite. If the rock scratches the steel blade it is likely quartz. You can find more information about calcite or quartz on wikipedia to help make a determination. Besides any sentimental value, there isn't much financial value. Here is a link on etsy showing a piece similar to yours and what they're asking for it. 

Although not a geologic map this site has a nice map of mines for silver, gold, copper, molybdenum, and zinc. Below is a screenshot of just a portion of the pdf you can download. 

I've found 2 sources stating that there is new water being formed on Earth. The first site states that it is coming from hydrothermal vents in the sea floor. The second site is basically saying that new water is being generated through biological processes. However, to me, this just seems water that is already here coming up to the surface in the case of hydrothermal vents, or the rearranging of atoms into water molecules through biological processes that are already here on Earth. Maybe this explanation is just semantics, but I'm also wondering if new water is coming here from meteors/meteorites. To me that would be new water on Earth. Is there any definitive proof of new water being formed on or brought to Earth? 

Source: $URL$ There are many factors involved in determining the magnitude of an earthquake with underlying sediments and rock being one of the major factors. This is not an exhaustive list of all those factors but hopefully it points you in the right direction for an answer to your question. 

You may want to take a look at fluorite. What's throwing me off is that you say this specimen scratches corundum? Corundum is a 9 on the Mohs scale and fluorite is only a 4. If you are unsure of this you could try scratching this rock with a steel pocket knife. Since the steel knife is ~6 on the hardness scale it should scratch this rock if it's fluorite. If not you can rule out fluorite. Additionally, fluorite fluoresces (glows) under uv (black light). Here is a link to more information on fluorite and the source of the image below. 

Looks like the rock could be a basalt porphyry. The matrix appears to be basalt (see diagram below for mineral make-up) with phenocrysts (the large crystals) of potasium feldspar. It is really hard to tell for sure with just a photo, but this diagram could help you out with the mineral composition of each type of igneous rock. 

Estimated warning times for locations at different distances from the earthquake epicenter. Locations within 20 miles of the fault will likely not receive any warning as, on average, it will take 10 seconds to detect and locate the earthquake. Source:$URL$