I imagine that these chickens were plucked in order for one to tell that they had "curly yellow fat" or were "bony". 

Other than race, one key difference between the two institutions was that serfs were obliged to do military service: 

I don't know much about ancient Egypt but presumably we now know more than Adam Smith. So I was wondering to what degree is the above quote true? This page for example says its wasn't a "rigid inheritance". 

What were the effective dates of each of these two laws? I am asking for purposes of my academic research, which relates to the history of the American family. 

For example, on October 1st 1949, the People's Republic of China (PRC) was proclaimed. Would hundreds of millions of people then suddenly have switched from being citizens of the Republic of China (ROC) to the PRC? I was inspired to ask this question because Tu Youyou has been heralded as the first science Nobel Prize winner from China (presumably meaning the PRC). But Yang Chen-Ning and Lee Tsung-Dao also won the Physics Nobel Prize in 1957. According to Wikipedia, both moved to the USA in 1946, but became US citizens only in 1962 and 1964. So what was the citizenship of these two men when they won the Nobel Prize in 1957? The PRC or the ROC or something else? 

1959 national referendum: Rejected 66.9% to 33.1%. Introduction of Women's Suffrage at the Cantonal Level. 1959: Vaud and Neuchâtel. 1960: Geneva. 1966: Basel-Stadt. 1968: Basel-Landschaft. 1969: Ticino. 1970: Valais, Lucerne, Zurich. 1971: Aargau, Fribourg, Schaffhausen and Zug. Feb 1971: National referendum passes 65.7% - 34.3%. The Appenzells only gave women the right to vote (cantonal) in 1989 and 1990. 

One possible example is the Ecuador-Peru war of 1941. Were there others? Just to be narrow/precise, restrict attention to any wars that were ongoing any time between Sep 1 1939 and May 9 1945. 

I know little about North Korean history, but their official narrative and what I had also believed is that - long story short - Kim Jong-Il basically just inherited his dictatorial powers from his father, as per his father's wishes. There does not seem to be anything on the Wikipedia page of either Kim Jong-Il or Kim Il-Sung that contradicts this "long story short" version of North Korean history. Yet, I was surprised to read in Jang Jin-Sung's Dear Leader (2014) that there was in fact a vicious power struggle. So my questions are: (1) Is Jang correct? (2) If he is correct, was this already common knowledge amongst students of North Korean history, and just unfamiliar to the broader public? Or are these new and surprising revelations? Some excerpts: 

Based on what I've found, I would say that it was a combination of factors that all amplified each other. The conquest of Albania was particularly brutal compared to the rest of the region, and was furthermore contested through the revolt of Gjergj Kastrioti Skënderbeu, which lasted from 1443 through 1468. Even by that time, the region of Krujë had developed into one of the more important subaşilik (an Ottoman gubernatorial region) centers in the Balkans. This basically devestated the area, and led to the emigration of thousands of Albanians to the north (there seems to have been a very large émigré population in Naples because of this)1. Over the next couple of centuries, the remaining Albanian population was further diluted through the immigration of Muslims from elsewhere in the Ottoman empire. This trend of population movement is noted in many of the contemporary writings and also in traditional accounts of the expansion of Islam into the Balkan regions2. These demographic trends would have amplified each other as areas with large Muslim populations tended to both serve as magnets for further Muslim resettlement and accelerated the pace at which the rest of the population converted to Islam. This makes quite a bit of sense if you compare it to large regional ethnic concentrations in the United States for example, and I would imagine that similar social dynamics would have been at play. This is actually evident in the tax records for the region, in particular records related to the cizye, or tax on non-believers (thank you Ottomans for keeping good tax records). Population studies based on these records seem to confirm these types of concentrations3. In addition, this link gives a pretty good summary of the literature and is worth a read. 1 Jelavich, Barbara, History of the Balkans: Eighteen and Nineteenth Centuries, p 34-5 2 Norris, H. T., Islam in the Balkans: Religion and Society Between Europe and the Arab World, p 141-5 3 Minkov, Anton, Conversion to Islam in the Balkans: Kisve Bahas ̧petitions and Ottoman Social Life, 1670-1730, p 43-8 

He eventually arrived in Le Harve on June 20th, after brief layovers in Santander and La Coruña in Spain and Plymouth, England. The picture below purports to be of the Ypiranga entering the Le Harve harbor with Díaz aboard. 

I think that the evidence strongly indicates that such an offer was at least (perhaps disingenuously) discussed. 

The closest Indian source we have to the period is the "Arthashastra" by Kautilya, who some identify as Chandragupta Maurya's (340 BCE – 298 BCE) minister. To be clear, the Battle of the Hydaspes River is not mentioned in this work; I only point it out because it is a rare example of writing near the relevant period. It is worthwhile to note that even the Greek accounts of the battle are secondary: Arrian wrote his account hundreds of years after the fact, albeit he used sources (now lost) that were written closer to the time of the battle. Unfortunately, it seems that Greeks are the only source of information on this battle. References William Woodthorpe Tarn. The Greeks in Bactria and India (1966). Walter Schmitthenner. Rome and India: Aspects of Universal History during the Principate. The Journal of Roman Studies, Vol. 69 (1979), pp. 90-106. 

The Bactrian Greeks weren't exactly the same area and time as the battle, but this quote points to the paucity of evidence during the era. Schmitthenner (whom I was referred to by this interesting article on Ancient Indian sources) has a strong opinion on ancient Indian historiography. 

Finally, I did manage to dig up a primary source document indicating the same thing. In the "Minutes of the 37th Imperial War Cabinet, Minute 8" (a 50 MB PDF), the British clearly intended to at least allow India to make its wishes known with respect to German East Africa. 

The Fanshawe that Gupta talks about was the Chief Secretary to the Punjab Government and Commissioner of the Delhi Division. He wrote in the Punjab Municipal Proceedings 53A/July 1902. I haven't checked the source documentation myself, because I don't have access to them. 

He goes on to quote "The International Status of India (1931)" by Lanka Sundaram, which provides the closest secondary evidence I could find of this discussion: 

Yes, surprising as it is, I found credible sources indicating that there was some discussion of offering India East Africa as a mandate. Perhaps it is useful for others who wish to read more about this a full detail of my sources. In "How India Became Territorial: Foreign Policy, Diaspora, Geopolitics (2014)" by Itty Abraham, I found this quote: