Plausability There are other methods of sleep, see polyphasic sleep schedules, where you can sleep for multiple periods of time instead of once or twice a day and still get the needed REM cycle. Here is a site with some various polyphasic sleep cycles. The side effects seem minimal, but most concur that a full 8 hours of rest is better than short periods of rest. 

.5 Any sealed water container filled with fresh water pre calamity and unbroken. Will humanity recover? No, unless there are additional magnitude 9 earthquakes that reform landmasses without killing off the original survivors (of which there need to be at least one male and one female that are viable partners). This disaster would revert the world back to the stone age basically (further probably) since there would be no electricity, no TP, no gas, no tools (unless you saved a towel or hammer(which doesn't float very well)), no fire, no agriculture, etc. 

Any entrance/exit/doorways windows/viewing opening Space being a vacuum The type/amount/duration of damage being inflicted 

Desalination- Involves heating saline water, collecting the steam/condensation Polar Ice caps- Glaciers store about 69% of the world's freshwater, so find a hunk of ice and melt it. Freshwater underwater- There are freshwater springs under the ocean, find one and stick a straw in it. The article/reference mentions: 

In a civilization, some people are born with the innate ability to do magic (say like Harry Potter universe). All the people, magical and non-magical, have personalities like those in today's world; magic users aren't inherently evil, but some are...there are also those who are extremely good. No physical trait or characteristic distinguishes a magician from a normal human. Why would those without magical abilities fear/avoid, hate/shun, hunt down, or discriminate magic users? Would it have to be a massive almost world taking over event (like the Holocaust)? Semi-related question but on racism 

Metal The ability to control metal would be quite effective with the amount of metal there is in the world (cell phones, cars, parks, wheels, etc). This would also allow him to stop bullets if he was shot at. See Magneto from X-men for further reference of possibilities. Other Powers Gravity- Increase gravity to crush your targets. Increase or decrease around the to stop bullets from reaching him. Force- Force choke, lightning, push, pull, etc. See the game Forced Unleased if you want specific ideas of what you could do. Air- Steal the air from people's lungs, cut people, or push people (off of, into, or in front of things). Side note depending on how he manifests his powers he could have any number of super powers and no one would know who was doing it and then couldn't shoot him. 

First, one comment: The question sounds as if the magic from D and D is being used, rather than a magic system more useful for a book. A lot will depend on the cost of magic, or rather the mages that cast combat spells. If they are expensive, this serves the defender who can offer a mage a comfortable living environment and good pay for little work only in defense. If the magic includes clairvoyance and other ways of information-gathering, then it will be difficult to sneak up on a city defended by mages. One thing that I've seen few books address is that tactics would change if magic is a part of war. If fireballs are so useful against a stone wall (not that I think they would), then the walls would be built differently. They would be warded. Perhaps the very shape of the walls would be different to reflect the difference in combat. Likewise, the concept of a siege might change. If there are ways for the defending mages to produce food and water for the people, a traditional siege might take too long for the attacker to use. It might come down to magical battles between the two groups of mages. And, given powerful mages (why aren't they ruling the world already?), I would think the attacker would do better sneaking in a mage or two before he brings his army in. Then the attacking mage that is now inside can wreck havoc and let loose whatever he has. Or perhaps the attacker could buy/extort one of the defending mages with the same result. Even worse than fireball would be some form of teleportation. I cringe at stories where the spell for teleporation is unlimited. I can think of so many ways to use this in combat that it would change everything. 

Kitsune come from the Japanese legends. One origin I've heard is that if a fox survives to be 100 years old, it gains a second tail and the ability to turn into a human. And yes, no fox-ears, though the shadow of the tails and sometimes the tails themselves become visible if they lose concentration. They are typically mischief-makers rather than evil. For your version of Kitsune, she might initially steal these items of clothing, and pay victim back once she has money. Pretty much any job is open to her. I like the suggestion of her working at a manga/comic book store which her ears and tail(s) would be seen as an elaborate costume. A few random Kitsune things: Tom Smith has a great song, "Kitsune and the Master of Zen." It is a great example of the shaping game along with more innuendo that I could ever put into a song. When I use them in games (I used to GM a lot, and they can make great player characters) not even the player knows if they are women who can turn into a fox, or a fox that can turn into a woman. 

Freshwater Assuming the several magnitude 9 earthquakes, resulting tsunami's, and general destruction somehow didn't kill you and destroy any flotation device; there will only be 4.5 viable ways to get fresh water. 

If you look at Europe countries can get pretty small. Theoretically, North America could contain hundreds of countries. If you wanted maybe a more realistic number you can counted just the states/provinces of Mexico (31), United States(49-not counting Hawaii), and Canada(10) there could easily be 90 nations/countries. Wikipedia describes nation-building: 

Based on the assumption that this human can just fly and is invulnerable (can't be damaged) without any other powers this is quite simple. To neutralize is to render (something) ineffective or harmless by applying an opposite force or effect. If the human is average in other regards all you need to do is to contain and/or restrain him. This could range from a straight jacket to solitary confinement. Depending on how much he can lift while flying to bring the man down might include heavy nets, ropes, or missiles (he can't be harmed but the force of an explosion could knock him down). If the goal is to kill the man I think suffocation or drowning would be the best options. 

While most Mexican states don't have their own flags, each US states do and the provinces of Canada do. There is also already a vague ethnic diversity among the states/provinces, you can tell where someone is from just from their accent, slang, or language. Also to take into account is the Native Americans who were here before colonists. Their land could have become a country if colonists respected their land/rights more. 

Chicken Slayer Buy a chicken farm, and kill lots and lots of chickens, thus increasing his mana reserves and strength. Then once he has gained sufficient strength go out and slay a more powerful. This is under the assumption that like a video game doing anything gets you experience and power. Chickens are a slow way to gain power but they are easy, cheap, and good practice. 

I would address both questions with the same solution. To host more and more people underground mine the rock (carve out chunks) where you want another room or where you wish to enlarge a cavern. With the mined rock, you can then build defenses (walls, rock-fall traps, ammo for catapult/slingshot, etc). 

This is even worse. You are having character go back in age. The only way this makes even a little sense to me is if they truly go back to that age. This means that they have no memories of anything beyond their younger days and don't realize anything has happened because for them it hasn't. In other words, why should their bodies be extremely selectively changed merely because they've go to a universe with a different rate of time? 

What about a Bussard Ramjet for power and propulsion? I don't know if this would work in reality, but it's been used in enough SF novels that I'd accept it as a reader. Quick definition: When the ship is going fast enough, a magnetic shield/funnel takes hydrogen ions from "empty" space and compresses them until they fuse. In some stories they use excess to refill their fuel tanks. And you do need fuel, since the ramjet doesn't work until you're going fast enough. Examples of stories that use it: "Tau Zero" by Poul Anderson, and many of the early Known Space stories by Larry Nivens (the Pak used them also). How could I forget this one, "Mayflies" by Kevin O'Donnel, a story about a generation ship. Mayflies follows the generation ship from the start to the finish of the journey, though the POV jumps in time so you get to see major societal changes that occur during their extremely long trip (the ramjet got turned off early and couldn't be turned back on again until near the end of the book). The ship was huge, and like yours started from a relatively small population and it grew. I don't remember what the target population was though. 

I don't think that magnets are the best tool for the job. Most nanotech conceptions seems to imitate physical devices like gears and machinery. I would hold your nanotech creations together with "hooks." Each generalized part of the swarm would have specialized protrusions to allow members of the swarm to physically fit together. Think of them like nano-Legos. Two points: First, I think that the devices you're named are larger than nanotech and more in the realm of microtech (the size of a bacteria). The normal surface properties that we think of at our size change when things get small. An interesting take on this is the book "Bug Park" where the technology involved are drones the size of insects and the difficulties in walking them around because at that scale different forces dominate. Second, there are many current weapons which will deal blows more powerful blunt force than a war hammer. A .50 caliber machine gun packs a huge punch. An anti-material weapon would probably do this also. While melee weapons look good in movies and video games, I don't see them as being a major part of modern warfare. Our distance weapons are too powerful and too useful. 

The simplest solution: Slime sealant Similar to what is used in tires to fix holes. When there are no holes it sits on the inside of the armor. When there is a hole the slime will get sucked out (by the vacuum of space) and harden (chemically?). This will only be a temporary solution though and won't last forever. Replacements With a smart system, and an armor system made of up equally sized segmented parts, when the exterior receives damage then said segment(s) could be discarded and replaced by new piece(s) until the new pieces run out (from storage/armor repair layer). You would need an additional minor armor/layer of protection to protect against radiation. 

Dog are man's best friend. Just bring them into the shop at closing and lock the doors. They have keener hearing and much better noses for smelling trespassers. They can also be quite fierce and drive away sneaky thieves. Then there could be physical protection like complicated locks, metal bars, or multiple security points (different locks). Pay protection money to the thieves so that you aren't a target at all. 

Depending on the craft shape they could use an underwater launch system. There is a system that in theory can shoot supplies into space and the cannon is mostly underwater. Basically a long barrel (submerged underwater except for the end) is used to fire the spacecraft, like a gun, into space. This type of system would not require land and could be modified to launch various sized/shaped spacecraft. 

Depending on the height of the floating landmass they may not receive much rain. Rain clouds (stratus) are at 6,500 ft (1.98 km) or lower. Landmasses above this may not receive much rain, and any lower than 2 km would block portions of the earth from receiving rain beneath their floating mass. However thunderheads (cumulonimbus) can reach up to 50,000 ft (15.24 km) and have hail, lightning, and torrential rain. So with this type of cloud it is fully possible for higher floating islands to receive heavy rain and other intense weather conditions. Floating islands present a different condition than mountains which have a base and cause air to go up cool and lose its moisture. With no base the islands won't catch as much air (and their shape may not be conducive in making air rise) so most weather should be natural and unaffected by the floating islands, ie carried by the wind. Especially the smaller islands, if they range from , then you can compare them to hot air balloons or planes which are bigger than a car and don't affect the weather at all. Something else to keep in mind is the freezing level, about 2 degrees C per 1000 ft (.31 km). So if on the surface its 75 deg F (23 deg C) the freezing level is about 11,500 ft (3.5 km). Any floating island above this height will most likely not have rain but snow and ice.