Having read through the answers, I haven't seen a managers perspective. Let's say I have 5 developers. They are meeting deadlines, no major issues, etc. However the total time at work per week for the group is around 160 hours. In that situation I'm firing one of them. Why? Simply put I have more capacity than I have work and that excess capacity is expensive. It makes far more financial sense to have just the 4, even if I pay them a bit more. FYI - my background is 20+ years in development, 15 of those managing others. Plus another 8 owning a company. The manager is right. If you are frequently not in the office and only working around 6 hours a day then the other workers (especially non-developers) will likely feel resentment of the fact. Especially if they have to wait to talk to you because you are out "running errands" pretty often. The other workers know you are an expensive resource, and some will likely already harbor some level of resentment. By not being at the office during normal business hours you are rubbing it in their face. For a company, having developers is not a privilege; I have no idea where you got that from. It sounds like you have a nice cushy job, so it's up to you whether you want to blow it. 

About 3 months ago we moved into a new space. I ended up putting my desk against the wall simply because that's where the plugs are. Honestly I hate it and your question just reminded me of that fact ;) What I don't like about it: 

When you accept a job, the company pays you for your time. As long as the type of work is what you agreed to, it shouldn't matter who is benefiting from your time. If the company decides that the project you are to work on is for the benefit of the other team then it shouldn't matter to you at all. Your manager is going to give you tasks/projects to handle. So I'm not entirely sure what it is you are trying to avoid. If your manager believes that you should spend time on the other teams projects, then that's his/her decision. I'd find it highly unlikely that this would occur but if it does you could certainly discuss it (at that time) with your manager. Essentially - Don't make this into something it's not. At this point you don't actually know what tasks you'll be assigned. If the other team starts approaching directly you for help then you could certainly bring that up with your manager. Again I wouldn't do this before it even happens. 

That part is a problem. No one should be sidestepping your manager to assign tasks. Doing this says that they have no faith in your manager to perform their duties. That said, it does open up a possible line of communication. You need to maintain your own timeline for task completion. You know that your manager is going to assign tasks, so account for it. When the big boss assigns you a job you can certainly tell them when it will be completed. If they ask why it might take longer than they expect, let them know what your workload is, including the tasks assigned by your manager. 

I'll make this one extremely easy for you. If Sales says they have a high priority item then that's your top priority. If Engineering comes in and says their stuff needs to be worked on first, have them talk to your boss. Sales people ask for things for two reasons: Either they are trying to close a deal or they are trying to make sure a client is happy. At the end of the day both of those are critical items to an organization and everything else is just detail. In every company I've worked with, the person who consistently made sales happy was noticed. If you ask a CEO what the single most important job title was in their organization it would be "sales". Without it, you don't eat and bonuses never materialize. Also Sales people will use your name in front of those that matter. Quite frankly the only requests I'd put above their's would be ones from the CEO. Engineers, well, they grumble a lot no matter what and seem to forget those that helped them along the way. Which makes it trivial to decide the group to consistently side line. 

No, that is not the next step. What do you really think going to management to say that your coworker is working for free is going to accomplish? At best management will ignore you; at worst they'll tell the coworker to make sure they bill for that time then wonder why you aren't billing 60 hours a week as well. Point is, this is between the client, management and the coworker. If at some point management asks why it takes you 3 days to accomplish what your coworker does in "1" then feel free to bring up how you don't work for free. Until then, stop worrying about what people who do not report to you are doing and focus on accomplishing your tasks. 

I'd leave an never look back. That said, I don't live anywhere near there so this is a complete outsiders point of view. First off, I wouldn't want to raise a family in an area that is not only dangerous but also one in which I couldn't support them. I'm not sure about you, but that would be demoralizing to me. Even being a "partner" or having recently received a raise is meaningless if you can't afford to pay your own way. I wouldn't call that a great opportunity. Next, economies with super high inflation tend to get a LOT worse before they get better. There is a lot of pain that the Venezuelan government needs to go through in order to get the economy back in order. From what I've seen news wise, and with a bit of history as a guide, I just don't feel like this is going to be solved any time soon. Also, I wouldn't feel bad about being the reason several people joined that company. Everyone is responsible for their own decisions and you likely presented things truthfully at the time you brought them in. Presumably they live and work in the same area you do so they should have the same information from which to make their own decisions. The world has now changed for you and it's perfectly normal and acceptable to reevaluate your personal goals. If you decide to leave they will make up their own minds about what to do. 

Without seeing his work, I can't comment on whether his input is useful or not. However, I can point out what a UX expert doesn't need to know: the implementation details. In other words, they don't need to be able to put HTML or CSS together. However, they do need to know how screen layout, including things like color and font choice, can impact usability. These items might appear to be "artistic options" to you, but can have an impact on a persons ability to quickly perceive what they need to do on the page. Even just a line in the right place can help break areas of the screen up into something much more readable. How I would approach the situation: Have him create a mockup. He should be able to do this with just pencil and paper. Bonus points if he can use something like Photoshop to put the right colors/fonts in, but that's not necessary. Once done, he should present this to the group and be able to walk through the process flow. Your job then would be to point out any missing features like "how do you delete a document?" Do so in a professional way without attacking him. Make sure he has the full expected feature list prior to drawing the mockup. Once you have an acceptable mockup, have one of your devs through together a few screens that have the look. Then step through that, making some minor tweaks. This should result in a decent screen layout your team can throw the code behind. Execute on it, even if you think that picture in the top left corner isn't necessary. Management will judge him on it later and you'll have the documentation showing how you followed his direction. However, if he is not able to even use pencil and paper to draw his ideas or is incoherent then you need to discuss this with your management.