This is what I've found in the wonderful world of the internets: $URL$ Personal experience living in the USA for 22 years says that there are more issues with thorn bushes than with stinging nettles. Most poisonous plants I've run into are low to the ground. If you wear pants (and are not extremely sensitive), you're almost always fine. Also, on a side note: most hiking trails are poison-ivy free, as long as you stay on the trail and don't wander off. Unless you particularly enjoy brushing your ankles along the greenery, the hiking trails should keep you pretty safe. 

If you're lost in the wilderness (and you've foolishly left behind your handy dandy water purification tablets and water filter), what are some of the best and safest ways to purify water? What do you do if you don't have a metal pot to boil water in? 

The main reason people usually share best practices orally and in person is because the experienced climber can correct the mistakes the student will make. No matter how good you are at reading, translating potentially life or death skills from a page to the rock wall is no sure thing. Some things can be learned by reading, but it will only take the smallest mistake to kill you or someone you're climbing with. Use resources like the above with a big grain of salt. 

Most small tents these days are pretty easy to set up, but you will have to do a little more than just "throw it at the ground". :-) In the US, we have a retail chain called Walmart that sells pretty cheap stuff. This is where I would go. I don't think they're in the UK. Maybe you have something similar. Some things to look for: 

You can make your own easy enough. Just print onto a clear transparency (used primarily in overhead projectors). Tape that onto some clear plastic (can purchase at Home Depot and maybe art store). 

As @wedapashi already stated, permethrin is a very good choice. And even though it's an insecticide, I find it works well as a repellent also. I treat all my clothing (even socks and underwear) and gear. I can't even remember the last time I found a tick on me. Even keeps the mosquitoes away. Once dry, it's safe for all animals (except insects). Permethrin is not new. It's a synthetic version of what's found naturally in marigolds (pyrethrin). It's currently used by the military when washing uniforms, and also sprayed on orchards and farm livestock. You can buy it in small aerosol cans ($$$), or buy it concentrated on Amazon ($) and use a garden sprayer to dilute & apply it. I would avoid using DEET if at all possible. DEET is toxic even to us. If you do use DEET, don't use anything greater than 20-30%. Higher concentrations DO NOT provide more protection, but may melt any plastics you have on you, and/or remove any paint (latex) that may be hit when spraying. 

Being in the military, I particularly like the idea of Challenge Coins (if you have the funding to put into it) as a geocaching reward. Places like this ($URL$ let you make your own, or you could consider buying a pre-made coin. They're small and pretty fun to have. I would definitely save them for a tougher find though, as they can cost 2-3 USD a piece. 

I'm in the slow process of acquiring all of the gear I think I will need to do a week-long backpacking trip somewhere in the Midwest. Many of the more experienced backpackers I've spoken with or read about say that you should test your gear out before you take it on the trail. I want to test out my setup without breaking it, and hopefully without taking up too much of my time. What do you recommend as a thorough yet reasonable test for a backpacking setup? I want to develop a backpacking and camping routine with my portable gear but don't have much experience with anything other than car camping. What are your tips and tricks for backpacking success? EDIT: The gear I have that I would like to test out includes (but is not limited to) the following: Gregory Baltoro Backpack, sleeping bag, tent, stove, water filter, first aid kit, knife, machete (possibly not included), water bottles, and a cheap, bulky sleeping bag pad. I suppose I probably need to assemble a mess kit, acquire cooking supplies, and select clothing before I'll be able to do a full test run. 

Just saying what time you're expected back isn't enough. If I'm going in an area that has any level of danger, I tell people when I expect to make contact, and when to call 911. 

All 4 major carriers have either implemented or are implementing text-to-911 service. U.S. mobile providers commit to emergency texting service In the event that this doesn't work, you can always text a friend or family member. They can then call 911 for you. If they are in a different area, then they will be transferred to the correct area. 

As for different animals, or yourself, marking their territory, I think the only time that makes a difference is when the two animals are in competition with each other. A bear or mountain lion will have a large territory marked that they hunt within. However, a raccoon may occupy a smaller territory within a bears territory. The bear will ignore any raccoon markings since they don't compete for the same food. And a field mouse may have his own territory marked within the raccoon's. 

Once you make it to step four, you can follow most any guide to wilderness survival and reacting to being lost. The first three steps, however, are those that I would prioritize as the most important. 

Bug Spray: Unless you're backpacking in and are extremely weight conscious of how much you're carrying, if you think you might need bug spray, why wouldn't you bring it? Better to have it and not need it then the other way around. How to stay cool when climbing: Wake up early and climb from sunrise until it gets hot. Then, take a break through the heat of the afternoon and start climbing again in the early evening. Hydrate often and hydrate a lot. Sweating will keep you cool up until you hit dehydration (to a point of course). Dehydration is not a fun thing to pair with climbing or the great outdoors. General Tips: Make sure a couple of your friends and family members know where you are on this trip and when to expect you back. Have a backup plan in place in case one of you is injured bouldering (how will you get home with a sprained ankle or broken wrist?). Also, if you plan on trying some really challenging problems, I would recommend bringing a crash pad with you. It could save you some pretty hard landings and let you climb more difficult routes in a much safer way. Biggest Tip: Bring someone with you who knows the area. Having a resident pro can be invaluable. 

I haven't tried @Vorac answer, but it sounds interesting. I'm not going to say if popping a blister is correct or not. But, if you do, this is how I was taught to pop a blister: Get a needle (sterile of course) About 1/3 of an inch from the blister, insert the needle under the skin towards the blister. When it reaches the blister, remove the needle. There is now a small path that will allow the blister to drain. You may have to exert some pressure to squeeze the pus out, but not much. Doing it this way greatly reduces the chance for infection. Protect the now drained blister with a bandage, mole skin, or tape. 

Forget the DEET. That's for mosquitoes, and it's not a repellent, but rather it interferes with their sense of smell so since they can't smell you (food) they don't bother you. It's also toxic. Citronella is not a repellent of any kind. Smoke from Citronella candles is a repellent (downwind from the candle). Smoke from ANY candle is the same repellent. There have been many, many studies on this, but the legends live on. What I use is Permethrin. This is an insecticide (meaning it's designed to kill) but works good as a repellent as well. It's a synthetic copy of a natural compound, ‎Pyrethrin, found in marigold flowers. It's mostly used to spray orchards. It's also used a lot in dog flea control medicines. The stuff binds to materials, so keeps working even when dry. When sprayed onto clothing, it will continue to work for months, even after washing. The military even washes their uniforms with it. Once dry, it is odorless, colorless, and doesn't effect the feel. Basically, you won't know it's there. It will leave a residue on glass though. Safe for clothing & gear. I spray all my outdoor clothing and gear every spring, then need to reapply it in the fall. You can find it in cans at REI and other outdoor stores. I buy the concentrated stuff off of Amazon, then dilute it and apply it with a garden sprayer. I've been using this for years and am very rarely bothered by bugs. Btw, if you spray the perimeter of your house, it's pretty good at keeping bugs out. WARNING: While it's still liquid, this is very toxic to cats and fish. Once dry, it's safe. 

The main reason it's buried is to keep it from washing into water supplies. The ground provides natural filtration, where surface waste is fully exposed to the elements and can flow along the surface until it reaches a stream or pond. Yes, digging holes might be bad for one plant, but it's a whole lot better than polluting a water supply that animals (or even humans) might consume or people might swim in. You could bag it and take it out with you if you really want to, but you aren't doing much harm if you dig appropriately sized holes. Besides, plastic bags are worse for the environment than holes in the long run. 

I think the reason for this difference in slipperiness is purely a factor of surface material. Most foam pads have a tacky surface finish. Inflatable pads, on the other hand, usually have a sturdy synthetic fabric as the surface. Fabric on fabric (sleeping bag on inflatable pad) will stick less than fabric on foam, unless the fabrics have been treated somehow. This is a legitimate effect to notice. I'm sure that somewhere on the internet you can find a coated inflatable sleeping pad, however the gain of friction on your pad will then come at the cost of additional weight. 

You asked about equipment & training. What you didn't ask, but may be useful is where to hike and who to hike with. There are hiking & outdoor clubs all over the place. Most of them will accept beginners. Start on easier hikes and work your way up. You'll also get a chance to ask others on their equipment choices. To find these clubs, just do a google search for outdoor club and your city, or try meetup.com Have fun! 

There are many, many state, national, & BLM parks, reserves, forests, wilderness areas, recreation areas, refuges, & conservation areas with a 3 hour drive. I don't know which ones allow wild camping, but seeing how many of them allow backpacking, I would guess quite a few. You may need a permit first. I wish I could tell you exactly which ones may work. If you find some, please post it back here. Another option, if you a have a large number of people in your group, is called group camping. This is usually an area close to, but separate from, the traditional camping spots. Spots like these are made to handle a large number of people, maybe 15-30, depending on the site. They will have a fire ring, but no set tent spots. You set your tent wherever you want. Often have permanent pit toilets. No showers. And far enough from other that playing music and/or loud talking won't disturb others. Whatever you do, PLEASE, PLEASE, be careful with campfires. Everything is so dry right now because of the worst drought since '77, that even a hard look may start a fire.