I will focus here on the first part of the question, which pertains to Putnam's argument to the effect that "meanings ain't in the head". I take this (rather than functionalism) to be the main issue. 

Bergson's thesis was not that time is space-like, but that time understood "in the common way" is space-like. Bergson argued that practical reasons cause us to regard time as space, but that strictly speaking, the thesis that time is space-like is not merely wrong, but self contradictory. Influences from Aristotle and Kant can be detected in Bergson. For example, Bergson's reaction to Zeno's paradoxes is similar to Aristotle's: that motion is essentially continuous, and cannot be broken into separate moments. 

The Consolation of Philosophy is a classic book, written by Anicius Manlius Severinus Boëthius in the 6th century AD. Boethius lived in the time of the fall of Rome. He was both an important philosopher (among other things, he began the project of translating Aristotle's works to Latin) and a high official, both in Rome and with its Ostrogoth conquerers. But due to some unfortunate occasion, he became suspected as a spy for Byzantine. He was arrested, imprisoned, and later executed. It was during his imprisonment, that Boetius wrote The Consolation of Philosophy. This lovely little book is written in alternating prose and verse. It tells that, in his prison cell, Philosophy itself, in the image of a goddess, is revealed to Boethius. She reprimands him for his melancholy. Step by step, she reminds him of his philosophical teachings (Socratic and Platonic, mostly), and about what they entail about the real meaning and value in life. And thus, according to the book, Boethius is gradually letting go of his melancholy, and attains happiness in the midst of his misfortune. The Consolation of Philosophy is said to have been widely read throughout the middle ages and the Renaissance. For some reason, it became less known later. Boethius himself was a christian, but his book is neither christian nor religious, but purely philosophical. A taste of Boethius's philosophical verse (translated to English by H.R. James): 

Premise: Country-X is in a War on Terror (not a War on Terrorism). Country-X incarcerates greatest % of its population compared to all others. Imagine taking a dog and putting him in a small concrete cage with no windows, a tiny LED light inside, and a feeder to keep him alive. Leave him there alone for as long as he lives. Imagine doing that to another human. Imagine if that human was you. That is something you are extremely fearful of. That is terror. The dictionary indicates that terror is extreme fear. So, is Country-X at war with itself? If so, is Country-X engaged in civil war? 

"Insofar as" is the terminology you are looking for. This terminology enables one to say " to the extent or degree that [K] is", per your example. Philosophers use this terminology all the time. 

First, concerning objective criteria in philosophy. Philosophy seeks truth in an area where conclusive evidence is not achievable. What remains possible is to construct theories, and support them (inconclusively, but still under objective and rational constraints) by arguments. Also involved are counter arguments, arguments for and against the presuppositions of other arguments, auxiliary theories, and so on. All this is hardly ever settled once and for all, yet it is (at least partly) objective, subject to various tests of coherence, logic and rationality. Second, concerning the "celebrity status" of the "great philosophers". Western philosophy has been moving, for more than 2000 years, in a limited conceptual area, almost without empirical input, on the basis of pure reason alone. Countless smart people have been dealing in philosophy throughout these years. All this adds up to the realization that genuinely novel ideas in philosophy have been extremely rare. That is, I think, why the very few people, throughout history, who actually had the privilege to conceive of new philosophical ideas, are being treated somewhat like great literary authors and great artists. Their writings are being taught and researched repeatedly, to keep live connections with their extremely rare and often elusive innovations. Still, all this has to be separated from authority. There are no authorities in philosophy. Nobody has authority over philosophical truth, because philosophical truth is just truth. No one is becoming a "philosopher" just by studying philosophy. Yet it take several years of study, before one can get one's bearings in the field. It needs learning and internalizing, somewhat like learning a new language. Philosophy cannot, in this sense, be done from outside. 

Intimate relationships are known to lead to murder. All homicide investigators immediately seek information on the deceased persons lovers. Those lovers are then the initial suspects. This is what the pro's [the detectives] have learned to do. Most other activities showing a strong correlation with death/imprisonment are outlawed. Is it unethical to educate our children with the idea of prince/princess/happily-ever-after love? It seems to me that educating them that they are to expect any sexual partner to ultimately seek sex with others best prepares them for what is to come and deflates the passion that would otherwise lead to violence. Are there any philosophical voices out there on this subject? 

Under promising and over delivering is an ego friendly state of mind. Knowledge of the challenge weighed against ticking time is frightening. The reason that past success is not comforting is because past success is no guarantee of future performance. Not sure how but I think that a well knows psychology from the investing community is fitting here, namely, that it is easier to hold a loser than a winner. Holding an asset that has lost value is relatively easy because (1) You are not a fool unless you sell and (2) It's easy to believe that if you have patience things will turn around. Alternatively, it is extremely difficult to hold a winner because (1) you are a fool for not taking gains and (2) that profit can evaporate in a second. 

While the sense/denotation distinction applies to proper names and definite descriptions, expressions that purport to represent particular objects. 

From within a wide offer, here are references to two classic philosophical works, that discuss predestination and freedom extensively, one ancient and one modern: 

Apparently not enough remained, to assess how far Protagoras and others went in purely philosophical skepticism. In general, anyway, unlike the later school of skeptics, the sophists were not inclined to immerse themselves in logical skeptical arguments. Instead, they preferred rhetoric over logic, and they taught young men how to use rhetoric for practical success, in private and public life. 

Wittgenstein begins the Tractatus with a treatment of facts. Not phenomenal facts, not natural facts, just facts in the abstract. Quite a bit later, and quite suddenly, he begins to identify facts simpliciter with the facts of natural science. How is this identification to be understood? I don't recall that Wittgenstein gives any positive characterization for natural science. He goes the opposite way: all the sentences that are not semantically problematic, by his lights, he groups indiscriminately under the term "natural science". "Philosophical" sentences can be problematic in two ways, as suggested in the above remark: 

If you would rather not get directly involved in the wrongdoing that you are witnessing, then film it or otherwise make known (accurately and honestly) who did what. This way, society can rely on the usual reputation of individuals to punish the wrongdoer and deter others from wronging similarly. Simply speak out publicly, such as Online, about these types of events in general. This option avoids becoming directly associated with the specific instances witnessed while still potentially having an effect on society in general. 

The basic premise here is that there are more ways to have a positive effect on the world than directly getting involved in specific instances of wrongdoing. Sometimes just bringing an issue to light, especially if you have clear evidence of the wrongdoing and a clear argument as to why it is wrong, can make a big difference in the long run of society. The history of humanity will always have wrongdoing in it. In fact, these events may even be necessary since we learn from our mistakes -- and without mistakes, we can hardly learn. Pointing out mistakes can go a long way, even when done after the fact. On the topic of Trump and Hillary, if you honestly would rather not vote for either, then another option is to speak out your reasoning. Explaining why you do not accept either candidate lets others in a similar situation know they are not alone. For maximum effect, be honest, clear, and well-composed. Remember: The long term is bigger than the short term; you may not be able to change a particular election cycle, but you can still have an effect on society. 

For a relatively short introduction, I'd recommend Heidegger: A Very Short Introduction. And for a longer, but relatively easy commentary on Being and Time, I'd recommend Hubert Dreyfus's Being-in-the-World: A Commentary on Heidegger's Being and Time, Division I. I wouldn't recommend reading Being and Time itself to beginners. Beside using a difficult language, it is actually a book that defies much of previous philosophy. So it has little point if you are inexperienced in philosophy. 

Yes. Both features of the relations of ideas, analyticity and a-priority, are spelled out in §30 of the Enquiry, a bit after the one you quoted from. Hume associates relations of ideas with demonstrative reasoning: 

The concept of Concept is a very peculiar, basic and general category for Kant. And even more so for Hegel. The concept of Essence, for either Kant or Hegel, is by comparison standard, less basic and more specific. It is one (relatively basic) concept among many. Essence, for either Kant or Hegel, means roughly the same as it did for Aristotle. It is the essential property of a substance i.e. of an individual object. Such as the essence of a human being is being a rational animal. When Hegel writes: 

Objects are said to be in scope when they are known. The former is a declaration the latter a method. 

Plato describes a noble lie in Republic as a falsehood which should be perpetuated for a greater good. I am thinking of a marksman that leads his moving target such that his shot is accurate. The marksman is not lying to himself, he knows that he must aim ahead in order for the shot to hit his target. What does reliance on a lie say about a group? Looking at my USA passport I see proclamation of lying (bending our world) by a Texan and an appreciation of what our world is from a Mohawk: 

Plato's Republic. Translated by G. M. A. Grube Revised by C. D. C. Reeve. Hackett Publishing. Note, you will find yourself reading the same paragraph 3 times. This book is akin to taking the Red pill. The cave allegory is legendary. $URL$