It is true - the process is called habituation. It depends on how frequent (odor exposure [or sniffs] per minute) a smell is registered. Habituation can last from less than ten minutes up to at least 30 minutes (Chaudhury et al., 2010). As mentioned in the link, different parts of the olfactory system appear to be involved, but it is mainly explained through receptor activation on the cell membrane of neurons. There is a limited number of receptors that wait for signaling molecules or odorants (odor molecules) to attach, much like the game musical chairs. Habituation is thought to be more a product of receptor activity at neurons that transfer the information than sensory neurons that receive the odorants. With time, receptors go back to their original states. Whether this differs by scents depends on several factors. There is great variation in individual scent acuity (see Kandel et al., Principles of Neural Science (5th ed.), ch. 32) from human to human, but frequency of exposure is a likely candidate, as well as salience - how strongly a smell affects us. We are more sensitive to smells that provide an evolutionary benefit by promoting survival, such as the smell of a burning forest. Perhaps habituation is less likely if it does us more harm than good. 

For more reading, see: Baars, B. $URL$ Dehaene, S. & Naccache, L. (2001). Towards a cognitive neuroscience of consciousness: basic evidence and a workspace framework Eds. Bourget, D., Chalmers, D. [maintainers], & Isham, E. A. (Ed.) Papers Related to the Science of Consciousness 

Sources Das Bundesarchiv (2011). (Nicolai M. Zimmerman, Ed.) The list of Jewish Residents in the German Reich 1933-1945. Retrieved from $URL$ version: $URL$ Das Bundesarchiv (2013, July 15, 12:20). Responsibilities. Retrieved from $URL$ version: $URL$ Das Bundesarchiv (2016, April 27). Gedenkbuch. [Memorial Book]. $URL$ Wrocklage, U. (2006). [Media Portrayal around 1933. Continuity or break?] Presse und Bildberichterstattung um 1933. Kontinuität oder Bruch?, in: Ulrich Rüter (Ed.), "Think while you shoot". [Martin Munkacsi and the modern picture journalism] Martin Munkacsi und der moderne Bildjournalismus. (pp. 74-85). Hamburg: ConferencePoint. Reprint in: [Studies in Contemporary History] Zeithistorische Forschungen (Eds. Sabrow, M., & Kleßmann, C.). (2015) $URL$ 

First of all, efficient left-foot braking does typically require that you're not also on the clutch. In F1 cars, the clutch is controlled by either of two paddles under the "gear up" and "gear down" paddles, and so it's more natural to give the left foot responsibility for braking. As an aside, the average F1 steering wheel, with multiple electronic linkages to the transmission and powertrain, fuel injection system, brake balance system, front and rear wing adjustments, communications system, various LCD readouts including upshift and pit cues, and the fact that like everything in the cockpit it's custom-made for the driver out of the most lightweight materials, costs in the neighborhood of US$50k. With a clutch pedal on the floor, you typically have to press both clutch and brake at the same time as you're both slowing and downshifting for a corner. The GT and rally drivers, who start with production vehicles and can't make extensive control setup mods like paddle shifters, do put in aftermarket clutches and make very precise adjustments to the pedal throws, giving the clutch, brakes and accelerator the same throw length (short). The pedals are also placed very closely together, allowing drivers to use an "overlap" position of their feet on the pedals; press the outside of the right foot for gas, press the outside of the left foot for clutch, press the inside of either for brake. This in turn more or less allows the driver to use whatever foot's handy to brake, left or right. If they're off the accelerator and downshifting for a hairpin, right foot. If they're slowing for a chicane or a drift turn but still under power, left foot. In the average civilian vehicle, these adjustments aren't available; the pedals are spaced further apart (especially for large American clod-stompers), differently-shaped and differently-placed, and have different weights and throw lengths. Despite this, Rally Racing News recommends left-foot braking when driving a front-wheel drive car in a racing scenario. The basic idea in a FWD is that when both brake and accelerator are applied, the front wheels keep turning despite the braking, because they're under power, but the rear wheels slow, and so lose some of their traction, causing the rear end to kick out (oversteer; a hard thing to do in most American FWDs, which are strongly biased for understeer for safety reasons). In a rear-wheel-drive car, this effect is even more pronounced but for the opposite reason; the car slows, transferring weight to the front wheels, and with the rear wheels still under power from the accelerator they will lose traction, kicking out the rear end. This in fact makes RWD cars really sensitive to applying brakes, accelerator and steering wheel at the same time; the general strategy in a RWD is to brake before beginning to turn, shifting weight to the turning wheels, then turn and accelerate through the corner as you straighten out. Braking while turning hard will cause the rear tires to lose too much traction, putting the car sideways in the corner, and when you add accelerator to try to power out of it, the car will swap ends. 

Notes *Concerning the title of the document, it is not to be confused with the list itself. It provides a detailed description of the register, its sources, and its purpose. Concerning the author of the document. Nicolai M. Zimmerman refers to an employee at said institution. The document properties state the author as "Das Bundesarchiv" and the document is issued by Das Bundesarchiv. "The Federal Archives have the legal responsibility of permanently preserving the federal archival documents and making them available for use." (Das Bundesarchiv, 15.06.2013 12:20) 

Sweden had at most a record of 89.4% marginal tax in 1979 (Figure 1), the same year the Swedish author Astrid Lindgren wrote her fictional essay (in which the calculations do not add up because the protagonist cannot count). Her essay prompted a change in government. Hence, the observable peak in the graph below. 

Quite the contrary. Current neuroscience research aims to build models of cognition, including consciousness (subjective experience, awareness, wakefulness, etc.). To some extent, sensation has been dealt with, but perception is more complex and cognition even more so. 

—The Federal Archives. Henceforth: Das Bundesarchiv (2011), p.3 I interpret the second question as asking "Did the minorities believe that the intentions of the Nazis were sincere?". As I alluded to earlier, the 1933 census form uses the classification of Jews based on religion. This is in no regards different from the 1925 census (Das Bundesarchiv, 2016, April 27). One is then left to consider, that the only observable change for a person, belonging to a minority in Germany in 1933, concerns the impression of the government at the date of the census: June 16 (cf. Das Bundesarchiv, 2011). In no uncertain terms was the persecution of Jews a covert procedure. Pictures from Berlin on April 1, 1933, show German-English signs with the words: 

The same happened to Norway in 2012, and they also issued an apology to the Sri Lancan government: From the Sri Lankan Ministry of External Affairs site: 

Moreover, during the entire Korean war only 5 US ships were sunk by the North Koreans, all of them were minesweepers that hit mines: 

Consensus statement on concussion in sport: the 4th International Conference on Concussion in Sport held in Zurich, November 2012: 

And at the end of the article she calls it placebo and suggests that studying this phenomena would help up use this effect to better people's life. 

disclaimer: Occasionally we get questions on this site that ask for advice for personal situations where only a professional familiar with the exact and full details can help, those question (usually of the medical nature) get closed because they don't have an actual claim in them. In this case there is a claim and the claim will be addressed, but it's very important to emphasize Consult only professionals regarding life and death situation, don't trust unsourced and/or anonymous posts on the internet. end of disclaimer 

Electricity doesn't move at the speed of light, only light (photons) moves at the speed of light, and the speed of light changes in different materials. This is the only point where I agree with the source. While electrons move at very high speeds, the "current" is their drift speed, which is much slower (I don't know if they are right as to the speed is several cm per sec, but it changes with the magnitude of the applied field, so obviously, the current speed will change, whether you apply 1.5V of 1e5V on the conductor). If there is a text book saying that electrons move at speeds close to the speed of light without saying that the current doesn't flow at that speed, than that textbook is wrong. Explanation on drift speed vs. speed: Electrons move in random directions in very high speeds. When we talk about the current speed, we are talking about drift speed. The electron moves in different random directions inside the material, then collides with another particle, loses all it's speed and starts moving in a new random direction. When an electric field is applied, then the electron will move slightly more to a single direction, and thus drift in that direction. This is also why the current speed and not acceleration is relative to the force applied. A good video explaining this subject Final conclusion: What we have here is a post (and I would even go so far as call it a rant) that kids smaller than 14 aren't taught university undergraduate and graduate level physics, with all the fine nuances. While in some cases the source may have merit and a viable point if it was addressing that non-physics students (like EE, CS, MEC and others) are taught over simplified physics, the source doesn't address them, but, instead addresses small children in elementary school. Even if to claim that this is addressed to grown people who don't work at physics related jobs, or have physics related occupations would be, it would still be way too petty, as people who don't need the exact details, could be left very well with a basic understanding of the subject. You can't explain physics at the level that the source demands without a lot of time being spent at explaining and learning all the subjects that are needed for a full and real understanding, including high level math, basic (university basic = high-school advanced) chemistry, and the physics that is at the core of those laws, including, particle physics, relativity theory, quantum mechanics, statistical physics, thermodynamics, EM theory and maybe even more, go to any college or university web site, look at the list of courses needed to be taken by students before they take the solid state physics course, this all you need to know to understand, why certain particles can conduct in certain material and other in other materials. Because a full explanation is a very very very long and hard explanation, it's better to leave people and especially kids with some basic knowledge of the principals behind the phenomenons that they see every day, than to leave then with no explanation at all. You can see from the source material at the undergraduate level that I provide here, that all those nuances and fine details are taught to students that learn the subject at the university, and that there isn't a fear of a physicist who thinks that protons don't have a charge associated with them. Sources for other subjects touched on here: Particle physics: No course book, but you can see a full Stanford course on this subject on You Tube Semiconductors and Solid State Physics: Solid State Physics /Ashcroft & Mermin *- Electromagnetic theory also knows to deal with magnetic currents, i.e. the displacement of magnetic charge. But since magnetic charge carriers were never found in nature, this is a purely theoretical aspect of the EM theory. 

Now, to some extent this is true. A single region of the brain is an unlikely candidate for a complex phenomenon such as subjective experience. This is an old idea, dating back to at least Decartes, who guessed that the soul was seated in the pineal gland, at the very center of the brain. However, one needs to take into account the entire brain, which contemporary theories of consciousness also do (see Dehaene and Naccache's paper from 2001 also listed below, which has been cited more than 1800 times). Regarding the details of the paper from 2013, the evidence for phase coding is more limited than for frequency coding, so perhaps the model in the paper should be taken with a grain of salt. In addition, the model is fairly abstract and lacks biological detail. The paper does try to explain binding with the help of neuronal activity. Today, neuroscientists can stimulate the motor cortex to cause reflex-like movement of the arms. This is done using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Even subjectively, but not "objectively present", experienced phosphenes can be induced by stimulating visual area V1 using the same technique. There is more to experience than the processing in the visual cortex. For example, in front of - anterior to - the occipital lobe, activity in the intraparietal sulcus (IPS) has been implied in various processes. In addition, activity in early visual areas have even been linked to basic semantic processing. Activity in the prefrontal cortex has been associated with short-term memory and planning, including prospective memory. The hippocampus, a subcortical structure, has been strongly implied (since 1957 and onwards) in memory, spatial navigation, and pattern related processing. These are just some examples of areas that are involved in our day-to-day moment of what it is like to be. In summary: