Do you know of such a piece of work? Please give a short description of what it is and how it's suitable, and not just a name-drop or link. 

But operant conditioning is such a basic form of behaviour that even insects can do it. Humans without it would indeed struggle to survive let alone develop technology. Instead, I think a better definition would be that hypotheticals requires abstract reasoning, the sort that requires formal education for most people to attain. We have good examples from real life of how these people think; they are very uncomfortable with dealing in pure hypotheticals and have very concrete reasoning. The Soviet psychologist Alexander Luria once interviewed Russian peasants about 100 years ago, giving them the kind of abstract reasoning questions typical in IQ tests, this is how it went: 

Water density in the air is peanuts compared to a nearby ocean, even during a heavy rainstorm. A $1/r^3$ or $1/r^4$ force would make the effect of a storm more significant. A water elemental leaving the ocean is like a human climbing a mountain. It's "uphill" all the way from the centre of mass of the ocean. Being at the edge of the ocean is like a human having climbed up a vertical shaft from the centre of the Earth. However, the ocean is more like a thin disc than a sphere of water, so getting to the edge takes you farther from more of it. Unlike climbing outward from a sphere (where your weight will peak at the surface), your weight will probably drop off some as you approach the shore (especially since coastal water is shallower). However, with a $1/r^2$ force, the difference between getting to the edge and going another kilometre beyond is less significant than with a sphere. You're already pretty far from most of the water, so the total pull you feel doesn't drop off as much with distance from the shore. (So again, a $1/r^2$ force isn't going to give you much of a "break free of the ocean" effect). If a Water elemental can "climb" more easily through water than by walking on land, it's going to be much easier to leave the ocean by going up-river until they're near an equilibrium between a large lake and the ocean. 

In other words, these humans would think exactly like us, if we were illiterate peasants. So what kind of society can these humans achieve? They would have the same level of general intelligence as us, just as those illiterate peasants are as intelligent as us, except without the benefit of education. If you plop one of them into our world, they are fully capable of surviving and integrating, only that they cannot perform cognitively demanding professions. But a world comprised fully of such humans won't be able to transform into our world, as so much of it depends on modern science which requires abstract reasoning skills. They would still be able to develop a lot of technology, although at a much slower rate. Some would be entirely out of their reach; for example they can be like Edison and repeat thousands of experiments to invent things like light bulb filaments or alkaline batteries, but they can't be like Tesla who invented AC motors, which requires understanding advanced mathematics. It would be hard to precisely define what their world would look like, since we've had abstract thinkers from the beginning. They would have superstitions and very basic myths but no religion like the ones we do. They will have very skilled crafts and traditions, but no philosophers, no scientists, no mathematicians. Such a society should be capable of accumulating a large body of technology, although their development rate would be severely hampered. I can easily imagine their society matching some of our nomadic cultures in sophistication. However, they will hit a developmental wall somewhere around the pre-industrial level, as that's when you need modern sciences like chemistry, physics or advanced engineering to get breakthroughs. 

Background- Writing a speculative evolution about the nine-tailed fox and had made twenty species that range in size from cat-sized species from Indonesia to wolf-sized ones in the Carpathian mountains, from all over the globe and live in different habitats from temperate and tropical forests, grasslands, deserts, mountains and even in urban areas for the kitsune. Question- How can these foxes avoid being species by humans in the same way as cryptids do? Some do shape-shift in a illusionary way but others can't so how can they stay elusive? 

The Inflatable Hedgehog or Zamba Zaraa is a creature, reported from the Gobi Desert of Mongolia. It is described as looking something like a hedgehog. When threatened, the animal strikes its tail against the ground (an alarm action that is used by many different types of animal) and then proceeds to inflate itself considerably. Reports differ on how big it is after inflation and range up to the size of a yurt (a small Mongolian tent-like dwelling). There are other creatures who inflate themselves as a defense mechanism, most notably puffer fish. Question- Could a mammal like a hedgehog or something similar evolved a defence mechanism like that of a pufferfish? If so what would it require to achieve this? 

Worldbuilding is hard work, as we all know. When you want to write a story, or use a setting for a game, or just as inspiration for some creation (art, music), there is a strong incentive to reuse an existing world, or heavily derive from it. The world building has been done for you - the logic holes filled, the possibilities mapped and explored, the implications accounted for. I don't need to prove this, just look at all the fanfics out there. However, if you do this with a well-known franchise, you infringe on intellectual rights, which limits how you can distribute or use your derived creation. Similar to how open source and free culture licenses allow software and art to be reused and derived, are there any free (as in libre) world settings that are available for use? To limit the scope a bit, let's go for a typical, near-future science fiction setting: lasers, spaceships, aliens etc. A good world setting would contain a bit more information than a standalone story; this is necessary for other authors/creators to extend and derive. It may contain the following: 

If you want more of a "break free" effect, maybe have the force proportional to $1/r^3$ (inverse cube, like the force between two magnets) instead of the usual inverse square (gravity, electrostatic force). Or even $1/r^4$ or whatever you want. It can still scale linearly with mass the way gravity (${G M m}/{r^2}$) does, you just vary the scaling with distance. That would also make it plausible for small nearby things (like fireballs) to have more of an effect than the Sun's pull. (Which only affects fire Elementals, not the Earth's orbit around the Sun, so would tend to pull fire Elementals off the surface during the day, counterbalanced by the pull of magma and stuff underground). It's completely plausible for a force to have very different scaling with distance than gravity. Just don't call it gravity! For example, the Weak nuclear force is very short-range because the force-carrying particles have non-zero rest mass (unlike the photons that carry the electromagnetic force. This is why the electroweak force is unified at high energies: there is enough free energy for pair-production of the force carriers, so they can pop up like photons). I'm not saying you should go into that much detail (better to be vague than obviously wrong to people that know the subject), just that non-gravity-like forces happen without magic. So you could even have a force that's more or less inverse-square over short ranges, but falls off dramatically at a certain distance. There have also been proposed theories of gravity that modify it slightly over astronomical distances to explain things like the Pioneer (space probe) anomaly. (That's now pretty conclusively explained by thermal radiation pressure, ruling out some of the gravitational theories.) 

Richard Dawkins described this as a "gigantic black burka", that we are blind to so much and most of us don't realise this. Once you do, it seems rather anthropocentric to assume things like "night is dark". The night sky looks very different in other wavelengths. Here's an example, of the X-ray range: 

During Operation Barbarossa, the Germans came dangerously close to capturing Moscow - in fact they were within 20km of the city, and some could even see its buildings. The failure to take Moscow is often considered a clear indication of the failure of the entire operation. What if the Germans had succeeded in capturing and holding Moscow? Most say that the Soviet Union would still have fought on, given they still had a significant industrial base east of the Urals and plenty of forces from Siberia, but how would this have affected the course of the war? Would this have delayed Germany's defeat, or maybe even hastened it? 

Need ideas for the evolution of the kumiho, the Korean nine tailed fox that is native in the Korean peninsula. First of all, this species is sexual dimorphic so both sexes would look different from each other both in appearance and maybe their mode of early life before forming a pack. While the vixen resembles a red fox, the dog fox resembles the north American coyote in shape and size (except retaining having some cat-like features like other foxes) with stronger jaws to grip on struggling prey. Here it fills the same ecological niche as the coyote. Like the gray wolf, this species form packs to bring down larger prey such as deer and wild boars. As lionesses do the hunting for the pride, the male kumihos (not the vixens) do most of the deer hunting (due to their size and shape not to mention being stronger than the vixens) as well as patrolling their territories and keep rival packs and predators at bay . I haven't thought up of some roles for the vixens yet. And finally, the alpha pair have longer tails (the extras being massive dreads of matted fur that function like a bird's tail feathers) than other individuals in the pack which is used as a form of hierarchy in the group. While the relatives of the kumiho use their tails use thier tails which are marked with iridescent markings to both attract mates and to intimidate predators. Since the kumiho is a pack hunter therefore mate for life instead and display would be a one time thing so might need ideas on the concept of the tails of this certain species. By the way, don't worry about the tails as I've already thought of ideas for the growth and development of the tails as well the use and how they function. Anyways, need ideas for the possible reasons on why it evolve this way and why this species became isolated in the peninsula from their relatives. 

This Elemental force (E-gravity? gravitee? Etraction?) doesn't attract plain water to other plain water, for example. This means that buoyancy doesn't happen with respect to this force, because the displaced plain water wasn't affected by that force. (i.e. there's no extra pressure created by it). We know this because Newtonian mechanics + fluid dynamics can accurately model the Earth's oceans (e.g. sea level heights around the world, and the deformation of the oceans due to Earth's spin rate). I think our models are detailed enough that we would have noticed if water attracted other water more than gravitationally, rather than just got the wrong value for some other free parameter. Buoyancy due to gravity can overcome gravity + the extra force, if they're in the same direction, otherwise not.