Timing is everything. If you have a great idea, email it to your boss from your work account to his. If he is checking and responding to work emails on a Saturday at 10 then he is engaged. If it is his weekend and he is off, he will discuss it Monday. With regards to employee concerns and complaints, it never looks good for you to complain about an employee to your boss outside of a meeting at work. Even then, it should be approached as rational and work related. He or she is having trouble with the workload, can I help? He/she seems distracted, there are a lot of errors... If you personally attack them it only looks bad on you. Saturday night via text? Looks like an inebriated rant... He was right to involve HR if that's not how you normally communicate. You messed up, depending on your boss, I would apologize and then get to work. Hopefully he hasn't written you off... 

Our office assistant has a lot going on personally with a sick family member and stress. She is openly verbal about her personal issues. I offer a confirming ear sometimes daily. At the same time, everything at work is negative. She complains about all the little stuff to anyone who will listen. She is constantly speaking ill of other employees to other employees. Her communication had lessened regarding missing deadlines on important tasks which directly affects other departments. She makes snide remarks and slams doors and has become hostile. When I confronted her regarding the unnecessary comments stating its not acceptable to open my office door, make a snide remark and slam my door while I was on a customer call she started crying. I asked if she was ok? She said she feels like she can't do anything right and she isn't going to make it here. She can't get projects done and it's too much work. My boss spoke to her as well and she cried. We both tried to be rational asking for the same things to make sure we were on the same page. For example, we said if you have a task that isn't completed you need to communicate it so we can assign another team member or re-prioritize for the following week. Her response with us both was an emotional "I feel"... The last person in the position doing the exact same task worked 15-20 hours. She does far less and is at 32 plus overtime. I would like to look for another assistant because I don't think this one will stay/ or we can make her productive and happy. Any tips? Update- she was hired by my boss to complete admin duties. The previous position did data entry projects and errands. I did not hire her but am expected to provide her with work and manage those projects. My boss gives her other projects to complete. My question is should I look for another assistant? How can I repair this relationship? How can I speak to someone who is not rational and only cries and talks about their feelings when I present issues with completing her work. 

Am I able to manage my projects working from 9-6? Is this situation going on from 7 months? Is this situation simply temporary regarding urgent project? Am I really enjoying my work here, despite those working hour and salary issues ? What is the situation regarding PM in other quite similar company? Would it be ok to work more if I get a salary increase? 

I totally agree with Nameless, the answer above seems really great to me. Do not forget to add your availabilities so as she could contact you whenever she wants. Be careful not to appear impatient is a really crucial point. Do not be affread by not getting any reply within a week, she must have a lot of email and projects to follow on (such as everyone). It is not anormal. However it is a good thought to email her again in order to reaffirm your interest in the position. In doing so you will show your motivation and remind her of you both at the same time. 

If you send your application and get no feedback you won't know if it's because of you not being able to speek Flemish or something else. If I were you I will simply ask this question: 1. Trying to ask recruiter by email or LinkedIn 2. Trying to call the company so as to ask someone 3. Sending my application anyway 4. Trying to reach someone again so as to explain the situation Do not be discouraged by not having a straight answer (or an answer at all) recruiter might be really busy (despite what you heard ^^) Do not wait so long before calling them to have your answer and do not hesitate to send your application in the meantime, it would be a shame being late for this application just because of this missing information. Best of luck ;) 

I recently just started working full time at a large company after graduating college. At my company, we have hubs in two locations so it's not uncommon that whenever we have meetings, there's a bridge line set up for people who aren't on location that they can phone into and join in the meeting. So far, I haven't had to directly speak or actively listen to the people on these calls but just from listening, I have absolutely no idea what they're saying; it really just sounds like garbled noise to me. I can maybe figure out a couple of words but by the time I manage to parse those words, I lose a lot of context. It doesn't matter if that speaker is fluent or has an accent (though if they do have one, I have an even more difficult time listening), I feel really hindered by this mode of communication. Right now, I have no need to utilize conference calls but I have been in several meetings already with bridge lines, and I know in the future I probably will have to participate in such things. My question is what are some tips I can utilize that can help me with communicating with people when meetings take place over conference calls? I fear coming off as rude to ask people to repeat themselves, especially because I know that I won't be able to get the full message through one repeat alone. Right now, I'm sitting here dumbfounded as to how people are carrying on professional conversation with people over these calls when I can barely make out what they're saying. To clarify, I'm not legally deaf or anything; I'm the type of person that would prefer to watch movies/shows with subtitles (even if it's in my native language) because if I don't, I miss out on 80% of the dialogue. I place partial blame of my hearing on the fact that I blasted music through my earphones as a teenager. EDIT: the situation of conference calls I'm referring to is sitting in a meeting room with a speaker in the center that people can phone into and from there, they can listen in on discussions as well as make statements. There are no headphones to utilize as its pretty much broadcasted openly into the room.