Edit: I also think this is a good reference: $URL$ Hope something in there helps. This was an issue for me as well when I began learning such things and it took me a bit of reading and practice to finally become comfortable with it all. 

I intend this as only a comment - it is just too long for the comment section: As it stands, I think you answer your own question. Lucas quantifies the impact of recessionary cycles by calculating how much an agent with a smooth consumption path would need to be compensated in terms of average consumption to instead endure a more volatile consumption path. He expressed the result as a percentage of average annual consumption. Remember, in economics more volatility usually implies more risk. And so what Lucas really did was create a function involving an agent's level of risk aversion that answered the question "how much do I need to compensate this risk averse person to endure 'this much' more risk?". As for your ending bit - you're correct. The idea you're getting at is called stochastic discounting. Essentially - I will pay more to ensure myself against a negative outcome whenever I believe that negative outcome will occur with a high probability relative to when I believe it will occur with a low probability. 

housing vouchers: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ ^^^ Those are a few of the papers I've read over the last two years involving vouchers. 

I thought it might be helpful to discuss the LS condition in general as it pertains to the LS equilibrium: A Lind./Sam. equilibrium allows for a unique equilibrium price $q_i, \forall i \in {1,...,n} \equiv N$, the set of agents, for the public good. The clearing condition for the public good price vector, given by $\sum MRS=MRTS$ (as stated in another answer here) is an aggregate condition. Individuals value public goods differently, which is reflected by vector $q$. To make it a bit more intuitive: If it were necessary that each individual contribute equally to a public good, then our idiosyncratic valuations would prevent some (or maybe many) of us from contributing to a public goods project (because the fixed contribution exceeds our individual, unique valuation for that public goods project). This could cause us to scrap projects that are actually socially desirable. And in easily conceivable circumstances, it can cause us to scrap projects that would be beneficial to every person in our society. The price vector $q$ does not necessarily comprise distinct prices. However, the question is can it? The answer to that question is, clearly, yes. 

I will answer this because it is relatively easy and because I assume future students might be curious about how to show this. However, you really don't deserve for me to just answer your homework question and so I will give an outline rather than a step-by-step answer. Suppose the following CD production function (I am omitting labor so that you can't just copy the parts of this that I complete): $$U(K) =A K^{\alpha}$$ To show this production function has diminishing marginal returns we must show: 1) That the first derivative of this function is positive 2) That the second derivative of this function is negative For an example of 1: $$U'() = \alpha AK^{\alpha-1}$$ this is clearly a positive number and so 1 is satisfied. Now, what about 2? When we take the second derivative here, our leading term is now $(\alpha-1)\alpha$ What do we know about alpha? Is our knowledge of alpha enough to know that the second derivative is negative, as desired? 

Okay here is an answer. Nothing in this is simple. But this is how you lie with statistics. The U-3 number is the one posted in the news all the time. It is a simple percentage of people unemployed when taken from the total number of people "participating in the workforce" That's where the confusion, deliberate or otherwise, sets in. Change the number of people "participating in the workforce" and the U-3 percentage may not change, yet the actual number of people who are not holding down a job and contributing to the economy can go through the roof. For instance: current headlines. Unemployment rate lowest since 2000. This is a phony comparison. In 2000 the percentage of working age Americans "participating in the workforce" was nearly 67%. TODAY that percentage is only 62%. In terms of total numbers let's look at a guestimate of numbers. Let's say that 1/3 of America is of the age to work, i.e. between 16 and 60. That would be approximately 87 million. So in 2000 with a 67% participation rate you had a workforce of approx. 58 million. Thus a 4.1 percent unemployment meant you had a total of 23 million people officially unemployed. That is interesting. Now in 2016 the participation rate was only 62%. That means your number of people who are still in the work force is only 53 million. So you do the calculation on that and you get a total of 22 million unemployed. And, everybody is all happy and stuff. The problem is that in addition to that you now have to figure out why you have FIVE MILLION fewer people in your workforce. Now to make matters worse. In 2010, to hide this decline in workforce participation the Obama admin made a significant change in methodology. In 2000 you were dropped out of work force participation if you had not found a job in 99 weeks. In 2010, 2 yrs into the Obama admin that was increased to 260 weeks. This skewed the workforce participation rate so badly that comparing unemployment numbers in 2017 to those of 2000 and going, "YIPPEEEEE what great news!", should be prefaced with, "Once upon a time", to make sure you get credit for being a great story teller instead of being mistaken for a bare faced liar. This fairy tale skews the number of people "no longer participating in the workforce" by totals up in the millions. In a straight line comparison we only had to figure out where the extra FIVE million jobs went. But with this change in 2010 the actual number of people not participating in the work force goes up by even MORE millions, if calculated using pre-2010 methodolgy. That change in methodology in 2010 means that ANY comparison of unemployment between unemployment rates in 2017 with any year prior to 2010 is just a meaningless exercise in story telling. Furthermore with a workforce participation rate of only 62% the U-3 number is just a farce. Let me finish, that my grasp of all of this is pretty weak. If someone can offer better or more complete interpretation of all of this PLEASE feel free to chime in. 

Under perfect competition, the producer faces a "demand curve" that consists of a single point; where price equals marginal costs. This party then has to produce and sell at the "going" price dictated by the market (or not at all), in order to remain in business. In a monopoly situation, the producer faces the WHOLE demand curve (which is basically the definition of a monopoly). This means that the producer can produce anywhere along the demand curve that s/he wants, not just at a market-determined price. This allows the monopolist to appropriate some of the consumer surplus. "Price discrimination" is another possibility, if the monopolist is allowed to charge different prices in in different markets (based on "local" sensitivities). "Everyone" choices a production point where the marginal revenue equals the marginal cost. In the perfect markets case, where there was a "flat" price, the two conditions, P= marginal cost and marginal revenue= marginal cost were the same. In a monopoly situation, the marginal revenue line will be BELOW the demand curve, meaning that the monopolist will want to produce less product than under perfect competition. 

Rents are included in the CPI, because they are expenditures that are "consumed" in current period of time. But house prices are not, because they are expenditures on an asset to be consumed over many years. If you own a house, you will benefit from the rising prices--if and when you sell it. In a sense, houses are treated like capital goods--for consumers. That is, rising house prices are not a burden to home owners, whereas rising rents are a burden to renters. 

A "backward bending" supply curve is evidence of a a supplier "monopoly." An example of such is a labor union, that has a "monopoly" on labor in a region, meaning that no one else can produce widgets for the monopolist; just as the widget producer is a monopolist because it has no competitors. Normally, monopolies are frowned upon, because they have "too much" power, relative to other agents. On the other hand, if you have a "monopoly" that can move anywhere along the demand curve at will, and a labor "monopoly" that can confront the whole supply curve, maybe you have two operators with "countervailing" power that balance each other out. 

Investment is necessary for economic growth. And in theory, most, if not all investment comes out of savings, at least in a closed economy. To that extent, savings are necessary for economic growth. Now I could make up a case where all the savings came from borrowed money, probably from abroad, with all investment earning enough to repay the loans and still support growth. But that would be an outlier case.