I've missed out fitting the levers as that's a given. My main worry is getting brake fluid everywhere, and if it is possible to somehow plug the hoses up whilst I'm feeding them through the frame? 

I have a CAAD12 disc with Ultegra, but I prefer SRAM, so I have got some nice new Force levers & calipers that I need to fit. This is my first experience with disc brakes. The front setup isn't a problem, as the cable is all external, but the rear brake is a bit daunting as the hose is internally routed. Another concern is that the SRAM levers come ready connected to the calipers, with the fluid already in them. The steps as I see it are: 

I prefer the cycling lore that it was decided by which gear of a Citroen 2CV you needed to be in to drive up the hill/mountain. For HC climbs you had to go up them in reverse. Scientific? Not so much. Perceived Gallic? Mais oui! 

Cateye uses proprietary sensors, so I'm afraid that generic ANT+ sensors won't work. Although it's possible someone has made a copycat sensor that works with Cateye, I doubt it. 

Today I encountered a puncture. I pulled the tube, ran my fingers around the inside and outside of the tire carefully looking for the offending object, found nothing, so concluded it was probably a pinch flat (I had just hit a pothole). I installed a new tube, being careful to seat it properly to avoid pinches, and re-inflated. Within seconds the second tube was flat. That being my only spare tube and my only CO2 cartridge and it being dark and a very long walk home, I called the sag wagon (aka my wife). Back home, I removed the tire from the rim, turned it inside out, inspected carefully, and found nothing. Ditto with the rim and rim tape. And, I should add, these are virtually new tires and rims with barely a hundred kilometers on them. When I looked at the second tube that failed, I found this: 

When pedalling, it just felt a bit weird. I could tell something was up, but it wasn't enough to stop you from pedalling along. 

Edit - same course but ridden with power meter: I raced the same course again, here are the same graphs from strava. It was a much windier day, and my finish time was just under 3 minutes slower than the last race. 

I've used the Park Tools BB30 tool thing and a bar clamp (eg this) to squeeze pressfit bbs in. I can't speak for headsets though. I've found that local bike clubs are a good way of gaining access to specific tools like this. Especially as they can be expensive considering how many times you might need to use them. And you get the bonus of someone who's experienced fitting things like headsets before. People are usually keen to help a fellow cyclist out. 

I have a CAAD12 disc which I'd like to fit SRAM Force 22 hydraulic to. I've been a bit enthusiastic buying things without really researching all the pitfalls of the different bits and bobs that go into disc brakes and compatibility thereof. So, it turns out that the CAAD12 fork is post mount, but my calipers are flat mount. Is there an adapter to fit a flat mount caliper to a post mount fork? 

In short, no. Bad idea. But if you get lucky a couple of times, yes, it could work like you want. 8spd freewheels cost about the same as 7spds, so not much risk in 'going for it' and failing. Realistically, stick to 7 spd and upgrade the RD for the extra capacity to deal with the big cog if you must... but I'd try it out first, they usually ship long cage derailers on those bikes, so you are most likely fine as-is. I liked the megarange gear selections when I swapped to it. Potential problems: -There is a chance that your old 7spd and the new 8spd do not index the same... 4.8 vs 5 mm -You may need to re-dish your rear wheel to deal with the extra room for the extra cog. Again, you'll have to fit the 8spd freewheel to see if this is the case, but I'd say there is likely a problem here... and that may mean new spokes and a wheel re-build. (or forking out $11 for a 7spd freewheel) -Freewheel stackup is different between the 7spd and 8spd.. the 8spd is longer... This can cause problems like your RD getting into the spokes to hit that last gear... so even if it fits, you may have to use the smallest 7 and not the largest 7 to keep your RD out of the spokes.. The issue isn't so much the O.L.D. (135mm) it is the stack-height of the 8spd freewheel and where the 'extra' height of the 8spd vs your 7spd goes in relation to the spokes (e.g. that 8th gear is closer to the spokes) Back when 8spd was new I did see a lot of these conversions work just like you want this one too... some were super picky and the RD would need near constant adjustments due to temperature changes throwing off the indexing (5mm vs 4.8mm gear center-to-center) A lot of pain when you could just pay $23 for a 8spd right-only shifter that would index properly... But the gears have to fit and the RD has to stay out of the spokes! Good luck! 

Note how the chain is going over the little bit of metal, rather than under it like in this image here: 

I've joined a local road racing league, it's lots of fun. I'm pushing myself and breaking lots of PBs in the process of trying not to get dropped (which I inevitably do). As well as the craft of racing, I'm also learning about the logistical side of holding down a full time job and transporting myself + bike + kit to the various venues in time to sign on, get set up & get some time in on the rollers before briefing and race start. So, currently my timetable for the day looks like this: 

I bought a power meter. I understand that you should do an FTP test to work out your threshold. But until I have time to do this, could I take a reasonable guess from a recent 35 mile road race? These are the graphs from Strava, for the estimated distribution, it says average 230W. Is this a good starting point? Or should I go higher or lower, or should I ignore the graphs because Strave is just trying to guess it from speed/hr. 

I'm in the market for a used cyclocross bike to use as a winter bike, and so I've been browsing craigslist. I generally ride a 56-58 cm road bike frame, so I turned down an otherwise good deal because it was a 52 cm frame. The seller told me that a 52 cm cyclocross frame was comparable to a 54 cm road frame. Is that statement true? And if it is true, how is that so? 

I purchased a new mountain bike online. As I understand it, new bikes are usually shipped only partially assembled, but I don't really know what to expect. Will it just be a matter of attaching large assemblies like pedals and handlebars, or should I expect to have to route cables, setup derailleurs, etc? I know it probably varies somewhat between manufacturers, but what would be the typical level of assembly I should expect? EDIT: For clarification, I'm comfortable doing almost all my own maintenance and I own most of the necessary tools. I'm just looking for an idea of what to expect and how much time to allot. 

I have a carbon framed bike with a press fit BB. Recently the non-drive side bearing disintegrated, and having the Park tool to remove/install the cups I thought I'd be good to go. The drive side cups popped out no problem, but the non-drive one had frozen solid in the way that aluminium seatposts can in carbon frames. Despite hammering it like all bezoomny, to the point where bits of metal were breaking off the inside of the shell where the tool rests against, it would not budge. In the end I got a dremel and very very carefully cut through the remaining bearing shell and then the BB cup, and it still took some pretty good whacks with a hammer against a wooden drift for it to finally give up. So, get the right tool, or take it to an LBS/mechanic who does. Its surprising how easy the cups can pop out when done properly. Failing that, and as a total last resort, you can cut them out with a steady hand. 

Is this likely the problem? If so, how do I re-lubricate the shifter after the WD-40? To do it properly would require at least partially disassembling the shifter, which from what I've read and having seen the schematics, is something I really don't want to do. 

Probably 17" but it depends on more than your height. More important is your inseam and your reach. You could be 5'8" and have very long legs in which case you probably want a 19", or you could be 5'8" with short legs and a long torso in which case you probably want a 17". The best bet, as always, is to go to a bike shop that will do a proper fit testing and let you try some different sizes. The right size is the bike that's most comfortable for you and there's really no way for anyone on the internet to tell you what that is based on your height. 

I've seen these advertised recently: $URL$ You can lock them without using the key, and allegedly they are super mega secure. 

Presuming you have derailleurs and not a hub gear, check that they haven't removed the chain and then not threaded it through the rear derailleur cage properly. I've done this myself before (Images from Park Tools website): 

Disconnect Ultegra caliper. Drain hose - or can you get like stopper or bung to keep the oil inside? Attach string to end of hose and pull back through (or some other method to help guide the new hose back through the frame) Disconnect SRAM caliper Drain hose? Or again can you plug it somehow? Easily feed hose through frame in one go without getting cross Install caliper & connect hose Bleed brakes 

Big speedplay fan here, the cleats have two little screws on them. The spring mechanism that clips you into the pedal is housed inside the cleat, and the two little screws form an area that constrain a 'needle' on this spring. The spring is circular so that it clips onto the pedal, and the positioning of the screws dictates how much you can move your heel in/out on the pedal. If you set them up so that your heels clear the chainstays, you an have a quite wide float angle with very secure engagement.