Punishment is not appropriate in Buddhism. Probably, criminals would receive wise-education, patience and compassion in place of punishment, in an ideal Buddhist society. We are criminals, we are saints, we are average people, we are eccentric individuals, we are the disabled and we are the criminals. Societies are all the time wanting revenge and sometimes societies even want to kill somebody. That sounds something like someone throwing their finger away because their fingernail got smashed in the car door. -metta 

Did the Buddha ever say anything about monastics finding "loopholes" in the rules? A loophole would be something like: Showering when bathing is not allowed or living in a building when the opposite sex lives in the building also but as long as the monastic is outside the building for a certain period of time every day the monastic can not be said to be living there. Also what are some of these possible loopholes? 

Suzuki Roshi's calls his teaching Hinayana Suzuki Roshi was in the lineage stream of Zen master Dogen (1200–1253) and was committed to introducing Dogen’s way of practice to the West. Although he recommended studying the many written works of Dogen (few of which were translated into English at that time), it was the spirit of Dogen that was most vital for him. Like Dogen, he did not consider Zen a teaching or practice separate from buddha dharma, or that the Soto school of Zen was either superior or inferior to any other school. He characterized our way as Hinayana (Narrow Vehicle) practice with a Mahayana (Wide Vehicle) mind. Sounds like Suzuki Roshi has a good reason for using the term. Does anyone know what is meant by 'narrow' and 'wide'? 

When we try to stop a habit we will discover a certain amount of resistance. This resistance is addiction. Addiction is very related to the Buddha's teaching. In the Mahasi method of meditation practice, we are supposed to be impartial to whatever we are experiencing, moment by moment. This lets us see just how much we are resistant to the little habits we have. Normally we don't see these subtle addictions because we could always just appease them and therefore we don't notice any resistance or addiction. Can I say that our respected individuality is a kind of 'self accepted and adopted' addiction ? The clinging we have for "the apparent self" or "the ego" is an addiction to a great wrong view that we all must conquer to be liberated.(Certainly we can be addicted to being an "individual" if that's what was meant.)-Metta 

It seems to be a big deal that we see things as they are. If we are merely assuming when things begin and end or change then how do we ever really see things as they are? 

reading marks on the limbs [like palmistry] reading omens and signs interpreting celestial events interpreting dreams; reading marks on the body reading marks on cloth gnawed by mice offering fire oblations oblations from a ladle, oblations of husks, rice powder, rice grains, ghee, and oil offering oblations from the mouth offering blood-sacrifices making predictions based on the fingertips geomancy laying demons in a cemetery placing spells on spirits reciting house-protection charms snake charming, poison-lore, scorpion-lore, rat-lore, bird-lore, crow-lore fortune-telling based on visions giving protective charms interpreting the calls of birds and animals ... [The list goes on and on] 

There can not be an inexplicable disturbance in nibbana because there are no conditions with nibbana. Nibbana is an experiencial state of mind. 

I don't know about all that but there isn't much magical about "seeing reality as it is", meaning consistantly focusing on something arising in your own experience, as it arises, moment by moment , in a nonreactive, nonconceptual and impartial way. If something magical seeming does happen then see it as it is and it won't be magical anymore because it was seen without concepts such as "magical". 

We can approach it like this: There are no past lives. There are only the experiences of the individual person's moment, moment by moment. My past life is my past moment. Your past life is your past moment. Moments go to the next moment because of change or transcendence. Birth is a change. Death is a change. Everything is in flux. Birth and death. Rise and fall. Death of the physical body is simply another moment that seems like a lot of change. 

The reason the Buddha taught rebirth was because it is a useful process to understand if we want to find the bugs in our karma. 

Wisdom needs to be balance with faith. Too much faith in only materialism and only what can be proven to the world is a recipe for one lopsided and heartless religion that is not very good at cultivating peace and happiness for it's congregation. 

Huh?? The Buddha mentioned intellect? He did mention that one who only studies the Dhamma and never actually practices is not one who lives by the Dhamma. Why do you need the Buddha to talk to intellectuals? What makes you think he didn't talk to intellectuals? We all cling. We cling to chocolate ho-hos and to things like the intellect, not that the intellect can't be put to good use. The intellects can get the wrong idea like the intellect is more important than wisdom or the intellect is the only mental faculty that exists. The Buddha's teaching is about experiencing the raw data coming through your senses. If you think it's about intellectualism then you have been dipped in materialistic, western belief systems for way too long or you are too intelligent to to allow yourself to be wise. Intellect when not balanced with faith equals doubt and wrong view. 

There is No Truth of Suffering, the Cause of Suffering, the Cessation of Suffering, Nor of the Path.... There is No Wisdom, and There is No Attainment Whatsoever These kind of teachings are correct but can be misleading. The teachers mean that none of these things exist in "ultimate reality" but they do exist in "conceptual reality". We aren't trying to vilify conceptual reality. The idea is to experience ultimate reality and know the difference between The conceptual and ultimate realities. If we didn't have conceptual reality then we wouldn't be able to talk to each other , no step by step directions, there would be no BuddhismSE forum and there could be no suttas. -Metta :) 

Wow, sounds like a good practice but nobody ever said it would be %100 easy. As long as I practice continuously I try to be mindful of my reactions to how the practice is going. The more mindfulness the better the faculties become balanced. Sometimes we are more mindful than other times. Sometimes it seems like we can't get into it, we don't have enough runway clearance to get the mindfulness off the ground. One is less likely to become lethargic while doing walking meditation and also it gives one added concentration so one could do sitting meditation immediately after with a more balanced concentration.