You could literally just tell him that you've decided you should separate your personal and professional relationships, and that while you'll therefore be unfriending him on Facebook, he's welcome to add you back on LinkedIn. (Assuming you can be okay with that... I'd recommend not checking LinkedIn often so that if he messages you you don't have to reply in a timely manner.) It doesn't seem weird to me at all; it's something anybody might do at some point. And it should send him the message that you see him as a professional acquaintance rather than a personal one. And you'll know from whether he adds you on LinkedIn or not whether he's okay with being a professional connection rather than a personal one. 

I'd explain the situation to the employee. I'd ask him if he'd be willing to find another job, with my help if he desires. I would guarantee to him that he could come back to this job within N months of losing his next job if we are still in business at that point, for some reasonable N. If he is willing, then I'd help him find another job and provide a great recommendation. If he is not willing, then I would either: a. Institute a no-social-media policy as appropriate if this is legal in my jurisdiction, or b. Lay him off with a reasonable severance pay to let him find another job if this is legal, or c. If neither of the above is legal, I would just pay him but ask him to do something not-customer-facing at work. Even if this means having him play Minesweeper all day. 

You could literally say because the cost is too high. If they press, you can continue "well, it's over an entire day's worth of my pay". The key here is that the problem is with the event, not with you. Your budget/finances are NOT the problem, so you need to prevent people from suggesting that the problem is on your end. If they really press (which would be rude, but you never know), you can elaborate by pointing out that a day's worth of work would be a high cost to pay even if you made $1,000,000/day, but if they keep pressing on this point, you might have to show some disgust at their questions and move on. 

For the sake of completeness—and not because I'm convinced this is the solution for your case— There is a technical solution for Windows if this is a genuine case. I am going to assume you are technical enough to do this. It's not hard if you know how, but if you don't know how, chances are high that you'll mess things up and your computer will stop working. And I highly doubt your IT department will be interested in making this work for you. 

It's pretty simple: 1. If you have any reason to think they had "ulterior motives", then do something. 2. If not, then keep it. You need to learn to accept genuine gifts; it seems like you're just not comfortable with that. However, you also need to make sure this isn't going to come back to bite you. So, I think the only thing to worry here is about whether they're trying to flatter you because they expect something in return later. If you think there's a chance this is the case, then either: 

There's no reason to say anything about seeking another job to get the point across that you're pretty desperate. Just say something like this to make your manager clearly understand that you indeed want to stay around, but that if the answer is "no" then you might have to solve the problem yourself. 

Do you know why they're complaining? Is it because (say) they're jealous, or is it because they actually need you to be around when you're not there? Are you someone whom is often asked for help? Or maybe they need to go through you because you have special permissions or powers to do something? If it happens people need you when you've already left, then you're effectively forcing them to change their hours in order to get their work done on time, so you're the one being unreasonable. But if you being around doesn't affect them, then they're being unreasonable. You should clarify which one is actually the case. 

While not impossible, it is very unlikely the software will fail to work in this scenario. If it does, one possibility is that the disk or partition serial number is being checked, and the virtual image's is different. You can try to fix that manually and it may work. If it doesn't, then the program is doing a really invasive inspection of your system's hardware configuration. Linux has the ability to do the equivalent. If this is a Mac, though, you might be out of luck. However, it sure smells like this is not a genuine case and your coworkers might be using this as an excuse to see files they shouldn't see. Absent a boss's order, I would personally only do this if the coworkers were close friends I trusted before we even became coworkers. It can be lot of pain to go through, is not foolproof in terms of security, and likely not something reasonable to expect given your job description. 

You really can't go wrong with #2 here. If they intended it to be fake and it was, then they now know you found out, but you haven't said anything so it's about as good as it can be. If they didn't intend it but it was, then they didn't know in the first place, so it's still good. And if it's real, then you've helped out someone in need in their name -- nothing wrong with that. 

I'll go out on a limb and point out that your underlying assumption is the other people are "good enough" and that their opinions and designs are just as good. But are they really? If so, then what makes this guy a "star performer" -- isn't he on the same level as everyone else? And if not--i.e., if his designs and opinions truly are better -- then where exactly is the problem? To go to an extreme, if I worked with Elon Musk and he acted as if I wasn't good enough, then I would be inclined to agree with him rather than try to blame him. You just can't entirely ignore the correctness of what he says! 

Not per se, but... It kind of depends on what you're eating and how easy it is to eat your food somewhere else, as well as how uncomfortable Ramadan is at that place and time. And obviously, try to be discreet about it and not draw your coworker's attention or distract him with the smell or taste. To elaborate: snacks are pretty much always fine to eat at your desk (that includes fruits, chips, etc... heck, they probably wouldn't even find chips appetizing at that point -- they'd want water and a good meal), as are meals that were prepared earlier in the day (since they're probably cooler and won't have as strong of a smell). But it's a bit distasteful (no pun intended) to eat newly-prepared food that has a highly appetizing smell right beside your coworker's desk if you can reasonably avoid it without much trouble. For instance, if you have a lounge where people often eat lunch, your coworker would probably appreciate it if you had your hot pizza delivered there instead of within 3 feet of him. Furthermore, the setting kind of matters too. If it's a hot day, your coworker would not appreciate it if you kept reminding him of water. But if your office is air-conditioned then it's unlikely they would be thirsty at all, so at that point your coworker is almost surely not even going to think about the fact that you have a cup of water/tea or a bag of chips or cookies sitting next to you, unless you make super loud slurping/crunching sounds or something. Summary: People understand, but they're humans too. The mere fact that you're eating/drinking nearby isn't offensive in any way whatsoever (unless you're in a culture where fasting is the norm, which you're not). However, if you do it in a manner or setting that ends up making this distracting for him and it's clear to everyone that you have a reasonable, alternative lunch setting available to you that could be less distracting with little inconvenience to you, then it would probably bother your coworker. 

To be honest, I would just tell my boss that this seems to be against company policy, and that given this fact, I would like to ask him to give me written authorization before I move forward. He can't sensibly deny your request. So the only reason you wouldn't do this is if you can't even bring yourself to tell him this violates company policy. If you can't, then either that's just something you need to practice, or you need to look for a new job where you might be more comfortable telling your boss obvious facts. 

His statement could really mean so many different things, and without knowing either of you better, it's hard to say. It could definitely be what you're hoping it's not, but it could also be a lot of other things. Maybe you're a super happy and cheerful person and he misses having someone like you around to cheer him up every day. Maybe you tell him jokes/stories and he misses taking breaks from his work and listening to them. Maybe he's having a bad time in his personal life and considered you a great friend of his whom he could talk to when he was having a rough time. That said, let's consider the possibility you're dreading. In my ideal world -- maybe not yours, but in mine -- people trust each other enough (and are trustworthy enough) that they would feel comfortable sharing their thoughts and feelings with each other frankly, but they would avoid acting on them in an inappropriate manner. So in my ideal world, it should be fine (if not flattering) to tell someone you like them, with the understanding that you may not take any actions on this inappropriately. But of course, people are human and we don't live in my ideal world, so it's up to you to figure out whether the right thing is to try to get closer to an ideal world, or to accept the current world as-is. If you have trust in him, I'd say just appreciate the positive side (i.e. that he's being honest about it) and move on, unless you suspect he's actually going to do something about it that you don't appreciate. He obviously hasn't said anything mean, and it seems that he hasn't given any indications that he's going to take wrong actions, so if the only thing you've seen from him otherwise are positive things, then there's no need to take any actions yet. Ideally, even if he likes you, you can just keep living your current lives and disregarding it. But if you think he might do something that goes in the wrong direction then that's indeed a problem... 

If you don't want to report them, have you considered leaving a piece of paper in your locker saying something like this? 

Make a sector-by-sector .VHD image of your disk composed of only your Windows partition somewhere. Create a "native VHD" boot entry for that image with an appropriate name they'll recognize. This is where you'll likely mess up if you don't know what you're doing. You'll have to take care of a lot of things besides knowing how to do the boot manager stuff, like making sure each OS assigns the same drive letter to the corresponding partition, which can be tricky since the copies are identical. Boot into that copy of your OS, then delete everything in your account that they shouldn't see. If you manage your files like most people, this will be a lot of work. You'll have to not just remove documents but also scrub histories and temporary folders, etc. Change or remove the password for that account. Change that account to a limited account and change file permissions on the outer OS as needed so that people can't use the inner OS to spy on the outer OS. This may take a while. Disable any "backdoors" that might exist, e.g. put a password on your BIOS/UEFI settings and lock them to the internal disk so they can't boot off a USB drive or CD, or remove any hidden administrator accounts, etc... again, if you don't know what you're doing, you'll mess up. Once the system is secure, tell your coworkers that they can reboot the computer and log in with the inner OS to do their work in "your" account. You can just use the outer account to do your regular work.