A group of people have stumbled into one of those classic fantasy/horror houses where the usual rules of space don't seem to apply and is very confusing. Bits of the building appear to overlap with each over. Eg. from the front room you walk forwards ten paces and enter the kitchen. Turn left 90 degrees and walk forward another ten paces. Turn left another 90 degrees, walk forward ten paces into the dining room. Finally turn left 90 degrees and walk another 10 paces forward and you end up in the study, not where you started. You can back track and get back to the front room. The rooms don't move about, there is no way to detect the bits that overlap. The house is very large. Due to the way the rooms overlap there is more volume inside the building than contained by the exterior walls. All the rooms appear to be on the same plane. There is no climbing through holes in the ceiling, or rooms with right hand wall being the ceiling, from the point of view of the door. Having checked out the house for monsters and finding none they decide to try and make a map to stop them selves getting lost in future. Of course simply drawing rooms on paper becomes a problem. They started to carefully fold and cut layers of paper so where the building overlaps you can fold sheets out of the way to find the layer you are on. Each time they find a new room they end up having to start from scratch to figure out how to get the map to fold correctly to incorporate the new room. However this has created a very unwieldy map that is very hard to use. Is there a better way to create a map of an area that "overlaps" its self? 

The ships identity. If you can steal the computers and access its signing keys or what ever the ship uses to identify its self you could pretend to be the ship and do nefarious things. Like people who steal number plates and then drive off with out paying for fuel. Or you could gain access to stations or planets you would otherwise be unable to. You might be able to trade the identify on a black market to other space pirates to use as well. You would have to make sure that the original ship was not found or it would be known it had been stolen. 

In theory yes. In reality no Edit : In theory also No The molar mass of each elements tells the story in theory: Oxygen 31.99 g/mol. Methane 16.0425 g/mol Helium 4.002 g/mol Hydrogen 2.016 g/mol If they were liquid this would tell us the answer. However as a gas the molecules move around individually. This is what makes them a gas and is called Brownian Motion. This would cause the gas' to get mixed up any way. Any wind or other atmospheric disturbance would mix things up further. On an actual planet/moon then there is no way this could work. Edit: Thanks to @samuel for pointing out that I have forgotten most of my secondary school chemistry 

The ability to flip down an eyelid with an extra lens. This would give the eye the ability to focus and magnify small objects. Not sure the exact shape this would need to take. This would give people the ability to focus on very small things, like using a microscope. This would have given us a very early understanding of bacteria which would have improved medicine hugely. It would mean every process or experiment that requires a microscope would be functionally free. 

No A world without obstacles would be very windy. This would cause early life to be blown back into the sea unless it was able to grip the floor firmly. Also most legs evolved while we were still underwater where they could also be used as flippers. 

Given the aliens have worm hole technology to travel about, they can use this to create a wormhole to the core of the planet and post the probe through. This goes around the problem of digging your way down through the planet. Alternatively you could use the wormhole to extract a chunk of the planet to science it, this would be an easier option as you don't have to make the probe survive the insane temperatures and pressures of the core. If you want to make this not work in your universe I suggest making your worm holes not work inside of a gravity well. This would force your aliens to wormhole their way around from the edges of systems. 

Just put them selves in a sun centric orbit and pretend to be an asteroid for the day. Even if they are spotted in the 24 hours it takes them to repair the ship, humans would not have much time for follow up observations to find out what the heck that faintly warm thing floating through the solar system is. Most of the sky survey telescopes operate in visible and high IR frequencies, it would take some time before one of the x-ray telescopes got pointed at the object, if ever, why point an x-ray scope at some thing unlikely to be emitting that wave length. To add some thing to the human list of known asteroids requires multiple observations. If the object vanishes before more observations can be made people would write it off a fluke. Of course this all assumes that the ship is not parked in earth orbit when the cloak fails. 

These are three components taken from my arduino starter kit. One is a temperature sensor and the other two are transistors. Good luck telling them apart if you don't have Google to look up the codes. With out knowing the correct way to wire up the thing the only options are experiment and destroy lots of them, or find one in an existing circuit and try and work out what its doing. Neither of these options are easy or exactly safe. Who knows what the aliens make the components out of. I hope they phased out lead already for the sake of our engineer. Having a few extra tools may make things a lot easier. An oscilloscope and power supply would be extremely helpful. Edit: from question edit They should be able to identify the other tools. It may be hard to tell a power supply from a multi-meter at first but it should be reasonably easy given the multimeter and a willingness to blow up a few components. The power supply can be calibrated using some thing they can identify as a resistor and their own multimeter. Once he has worked out the voltages the dial gives out he should write a new marking sheet if it has a control nob, or a translation of the symbols for different values displayed otherwise. This will let them figure out the numbering system reasonably, which should also let them start to make more sense of other components. 

While others have mentioned crossbows, you mentioned a need for confidence builders. This can also take the point of scaring the pants off the invaders. The Ballista Now given we have an AI here we must have good computing ability. Mount the giant crossbow on a computer controlled mount, add a wind speed sensor, camera and some algorithmic fun to plan shots and you have a very scary anti personnel weapon. Medieval versions were reported to have a range of about half a kilometre and a skilled operator could pick individual men off of a castle wall. With computer control you might be able to match this in a couple of weeks. An electric winch should get the re-fire rate up. Explosive warheads and other additions can be added if your feeling kinetic energy is not enough. Seeing the man next to you get taken out by a bolt the size of your arm would probably deter the attackers some what. You don't need to kill them all you just need to be more likely to kill them than the warlord leading them in their minds. 

I've just had a play around with some string and come up with this. I have no idea how well it works in all cases. It seems to work ok for the example case I had. If some one knows where I can find more information about this type of thing I would love to hear in the comments. With that out of the way on with the show: Using a map (he walks into the local map shop, the villager runs away, he takes the map) he finds all the villages he needs to visit. Place a safety pin, loop or hook on each village. (I used safety pins as I had some on hand) Run a length of string along the roads or paths between each village. Tie each end to the safety pin / loop / hook. Add a label to each pin with the name of the village on it. The reason for this will become clear. Your map should have some thing like this over it: 

Stars emit in a much broader spectrum of wavelengths than just light. You can use a simple radio telescope to locate the sun even through the thickest of clouds. This would allow you to pin point your latitude. Given you have space travel, some one should have an accurate watch so you could find your longitude quite simply too. Once you have worked out one point you can start surveying the surrounding area. We used to use trig points for this. This allowed us to make reasonably accurate maps. Then when you want to navigate you can use the hills as reference points, as well as working out your own latitude and longitude with the tiny radio telescope 

In this case you probably wouldn't want a full computer. Far too complex. Some thing more like a very fancy clock work toy would be easier. Your description of the worm hole makes it sound like old film would work as a recording media. A simple probe could be a camera with a simple mechanical timer and a spring to "jump" the camera back through the worm hole. Take a look at some of the complex clocks and especially for your interest the chimes and alarms that have been made over the years. 

Hitching a lift on a comet is an interesting idea. It gives you a lot of fuel. However there are some pretty big downsides. First Delta-V: Getting to a comet is hard, but doable, Rosetta proves we can do it. Getting out of the solar system is harder but also do-able see the Voyager probes, the trick here will be finding a comet with an orbit that's easy to modify to take you where you want to go. You need to find a reasonably eccentric comet with the argument of periapsis pointing at the star you want to head towards. You can then use the comet as fuel to make a big burn when near periapsis to push the apoapsis out until you break orbit around the sun and "whizz" off to your destination. Second fuel: While you will have a reasonably large amount of it the rocket equation is a problem. Because you have so much fuel you need a lot of it to move it. The other problem is the fuel you have is going to be very low quality. It will be all mixed up, hydrocarbons, water, carbon dioxide, hydrogen, and dust. It will need processing very carefully before feeding into your engines. You will probably have more than one engine, each designed to burn/expel a different type of fuel. Making the big burn at periapsis is useful here because you can make use of solar energy as you make this burn. A better option may be to link up with a comet in your generation ship process the comet into fuel. Then when you reach the right point of the orbit detach and make the burn. This way you are only trying to accelerate the mass of the ship not the ship and a dirty great comet. Linking up to another comet when you arrive would done as a "if there happens to be a comet heading in the right direction" but should not be required as it would be impossible to know if such a comet existed in the target system with out already being there, getting the two orbits to sync up correctly would be extremely unlikely.