Titan is roughly the same size as our moon, but it's atmosphere is actually thicker than earth's, so holding an atmosphere is feasible. The moons would probably be tide locked to the planet. There wouldn't be much in the way of seasons. Nights might get quite cold, but there would be a near constant wind as the cool dawn air warms and the warm evening air cools. Some of Saturn's rings are now known to be debris from specific moons (Iapetus for example). The rings themselves are about 10 feet thick (if memory serves) and composed of gravel and smaller particles (dust). They pose no hazard to a moon worth an atmosphere. Radiation would be an issue. Gas giants are large enough to sustain limited nuclear reactions - they put out more energy than they receive from the sun, but nowhere near enough to make the transition to being a star. In their own right. Atmosphere and magnetosphere protect against charged particles and neutron emissions (the auroras would be spectacular), but are less effective against xrays. 

The blimp would have no buoyancy on Mars. Mars atmosphere would make a good attempt at a hard vacuum, at less than 1% the density of earth's. A blimp and a rock would have nearly the same flying ability. 

Prevent warm and cold fronts from meeting - not likely on a planetary sized body. Prevent shear winds when the warm and cold fronts meet - not likely. You have two continental scale masses of rotating air meeting. That pretty much defines shear winds. Prevent the shear wind tubes from merging - this is air we're talking about. The blast of a tornado feels solid when it hits because the relative velocity of the wind to yourself is high. But the tubes of shear winds have low relative velocity to each other so they mix freely. Prevent air from moving in to replace what was displaced by the updraft - Not likely without a lot of forewarning. Remember tornadoes are weather patterns that form in a chaotic system. While formation is not random, the pattern is too complex to afford reliable prediction. 

Fire requires fuel. If the fuel is rendered biologically, then it takes time to regenerate fuel after flaming, and there is a limit to how much fuel the dragon can store in its fuel pouches/bladders. 

The citizens of the beseiged city would adapt the same way that institutionalized hearing impaired children did for centuries before standardized sign language - they would invent their own form of sign language. ($URL$ it is worthwhile noting that militaries have used signing for centuries when stealth was required. Since this is a seige, I would expect that the local military sign language would become the standard form of communication, and would become enriched into normal day to day life usage. Some researchers believe that signing predates spoken language, and certainly human infants can learn to sign before they can speak. 

Heavy equipment can only take you so far. Coincidental with Iraq war, there was a move to stop bayonet training for US forces because it was expensive and unlikely to ever be useful. Needless to say, when there was a steady two hours of bayonet work for platoons moving into Baghdad proper from the newly established base at the former international airport, the movement silently disappeared. US forces have the highest tech around, having superior firepower, air cover, tanks, and other vehicles. Neverthless, they had to get boots on the ground using 18th century techniques to take the city. We saw the same in Fallujah, and Mosul. The same theme played out in Vietnam. Ultimately, it requires boot on the ground to take a position. Airpower and ranged weapon support can augment ground troops, but cannot replace them. 

With a meteor of that scale, the least of your worries will be the EMP. The energy of impact will instantly vaporize the meteor itself and an equivalent mass of the earth's crust. The shockwave will be felt around the world as major earthquakes. Portions of the mantle may be exposed briefly, a large mass of sulfur will be vaporized. The heat of impact will cause fires across half the world. Molten rock fragments will rain from the sky around the world for days. In short, I feel no amount of concrete can protect you from the simple mechanical damage. Defense against EMP effects, in contrast, is simple. It requires a solid metal casing around the electrical and electronic systems. 

My answer would be Massively scaled stellar mining rig/barge/station (Mining star matter) so fast that leave it for a day or two you'll notice changes happening in the star... But we can go better... You have warp technology right so why not warp stellar matter using hawking radiation(black hole) to another enemy of yours? suck the star of its matter and throw that matter to your enemy! Not only it could collapse a star since it will be missing alot of its mass since you are warping it away but hit another enemy as well with it! Imagine a star being pulled apart and its mass being sent to your enemies! It will not go supernova(as far as i know) but you can be sure that they got nothing on your stellar sized plasma flame thrower... Since this is a galactic strategic weapon price shouldn't be an issue constructing a warp ring enough to engulf atleast 10% of the star or 1% for that matter depending on how fast you want the star gone or your enemy gone... take your pick! 

Time Space storage device in form of watch Atomic re constructor device in form of a box which can be resized according to needs Orbital Microwave satellite cannon 

There are 2 series(Records of a fallen vampire, Muv-Luv unlimited) that i read a while ago about this topic, it doesn't only stop rockets from flying(This also included SLBMs launched from Atlantic, target was an island in japan), anything generally larger than 10 meters is shot down mid air with the use of LASERs The lasers were used by aliens in those 2 series. Aliens from RoaFV used meteors to strategically place their laser turrets all around the world(They camouflaged it). The gov't didn't know it was laser turrets. And when they knew, they cant even destroy it due to its molecular armor BETA(Beings of Extra Terrestrial origin which is Adversary of human race) has laser class that has pin point accuracy that the moment you surpassed 100m off the ground you have 5 seconds to go below it to evade a laser salvo from this little aliens they also have extra ordinary range too and virtually can target anything they see. Taking an idea from this scenario. An efficient but very effective laser can be used in near future with the current fad of bleeding edge technology that R&Ds are fond of releasing these days. Then again why lasers. Because you only need to point it in a right direction, and boom, the problem is solved. 

Stop the current crusade/jihad from advancing further Cull extremists from both sides Establish yourself as a prophet of a 'God of light' and establish a religion Destroy the validity of both Christian-esque and Islam-esque religions not with overwhelming military/fire power but influence and if possible economics Establish a pantheon of false(nonexistent) gods to denounce Christian-esque and Islam-esque further. Destroy all scriptures of the 2 religions Convert most(60%) of the population to your church, and you shall name it 

Law of equivalent exchange - You can't create more than what you have given. (Can be bypassed by Philosophers Stone) Law of Preservation - You can't create anything out of nothingness. Law of Noise - The more magicians are in the vicinity the harder it is to cast magic and its tendency to fail increases as well.(Can be bypassed if one recieved the God of Silence's blessing or massive rituals) Law of Provision - Perversion of natures creation otherwise sentient will be reverted back to its original state or at the very least whats left of it in consideration of the first law. Law of world - The world will always reject perversion of its reality. Law of Time - No one can go to the future or past, offender will face the wrath of the gods and the world. 

So a man who was about to die was given a chance to evade death under the circumstances that he must travel to parallel world earth where magic exists and has only medieval level technology. He has 3 years to prepare before his departure, the date of his death. One of his preparations is about a powered assault armor. With near future technology and virtually unlimited funds. He must achieve the following for the powered assault armor. 

This is not a symbiote, but it provides an example of the principle. Chickens are relatively resistant to salmonella - the bacteria harms humans but not so much chickens. Eggs from an infected bird will be infected with salmonella because the bacteria are included in the fluids before the shell forms. There is no reason this principle could/does not apply to beneficial or symbiotic bacteria 

Karate student of 30 years - you cant. Knocking someone out requires striking the skull with sufficient force to bruise the brain. Brains have limited healing capacity. The brain is two hemispheres of fatty tissue connected by a short but thick segment of the same kind of tissue. The two hemispheres float independently in the cerebrospinal fluid, so blows from many angles will cause a shearing effect on the connecting tissue. Even injuries that have no immediate symptoms (i.e. no knockout) can express decades later because the injuries can be deep in the brain. Memory impairment, loss of self control, inability to process emotional and social cues are some of the long term symptoms. Edit: Causing unconsciousness by choking requires depriving the brain of oxygen sufficiently long for a critical percentage of the organ to shut down. The line between unconsciousness and death is very fine, and is the reason that police using "sleeper" holds usually end up in court. 

The nearest thing to this is the Bussard ram jet. The principle is easy to understand - the ship generates a magnetic field that funnels hydrogen from the interstellar medium into the reaction chamber, where some of it is used to fuel a fusion reactor and the rest is used as reaction mass. The reactor is used to superheated the reaction mass and generate electricity to generate the magnetic fields. The math is close enough that it remains plausible with very little handwavium. In real life, the energy losses in the system are just sufficient that it won't quite work. 

Robert Zubrin talks a lot about this kind of problem in his book "The case for Mars". As other people have already noted, airplanes can operate at much higher altitudes than humans can. In real life, Mars' atmosphere is sufficiently sparse today that it would make a very creditable attempt at creating a hard vacuum in a laboratory here on Earth. While the storms kick up a lot of dust, you would hardly even feel them because the air pressure is so low. the major hazards they pose are visibility and dust contamination. Between its low gravity and low air pressure, the biggest part of Mars' attraction for development lies in the cheapness of transportation. Long distance travel by suborbital rocket is incredibly cheap compared to air travel on Earth. Travel to Earth's moon is actually cheaper from Mars than from Earth. If you thicken the atmosphere sufficiently to prevent explosive decompression, you lose the advantages that make Mars desirable. There are two approaches to building a low pressure environment suit. The first is the "bubble", which is how current generation space suits work. You seal the suit and then pressurize it with air to something tolerable by a human. The second approach is to use the suit fabric to apply mechanical pressure directly to the wearers skin. What you need is the latter, a mechanical counter pressure (MCP) suit. Robert Heinlein actually had some pretty good ideas about how a quasi "shirt sleeve" environment might work in his 1950's novel "Red Planet". While some of his ideas are definitely based on a faulty knowledge of Mars' true environment (canals, martians), his engineering skills were working at 100%. Reading the first chapter might give you some ideas. 

This started out as a comment but got too large. I'm just going to touch on points that the other answers have not touched on in the way I would have stated them. People with engineering and chemistry backgrounds tend to have a general curiosity about the world in general, so their professional training doesn't decribe their knowledge or skill boundaries well. Even in the 20th century, it was hard for a woman to make a mark in the world. My own mother (a chemist) developed one of the first latex emulsion paint formulations for a national brand, to the pre-production stage, then the project was turned over to a male chemist because women weren't allowed in the plant. In the medieval period, anything to do with the kitchen and food would have been a good place for a woman to make a mark without challenging the social boundaries too much and being burned as a witch. Some form of canning is feasible. However, mason jars are not feasible because mass manufacture of precision glass jars was not feasible. However, the same effect (sealed sterile storage) can be had with pottery jars sealed with wax and topped with waxed leather. By leveraging her new reputation for food storage with heat, a pasteurization process could be worked out. Blacksmiths had worked out methods for maintaining steady temperatures. Those methods could be adapted for the much lower temperature of pasteurization. If she has been playing the part of a strongly religious (Proverbss 35) woman, then her rising reputation for the handling of foodstuffs would allow her to introduce crop rotation. Crop rotation was practiced in ancient mesopotamia (6000 years ago), and could be explained to medieval folks as a religious observance for the pious farmer, expanding upon the direction of Exodus 25:10. Silvering was known as early as the 10th century, although it was not used for mirrors yet. I'm not a chemist, but my mother was, and I spent much of my childhood around chemicals. One of her college exercises was to silver glass to build some other instrument. I believe a modern chemist should know enough to figure out the technique of silvering glass for mirrors (although medieval glass wasn't that flat, so I suspect the bronze mirrors would have been better) In my edit I changed "would" to "should" because of this story. About 20 years after my mother retired, she got a panicked phone call from a lab she used to work at. They were disposing of old chemicals an had found a squirt bottle labeled "hydrogen hydroxide". After she stopped rolling on the floor she walked them through the exercise of translating the name into a formula. "H-OH" "Yup. Now reduce to simplest terms" "H2 .... oh < click >". They had stumbled on to one my distillled water bottles from when I washed dishes at the lab (35 years previously).