This is clearly one form of "reverse psychology". Does it work? This was examined in a meta-analysis of twelve studies in 1987: Shoham-Salomon, Varda;Rosenthal, Robert Paradoxical interventions: A meta-analysis., Journal of Consulting and Clinical Psychology, Vol 55(1), Feb 1987, 22-28. doi: 10.1037/0022-006X.55.1.22 

Free Energy Magnet Motor (Engine): Category 5 = Fraud The claim is that the electromagnets in a simple electric motor were replaced by permanent magnets, requiring no external power. It only takes primary-school science to understand this is a fake. Electric motors require the polarity of the magnetism to change as the axle turns. A permanent magnet would simple freeze the axle in place. I speculate a hidden battery, although I also considered an electromagnet hidden behind the carpet. Xpenzif free energy screw magnet motor: Category 6 - Perpetually Out Of Balance This design will not work. The magnets will not pull the next screw-head forward, as it would be dragged back by the other magnet closest to a screw-head. The video shown would be easily faked, as the base of the axle was not shown. Steorn concept Permanent Magnet Moter Test: Category 8 - Machines without losses or friction Only a prototype, which was not an isolated system, was shown. The device is manually powered. This design will not work. What is shown is a prototype where the builder is underestimating how much energy he is putting into the system. The system will not generate enough energy (due to friction and conversion loss) to continually power itself when he eventually does close the cycle. Free energy 1 magnet disk There is insufficient detail shown to understand what the claim is here. Removed video Screw Magnet Motor - Already covered under #2 above. perpetual motion machine selfrunning: Category 4: Long running machine? There isn't enough detail here to be sure, but it looks like merely a long running machine, that will eventually wind down. Note that it makes a considerable noise, so it fails to be a machine "without losses or friction" - the sound energy being lost is evidence of that. 

Russell lists some 94 "languages" produced from a list made by Mezzofanti's nephew. He also lists 30 languages that Mezzofanti was "frequently tested and spoken with rare excellence". I don't think I can sum up the evidence and the difficulty of counting the languages spoken by an historical figure (given only second-hand reports, no clear definition of fluency and no clear definition of where one language stops and another begins) any better than Russell himself: 

I've had trouble finding a direct reference that talks about global sea ice. Why? Researchers treat the Arctic sea ice and Antarctic sea ice quite differently. Adding the two amounts together to look at global trends, as the Mail Online suggests, doesn't seem to be sensible. The US National Snow and Ice Data Center (NSIDC) have a page explaining the differences in the sea ice in the two regions, including surrounding landmasses, prevailing wind-patterns, shape and thickness, and the lifecycle of the ice. While the data on this page is somewhat dated, it also explains the difference in the trends. The 1979-2008 trends are: Arctic: 

I perused the abstract, and I couldn't see anything obviously wrong with this approach. They include Thyme in the mix which may or may not be relevant. The journal in which it is published is fairly low impact. Finally, I discovered Systematic Review of Clinical Trials Assessing the Effectiveness of Ivy Leaf (Hedera Helix) for Acute Upper Respiratory Tract Infections, Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Volume 2011 (2011), Article ID 382789, doi:10.1155/2011/382789 Review Article. They reached a similar conclusion to me (with far more rigour!): 

To support this, they cite an earlier article (which I haven't read): Leblond CP(1964) Classification of cell populations on the basis of their proliferative behaviour. Natl Cancer Inst Monogr 14:119–149. 

From this methodology, we can see that the definitions are a tight subgroup of Trump supporters, so the headline "Study Shows That Over 35 Percent Of Trump Supporters Follow White Supremacists On Twitter" is somewhat misleading. Some potential sources of error that exaggerate the effect include: 

However, this is not what the original 2010 PLOS ONE Article claims. The article is about the ability of participants to detect whether faces (carefully selected from an online dating site) were of Mormons or non-Mormons, and what factors might be in play. 

This review looked at 1991 potential reports, and selected 29 papers about 37 trials. None of the reports that were found 

It is difficult to prove that it is impossible to train dogs to detect hypoglycemia. All that can be done to disprove this claim is to show systematic efforts to train dogs have failed, and that no-one has been able to demonstrate that it is possible. In 2013, such an attempt was tried: 

So, while they didn't find a risk reduction from the pooled data as high as 60%, as quoted by Lifehacker, they showed that the individual studies had found quite different figures. So, it is quite reasonable to believe that Lifehacker had found (or at least had heard of) a study that showed a 60% risk reduction. 

Conclusion In summary, the paper covers a large number of (fairly minor?) potential benefits of peppermint tea, in dealing with minor complaints like sneezing, coughing, tension headaches, indigestion, irritable bowel syndrome and inflammation in humans, but the evidence falls short of being able to recommend peppermint tea as a safe and effective treatment or to recommend particular dosages. The paper is admittedly 10 years old; perhaps more recent evidence has surfaced. (Caution: The paper also shows that peppermint oil inhibits (non-heme) iron bioavailability, so care should be made to ensure iron consumption is high enough. There are no chronic toxicity studies in humans, but it shouldn't be used in patients with bile duct, gallbladder and liver disorders. Caution is also recommended for the use of peppermint oil capsules in patients with GI reflux, hiatal hernia or kidney stones.) 

Having said that, he goes on to list cases of hypnotists being accused of triggering unacceptable behaviour from patients. Again, these anecdotes don't prove the same behaviour wouldn't have been also conjured up by a non-hypnotic suggestion. 

One might denounce Spicer for not being careful with the facts and for not double-checking news reports. However, the claim that he deliberately fabricated or misrepesented an attack against the USA is a beat up, which is inconsistent with the very media reports being cited by the original article in the question. 

For two days, they watched what 12 men and 12 women chose to eat from a small selection in a lab restaurant, after the subjects had either swallowed 0.9g of Red Pepper*, capsaicin pills or a placebo, with tomato juice. 

This described consisted of a number of ingenious experiments designed to test if the bees are being recruited to fly in a particular direction, or whether odour forms some part of the cue. Their technique sounded like a science-fiction plot: they attached transponders to bees and tracked them individually by radar. They explain insect-tracking transponders only weigh between 6-20 milligrams; 10 years into their future and I still find this astonishing. I got distracted and followed it up. Forgive me for the digression, but here is a picture: 

Note that this (a) a statistical prediction, based on assumptions, not a simple count, and (b) it was an estimate of abusers, not the number of priests charged with abuse. This means the first part of The Monthly's claim was false, and the second was at least based on an estimate. However, as I continued the research to back up these figures, I found that figure on charges may well be similar to the estimate. 

It depends on what spider you are measuring, what sort of silk from that spider, and what properties you want to measure. 

They also proposed some mechanisms for this, which I didn't find awfully convincing (and neither did some other scientists quoted in your original article.) Their results is contradicted by : Shared experiences and the similarity of personalities: A longitudinal study of married couples. Caspi, Avshalom; Herbener, Ellen S.; Ozer, Daniel J. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, Vol 62(2), Feb 1992, 281-291. doi: 10.1037/0022-3514.62.2.281 They found: 

[Community Wiki, because the link was supplied by @EnergyNumbers, and I just added a sentence to the beginning.] 

Now, I wouldn't argue that the most popular point of view is necessarily the correct one, but the importance of washing vegetables compared to a claim about nutrients (an alleged claim, at that) isn't in the slightest bit controversial. 

They found some results that were consistent with the idea of a direction-based dance, but inconsistent with odour plumes. The key result was that capturing and moving the bees would effectively disorient them - they would head in the same vector from the release point as their would have taken from the capture point. 

Limited evidence in 2010. In 2011 (based on earlier data), a systematic review was performed by a Cochrane team: 

Summary: I don't have evidence for a 10x increase since the 1960s. I do for an increase from 1.5% THC to 8.8% THC (i.e. fivefold) from 1980-2008. The University of Mississippi have a long-running "Potency Monitoring Project". Potency trends of delta9-THC and other cannabinoids in confiscated marijuana from 1980-1997, ElSohly MA, Ross SA, Mehmedic Z, Arafat R, Yi B, Banahan BF 3rd., J Forensic Sci. 2000 Jan;45(1):24-30. They analysed over 35,000 confiscated "cannabis preparations" over a period of 18 years, and found a rise in potency. 

They cite a study that suggests both are somewhat true. They also look at the relative generosity between different religious (especially Protestants versus Catholics), looking at both totals and proportions of income. They account for the difference in the style of solicitation. These issues are out-of-scope. The general conclusion that I drew from the study - and I emphasize, this remains simplistic; see the report for more - is that: 

A more technical description of the process was also published. These results suggest that the manufacturers claims (as of 2009) are not to be trusted, that electronic cigarettes contain a number of dangerous compounds and that they are unsuitable as a mechanism for quitting smoking. Note: At least one manufacturer disputed these findings. 

Does it make much sense to declare one country less racist than another when they mingle in rankings like this? For that matter, if you declared the least racist city to be the one with the smallest proportion of respondents who strongly disagree with the statement, we can see from the red bars in the histogram that this would give quite different results, with Gdansk and Luxembourg vying for the lead. 

In conclusion: It is difficult to prove that negative post-hypnotic suggestions couldn't exist, but well-controlled experimental attempts to show that they exist have failed. A key way that they have failed is that control groups of non-hypnotised people people trust experimenters, and follow their suggestions even when it would seem objectionable or dangerous. This makes particular anecdotes difficult to assess (whether it is allegations of sexual assault under hypnosis, or the apparent willingness of a participant to shoot a gun at another person, as reported by the CIA) as they may well have been willing to comply with an authority to commit such acts without being hypnotised. 

While it is irrelevant to this discussion, this study struck me as poorly controlled. Why are they comparing damage done by a cyclone shuriken to pig skin from 4 metres, to damage done by a traditional shuriken to a human skin from 2 metres? Why not do both experiments against pig carcasses from the same distance? 

Note: Wikiquote isn't a very strong reference to support this. They do link to the 1920 quote, but that isn't proof that it isn't older. Meanwhile, the Fake History blog tracks several different variants - e.g. an 1835 biographer who claimed Washington said: 

This fact-sheet from the Amputee Coalition of America should have the figures you need to approximate the average. 

5 and 6) Asserting that future governments are conspiring against us is unfalsifiable and off-topic. The idea that future governments (of which nations?), who presumably aren't in power yet, are conspiring against us in this way is ludicrous. It is also unfalsifiable - no evidence can be produced that would satisfy the conspiracy theorists that make these sorts of claims - so it is out-of-scope of what can be dealt with with scientific evidence. Aside: If you ignore the blackmarket that would presumably spring up immediately, and the difficulty in policing online transactions, I see no technical reason why many transactions couldn't have an identification requirement, which might include the presentation of an implanted microchip. 

The claim is very open-ended: Where and when? Below, I reference a draft version of an article by Jim Chevallier that later appeared in "Consuming Culture in the Long Nineteenth Century: Narratives of Consumption, 1700-1900", edited by Tamara S. Wagner and Narin Hassan, Lexington Books (March 28, 2007). He provides references to support his claims.