Now, if we look at the greek money supply figures, and we know that that there are essentially three ways for liability deposits to decrease as shown - loan repayment, loan write-off and cash withdrawals, we can deduce pretty easily that Greece is experiencing a massive outflow of cash. We can assume that some of it is cash withdrawals particularly recently, but some of it also debt repayment to debt owners outside of the Greek banking system. As a very rough rule of thumb, on a 25 year loan, about twice as much money will have to flow back to the lender, as was originally borrowed, and this is what's causing the underlying systemic problems. According to the Wall Street Journal, this is a summary of the debt picture: Greek Debt Mechanically speaking then, the only way a country can unilaterally stay in the Eurozone is if they are experiencing a net inflow of asset cash/money, in which case it's unlikely that they'd be under pressure to leave it. What this counter-situation does to the economy depends very much on how the banking system is regulated, and since most countries no longer depend on asset cash/aka reserve regulation as a control, the answer as also seen in the US with TARP is not necessarily very much. A water analogy may be slightly helpful. As long as there is enough water, and any excess can be stored, then it doesn't matter if over time more water comes in than can be used. However, it's disastrous to not have enough water - and that's essentially the problem that the banking system is currently causing for Greece. The various attempts to "solve" the problem by issuing more debt, simply act to make it worse over time. 

It's a holdover from the old Gold Standards. Gold standard regulation required all banks, including the central bank to hold gold as a regulatory asset. In the last gold standard, the Bretton Woods regime, the US in particular had to hold gold to back the dollar. The requirement went away with the collapse of the Bretton Woods agreement in 1973, but the gold didn't. These days there isn't any requirement to hold gold, and indeed some countries - notably the UK in 1999 and 2002 have sold off significant amounts of their bank holdings. (Note though, it's been suggested there were stability issues behind this sale.) Gold on the Federal Reserve's book isn't even held at market prices, it's marked to a notional statutory value of ~$42. By the same token, there isn't any requirement not to hold it, so why sell it? There tends to be a lot of inertia in these kinds of systems. Interestingly, an examination of central bank annual reports shows a fair amount of variation in what they use for their assets. While government debt in the form of treasuries is usually present, the Norwegian central bank holds market securities - presumably due to a lack of government debt. The Federal Reserve added securitized loans in the wake of the 2007 crash in order to stabilise their financial system. 

The systemic problem with currency unions, and this is true of all historical currency unions, not just the current Eurozone, is that the banking systems that comprise them expand their money supplies (money in this answer is the total sum of bank deposits) at different rates. Banking systems can also contract their money supplies, this is rarer, but equally problematic. Between different currencies this issue is reflected in the valuation of currencies relative to each other, and over time this shifts more or less in relation to the different expansion rates, and to economic changes which can also influence the price level. Within a currency however, this can't happen, and the pricing issues created by different expansion rates have to be resolved within the economy, in so much as they can be. This problem can and does occur within individual countries. Different banks also expand at different rates within a banking system, and because banking is structured geographically, unbalanced flows occur everywhere. The London problem is good example of this in the UK. However, within a country, it is usually possible to politically intervene and direct tax spending by the government to the regions that are expanding at slower rates. Germany does this very well, the US increasingly not so well, as banking becomes more concentrated there, and political pressure is being put on the US Government to reduce spending, and since China has been reduced to building empty cities in an attempt to re-direct funds, I wouldn't describe that as exactly healthy. A large part of the problem is that this effect is very slow. Monetary expansion rates in fiscally stable countries are typically of the order of 1.3 - 3 times per decade. The stresses on the systems build up very slowly, are generally misunderstood - the symptoms are economic and so people's behaviour can be blamed. In that borrowing is the trigger for the expansion, behaviour also influences the problem (and generally amplifies it). Whether or not breaking currencies down further would be a solution to this is an open research question. Back in the 18th century in the USA there was a time when this was effectively occurring as each bank issued its own notes, and these notes traded at different rates to each other. It can be done, whether or not we would want to live in that world is another matter entirely. The Eurozone was created for a number of reasons, and one was that having a single currency significantly simplified commercial transactions. The idea at the time was that countries who joined it would have sufficiently similar economies and be fiscally responsible with respect to debt and government spending. The intrinsic monetary expansion issues inherent in fractional reserve banking appear to have never been explicitly acknowledged. 

There are several issues with this approach. One is that any changes in the quantity of money - including those considered 'acceptable amounts of inflation' - act to distort the price signal being communicated to all economic participants which is an extremely undesirable side effect. The other is a little more insidious. Governments can only print cash or asset money. The vast majority, over 98% in most modern banking systems of money being used is liability money - money that is represented as deposits in the banking system. Were the government for example to print physical cash and deposit it in a commercial bank the book keeping operation would be [debit cash, credit deposit]. In almost all cases, it is the deposit money that is actually spent as the government pays salaries etc. So if a government prints money and its banking regime relies on a framework where assets act as a regulatory control on lending (and consequent deposit creation), and there is no other regulatory control, the result is hyper-inflation. The problem is not just the money created by the government, it is the consequent multiplication that results from banks increasing their credit/money creation. (This form of regulation is generally referred to as the reserve requirement in economic literature.) Typically the resulting inflation then leads the government to print more money, and the result is a rapid spiral that quickly destroys the usefulness of the currency concerned for any economic transaction. Most modern banking systems use a combination of reserve requirements and capital requirements, and this is why the quantitative easing interventions have so far had no inflationary effect on the economies using them. Even though the US government printed a huge amount of money for the TARP intervention, the capital controls intervened to prevent the runaway hyperinflation that would have occurred under earlier regimes. However it's still a dangerous thing to do, and the long term behaviour of banking systems that rely on basel capital controls is poorly understood. Finally, it's worth noting that the alternative available to any government besides borrowing, is raising taxes or controlling its' expenditure. Ultimately the government's use of social resources has to be regulated by something, and keeping a more or less balanced budget isn't a bad place to start. 

There is one thing perhaps worth adding to the excellent answers above, which is there is essentially a meta-numbers game going on as well. Lets say that 20 scientists all do the same set of experiments looking for something possibly weakly correlated like "does chocolate cause heart attacks", and will accept the p value < 0.05 significant which frankly they shouldn't. The cumulative probability is that one scientist will get a significant finding, which is the one experiment that will get published, since negative results rarely get accepted. There is then a 100% chance that that finding will get picked up by the Bild Zeitungs of this world and mis-reported. Unfortunately, because we don't report the absence of findings, we're essentially engaged in a planet wide exercise in reporting all the experiments that get lucky - in the wrong sense of the word. For subjects with a strong theoretical basis, good experimental design provides some protection against this - for subjects which are pre-dominantly having to work with observational data, and try to work out the theory - like economics - it's a major issue. Added: For an extensive - and very well written - discussion on the entire issue, see the paper that started the recent debate: An Investigation of the false discovery rate and the misinterpretation of p-values David Colquhoun