This way you show them respect by answering them and saying politely that you are not interested. You can still ask them to connect with you. This can be useful later when you will try to find new opportunites 

The 1st problem is linked to the developers themselves. This won't be solved by upgrading NodeJS or using a NoSQL database. What to do The team needs to have some specific rules that each develop needs to apply while coding. Those rules should be created together or with a small part of the team. Talk to your manager and ask him to organize a meeting with the whole team. This will take some times to take place. Problem B 

I don't really what are the common website for recruitment in USA thus I cannot help you about those website. Your first job I graduated last June (2015) and would advice you to fist look for a full-stack developer job. This will help you to get the professional way to code. I started as a developer but I also had to do front-end development. You will start like this, learning new technologies, frameworks, libraries,... Discover new technologies You do not learn everything at school. If you have opportunities to do training at work or time to learn new framework, do it ! The more technologies you discover the more you will know what you really want to do later. Learn a list of front-end framework : AngularJS, ReactJS, NodeJS, Backbone, VueJS,... Don't stop because of the year's experience asked When you send your CV to an offer, send it to a opportunity that is looking for the skills you have. Most of the time you will see something like : 3-5 years experiences : CSS-HTML-Javascript Better if you know : AngularJS, ReactJS,... Try to learn those plus. Outside working hours You can easily do front-end development outside your work hours. Create simple website but with different technologies. Try to learn the best practices. Note : Search for Junior front-end withour the engineer 

Yes you can and should put it on your resume. Don't mention on your resume you quit, just the start and end date, work done, expertise gained etc. Make it look positive, any experience gained is a good thing. It is up to you what to answer when asked in an interview about why or how it ended (often they don't ask). There is always a way to spin it into something positive. Also you can ask for a reference and most managers will give you one, even though you quit. Quitting is part of this whole "game". It's in their best interest to give a good reference, it reflects bad on them as well if they wouldn't. And it's a small world, you never know how a bad reference can some day hit back. It may be a good idea to clearly explain why you quit, in an email or written letter. In a form that would provide feedback so they (hopefully) could improve things. Sound positive, don't sound bitter or angry. Thank them for the opportunity, that you learned a lot, such things. Leaving a bad situation isn't necessarily a bad thing and can be seen as a sign of strength. Especially if you do it gracefully. As an aside this sounds like a bad situation to get out of asap and it sounds like they are (ab)using an intern position as a real job. There are laws against it. I know in California an employer is not allowed to (ab)use an intern position for regular work tasks, this also means an intern has more freedom with regards to work times and all that. 

Obviously it's very clear from all the answers here that you need to apologize, but I often notice people fail to understand the best way to do that. So I'll offer some advise on how to actually handle apologizing in this situation: You already know from the other answers that what you did was an annoying, selfish, and extremely lame thing. But how do you get back on everyone's good side? I know some people just dont know how to communicate with people, even under the best circumstances, much less in an awkward situation like this. If you're one of those people, it might not be as hard as it feels. Step 1) Go to each person privately - not in an imposing way, wait (however many hours or days it takes) until you find a moment when you can catch the person apart from the others and not engaged in any work. You've got to feel this part out and be careful about when and where, the key is to not draw any attention from anyone but the person you're talking to so they don't feel awkward that other people see you talking to them 1 on 1 after what happened. Step 2) Say calmly and coolly, very chill, sound just slightly embarrassed, but not unconfident: "Hey, I realize what I did back then with the game was really lame. I ruined the game (shake your head and roll your eyes a bit at your own stupidity, not dramatically, just a subtle gesture to defuse the drama that comes with an apologize after an awkward fuck-up) for you guys. Sorry. That was terrible (laugh at yourself during that last bit with a subtle head shake as if to say "I can't believe I acted that way")" Try to say it in a tone and manner that shows you mean it but doesn't feel dramatic. Zero tension. Let them know you're sorry and wave them off, walk away. Step 3) Don't invite yourself or even risk acting like you might be hoping to be invited to join them again any time soon. Just be cool, be friendly with everyone, tell everyone hello when you see them, smile and wave. Do your job really well. You majorly fucked up your rep with a move as childish as yours was. No offense intended, that's just the reality of your situation. Be patient, don't talk too much, don't try to join in their conversations, just do your job well and talk when spoken to. If you do that for a few months, they'll get to know you as a chill, cool guy who fucked up but apologized, the awkwardness will have worn off and you might be able to join your colleagues again for a game and joke about how terrible you fucked up way back then. Note: A comment claims this method is too forced, but disagree. I think with the right charm and sincerity, this approach will work. 

This means an employee can be dismissed for any reason at any time and an employee can quit for any reason at any time. However restrictions apply, such as discrimination etc. Read the article for all the details. In addition, particular to your situation, since you apparently signed a statement where you have to give 30 days notice: 

Since it appears your employer has retained the right to fire you any time but you have to give 30 days notice you may have a good case considering it is unfair, however a lawyer would be much better suited to advice you. Your State may have a lawyer referral service, which can be very helpful. 

I did not verify with the California code, but have read it in the past. My answer is from what I remember. If you wish to keep being employed and receive wages then you obviously have to do what your employer tells you, within reason and what is lawful. If they say you can no longer work from home then you have to work from the designated place of work, of course you can refuse, and they can fire you for no reason any time (you can also quit for no reason, any time). Considering they changed the rule and you are no longer allowed to work from home, and you still do work from home, they can regard this as being absent without leave. Since you are not present at your workplace doing your job. They offer you to use up your sick leave during your stay at home (I assume it's a medical reason preventing you from going to work). If you do that then make sure to not work, because you're having paid time off, or sick leave in this case. Take time to recover and rest. It is silly, to say the least, to work when on (sick) leave (I know many a fool does, and many people get stressed and burn outs, how surprising). You can of course refuse to use the sick leave, and your employer can then consider this as being absent without leave, stop paying you for the days you are not at work, ignore the fact you could be working from home (since that is against the rules now) and eventually decide to fire you because you are not at work. Don't think that just because you are working from home that it is by default considered work. It is only considered work as long as your employer thinks it is and since they decided to not allow work from home they would not consider it work, I would think.