I think part of the confusion comes from the fact that "period doubling" can mean two rather different things, which are probably related but this is not completely known. The first is a purely observational meaning, which happens when you have a clear periodic pulsation in a star, but the amplitude shows a higher-lower-higher-lower pattern that implies a "double" period to see the full cycle. Then there's the theoretical meaning, which is a step in the approach to chaos. The way the approach to deterministic chaos often works is, you have a simple system that shows a simple period. But then you increase the degree of nonlinearity in the system, and you see bifurcations into something that requires double the number of iterations to be cyclic. If each iteration represents a cycle time, like the time to go around an orbit or the time for a pulsation, then that means double the period. Maybe you started with an interative mapping that converges to a fixed point, but then you increased the nonlinearity and it turned into a limit cycle where the iterations go back and forth between two points. Now, it's not immediately obvious the connection between that and the amplitude modulation of a simple cycle, and I think many of the sources are purposefully ambiguous about that connection because nonlinear dynamics is still a mysterious field. But the basic idea seems to be, if you have a linear system, it has uncoupled pulsation modes that are higher harmonics of the lowest frequency "fundamental" mode. But if you have a nonlinear system, you can have coupling between those modes, which end up looking like amplitude modulation in a lower harmonic due to resonant coupling with a higher harmonic. If the coupling has an odd-integer relationship, like a frequency of 2 coupling to a frequency of 3, then if the first oscillation in the frequency 2 mode couples resonantly with the frequency 3 harmonic, then the second oscillation will not couple well, it will hit the harmonic when it is 3/2 of the way through a cycle, so is out of phase. Then the third cycle of the frequency 2 mode will hit the frequency 3 mode when it has gone through 3 full cycles and is back into resonance. So that gives the "period doubling" where the amplitude of the frequency 2 harmonic gets a boost every second time around, owing to its ability to receive energy from the higher mode as well. The connection between that and period doubling bifurcations is not entirely obvious either, but it seems that the idea is that if you have nonlinearity, the period doubling you find on the path to chaos might be related to this kind of resonant interaction between the simple behavior you see, and higher frequency behaviors that could exist but only make their presence known as a kind of residue from how they interact with the behavior you do see. In other words, if the linearity is weak, some simple oscillation gets excited, but if you crank up the nonlinearity, that simple oscillation starts to overlap with more complicated behaviors that require more cycles to return to the original resonance relationship. Crank up the nonlinearity even more, and all you see are the complicated behaviors, you have complete chaos. The period doubling in variable stars represents only a small amount of nonlinearity, it's not chaotic and the relatively simple nature of the resonances allow for a large amplitude to build up and allow the stars to be classified as variable in the first place. To do more research into this, you might look up the "Blazhko effect," or how period doubling also applies to other variable stars. It sounds like an active area of research where there are still more questions than answers, but Kepler data has the promise of producing the necessary information to solve it. 

It's important not to confuse the amount of heat the Earth has radiated in its lifetime (a quantity you have no access to here) with its current heat content. This question is asking you to neglect all the heat radiated (which could be affected by things like radioactivity), and just look at the current heat content, and ask if that is much more, or much less, than the gravitational energy GM^2/R. So find some way to get the interior T of the Earth (not the surface T, that has nothing to do with this question), and you should find that the total heat content is way less than the gravitational energy released. The virial theorem was mentioned above, so if you know about that, you might have thought the heat content would be half the gravitational energy. That's only true of normal stars, which are held up by the gas pressure of largely noninteracting particles, whereas the Earth is held up by forces within the rocks that are not included in the usual virial theorem and have little to do with heat content. Still, the gravitational energy gives the energy that was released in forming the Earth, so when you find how little the heat content is in comparison, it gives you a good idea of how much the Earth has cooled since forming. It also gives you a lower bound on how much net heat it has radiated (over and above the heat of sunlight it has absorbed). It's only a lower bound because there are also internal radioactive heat sources, but I believe their sum total effect is still fairly small compared to GM^2/R. Hence the answer to your question is going to turn out to be "yes" when you do that comparison. (I wouldn't give that spoiler except that some of the answers above might have led you to think the answer should be "no.") 

Most of the absorption line comes from the photosphere in the region where the temperature is still dropping. Nevertheless, you can also get an absorption line where the temperature is rising, due to scattering effects. The Kirchoff-Bunsen law you describe is a simplified rule that assumes the lines form in thermal equilibrium with the local temperature, but sometimes scattering produces non-thermal-equilibrium ("non-LTE") effects. With scattering, line photons that get absorbed get re-radiated right away without coupling to the local temperature, and their re-emission has a 50% chance of being radiated back downward, where they will be reabsorbed deeper in the atmosphere. This contributes to absorption, especially near line center (and can cause a feature called "central reversal" there). But it is true that you can also get emission lines from very strong chromospheres where the Kirchoff-type effect does occur, see the profiles from chromospherically active dwarf stars (called "dMe stars"). 

The problem with associating virtual particles with either dark matter or dark energy is that, quite literally, virtual particles aren't real. By that I mean, they are intended to change the effects of energy, like how the energy is transported and where it goes, but they shouldn't alter the amount of energy. As such, virtual particles are just a kind of picture, a way to view the terms in a particular way of writing the equations. Many physicists reject that picture, they think it gets taken too literally, while others embrace it wholeheartedly, but it shouldn't appear in the stress energy that is used in general relativity. But of course, the problem is that general relativity may be wrong, especially since it does not seem very consistent with quantum mechanics. So the idea is, maybe there is some way to correct general relativity where virtual particles do have a more direct role. Then the people who tend to dismiss their relevance would have to reconsider. But so far it's not at all clear that this will be the right way to fix GR, because you run into significant problems. The problems you run into with dark matter being virtual particles is that most of the effects of dark matter are seen on completely Newtonian scales, like the gravity in a galaxy. On that scale, one should not need GR, and no one is suggesting that we need to fix Newtonian gravity by including virtual particles, that would not be consistent with everything Newton did. For example, we see no effects of dark matter within our own solar system, so why would we need to fix Newtonian gravity on the galactic scale but not the solar system scale? We would need to do more than include virtual particles, we'd need a whole new kind of gravity (sometimes called "MOND", modifications to Newtonian dynamics"). If you are going to do MOND, it opens a full range of possibilities, there's really no reason to be constrained by the virtual particle concept. The problems you run into if you try to associate virtual particles with dark energy is that the answer you get, if you proceed in the most straightforward way possible, is that the dark energy should either be zero (if you don't think virtual particles count in the energy of the vacuum), or something more than 100 orders of magnitude too large (if you think they do count). So how do you take that virtual particle concept and whittle down its effects from something more than 100 magnitudes too large to something tiny but not zero? It's not at all clear this is the best starting point!