Having experienced many minor earthquakes (Mag 3 to 5 in the East African Rift Valley, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Philippines and Indonesia), and one major life-threatening earthquake (Magnitude 8, Nepal), I can make a few personal observations about physiological reactions. First, You are quite correct about the body picking up any swaying feeling, and interpreting this as dizziness. I was in an 11th floor hotel room in Bangkok when an aftershock of the Aceh earthquake occurred. My first thought was "Did I drink too much beer this evening"? I wasn't alone. When I opened the door into the corridor, the occupants of nearly every room were looking out and wondering much the same thing. Second, after experiencing a big one the body becomes hypersensitive - conditioned to pick up vibrations that could be the onset of a major quake. Now, at the onset of any vibration, my brain goes straight to "how big is it - should I run to the nearest exit"? This response is now much faster than the sensation of dizziness. Also I now pick up many vibrations that nobody else around me seems to notice. Thirdly, I am not sure I agree with you about vertical motion being the trigger. It seems to me that lateral motion - moving one's feet sideways relative to the head, creates a slight imbalance, which the ears interpret as 'dizziness'. 

Addis Ababa lies 9 degrees north of the equator at about 2300 metres in altitude. Its' mean annual rainfall is about 1090 mm, with an average daily probability of rain of about 41%. The inter-tropical convergence zone in this part of East Africa is a little anomalous, but sufficient to bring long rains in July-August, and short rains in March-April. Given the altitude, latitude and synoptic climatology, there is nothing unusual about this rainfall, though as Kwinkunks points out, if you happen to hit an unusually wet 'long rainy season' it might seem unusually wet. 

The Northwest of Scotland has a common linkage to Norway in that both are the remains of the once-mightly Caledonide chain of mountains. This was before the Atlantic Ocean opened up, so other fragments of the Caledonides are to be found in Greenland and Eastern North America. See for example the diagrams found in Haakon's website: $URL$ 

Your first question, regarding salt pollution requires a back-of-an-envelope calculation. At present, about 4% of the global population relies, either wholly or in part, on desalinated water. Because this is energy intensive, it is also expensive, so such water users are parsimonious, using about 1% of the global domestic water supply. But let us, for the sake of argument, assume that the desalinated option really takes off at some time in the future, perhaps by means of less energy intensive 'forward osmosis'. We will assume that 10% of the current population (7.4 billion people) may eventually use desalinated water, yielding a daily delivery of bitterns with 2.45 x 10^^9 tonnes of salt. Compare this to the 1,5 x 10^^17 tonnes of salt already in the ocean - the salt return would be 0.0000016% of what is already in the sea. Moreover, even this trivial amount would be diluted by the hydrological cycle, because the water that is drunk, used for washing, etc, ultimately returns to the sea. But you ask whether the local concentrated saline return would be harmful to the environment? Consider Adelaide, in South Australia, which boasts the largest desalination plant in the southern hemisphere. Very detailed studies, by both computer modelling and direct observation, show that the dispersion of the saline plume reaches concentrations undetectable against the background salinity, within a few hundred metres of the outflow. It certainly hasn't impacted the local marine ecology at all - and the South Australians are very particular about environmental issues! Again, consider the greatest concentration of desalination plants in the world, in the Arabian Gulf. This shallow-water (<50 metres) Gulf has high natural rates of evaporation, which raises the salinity from the normal 3.6% to about 4.1%. This change is orders of magnitude more than can be attributed to the salinity change from all the desalination plants combined. The ecology and biodiversity of the Gulf is still rich, and not at all affected by local bitterns effluent. Climate change will intensify evaporation, which is much more of a worry than 'desal' plants. As to your second question about changing the climate and increasing rainfall by pumping bitterns into the desert, there is a massive problem with that. As the salinity increases by evaporation, the vapour pressure at the lake surface decreases, which suppresses further evaporation. Since we would be dealing with hyper-saline brines to start with, we would rapidly approach an equilibrium in which the massively decreased evaporation would equal the natural deliquescence of the salt. In fact, evaporation would win, but only slightly. The loss of moisture to the atmosphere would be barely noticeable, and not sufficient to terra-form the down-wind area. I suggest that the impacts of global warming will massively eclipse any trivial changes brought about by evaporation basins. If you don't believe me, I suggest you get some hydrologic and geochemical textbooks, and do some mass-balance calculations of your own. 

I'm thinking of visiting South America at some stage, to look at some interesting geology in the Atacama, Patagonian Andes, etc. Does anyone know where the best geological museum is in South America? I have a particular fancy to see what unusual lithologies South America has to offer. 

There is no reason why the day length should be the same. From the time of planetary formation, some 4.6 Bn years ago there has been some degree of slowing of day length due to tidal friction, which is much higher on Earth than on Venus, so the original contrast in day length may have been even greater than today. There are three major reasons for differencial spin rates. Firstly, the initial planetary rotation rate was a function of the net angular momentum of the planetesimals, gas, and miscellaneous debris from that part of the solar nebula from which the planet condensed (in accordance with the conservation of angular momentum). There is no reason to suppose that that the original solar nebula consisted of a nicely ordered, evenly distributed mass/velocity distribution. Rather, there is every reason to think that it was a highly chaotic heterogeneous cloud of matter undergoing gravitational mayhem - probably including large scale gravitational disruption by gas giants much closer to the sun than we see them today. From such chaos one could model almost any distribution of relative rotation speeds amongst the final planets. Secondly, there is strong evidence that proto-Earth collided with a 'trojan' named 'Theia', about the size of Mars, about 4.3 Bn years ago. This is the 'giant impact hypothesis', which provides a good explanation for Earth having such a large moon. We don't know the relative angular momentum of either proto-planet, their relative motions, or the angle of impact (head on? glancing?), so it is probably impossible to reconstruct the event. However, it is (relatively) easy to envisage how such an impact could radically change the Earth's angular momentum. The spin could have been hugely accelerated or decelerated according to the physics of the impact. Thirdly, Venus's relative proximity to the sun could have resulted in its undergoing rotational capture, such that eventually one face of Venus will perpetually face the sun. This gravitational locking of Venus is probably the most significant reason for its' long day. As you rightly note, the retrograde spin of Venus is curious. Therefore we may infer that Venus's spin history is more complex than we can account for by simple planetary accretion. 

Nice 'green' idea, but I don't think it will work. Wetlands are good for filtering out solids. Dissolved molecules, like detergents will take much longer to degrade by microbial and UV degradation, by which time coloured organics in the wetland will develop, like fulvic, humic and tannic acids. These might be OK for washing dark coloured cars, but I doubt if you will get away with this on white or light-coloured cars. If you have the roof area then rainwater harvesting in a large tank would be a better bet - also, the rainwater would be soft, so less cleaning agent would be necessary. 

Warm water does hold more salt - at saturation, but seawater isn't even close to saturation. Surface sea water gets warm, starts to evaporate (hence clouds) and therefore gets denser. So it sinks to the ocean floor, where it cools down to about 4 deg Celsius, and gets denser still. But it still is a very long way from being saturated with salt, so 'how much salt the water can hold' doesn't come into it. 

Raindrops gain a small amount of acidity as they fall through carbon dioxide in the air, but that's not what this question is about. Raindrops commonly start off as ice crystals which have to nucleate around something, usually an aerosol particle such as soot, clay, bacteria, sulphur dioxide , dimethyl sulphide, etc. If a small raindrop nucleates around an acidic core, then a pH of 3.1 is certainly possible. Much depends upon the raindrop size. With a larghe raindrop - up to about 4 mm maximum (it breaks up if any larger) there is likely to be huge dilution, whereas in a very small raindrop, as in a fine mist, there can be minimal dilution, and maximal acidity. 

There are several climate datasets around the world, two in America - NASA's GISTEMP, and NOAA's MLOST, and one in the UK - HadCRUT. These are the main datasets but there are others around the world, China, Japan etc. The datasets differ slightly in the starting date, number of met stations included, degree of interpolation, and the way they get round the problem of lack of met stations in oceanic areas. As to being 'tampered with', this is a subtle malicious implication that the data has been fudged. It is also an insult to the scientific integrity of the thousands of climate scientists involved, whose aim, as in all of science, is to get at the truth. Of course, the data have been 'processed'. This is an essential part of data quality control to interpolate missing data, and to ensure consistency of the data set. But no data has been 'tampered with' in the sense of trying to lead to false conclusions. One of the striking features of all the global datasets is that, despite minor differences, they all show the same basic characteristics of an accelerating global temperature - the 'hockey stick graph'. There is much dishonesty about, but not with the climate scientists. It is the climate skeptics who are being dishonest (not to mention scientifically incompetent). 

If it has a low specific gravity, of about 1.1 , burns and carbonizes in a hot flame then it is amber. If it has a specific gravity of about 2.7, and scratches glass easily, then it is some variety of silica, such as quartz or agate. If it barely scratches glass, and has a specific gravity of between 2.4 and 2.7 then it is most likely just brown bottle glass. 

Then you will be in a much better position to identify your rock. But in the case of igneous or metamorphic rocks you really need a petrologic microscope, which is expensive and needs professional guidance on how to use correctly. Looking at the geological map of Morocco, the area you chose looks quite complex, with both igneous and sedimentary crystalline basement overlain by a wide range of Paleozoic sedimentary cover - and all infused by later mineralization, so expect the unexpected! 

The Earth's initial accretion was about 4.5 billion years ago, and there is good Hf-W isotopic evidence that an iron core started to form within about 10 M years, and may have been largely complete within 30 M years. However, the Earth's dynamo, which is driven by isotopic heating and core rotation/convection, didn't switch on strait away. It must have built up over hundreds of millions of years, possibly kick-started by a the magnetic field of a stronger solar wind at that time. The evidence from 3.5 Bn year old dacites suggest that the magnetic field at that time was only 30 to 50% of the current value. There is no magnetic data for 4.4 to 3.5 Bn years, (the time period you are interested in), but current models lean towards lower rather than higher values. There appears to be no mechanism for strong magnetism in the early Earth. Geomagnetic evidence from about 2.5 Bn years ago seems to indicate that the Earths magnetism was more stable then than now, with few if any peaks of high or low magnetism. Probably the Earth's early magnetic field will always be imprecisely known because nearly all the early rocks have been 'cooked' in such a way as to extinguish the early magnetic evidence. 

Two types, low volume high concentrations, and vice versa. For high concentrations start with gravity mapping, and check out high Bouguer anomalies. Generally speaking basic and intermediate igneous, and metamorphic terraines are a better bet than sedimentary terrains - though circulating groundwaters and water-rock interaction can produce local copper shows almost anywhere. Regional mapping of surface water and sediment chemistry should highlight the areas worth exploring. Search for oxidized copper minerals like malachite, azurite, brochantite, etc. In Australia one of the richest copper mining areas was famously discovered by a dog chasing a rabbit into its' hole. The dog owner found malachite in the excavated spoil of the rabbit warren. On the big industrial scale, (high volume, low grade) look for copper porphyry of Andean type, which should be obvious from general geological mapping. A crude but novel way of exploring is to dump bits of scrap iron in local streams, then check them out a few weeks/months later to see if iron-copper exchange has occurred. 

This is arguably a theological rather than science-based issue, but since it is cross-cutting I will answer it. No, there is no possible mechanism for the sun to cease shining for three hours, but neither is there any such imperative implied in the original Greek text, which requires only a relative darkening of the sun. You are correct is recognizing that this was no eclipse. It may be noted that comparable 'darkness' is implied in other Biblical accounts, such as in Exodus, Joshua and Amos. Nowhere in these four texts is total darkness either stated or implied, but naturalistic explanations (i.e. scientific) - which in no way detract from the spiritual intent of the text - may be eminently applied to correct textural understanding. As in so many modern misunderstandings, the apparent conflict between science and Biblical theology entirely disappears when the Bible is read sensibly from the appropriate perspective. The Bible is not a modern Greco-Roman literalist quasi-scientific text, and it is absurd to treat it as such. the Bible is basically a spiritually-inspired collection of 2000 to 3000 year-old Hebrew texts, written in the parabolic allegory-rich idiom of ancient Jewish culture. For all that, it is no less accurate in spiritual wisdom - but radically different from the 21st century world views. Not only is it literature from a different culture, we also don't have any of the original texts! You are arguing on the basis of a modern British translation of a Greek translation of presumed Aramaic literature, which itself may have undergone several cycles of editing (as in the Noah story, which has at least four cycles of precursor literature). Subtleties of meaning are lost in each stage of translation, so before drawing over-literal assumptions, first at least check the nuances of the earliest Greek translation. Had you done that, the question of absolute darkness would not have arisen, and partial darkness would more than adequately have proved correct - such as a sandstorm (as 'A child of God' suggested) or a super-cell storm cloud - which does occasionally occur in the Israeli highlands. Such superstorm events may indeed seem to be like night if they occur only minutes after the intense bright Mediterranean sunlight of the Jerusalem highlands. Many Christians get hot under the collar when scientific explanations are applied to miracles such as this. It need not be so. It is not a case of "look at God doing the impossible, again", but of placing due emphasis upon the true miracle, which is the exquisite timing of the event in support of God's unfolding plan.