The restart says 'OK' and I'm able to connect using port 22. But I cannot connect through port 80. Then I install nmap but don't see anything running on port 80 (port 22 is there!). I am 200% sure that my security group is correct. I've even tried it in a new instance just in case the security groups didn't update in realtime. A few things I've observed: 

Create a fresh instace (I used a smaller RHEL instance since I was trying to implement it for a RHEL HVM instance) SSH into the machine and update and added the lines and Added a new rule to the iptables: then run 

Is it possible to change the port used by RD Gateway. I know its integrated with IIS and it uses port 443 (SSL) so i've changed my IIS bindings to use a different port for SSL communications. however, I can't find any way to specify the RD gateway port in the RD client. Has anyone ever done this before? Reason I'm asking is, my ISP just recently blocked port 80 and 443 so I am forced to use another port. 

UPDATE: I still haven't found the problem but it's most likely caused by my ISP (maybe they're blocking traffic from port 80 that isn't HTTP traffic). Its not secret that Singapore is doing a lot of traffic filtering so its not impossible. I tried running SSH from a different port and that works. Also, connecting to SSH in port 80 from another EC2 instance from a different region works. So anyway, I've marked the most upvoted answer. 

If you want to serve multiple domains, you can still do so at least for modern browsers that understand SNI/etc. First, obtain separate letsencrypt certs for each domain. If you have multple hostnames (ie, both and ) they can share, as long as the actual domain is the same. 

You are setting it inside the loop, so it will keep prompting you for it. I would have two loops - one to prompt for the server name and keep prompting until a valid value is provided, and then one to do option A or B or Quit. For pure programming questions like this, you may be better off asking on stackexchange 

If your friend wants you to do his DNS for him, all he has to do is enter ns1/ns2.yourdomain.com for his name servers with his registrar. You need to set up a zone file as appropriate for him, with A records, MX record(s), SPF/TXT records, etc. If you want to delegate a subdomain to him, you need to do some things on your end, then some things on his end, and then he'll have a subdomain of yours with a working name server. Note that I've not tested this subdomain name server as a NS entry in a domain registry for a 3rd domain, but it should work. First, on your domain, create the subdomain in the zone file. 

stopping iptables and ip6tables service has no effect if I remove Port 22 from the sshd_config, I can no longer make new connections If I do the same steps (minus the iptables rule) on an Ubuntu AMI, I can successfully connect! 

So I've done this a few dozen times on a 'normal' box (not in EC2) and it seems simple enough. I was trying to run ssh on port 22 and 80 but I couldn't, for the life of me, figure out why I can't connect through port 80 but I can connect fine using port 22. So here's what I've done: 

Is there anyway I can remote my computer at home from another location (work) where the only way I can access the internet is through an http proxy? tl;dr Previously I was using RD Gateway and it worked pretty well, I didn't have to install anything in the client. However, my ISP has recently blocked port 443 and 80. After some investigation, I determined that our proxy also allowed communications on port 8080 (I was able to open a site I hosted on that port) so I figured maybe I can change the RD gateway port from 443 to 8080. But after some digging and days of troubleshooting, its seems like its not possible. and that brings me here. Is there any other way I can remote my computer through an http proxy, preferably without installing additional software on the client? I don't really care how a ugly hack it might be. or maybe some web app I can install that will function like RD using a browser? 

I've migrated from a Wheezy based postfix+courier+mysql to a Stretch based one (postfix+mysql+dovecot) with slightly updated config plus a few new options on a fresh install. The key for my migration was that the users are all virtual (via mysql tables) and all mail was stored in /home/vmail/domain/user/[various maildirs] New system has similar structure for maildirs, just under /var/vmail/domain/user instead of /home/vmail... Only "trick" to it was copying the files and making sure correct ownership and other permissions were applied on the new location. 

If it reports loading OK (with maybe a "out of zone info ignored" for your glue record servers) then edit again, increase your serial, and restart bind. 

Think of the serial as a version number. You (re)start bind, it checks the version number on its data cache vs. version number in config (the serial). If the version is the same, why bother re-processing everything, and why waste network bandwidth telling secondary servers that you have zone(s) to transfer... Always update your serial. Only rule is that it must go up. Using a unix time stamp is good, or a format like YYYYMMDDNN where NN is a revision number for that day (do you need to change it more than 99 times a day?). The problem, as you have discovered, is remembering to update the serial when you edit the file. Use some template files, data files, and shell scripting to create a "build" process where you'd make your edits to the data, then tell it to regenerate the zone file(s) part of which would include putting out a new serial, or even go to a (way overkill) web based front end with a "service provider" control panel like ISPConfig where the data will all be in a sql database and the ispconfig software will create the zone file(s) automagically.