According to the research paper referenced in the linked Bloomberg article, lobbying does benefit companies in certain circumstances. The overall results of the research is that on average companies receive a net loss from their lobbying efforts, however certain companies/situations do receive a net benefit. Large companies lobbying for broad goals do not benefit, whereas small companies lobbying for specific goals do benefit. Essentially, small and focused companies that have neither the operational complexity nor lack of executive oversight that is inherent in large firms not only have significantly smaller losses on average, but in some cases benefit from the lobbying. 

In short, the research mentioned by the EMFacts article seems to be quite old, poorly done, and has not been reproduced using more rigorous experimentation practices. More recent research has not found anything to conclusively suggest that low power EMF, such as from BlueTooth devices, cause any dangerous increase in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier. 

2016 FBI statistics US Totals: According to official FBI statistics, there were a total of 4,251 crimes which were in violation of the Federal Bank Robbery and Incidental Crimes Statue. As can be seen in the below image from the paper, no part of the statistics could possibly be interpreted as 2,400 as claimed by the movie. 

But if we stay with the energy density of 9 kcal/g and assume adipose tissue to contain 87% fat, one pound (454 g) of adipose tissue would contain 395 g of fat, which again contains 3555 kcal of energy (quite close to the claim). It is also often assumed that 1g of fat contains 37 kJ of energy (another estimate, not quite equivalent to 9 kcal). Using that estimate, 395 g of fat would contain 14615 kJ of enery, which converted to calories is 3491 kcal and even closer to the claim. I also found this publication: ‘Kevin D. Hall: What is the Required Energy Deficit per unit Weight Loss?’, in which the exact claim (‘an ... energy deficit of 3500 kcal is required per pound of body weight loss’) is compared to a more exact estimation and real world data. At least for the test subjects used in this article, the actual energy deficiency required for one pound of body weight loss varies between 1300 kcal and 4000 kcal. 

The average global land temperature has indeed been relatively stable for the last 10 years or so, but I cannot explain how the journalist claims this to be true for the period 1997 to 2003/2004. Perhaps if you play enough with the smoothing algorithm and the confidence intervals, you might be able to get similar results. The numbers from the Hadley Centre are relatively consistent with other regularly published data sets, e.g. the GISS Surface Temperature Analysis from NASA. 

I gave them the benefit of the doubt and checked if they meant robberies during operating hours, when workers and clients could be taken hostage in typical movie style. That would also be wrong, as nearly all of the ~4000 robberies occurred during normal bank hours: 

Most likely not, at least not to the extent that the article is claiming. Timeline.com's claim: As was said in the question, the linked article references a '1942 government decree', and further on in the article the author states "March 27, 1942, was the day the first train of Jews left Paris for Auschwitz, and also the day of the barbershop decree." March 27, 1942, was indeed the first deportation of Jews from Paris to Auschwitz, however I have been unable to find any information regarding 'government decrees' happening on that day. If the author either read the decree itself or read a notable source that mentioned it, they would have no reason to not either be more specific about what it was called or add a link to their source. This, coupled with the fact that historical government records are usually well document, means that source of the claim is likely fabricated entirely or heavily distorted, and thus the claim itself is likely not true. Possible origin of the 'decree' claim: While searching for the decree source, the only similar reference I found was this libcom.org article from 2006, which seems to be the source of a good amount of text on the original 2007 zazou Wikipedia page. The libcom.org article has the following line: 

Against the authors' expectations, these corrections emphasized the difference in breakup risk and did not provide any explanation. After corrections, the breakup risk in group B was 50% higher than in group A and 78% higher in group C than in group A. The report does not find any definitive explanation for these figures. It assumes that the differences in breakup rates can be explained with the respondents' traditional values and attitudes towards work sharing and divorce/breakups. Couples abiding conservative, traditional values are both more likely to let the woman do most of the housework and less likely to breakup or divorce. Couples living a more alternative life style are probably more likely to have untraditional sharing of housework duties and less likely to eager for a stable relationship. 

No, he ist not the best paid Post CEO. Frank Appel the CEO of Deutsche Post AG (German Post) has a salary of 5.2 million Euro, which when considering the current exchange rate fluctuations within the last year is somewhere between AUD 7.2 and 8.3 million. Source: Berliner Zeitung 

The answer to the question in the title is no. The article is not completely nonsense, but probably a very creative interpretation of the data the journalist is trying to analyze. All data sets from the UK Met Office's Hadley Centre (which the Daily Mail article refers to) are available here. The data set with deviations in the global average land temperature sets 0 to the average temperate in the years 1961 through 1990. The smoothed average deviations for the years after 1990 are as follows (source): 

Nope, they're Albanians in 1991. The ship in that image is the Vlora, or at least the back half of it, full of Albanian refugees going to (or arriving in) Bari, Italy in the summer of 1991. The early 90's were a bit rough for Albania. The fall of communism, economic collapse, food shortages, unrest; all the usual causes of a refugee crisis. Apparently, Albanians had a pretty rosy view of Italy at the time, as previous crossings had been (relatively) successful for the migrants who made it. This crossing however was less successful, and the refugees lived in pretty poor conditions until authorities got control of the situation. Shortly after, Italy offered financial aid and food relief to Albania in exchange for taking the refugees back. The situation in Albania improved after this event due to international/Italian aid. 

This is an analysis of studies concerning low power EMF effects on the permeability of the blood-brain barrier. Unfortunately it's paywalled, but thankfully my old university credentials still work so I could get the full article. The article's abstract gives some background on how EMF could affect the blood-brain barrier: 

Positive Music -> Positive Mood -> Improved Performance: Although the impressive results of the original Mozart experiment cannot be reliably replicated, there still seems to be some positive effects of listening to classical music. This paper sought an explanation for the apparent effect, and concluded that cognitive improvements are related to improved mood. They compared the previously mentioned Mozart piece, a 'sadder' piece (Albinoni’s Adagio in G Minor), and no music. The paper had the following results: 

I've heard the claim often myself, but it is not easy to find any backing research or statistics and I would assume that there will be great variations in the answers, depending on which country or geographic region you look at. I managed to find statistics from the last parliament election in Norway (2009), where voter's education and political preference is examined closer. The relevant data is found in the second block of table A.1, page 28 (Utdanning). The level of education has been split into three groups: 

There are several studies examining the intake of glyphosate, in many cases even deliberate intakes as a method of suicide. Most of these studies are not freely accessible (behind pay-walls), but in the abstract of the following study, you can find some numbers: Acute poisoning with a glyphosate-surfactant herbicide ('Roundup'): a review of 93 cases. 

If we look at the statistics from "Brottsförebyggande rådet" (BRÅ), the actual number for the entire country are as expected quite a bit higher. In the first 7 months of 2013, there were in total 3,426 reports on rape or rape attempt. In 1,133 cases, the victim was below the age of 15 (1,004 girls and 129 boys). The most recent statistics on crime among immigrants seem to be this report from BRÅ, dated 2005. The report does not quote any absolute numbers, but on page 42, the relative risk of being accused for different kind of crimes is listed for the three categories "born in Sweden, both parents born in Sweden", "born in Sweden, at least one parent born outside Sweden" and "born outside Sweden". For rape and rape attempts, the relative risks for these three categories are 1.0, 1.8 and 5.0. Now, looking to find the percentage of the total population falling into each of these three groups, "Statistiska centralbyrån" offers the numbers for the year 2008: Born in Sweden, both parents born in Sweden: 75% Born in Sweden, at least one parent born abroad: 11% Born abroad: 14% With the known risk of correlating three different statistics collected over a range of 8 years, the number of perpetrators in each of the three population groups (considering their share of the total population and relative crime risk) should be approximately: Born in Sweden, both parents born in Sweden: 1557 Born in Sweden, at least one parent born abroad: 415 Born abroad: 1454 Summing it up: Of the 3,426 reported rapes or rape attempts in the first 7 months of 2013, some 1900 can be assumed to have been performed by a perpetrator born outside Sweden or with at least one parent born outside Sweden. This is where it seems impossible to get any further with the analysis. There are no public statistics regarding the religion of the foreign-born population and also no crime statistics with a more detailed breakdown of the nationality or religion of the crime suspects. Even if the Swedish Radio news report is misquoted and there are no further backups for the claim, it is not completely unrealistic, that 1000 of the assumed 1900 foreign rapists are Muslims. 

Yes, though the improvement is not direct, not large, and not just from classical music. Listening to any emotionally positive music has been shown to improve a subject's mood, which in turn has been shown to improve cognitive abilities. Furthermore, although positive effects on certain tasks have been observed, the effects appear to be quite small overall. In short, it's your mood and not the music. If listening to classical music improves your mood, then yes, classical music will have a small positive effect on your performance at various cognitive tasks. If listening to heavy metal improves your mood, then heavy metal will provide the same small performance improvement. 

As a side note, the WHO also has a Spanish version of the document on their site, so it seems unlikely (and unfeasible) that 'some political parties in Spain' are censoring it. 

Do root canals cause heart attacks?: Getting to the root (pun intended) of the question: there is no definitive evidence that root canals cause heart attacks. This is a review of dozens of studies and books spanning over a century related to this topic. There is far too much to cite here, so I will focus on just the concluding paragraph: 

Yes, the majority of the information in the quote can be considered correct, with the exception of claim "only three children under five have died", which is completely false. However, it is also very misleading and carefully worded: in order to make the numbers seem small, it arbitrarily spreads the few deadly epidemics in Australia across a large timeframe, only considers children under five, and completely ignores deaths amongst the indigenous population. In short: yes, there were very few deaths and little vaccination compared to other nations, but that is only because there were very few cases of smallpox in Australia throughout its history. 

Yes, most pregnancy tests detect human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), a hormone produced by fertilized eggs, but also by some kinds of cancer cells. You can read more about different tumor markers on this info page from "The American Cancer Society". There are also several other situations where a pregnancy test may give a false positive result (both for men and non-pregnant women). The Wikipedia article lists several possibilities: 

It is however perhaps worth noticing that the question is slightly misleading. The encryption used elsewhere in GSM and other mobile networks only applies to the radio interface between the mobile phone and the cell tower. Within the network, phone calls are generally not encrypted anywhere and in most countries, phone network operators are obligated to provide law agencies interfaces to intercept phone calls. 

First of all, Google can find quite a lot of background on the dispute between Steve Lipsky and Range Resources Corp. This article is a summary of the situation, where Range Resources Corp. has been drilling for gas close to Lipsky's estate, after which Lipsky is blaming the company for ruining a well, from which he used to get his fresh water supply. It is perhaps also worth to note that Lipsky has been convicted for being 'part of a "conspiracy to defame" the company because he'd circulated a video "calculated to alarm the public into believing the water was burning."'. Assuming that the verdict was correct, Lipsky has previously distributed videos with fraudulent claims about the water from his well burning. The news article I linked to, mentions methane contamination as the reason for the burning water, which is consistent with the fact that Range has been drilling for natural gas nearby. Methane is indeed a highly inflammable gas (mixed with air, the methane content must exceed appr 5% for the mix to be inflammable) and it seriously contributes to the greenhouse effect, but except for that, it is pretty harmless with no known toxic effects (material data safety sheet). There are even relatively high levels of methane in the humane digestion tract. According to this study, the average flatus (fart) has a methane content of about 7%. Now, methane is barely soluble in water, according to Wikipedia, only 22.7mg/l. If you look closely at the video from 0:20 to 0:30, there is also no obvious proof that the water is actually burning. To me, it looks as if a gas escaping the water pipe is burning at the opening. If the water had actually been burning, why wouldn't the water jet burn further away from the pipe opening as well? So to answer your questions: Is it safe to drink water, which can be set on fire? In this case, there is no sign that the water is actually burning. If whatever burns at the pipe opening is methane gas, it is in no way harmful to drink water having been in contact with methane gas or with small amounts of methane disolved. Is it for ordinary home purposes safe to use water, which can be set on fire? Still doubting that the water is actually burning, what may be a problem is that methane is released in closed rooms through a water pipe network. Even here, small levels are uncritical, but depending on how fast methane is released and how fast the air in the room is replaced, there may of course be a risk, that explosive levels of methane are reached.