Clear, concise, and it even provides a picture of spartan armor. And an authoritative quote from Mr. Miller which ought to settle the question of why the movie portrayed them that way. 

This is fundamentally a question about labor and the history of labor; I hope that @SamuelRussell will weigh in. This is one of the periods of history where his analysis is probably going to be more accurate than mine. Someone asked why the relative situation matters - I have no clue how to prove this, but the only useful assumption in economics is that humans will always pay attention to relative wealth. There are entire cultures built on this notion (e.g. the Navajo, who condemn any person who is more wealthy than his neighbors). This is a way deeper topic that I'm not qualified to answer, but the only safe assumption is that a significant fraction of the population is willing to act to preserve/acquire relative wealth differences. 

Permit me to introduce Wikipedia, a tool that can be used to answer many of these questions. Even if Wikipedia doesn't have a clear answer, every question on H:SE should be checked against Wikipedia and Google before it is asked. Wikipedia gives you an overview of Culture, and explains that there is no simple definition. That said, the Kingdoms of Ancient Egypt have more in common with one another than they do with Mesopotamia. For most purposes, Egypt is a different culture (different religions, funerary practices, etc). If however you're discussing the differences between Egypt and contemporary Mesoamerica, then I think that you would be forgiven for referring to a Middle Eastern culture. The distinction between culture and Dynasty is a bit more subtle. You refer to a number of references without providing any, which is kind of like asking me to solve 3x^2+2Y^2+13W without giving any of the variables. I don't know if you're reading those references in an encyclopedia, a scholarly journal, or a historical romance. That said, in general we refer to the Second Dynasty of Egypt, or the Silla Dynasty in Korea, which identifies a specific period within a cultural entity. Certainly there are cultural differences between the Federalist period and the ante-bellum period within the USA, but the terms help us to recognize a set of assumptions (for example, the role of political parties changes dramatically between those two periods). Sometimes an empire may contain multiple cultures; Rome, Persia, Britain all contain multitudes of cultures. Sometimes they are subcultures - if you refer to snake handling culture, even though it is probably technically a sub-culture. My professional historian girlfriend points out another contextual distinction - different fields use different labels. Fashion historians use the labels of political historical periods; economic historians use different terms. A historian studying religion will refer to the Great Awakening and the Second Great awakening, and their peers will know what they mean. (Ironically, as my professional historian girlfriend and I discussed that, I realized that I was mis-using the term, since that is not a period I tend to study). Also, speaking in a generalized historical sense, the concept of "dynasty" works reasonably well during periods of personal or monarchical rule. That concept is much less useful after the emergence of the Nation State. In summary, the questions you ask have no easy answers in theory. In practice, the usage depends on the audience for which one is writing. Depending on the framework of history for your constructed world, it may make sense to refer to the Foo Dynasty of the Bar culture, or it may be more appropriate to refer to the Baz administration of the Quar Empire. It all depends on what you want to construct. 

Arguably, you might relocate the smog - when it is "outlet at a suitable location", it will interact with the sunlight to produce smog. That said, 1. Outlet at a suitable location is a political impossibility - I would pay to see you propose to the suburban or rural communities that they should accept urban smog. Your "solution" will ensure that both urban and rural locations are uninhabitable. Of course you might argue that the tunnels won't be airtight, so you're merely reducing the urban smog and increasing rural smog? Smog redistribution? 1, If you are diverting the pollution elsewhere, that means your new tunnel roadways are airtight. Which means that anyone driving in those tunnels is going to asphyxiate. Unless you're going to retrofit all cars with oxygen tanks and something to stop people from dying from the built up toxic wastes in your tunnels. 

I do not dispute the other answers, but I did want to point out that George Robinson, Earl de Grey, was raised to the 1st Marquis Ripon as a result of his success in negotiating the Treaty of Washington, which ended the US/British conflict over the (American) civil war. The British were in a precarious position because of the Alabama claims. Had events turned out different, the Americans could have made a case that the British were co-belligerents with the Confederacy. The US negotiator was instructed to get Canada in recompense for the British actions, and to accept Jamaica if Britain refused to hand over Canada. So Ripon managed to not only save Canada, but to create an Anglo-American alliance that is arguably the most successful in modern history. This is an example of a modern (1859) "promotion" in recognition of service to the crown. (Aside: Although I can't find the citation at the moment, it also resulted in the removal of the last unit of British troops from American soil - a clause that the British had agreed to in the Treaty of Paris, but had never actually withdrawn the troops. So in reality, the Treaty of Washington ended the American Revolutionary war and started the Anglo-American Alliance.) (Second aside: Ripon was successful where his predecessors had failed in part because he capitalized on his Masonic ties to the US negotiators. Conspiracy nuts are now permitted to don their tinfoil hats. I on the other hand, choose to admire a skillful negotiator.) 

I recall that one of the positions within the legion was responsible for pay. A quick websearch turned up nothing. A slightly more exhaustive search turned up two different answers 

I think that @Anixx is onto something here, although I would phrase it rather differently. I'm not comfortable using the term "political party" prior to the 19th century. The meaning of the term changes around that time. I agree that the obstacle is not logistics. Secret Ballots can be carried out even in great adversity. The obstacle is that the institutions of democracy must be stronger than the opposing institutions. I don't agree that weapons/means of control are the key. Certainly if the state is strong and committed to democracy, then the state's weapons will enforce democracy. But if the state is strong and opposed to democracy, the elections will be corrupt. I wish I could cite a good, terse reference on the institutions needed to support democracy. Fukayama touches on the topic, as does Drezner, but in both cases the treatment is a side effect of their primary concern. Societies with strong, successful institutions based on kinship or tribe, or based on economic class are going to have trouble conducting large scale elections. The stakeholders in these institutions are going to be reluctant to yield control to Democracy because it is less effective at ensuring the welfare of their institutional membership. Large scale democratic elections are difficult, and need to be carried out by a powerful, organized institution that is organized and committed to democracy. That's not easy to do. 

One comment raised the question whether this was important: I believe it is, and I'm going to digress for a moment to lay out my opinion as to why. One of the enduring questions of the American Revolution is how the inhabitants transformed from Englishmen to Americans. At what point and by what means did they conclude that it was no longer possible to reach an accommodation with Parliament? The terms "colonies", "provinces", etc., indicate that they perceived themselves to be subjects of the Empire. Terms such as "state", "commonwealth" and "republic" indicate a disposition towards independence. Thus the first use of "state" (or a synonym) is an indicator for the transformation towards independence. The following material I believe is not responsive to OP request, but may serve as context. (although it is not responsive to the question, sometimes it is useful to fill in the space around the question) 

The quote appears in a history of money, during a discussion of the difficulty of financing an empire. It seems to me that the pivot to Christianity allowed for a shakeup of stakeholder forces - political as well as financial capital. Update: BBC In Our Time did an episode on Constantine and hinted that Constantine didn't embrace Christianity as much as he instituted official tolerance for any religion that would support the Empire. Interesting thought. 

I think if I had infinite time, I'd research this as evidence of the role of consumption and credit in early capitalist economies. 

Malcom Gladwell says they were fired. I'm not sure that I am completely convinced; Gladwell has accused of allowing his bias to affect the story before. But it is quite plausible; the history of discrimination in America has always been to ensure that random ill effects fall on the minority, insulating the majority. 

Hessians solved all those problems - they were far more skilled than a comparable British force would be (Britain would have to recruit and train to field a force that size) and they were far cheaper than staffing up an infantry (that would have to be demobilized at some point),