As the article also notes, this version has been disputed. But it might be the case that Stalin was wary that he could't take everything and get away with it. 

As noted in the answer by Oldcat, it is easier to find statistics of rural and urban populations, but of course a large part of the rural population does not live on farms. More such historical statistics are here: $URL$ You can research the question further by going through the individual census reports here to see if any report farm and nonfarm populations: $URL$ (rather large downloads). 

Other sources corroborate this. The general dislike might have been amplified by World War One but the hunger reference appears to be specifically to the Napoleonic Wars. Terje Vigen is a famous poem referring to the hardships experienced in this war. The Scandinavian famine in the 1860s, mentioned in another answer, mainly affected parts of Sweden and Finland. 

For contact between the inhabitants of present-day United States and present-day Mexico, you can also see the Wikipedia article on Chichimeca, the commonly used name for the peoples that lived to the north of the Aztecs. It appears not much is known about them. The map posted in another answer is beautiful and very informative, but we should remember that these kinds of compilation often contain information from "the earliest time Europeans came around" and hence do not show information for the same periods in the East as in the West. It is often hard to get detailed information for earlier periods in the large areas of what is now the western United States and northern Mexico. The large Mesoamerican city-states are different as they left more visible traces. 

The Awami League, the largest East Pakistani political party, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, won a landslide victory in the national elections in 1970. The party won 167 of the 169 seats allotted to East Pakistan, and thus a majority of the 313 seats in the National Assembly. That they were blocked from doing so led to the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh. Did they win any seats in West Pakistan? 

One major difference is that in the Greek conception by Democritus, and taken up later by the Epicureans is that atoms were taken to be permanent ie eternal. Whereas, I have read in places that the Buddhist conception is that atoms come to be and pass away - this I take to be because of their commitment to impermenance (anicca) 

Thus it is friction (collison in his words) that slows moving atoms about; its worth pointing out just how close he was to the 19C atomic theory of matter as developed by Boyle & Dalton: 

Part of the story is probably the Percentages agreement between Churchill and Stalin, from the Moscow Conference in 1944. 

Norway had emigration restrictions in the nineteenth century; they were lifted in 1860. From $URL$ (a page hosted by the Norwegian National Archives; the translation from Norwegian is mine:) 

A reference to North/South Vietnam in the Yemen article got me to think about South Vietnam, which is perhaps an obvious answer to the question. There might be other, non-recognized states: I can think of Biafra, independent from 1967 to 1970 (so in any case earlier than South Vietnam). 

OK, now that the question is a bit more general I can attempt a brief answer - sorry for mainly citing Wikipedia, from where I am sure you can find better sources if you want to. First, the Hammer and sickle were "conceived during the Russian Revolution". Hence, you might not want to use them if your point of departure is 1898. The article Symbols of communism has some other symbols. The article Flag of the Soviet union has a gallery of other communist flags. The star seems by far to be the most common symbol (and is the symbol used on the most popolous nominally Socialist country today, China) The Red flag appears to be the oldest, dating back to at least to the Revolutions of 1848. Flags of the Soviet republics has more Communist flags, heavily inspired by that of the Soviet union. Let me finish by some symbolism I found in the above articles: 

Its also known that Newton read Lucretious's epic cosmological poem De Rerum Natura on the Epicurean atomic theory of matter: 

This is his first law as stated in Newtons Principia in 1666; but 20 years earlier, during the English Civil War, Hobbes wrote in his Leviathan: 

In the Sahih-Bukhari, a generally accepted collection of the times and sayings of the Prophet, there are a number of reports of contacts with other nations & empires; for example: 

Japan is well known for being a highly industrialised and technologically sophisticated East Asian country; if one was to say that Japan owed its technology to the Greco-Roman influence of Europe this would miss out the large contribution that modern Europe has made to both science and technology; likewise with Islam in relation to Europe. Karen Glasner wrote the following in her introduction to Averroes Physics: 

Another book which presents the historiography of Early Islam is Hagarism. They "They introduced methods from biblical studies as a new way of analyzing the history of the Koran and Islam, for instance, the use of contemporary texts in languages other than that used in the holy text, and incorporating evidence from archeology and linguistics". 

From IPUMS (click on "case count" here) we have the number of farm and nonfarm households in the United States from 1850 onwards (note comparability problems after 1950). In their 1% sample of the 1850 census, more than half of households are non-farm. However, the groups are close to equal size, so we can expect the equal split (in households) to have taken place sometime in the 1830s or 1840s. (However, we can expect farm households to be larger than nonfarm households on average, so that more than half of households lived on farms in 1850. If you are affiliated with an academic institution you can download the IPUMS data - samples of individual records going back to 1850 - and check this for yourself.) 

Summary: There was no "very special" permit, but one did need to obtain permission to leave Norway before 1860, and it could be denied even if you were not a criminal (ie for fear of you abandoning your family). 

I think it goes throughout history, and I'm inclined to include the examples that you've excluded that is European Christiandom and the Roman Empire. They're notions of continental unity on the ecclesiastical and political level. Periodically there had been revivals of the Roman political project, for example by Charlemagne. The roots of European culture is generally seen in three different orientations - the Hebrew prophetic tradition, the Roman civic tradition and the Greek philosophy. The EU was concieved as a project to prevent inter-state aggression within Europe following the catastrophe of the first two World Wars. The strategy one discerns was initionally economic (the Union was originally confined to multi-lateral agreements on Steel and Coal) and then political. Of course, Turkey has been petitioning the Union for incorporation for at least the last decade. Historically, the roots of the Greek philosophical tradition (usually known as the Pre-Socratics), lay in the Greek periphary - the Colonies; Miletus materialism was formulated in the Colony of Miletus a colony in what is now North Turkey and via Lucretious De Rerum Natura (Newton had a heavily annotated copy) is one of the roots of modern science. 

I started my search by looking at Wikipedia's list of former United Nations members. Of these, some are countries that ceased to be members because they were absorbed by other countries: 

One candidate for "last widely recognized country to be conquered" would be South Vietnam. From the Wikipedia article: 

Note that there were a lot of children around in the nineteenth century, so the number per adult (or per family) is a lot higher. 

The shopkeeper, Johansen, is earlier in the article said to have been a member of the Communist resistance, so his wife might have been prone to exaggerating the Communist-ness of the German soldiers. Perhaps unsurprisingly, I found no relevant Google results for the name of the soldier. Wikipedia's article on German resistance to Nazism focuses on resistance among the elite and among those staying in Germany. Does any documentation exist of Communist resistance groups in occupying German armies (in any country) during the Second World war? I would be interested both in information about successful ventures (also small-scale like in the example above) and in groups that were outed during the war. I am primarily interested Communist resistance not driven by Soviet interference, though I realize the difference may be hard to tell. I do expect the influence of Soviet agents in Norway 1940-45 to have been very limited, though. 

The Black Hills Lands Claim is an ongoing land dispute between the US Government and The Sioux Nation. The treaty of Fort Laramie protected the hills from white settlement, but the discovery of gold on the land led to its defacto seizure in 1874, and officially by a congressional Act in 1877. The legal struggle for the return of the lands started in 

However in a unanimous decision the Sioux Tribal Council refused to accept the awarded Compensation with the intention of forcing the US Government to return the land. Thus the legal struggle is roughly 90 years; is this the longest legal case in the US or elsewhere, or are there others go beyond this one? 

To place these comments by Glasner into context one should recall Feynmans advice in the introduction to his Lectures in Physics, where he said if he had to encapsulate for future generations the whole of physical science in one sentence he would say 'everything is made of atoms'. Also, Glasner points out the role of the commentary as a genre as to why Avveroes physics as a contribution to physics per se has been overlooked; I'd also point out along with Edward Said the role of the Orient as the playing the role of the Other in European thinking and such an Other could not be, even indirectly, responsible for the content that inspired Europes fascination for the natural philosophy, aka the physical sciences.