To answer my own question: Flip the bike upside down onto something soft as not to damage the cockpit components and the saddle. Compress the fork several times. If water has entered the lowers, now it has perfect conditions to leave it. If after this procedure water droplets have appeared on the stanchions, then there is some water inside the lowers and they need service as described by other answers. 

My first wheelset build here. I am following Sheldon and this guy. They both stress very much to tighten the nipples to an equal length, for example just as the spoke threads stop showing, and the even more carefully, do equal number of turns on each nipple, in small increments. Building the front wheel I followed this advice and the result was several very tight spokes and a wheel out of true. My next step was basically to make the tension on all spokes equal, and then true the wheel. The wheel is true now and looks ready for use (dishing error, vertical and horizontal mis-alignment are small). So why equal number of turns, if in the end equal tension is the desired result? Or did I do something wrong? On another note, the rim freshly-purchased, should be true (looks true, and carrying the two rims next to each other, there were no gaps between them, meaning at least sideways being true). So it makes sense to tighten the spokes with equal tension, to avoid twisting the rim, right? PS: I triple checked that the nipples are well seated into the eyelets and that the lacing pattern is equal everywhere and the same as on an another wheel. 

This is a quick answer. The question has been asked and there are good answers somewhere around. btw in Bulgaria now it's the same weather (obviously) 

Poor traction. When the front wheel is bouncing up-and-down-to-the-rivers-of-Babylon, engaging the front brake is 

IMHO the way to measure if the disk is true (on mechanical disk brakes), is to check if the the brake makes noise 

Yet another source of rags can be online delivery packaging paper - thick recycled paper, put inside the boxes to prevent the items from sliding around. It soaks grease well and furthermore provides outstanding grip on greasy surfaces (quick-link). However, using paper to soak oils renders it unrecyclable. 

For platform pedals, the solution is IMHO obvious: How about mountain hiking boots, with gaiters over them. 

Wait, what? The above answers comment on the mass of the air inside a tire (which I assume is what is being asked). However, what is the weight difference from an empty to an inflated tire? Buoyancy says zero! Only measure from this point on is the change of moment of inertia of the tire i.e. how easy it is to accelerate. 

When I recently cracked my frame near the headtube, every bike shop that I went to, asked me explicitly "Did you put a longer travel fork?". Putting aside that apparently fork travel and fork crown height are two entirely different measurements, and that the fork height is actually critical, how does a higher fork contribute to higher stress in the frame? Also: 

More details on the problem: This is a custom build of Bontager XR4 2.35 tires on Mach1 MAD 25C rims, mounted on a Dartmoor Hornet frame. The problem is that the seat stays are WIDER than the chain stays. Consequently, any accumulated mud instead of getting scraped off harmlessly by the seat stays and falling to the side, gets trapped onto the chainstays and into the front derailleur. PS: Please refrain from comments on not riding muddy trails - I know I would errode them! My riding is XC marathon type, with a few muddy sections around a lake and some streams. 

Done correctly, this is even easier (and much faster) than the first approach. There is no mental overhead of following an algorithm. Practically after a month of training your nervous system to automate the move, you forget you are unclipping - you are simply stepping somewhere! 

In bicycle applications there are neither high speeds nor high loads (compared to cars or industrial machines). However, I would assume that the "smaller contact stresses" would result in significantly longer service life of the bearing, even if water and contaminants penetrate the bearing. And still the only time I have heard of bicycle roller(pin) bearings is in the hyped Lefty. Why are ball bearings used exlusively in bikes e.g. in the headset where some minor friction would not be a problem? 

When I need to clear a missing pothole or a slippery section of the trail, I try to make the hop as long-distance as possible. The result is that, unlike when hopping onto something elevated, now I push the bike forward while in the air in order to "place" it as far as possible forward. The drawback is that I am getting closer to falling off the back of the bike. Is this smart? What other techniques exist for jumping the furthest at fixed approach speed? 

I still do not know what to believe. For example, I do not know of 185mm rotors, the closest I have seen is 180mm. Another controversial point is that their more expensive forks - EPICON and AXON also are limited to 185mm, I managed to locate only 1 fork limited to 210mm - a dirt jump intended one. One possibility that I can think of is that the stanchion tubes could brake off the lower tubes at very high deceleration. However, deceleration is as much function of the rotor size as of the brake type e.g. high-quality hydraulic or the cheapest mechanical brake. 

On the lowest end, we have the taper/square interface. I believe it is standard i.e. there are no variations in the sizes. 

Any tips on riding this section of the trail? The land is sandy and the clearance afterwords is several meters. I can't ride it slowly, as it is too steep and the sand will slide off. I suspect the suspension could probably handle the trench, but didn't try, let alone for jumping. What is the correct way to pass this obstacle on a long-travel full-suspension bike? What about a rigid XC bike? 

Recent years saw the introduction of hollow axles, as the pipe is the stiffest construction for it's weight for loads expected on an axle. And now the industry is introducing the 12mm solid rear axle. Solid. Why solid? Why not standardize both axles to be 9, 15 and 20mm and be done with it? 

Its quite intuitive that tires have maximum pressure figure - inflate it more and something could explode. Furthermore, it is common knowledge that under-inflated tires result in snake bites. What puzzles me is that all tires indicate minimum pressure. This could be somewhat justified about DH tires, which tend to be produced with thick sidewalls and thick soft thread pattern, resulting in reduced pinch flats (among other advantages). However, on different cross-country tires I have seen minimum pressures from below 2bar to 2.7bar at least. Is this just marketing or does the number mean anything? Furthermore, how can the manufacturer know what the riding terrain and rider's style is? In my opinion those affect chosen tire pressure a lot more than sidewall thickness. 

Many FS mountain bikes have a weird shaped seat tube. I have managed to strap tube to the bottom of the down tube with electric tape, but am now struggling to purchase and mound a small pump. As is evident from the picture, the bike lacks water bottle mounting screws, where compact frames are typically stored. What would be a secure mounting option for a pump? 

Wikipedia Does this mean that for constant rider+bike weight, there is optimal setting for the fron and rear shock? I had an impression that the terrain and style of riding affect the decision of settings. Furthermore, if there is optimal damping, does it mean the rebound and compresison damping should be equal (as in the simple model, discussed in wikipedia)? If not, is this because the linear time-invariant model of second order is unable to represent the cyclist as a system adequately? Why? EDIT (clarifications):