Volcanic lightning was documented by one of the earliest American volcanologists, Frank A. Perret in the 1940s. However, there was not much, if any, study of the phenomena until recently. According to this article, the electric charge develops close to the ground where the plume gas thrust region at a few hundred meters above the crater rim, where the overpressure of the turbulent volcanic jets determines the electrification of particles generating a complex charge structure in the growing plume." The abstract of another journal article indicates that additional lightning can be generated in the stratosphere, "Observations and volcanic plume modeling further suggest that electrical activity was enhanced both by ice formation in the ash clouds >10 km above sea level and development of a low-level charge layer from ground-hugging currents." 

Magnesium sulfate is considerably more soluble than calcium sulfate. What happens during evaporation will depend on the original ion concentrations but, for example with sea water, evaporation will cause gypsum to precipitate first. This will decrease the sulfate concentration until it is gone before magnesium sulfate will precipitate. The remaining calcium and magnesium will be charge-balanced by chloride and will increase in concentration past the point of halite precipitation. Only after further evaporation will magnesium and calcium chloride precipitate, but you won't get magnesium sulfate. To get magnesium or sodium sulfate to precipitate you would have to have more sulfate in the system than calcium (on a meq basis) so that there is sulfate remaining after all the calcium is precipitated. Without any further details on the system they studied, it's hard to say if this is possible or not. Personally I would suspect that chlorides would be more likely. 

To answer this question, I'll back up a bit and first talk about what happens to rain as it flow to streams then about what happens when streams dry up. When it rains, some of the rain hits the ground or trees/plants and is evaporated before it flows away from where it hits and before it sinks into the soil very far. Some enters the soil but is taken up by plant roots and transpires back into the atmosphere. We don't need to worry about those components for this question. Some of the rain flows down the ground surface, more or less as sheet flow and eventually merges into little flow paths to the creek or river. That's called runoff. Typically, some rain will enter the ground and flow down to the water table, which is the surface of the saturated groundwater. By that I mean permanent water in the subsurface where all the void spaces in the rock or sediment are completely filled with water (there are some different definitions of groundwater that include the unsaturated zone but I'll keep them separate). Groundwater flows downgradient under gravity towards a stream, river, lake, or the coast. In between there is sort of a fuzzy situation where water flows in the unsaturated soils, moving downward and or sideways until it concentrates in a perched aquifer or a seepage face at the stream. That water will discharge to the surface water system. Importantly, it typically reaches the surface water more quickly than the groundwater flow but slower than the runoff. Its often called quickflow, interflow, or perched flow. Let's not worry about this too much - you can think of it as slow runoff or fast groundwater that kind of smears out the streamflow peaks. Streamflow, then, is mostly made up of these 3 components. Why do streams flow between rain storms? It does take runoff some time to reach the stream and flow downstream so it doesn't stop instantly but it goes away the fastest of the three. Quickflow will keep going a bit longer and depends a lot on the geology, soils, and topography. Simplistically, it will keep streams flowing longer than pure runoff would. Saturated groundwater is a slower process in terms of its discharge to a stream and, particularly for big rivers can keep them flowing year round. The first take-away message is the groundwater and surface water are interconnected - at least in the big picture. A couple of interesting things can happen to the groundwater-surface water connection. First, there might not be enough groundwater flow to keep it discharging to a stream, either seasonally like your creek or permanently in some places. If the stream still has water it can reverse the connection and lose water to the groundwater - a losing stream instead of a gaining stream. Without more rain or flow from upslope the stream will dry up. In some cases the groundwater level can drop faster than the stream drains into the sediments and the system can become disconnected. The groundwater flow direction shifts so it is not towards the stream but towards a more regional discharge location. Since streams also flow down to the regional surface water system, the groundwater will often take a similar path but overall I don't think of it as an underground stream. Finally though, things aren't always that straight-forward. One thing that often happens is that valleys fill up with sediments that are more permeable than surrounding sediments or rock formations and allow more flow. In that case the groundwater flow is mostly along the stream flow direction in the valleys and stream bed. It then looks similar to an underground river. That can happen when the river or creek is flowing or when it stops. The fancy word for it when the river is flowing (particularly when you are talking about pretty local scale effects) is hyporheic flow - meaning flow below the river. So that's probably more than you wanted to know, but for your creek it might go each year from pretty much all runoff, to gaining groundwater, to losing to the groundwater, to disconnected, to dry with some subsurface flow through the stream bed to more overall groundwater flow that doesn't see any influence from the stream location. But it depends on the weather, the sediments, how steep the land surface is, and perhaps some other complicating factors. 

Elements are found in different minerals and chemical compounds on earth. Oxygen is dominantly found in silicate minerals which, aside from silica, contain other elements. One way of looking at the chemical form of oxygen is to look at its bonds within the compounds. Is oxygen dominantly bonded to silicon? If so by how much and to what other elements does it most likely bond to? 

A geochemical model, like phreeqc calculates the saturation index (SI) for minerals based on the composition of the solution, temperature, and possibly pressure. These are used to calculate the activities of the ions, based on the activity coefficients. These are then compared to the activities that would be present at saturation as defined by the solubility product (Ksp). The saturation index is < 0 if the solution is undersaturated with respect the mineral, = 0 at saturation, and > 0 if supersaturated. So when you say the model shows you are saturated with respect to gypsum, it indicates that by definition you are in equilibrium with solid phase gypsum. It does not indicate if you got there by dissolving gypsum or by precipitating gypsum. It is highly unlikely (but theoretically possible) that your SI is exactly 0 without one of those things happening. 

Groundwater data are collected from wells, as described in arkia's answer. I'll amplify on that answer. The driller or geologist describes the type of sediment encountered when drilling a well. Sometimes sediment samples are collected for analysis of grain size. Core samples aren't typically collected but may be for special studies. The type of sediment encountered during drilling gives a good idea as to whether a productive groundwater aquifer or the most productive zone in an aquifer is encountered. In addition the sediment samples can be used to determine the best type of well-screen to install. A simple pumping test is usually performed to determine how much water the well will yield and the type of pump to install. This gives basic information on the aquifer (zone of productive groundwater) but sometimes more sophisticated pump tests are performed to determine the aquifer properties. The USGS or other organization takes this information and geologic maps and maps out the extent of aquifers. Often more than one aquifer is encountered at a particular location and the aquifers are separated by impermeable sediments. The water level in wells within an aquifer are used to map out groundwater flow directions. Groundwater flow is almost always much slower than surface streams because the groundwater is percolating between the sediment grains. The groundwater level usually changes very slowly, except in some very shallow wells. Daily measurements are usually more than enough and many wells are measured manually less frequently, monthly, quarterly, or yearly, or only now and then. It depends on whether you are interested in seasonal variation or just the general trends. 

Why don't you think calcite is forming in-situ? The saturation index does not guarantee that calcite has precipitated (or dissolved) but there are a number of reasons to think it has. First, calcite does not have a large kinetic barrier to precipitation. The kinetics are fairly rapid. Rapid is a relative term but the formation of calcite in caliche and speleothems indicates that it does not take much for it to precipitate. Secondly, are you suggesting that it is merely coincidental that the SI indicates saturation? Do you have a number of water samples from different locations that are all in equilibrium with calcite? How would that occur without reacting to form or dissolve calcite? What else could be buffering the pH to the value at equilibrium between your solution and calcite? Have you looked at the gypsum SI? Does it remain undersaturated? If so you would expect it to be dissolving which would move calcite towards supersaturation. One possibility is that you in equilibrium with both gypsum and calcite. In that case, they will fix the ion concentrations in solution and pH so you get no further precipitation (assuming the system is closed to carbon dioxide). 

It's the mineral quartz in two forms. The bands around the outside are microscopic crystals forming agate. Towards the center there are clear quartz crystals. Pretty. 

It is always hard to identify rocks from a distance so take this with a grain of salt. There appear to be bronze-coloured pyrite crystals in the rock that aren't usually seen in basalt which is a black igneous/volcanic rock. It must be quite well indurated - i.e. compressed to a hard, solid rock, because it held together as the waves smoothed it into the nice rounded cobble. That indicates it isn't a sedimentary mudstone or siltstone, which would likely be too soft. Those sediments can be metamorphosed by heat and pressure that make the rock harder. This looks like the metamorphic rock, slate, except that slate has a very strong cleavage so it breaks apart into sheets and can even be used to make roofing tiles. So it is a bit of a puzzle, on one hand it looks like igneous basalt or diabase but with disseminated pyrite, but on the other like slate but without the cleavage. My best guess would be metamorphosed sediment that for some reason didn't form under the correct conditions to develop the cleavage. I think a geologist would have to look at a thin section under a microscope to be sure unless they were familiar with the area. 

The "silver clusters" are the mica mineral biotite. It is black but looks shiny because of the light reflecting off the flat surfaces of the plate-like crystals. 

Conservation of mass. If air is moving away from a high pressure system at some altitude, it must be getting replaced at another or from another direction. Without seeing the details, I think what is happening is that there is a high pressure system over the centre of the continent that results in high temperatures. The hot air rises producing on-shore winds from the cooler ocean (adabatic? adiabatic? not sure of the correct terminology). For a lay-person overview of the different major climate influences for Australia, check out the Climatedogs. 

I do not have access to the article you cite for the deep subsurface neutron flux but I question whether either article will be particularly useful. The shallow water and soil article is concerned with neutrons in the atmosphere and these attenuate so won't be significant at depth. The major neutron source at depth are spontaneous fission of U-238 and α-n reactions from U and Th series alpha decay. So your flux will be highly dependent on the amount of uranium and thorium and the presence of light elements that will undergo the α-n reaction. This means that the flux will likely be very different from the Broken Hill ore deposit. You may want to look at the literature on subsurface Cl-36 production for flux estimates, but I'm unaware of any dealing with coal deposits. In coal the C-14 production will be dominated by neutron capture on C-13. Nitrogen n-p should be insignificant because of it's low abundance. I think the n-p reaction depends on higher energy neutrons produced in the atmosphere (but check that). Assuming you know or can bound the neutron flux then you can estimate the C-14 from the neutron capture cross section of C-13 - 1.4 mb (Chart of the nuclides 16th ed) and the half life of C-14 - 5715 years, assuming steady-state. 

Probably the best known is more recent, the 1902 eruption of Mt. Pelée on Martinique, where 30,000 people were killed by pyroclastic flows. I don't know the extent of burial - it appears that the city may have been destroyed more by the ash cloud than the dense part of the flow. 

Like many things in Earth Science, the answer is, "It depends." In this case it depends on the composition of the soil and the contaminant you are talking about. Climate, particularly the amount of precipitation, can also have an effect. Septic systems are primarily designed to promote aerobic conditions and aerobic bacteria to degrade organic compounds and pathogens. In a well designed and maintained system, that will be effective for a long time. One of the important considerations is to be sure the soil will allow enough infiltration that it doesn't become waterlogged. Some places need a sand mound because the natural soil isn't suitable. Some contaminants aren't treated by the septic system. Some are transported down in the infiltrating water with little or no interaction with the soil. These can quite easily contaminate the groundwater if concentrations are too high. Salt, (NaCl), for example, is transported with practically no retardation. Many positively charged cations with charges of 2+ or more will be adsorbed onto the surface of (mainly) clay minerals or in between layers in the clay crystals. They do that because the surface favours them more than the cations that are already present so the new cations replace the old. But the minerals only have a finite ability to exchange the new ions for old. With time the new ions will flow deeper into the unsaturated soils (the vadose zone) until they breakthrough to the groundwater. How fast this happens depends on the soil properties, the concentration and properties of ions in the waste, and the amount of infiltration. Negatively charged anions are interesting. They are generally poorly adsorbed by mineral surfaces so they are quite mobile in the subsurface compared to cations. Compounds of oxygen and other elements can form important anions like nitrate (NO3-) and sulfate (SO42-). My favourite is pertechnetate (TcO4-), which makes this man-made radioactive element quite mobile under oxidizing conditions. Since many elements have several valence states, changing the oxidation-reduction conditions can change their mobility. You mention acidic and basic wastes. These can do several things. First, they can exchange for adsorbed ions on the sediments and compete with others ions, increasing the mobility of the others, Secondly, they can affect the chemical form of the ions in solution. Thirdly, they can react with the minerals and alter them to ones with different properties. Finally, they can affect the microbiology in the sediments and change the ability to degrade contaminants. It is important to inspect and maintain household septic systems by pumping out the tank and checking the leach field for problems. Some places require that you define the location for a replacement leach field before building in case it is needed. Be careful not to put contaminants down your system - especially things like pesticides and herbicides.