A very strong rider will put a lot of strain on the bike doing that. Wear on the sprockets will be slightly increased by grinding a small sprocket, but that's not a big deal. What's more significant is that if a part is going to fail (or a worn part is going to skip), it will fail when under high load. A friend of mine has snapped several chains on the same hill and now walks it, because he's very strong and fairly heavy and doesn't have the low gears to spin up 20% (I've been known to ride up it at his walking pace, in a very low gear). If something fails when you're working so hard, you're likely to hit the road -- not too badly at such slow speeds, but still to be avoided especially in traffic. Your knees are likely to wear a lot faster than spinning a lighter gear though. 

I originally used to prefer to drink with my right (primary) hand but now prefer to use the left, with the right controlling steering and covering the brake (the front brake on my case as I'm in the UK. Because I only drink water while actually riding, I always drink from the bottle in the downtube cage. This is always a squeezy bottle. This is much exist to get out than any other cage I've got. I swap bottles or decant from a hard bottle when I'm stopped anyway, so that this is always the case. A smooth flat road with good visibility is the best spot for a drink; the slightest of downhills works well too (less than 1%, so just sitting up straight stops you from accelerating). Easiest is freewheeling while getting the bottle in and out, so get a reasonable speed up before taking out the bottle,and put on a few pedal stripes before putting it away. Glance down at the cage to get your bearings only at a sensible time. This can be less distracting than fumbling to put a bottle away by feel, but it really does have to be a glance. A few mouthfuls at a time is a good guide for me, and a drink before eating something, then another after is essential. Also a drink after a gel 

One thing that does make a major difference is the type of bike. As a very general rule, the faster the bike is intended to be ridden, the more important the fit. I'll address this from the point of view of what most beginners ride -- things like Euro-style city bikes, hybrids, and basic mountain bikes. So most bikes that most beginners (based on your tags) would start riding on are quite forgiving. For a conventional geometry, leg length (i.e. seat tube length) is the biggest factor. This is the key number in the frame size, and the frame is the most important thing to get right as there are no (cost-effective) adjustments or substitutions possible. When cheap bikes are sized by a single number, it's usually based on this length, but comparison between makes isn't simply a matter of the length. To some extent a too-small frame can be compensated for by raising the saddle, but it's much better to keep this for fine-tuning as too much seat post extension often results in the handlebars being too low. A frame that's too big can lead to disomfort or injury, even if you don't have to worry about a top tube. The reach (approximately top tube+ stem length) and stack (handlebar height) are secondary. They scale with the seat tube so should be about right for a typically-proportioned person. Both are also quite adjustable, though to get the most adjustment means swapping out parts. The effect of this is that most people can buy a flat-bar bike based on top-tube height / frame size alone, and only worry about anything more than the most basic adjustments when they start considering longer rides. Of course extra care is needed if you have back/leg etc. problems. 

How should I know when my rear derailleur is getting worn? I can measure/inspect chains, tyres and brakes; gears tend to show problems on a new chain if they're worn. But when changing my chain at the weekend I noticed the that there seemed to be quite a bit of play in the pivots - more than I'd expect from mechanical bits in general. Also the jockey wheels were quite worn (and didn't run very smoothly even after a good clean and dry PTFE). In my specific case it's only Altus, with about 20 000 km on it, and the bike doesn't get cleaned as often as it should. 

Maybe I'm just lucky, or more flexible than I think, but for fairly gentle riding up to a few hours on flat bars, I think you can do quite well based on size alone,if you bear a few things in mind: 

The 28 should give a slightly more comfortable ride, and may even be more efficient. You'll need a slightly lower pressure. 

I'd probably write something in python to work directly on the gpx file. There are decent libraries for working with xml. An easier approach if you don't code (much) is to use gpsbabel to convert to a csv file then your favourite spreadsheet. Then possibly gpsbabel again to get back to gpx depending on your analysis. The edit probably won't have to change the data point timestamp but may have to do something about elapsed time. I think that's a separate field, from memory. Have a look at gis.stackexchange for gpx hacking advice. 

I bought 2 of these half chaincases: One of them is fitted to my wife's commuting mtb and does the job of keeping trouser legs and shoe laces out of the chain rings (with a guard disc fitted to the cranks as standard). I just couldn't get it to fit my hybrid without rubbing on the chain (and it was fiddly on the mtb). Both have 28-38-48 chain rings and i don't think it would fit anything bigger. I think the reason I couldn't get it on mine was the length of the chain run (it's an XL frame) possibly combined with the 11--32 tooth cassette. The shape of the crank arms might have something to do with it as well -- clearances are tight. You should consider ease of fitting/opening/removal for working on the chain, compared with how often you need access to the top of the chain run. You may find that it's more total effort than a clip or tucking your trouser leg into your sock every ride. There are similar chain guards out there. She's got an e-bike with one on. It looks like it would fit 2 chain rings but not 3 and has not branding on it. 

The revoshift I'm familiar with certainly does this. The adjustment of the font mech for not lining up is more likely to be a matter of limit screws than cable tension -- see Sheldon Brown (skip to the limit screws) among many HowTos for this. 

Strava needs to have 1km and 10m added to account for different start/end points (I don't start Strava stuff from home, even with privacy zones). Both are a good match to my GPS log (which may actually use the barometer): 

The ~40% reduction in friction from the table quoted above is enough to negate a reasonable safety margin when it comes to grip. Applying this to my case I suspect an element of bad luck came into play too: That some tiny slip became unrecoverable because the overall friction was too lowThis would be especially the case as dynamic (sliding) friction is expected to be lower than rolling friction, thus extra grip is needed to recover a skid compared to avoiding it in the first place. Further Reading: 

With a drill press (just a cheap one that clamps to your drill's collar), a hacksaw, a tap-die set and (ideally) a mitre box it would be quite easy to make a block to replace this. Start with a cuboid of aluminium or delrin (plastic). Ebay is a good source for offcut sized pieces. First drill your holes (two holes at 90°, diameter equal to the bars you're trying to clamp): 

I've got some wetsuit glue, and the join is really tough. Just be sure to use it on clean, dry material,follow the instructions carefully (it's a bit like patch cement), and allow it to set for plenty of time before use. Sadly, you can probably reckon on a nearby failure before too long, as the stress is moved to a different place. I recommend keeping the glue in the freezer, sealed in a bag -- it keeps longer that way, so you should get another few uses out of it. 

I suggest given your goals (finish and enjoy) you can train for fitness largely on road, but try to get out and train on gravel whenever you can. I've had some fun on my tourer on gravel tracks recently and can say that it's well worth getting in some practice on that surface, in a range of conditions -- the bike will handle very differently. You should choose your gravel tyres soon and use them for practice (there's no real harm in leaving them on for on-road training in your case). Luckily your goals are compatible with not having much chance to ride the course in advance, as it looks like you're planning to travel to at least one of the events. Also the Dirty Boar doesn't permit riding in advance as they've got special permission for some of the route. In your position I could be quite tempted to sign up for the 130km version and just go for it with only enough specific training to try out your gravel tyres (and bike?) on gravel. 

You duck your head anyway if the branch or whatever is that low. Note though, I'm used to (non-cycling) events where the organisers are in fancy dress or at least distinctive hats) (Images from: $URL$ $URL$ ) 

It could be done but would be expensive because you'd need torque sensing cranks. These exist for power monitoring but are priced as a tool for serious athletes. They would give you cadence as well. Then you'd need electronic shifting - also expensive. The actual control could be implemented in any microcontroller of your choice, but you'd need to consider variability between pedal strokes (i.e. use a rolling average power which would make the system less responsive) . In normal operation, you ease off a little for shifting (especially if you're working hard to start with). This would be impossible if the system shifted without you knowing. So gear changes would be harsh even if the system was well maintained (which you shouldn't assume). If it gets a bit steeper and you're already in your bottom gear, you probably won't know, so while you're waiting for it to shift rather than standing on the pedals, you're losing headway. Innovation in cycling tends to come from competitive disciplines, in which this idea would be a bad thing. Innovation in low-effort cycling does happen: e-bikes. But these are quite competitive on price, and there wouldn't be room in the market for an expensive add-on like this. It could be interesting as an undergrad project in engineering, but I can't see it going further than that.