My final comment is probably the main point though: A Strava time is WAY less important than your safety. Don't put yourself in danger to equalise or beat this wally. Remember Strava tries to make it about personal challenges between riders, where in reality the only one you should be striving against is your earlier times. Consider changing Strava's options to "Display my own results first" which makes your times the default, and you can then pick "all times" from the drop down. 

In my experience, I'm okay riding on cold frosty mornings until I stop at a red light where my glasses fog up. That requires me to pull the glasses down the nose a little to allow air movement to reduce the condensation/fog. 

An 11 speed rear cassette gives you more linear gaps between gears. It doesn't necessarily give you higher or lower gears. There are bigger chainrings than 53 tooth, but they're rare, expensive, and tend to be single-speed track bikes. There are smaller cassettes than 12 tooth, 11 is the lowest you can get normally, and some folding bikes can go down to 9 tooth. Downside here is mechanical losses start increasing fast. 

For your testing, you really will need a road bike too. The derailleurs will try to calibrate themselves and may go into fault mode if there's not a cassette or chainring detected. So that means a modern cassette with 11 gears, maybe 10 (I'm unsure on this point) Generally speaking, the whole groupset will cost about the same as a bike with that groupset fitted. Used bike gear drops in price very fast too, so don't think you'll get your money back by selling it on after the testing, even if its never been ridden. An alternative suggestion might be to make contact with the Shimano distributor in your area and see if you can get access to test/demo kit for your purposes. As long as you're not cutting out a reseller, they might be happy to talk. Or involve a LBS 

Cycling is different that running in that with cycling you can recover energy while riding and also expend far more amounts of energy when climbing that you do when running. The rule of thumb in equivalence we talk about in our triathlon group is this: 1/2 marathon ~ 50 mile ride or metric century (100km/62 miles) depending on amount of climbs Full marathon ~ 100 mile ride Cycling is much easier on the joints and rides usually have stops to eat, drink, pee, etc. Cycling is harder than running when it comes to getting a good fit on the bike and getting flexibility in the different body parts to feel relaxed on the bike for hours on end. Good luck! 

You need to use an electrolyte drink. This is exactly what they are made for. They help keep your body chemistry right for handling water. Sweat out too much of your salts and you won't be able to process the water properly. Simplest is to drink Gatorade. It has electrolytes and carbs, both of which you will need. Many cyclists use powders that you mix with water. For traveling, there are electrolyte tablets that are easier to carry and dissolve in water. I ride with one bottle of energy drink and the second bottle of water. The water is good since you can also cool yourself by poring it on your head/back. As far as food, various carbs are good, but try to include some protein. The Clif bars have protein and are vegan. You might go to a cycling shop and see what the guys there suggest, there are tons of options designed for this. Good luck and have fun! 

Gasoline aka petrol, is a volatile fluid that will dissolve grease and oils. It will penetrate, soften, and loosen impacted and congealed dirt and dust. Petrol / Gasoline will NOT fix your rust, nor remove your rust. It will not restore chrome. Petrol is not terrible for rubber parts, but I wouldn't leave them soaking in the fluid. The best use for petrol is to clean your parts, before doing a close inspection to decide whether they are serviceable still, or need replacement. Downside for petrol is that right now its NZ $1.97/litre in my country (approx US $5.36/US Liquid Gallon) and that adds up. You can't reuse the dirty petrol for anything, and the grease won't settle out so it can't even be decanted. Petrol is also hard on your skin, so wear gloves, and clean up immediately afterward. Moisturising your hands before starting is surprisingly good protection too. 

You will be slower on the MTB/commuter style bike than on a road bike. Or working a lot harder to keep the same speed. This only becomes a problem if you have to keep up with some road bikes. You can totally ride your Commuter bike for a metric century, as long as the rider is up to it. 

Speed increases come with adding power, and increasing distance comes from building stamina. Generally you go fast for short times, or ride a comfortable speed for longer times. Pick a monthly goal and log all your rides with strava. I started with 100km/mo, then 250km/mo then 313km/mo, then in the second year 625km/month and have now swapped that out for a yearly climbing goal. It means taking a slightly longer ride to or from work every day. I live 2.5 km from work, but frequently do 10 km on either leg, time permitting. Consider riding new places too. I made a point of logging my rides, and then made a map to show where I'd travelled. Here's January 2015: 

Part of the solution for me was orthotics in my shoes. According to the chiropractor I was working with, pronation in the feet can cause stress up the leg to the ITB and all the way up into the lower back. I put orthotics in my regular shoes and my running shoes. My bike fitter was able to put shims in my biking shoes in the cleats to help with pronation on the bike. YMMV, but it was part of the solution with stretches, ice, the stick, and massage to get rid of the pain. Good luck. 

Most of what my cycling community is similar, with a few variations. Slowing is signaled by an open hand behind the back. If the hand makes a fist, it means we are stopping. We point out dangers like potholes or dead animals with finger. Sand, glass, or gratings get a hand waved toward them like a brush. If we go through a stop sign without stopping the front will call "rolling". If there is a parked car that could be dangerous, either due to a possible open door, or we are riding 2x2, the right arm is waved behind the back in a sweep back. With cars, I tend to point where I'm going and look them in the eye. When I'm concerned that they aren't paying attention, I put my palm towards them, the universal symbol to stop. Lastly, if you make the right hand turn like in the pictures, roadies will mock you endless, simply point right... 

All these answers are focused on changes to the bike. You can try some other changes, some easier and some harder. Easy changes 

Answer: Your tube has a slow leak, this cannot be found by pouring water on the outside of the tyre. Get the tube out of the tyre, which means unmounting the wheel and maybe releasing the brakes. Inflate the bare tube to about 5 PSI, no more than a couple of strokes of the pump. Slowly submerge the tube, one section at a time into a bowl of clean plain water. Look for bubbles to form and rise to the surface. Since the tube takes hours to go flat, it won't be a big hole Once you find it, mark with some tape or chalk or something. Dry the tube, and run through the patching process. Remember to buff the tube lightly, apply enough fluid to cover an area bigger than your patch, leave the fluid 5-10 minutes to dry completely before applying the patch, and to roll the patch on hard using a round coin or other pressure - fingers aren't enough. Then you can inflate the tube to 5 psi and check for more leaks... there can easily be multiple holes. If your valve is leaking, just buy another tube of the same dimensions and fit it carefully. If you've never done this kind of thing before, ask family and friends for some hands-on help. Its not hard to do, but some things are better watched than explained.