Cisco VPN is proprietary and will not work with anything but Cisco VPN :-) It is IPSec but it is not compatible with other IPSec clients. 

If this is on the same server, you should not install more then one HTTP server. You just enable the Apache server to listen on the outside IP adress :-) Installing two HTTP servers on one machine is pretty pointless. If this were a two server setup, then it would be a good idea so that the backend machine is less vulnerable to attacks from the Internet. 

I have setup the exact same thing. What we did was NAT. This is definently what you are looking for. You need to have a script in the dom0 NATing the traffic of the public IPs to the appropriate private IPs. You can obviously apply firewall rules in the process. For the NATing of the public IPs a single line is sufficient : 

In theory, this will work. You will have to setup a port forwarding from the extra public IP to the original IP. In your case, extraIP:80 to originalIP:81. I have such a setup with iptables. It was designed to ease migration between to IP different public IP ranges. Basically, the "old" public IP would be NATed to the "new" public IP. The NAT went through the Internet without a problem. I doubt it will work with you modem/router. It is most likely only able to do port forwarding to IP on it's LAN. The only way to find out is to try to NAT any random public IP and you will see if it works. I have tried with pfense to do this and have failed. Only IPTables has worked correctly. 

I'm not a sharepoint expert. If you sharepoint data is not stored in an LDAP compatible store (Windows Active Directory is one of them), it's not going to get accessed using LDAP. I doubt such software exists but you can always code it ;) 

You should check the server log which will tell you all about the error. I agree with Andy, it's most likely the Options directive but the RewriteEngine directive can be problematic too. 

EDIT - Disk space Disk space on both servers is sufficient. MySQL is in /data for bdd1 and in /home for bdd2. 

I am aware that this not so much what you are looking for but you may be interested. Check out the DLNA standard. It uses networking cabling and protocols to transport video information. 

Sun VM = Virtualbox. Hardware assisted virtualization. Very much like VMWare but with a lot of Open Source. Very good solution for desktop uses. Xen = NOT a linux kernel patch set. This is utterly wrong. Xen is a full-blown hypervisor. It sits below the Linux/Unix kernel. The kernel of the OS running atop can be patched to work with Xen which allows native speed for VMs. It is an open source projet from which the Citrix version was derived after they bought the trademark. Xen kernel patches are now integrated into mainstream Linux kernel (called pvops). VirtualBox = See Sun VM. Oracle VM = Xen packaged and adapted by Oracle. Sun xVM = Xen adaptation to OpenSolaris. No plans to have it removed... It is even in Oracle's roadmap. All are here to stay. Oracle VM is Xen for Linux and Sun xVM is Xen for OpenSolaris. 

Doku Wiki or Sharepoint for other things that fit into a chart. You get used pretty fast to posting on a wiki and the syntax is not so complex really. It is very easy to organize information and make it easy to find it later on by someone else. I use visio to make graphs for clearer explanations (export as JPEG). 

There is nothing really complicated in this configuration. It just NATs from one interface to another and that's it. I have tried enabling same-security-traffic permit inter-interface but that doesn't help. I therefore must be missing something a little bit more complicated. Does anyone know why I cannot foward traffic from one interface to another ? Thank you in advance for your help, Antoine 

I do not have unlimited budget obviously but I am looking for a decent solution. I am looking for a range of products which explains why I have not included any statistics. Thank you for your help, Antoine Benkemoun 

You're definently taking this the wrong way. What you're trying to be is most likely complicated and will definently add no extra security whatsoever. You should consider filtering the IPs of the people trying to connect to the proxy instead. Although it's bad idea, I think this is not possible in Squid. 

You can use WinSCP or FileZilla to access the file via SCP (and also maybe SFTP). You download the file on your machine then you can edit it with any editor your heart desires. Once you're done, all you have to do is upload it back onto the server. On a side note, you should consider learning how to use VIM which is the standard for Unix text editing. 

You should consider desktop virtualization with specific applications such as Citrix XenDesktop. They deliver the applications to the user's desktop while being executed on the servers. 

I don't know where the MIB is stored on a Linux machine but you can add the result of scripts in the default MIB by using the following syntax : 

The solution After deleting two thirds of the entries in the database, it only freed up 200MB of disk space which is senseless. We ended up dumping the content and re-importing it taking care to enable "innodb_file_per_table". We will just have to wait and see if this fixes the solution in the long term but it seems to be the case for the moment. 

To resolve a host, you need UDP 53 outgoing (I'm supposing you're behind a stateful firewall). To use wget and curl with default port options, you will need TCP 80 outgoing. You will not be needing any incoming ports for this specific purpose. To check whether you can resolve hosts, you can use the dig command. If you wished to resolve www.google.com using OpenDNS, you would type the following command : 

This is extremely useful in a network-route configuration as it is used for the routing taking place in the dom0. If it's IP configuration for the domU itself, it has nothing to do with Xen. Just make the network configuration persistant in the domU. 

Use a DNS that will answer with the closest server to the user and put such servers around the world. This has other advantages such as giving a low-latency experience to your users. 

We currently have a NAC server set up to authenticate against a Samba4 AD using the ntlm_auth utility and would like to make it more tolerant to network outages. Currently, when the NAC loses connectivity to the Samba4 Active Directory, every login attempt fails. This situation used to be acceptable but has become more problematic now that our network topology has changed. I have added "winbind offline logon = true" in the smb.conf of the NAC and of the Samba4 AD as per the Samba documentation. In order to test offline authentication, I added two iptables rules that drop all traffic to the Samba4 Active Directory server. When I try to authenticate using winbind, it works as expected : 

With OpenVPN AFAIK, you only create one tun interface on the central server and then all the connecting nodes are located in this interface's subnet. So you will not run into any limitations on this side. I have a similar VPN set up even though not to the scale that you are mentionning. We have 80 servers with 80 /24LANs behind them. We use OpenVPN and it works great. The main problem we had was bandwidth overload due to bad supervision and bad planning. That many servers can easily reach 100Mbit/s so you have to plan carefully. Depends on your use that is true but that's the main problem we had. Configuration-wise, you have to use client specific configuration tying a VPN certificate to a specific route. This can be done with the ccd directory. Keep your configuration clean because with that many servers it can quickly become a mess. Create a little script for yourself to generate the keys rapidly because it will take a while with so many keys. You can just modify the OpenVPN utils to execute silently. Set a long certificate expiry time if security is not much an issue, re-issuing 600 certificates has got to be painful. 

Make sure you have enough free space and that you will not be destroying data. You've been warned. The problem with your setup is that the /var partition doesn't have LVM, it's a just a regular partition. Therefore you will not be able to reclaim space on that. What I suggest is that you create a new LVM partition out of the space you got from your LVM, transfer the data and use that as your new /var.