The main condition was sufficient food and water supply, and of course sufficient number of people to man the walls. Castles were actually very effective tool of defense, and in many cases the attacking army would just bypass them without a siege. But if the attacking army had enough people, enough time and good sources of supplies, then the only hope of the besieged was a help from outside. Experience shows that any stronghold could be taken, with sufficient time and resources. 

I understand that I am taking risk, but there are no such known sources. Let someone prove me wrong. And even in Slavic languages, the Chronicle that you mention seems to be the only source. Of course the expression "rulers of Russia" that you use, is an anachronism. There was no "Russia", and those Varangian leaders of the time of Rurik did not rule any substantial territory. Some Islamic and other sources mention a "Kahan of Rus", and some Western sources mention people who came from Constantinople and call themselves Rus, and who were actually Swedes. ("Rus" in these sources is an ethnonym, not a geographic name.) But there are no sources mentioning Rurik, Oleg, Askold or Dir. Archeology shows that there were Scandinavian settlements in the regions of Novgorod, Kiev and elsewhere. Byzantine sources show that they attacked Constantinople several times: first time in 860 with unidentified leader, second time in 940 by Igor with whom they concluded a treaty 3 years later. This treaty is preserved in the Chronicle. The next ruler name from the Chronicle which is confirmed by Byzantine sources is Olga (the wife of Igor who was Rurik's son according to the Chronicle). She visited Constantinople and her visit is recorded by Byzantine historians. 

I can share my family experience. They were moved from Ukraine, first to Staingrad, and then, when the Germans approached Stalingrad, further East to Siberia (with the Kharkiv tractor plant which produced tanks). They lived in "baracs" which were huge wooden sheds, without running water, or any facilities (cooking was on portable kerosene stoves), one family separated from another by a curtain. Work day was 12 hours and they were working in a plant without walls (the equipment was moved from Ukraine, but they started working without factory buildings, the equipment was placed in the open air). My uncle who was 12 years old at that time died in an accident while working as a "rail-cart pusher" (rail carts were pushed by children). His sister (my mother) who was 15, was also working, but in the evenings she studied at school (after the war she was able to enroll to a medical institute and become a doctor). Their mother was working as a cook in the factory cantina, and their father was missing in action in 1941 (later it was found that he was killed in action. They did not know about his fate until the 1970s). 

The key words in the question are "by the standard of the time". Indeed during the early middle age Islamic society was more literate than Western European one. Since then the literacy rates did not decline anywhere. They simply grew in the West at faster rate. It is the "standard of the time" which changed. And it changed in the West faster than it did in the Islamic countries. And the reason of this is book printing. And the wise spread of books was possible because the society was more secular. 

Culture is a more general notion. "Civilization is characterized by urban development, social stratification, symbolic communication etc. (see Wikipedia). So we can speak of a Paleolitic culture, for example but not a civilization. 

They benefited indirectly. First, according to the treaty Germany had to evacuate their troops in Ukraine, (and everywhere else on the territory of the former Russian empire) which made it possible for Russia to conquer Ukraine. I recall that in spring 1918 Russia surrendered to Germany (Brest-Litovsk treaty. This treaty was universally considered shameful by the Russians and was one of the reasons of the Civil war in Russia. This treaty was annulled by the Versailles treaty. This helped Bolsheviks to win the Civil war). Some states indeed became independent (Poland, Baltic states and Finland). But two of them, Ukraine and Belarus, were almost immediately conquered by Russia when German help to them stopped by Versailles treaty. Unlike Poland and Finland, they could not defend themselves. Second, by various restrictions on the German industry, especially military, it pushed Germany to close co-operation with Russia, both in economy and in the military sphere. This co-operation benefited both Russia and Germany. 

In Khazar khaghanate, Judaism, Islam and Christianity apparently peacefully coexisted with paganism and with each other. In the Roman republic (and later Roman empire) all religions peacefully coexisted except Christianity in some periods when Christians and sometimes Jews were persecuted. In Polish-Lituanian Commonwealth (Rzeczpospolita Obojga Narodów) several religions coexisted in relative peace (Catholic, Orthodox, various protestants, Muslims and Jews) until the 17 century wars between the Orthodox and the rest. Before the Commonwealth, Christian Orthodox peacefully coexisted with the pagans in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. (This Great Duchy was the last state in Europe ruled by pagan princes). Mongol empire is also a good example. I think it is generally accepted that Mongols were very tolerant to all religions. Some of them quickly converted to Christianity others to Islam and other religions, others remained pagan, but no problems related to religions seem to be recorded in Mongol empire. 

Another good reason is that a shield does not protect you against firearm. A wooden shield is easily penetrated, an iron shield would be too heavy, and modern materials like aluminium were not available. EDIT. A shield mostly protects from bow arrows and to some extent from a sword blow. But even the earliest improved bows (Greek gastraphetes and medieval crossbows) could penetrate the shields. Not speaking of musket bullets. 

An important way to supply an army always was the transportation by water. Persian invasions of Greece were actually large scale combined ground force-fleet operations, as it is clearly seen from Herodotes description. Same applies to Hannibal's campain and to several operations of Alexander the Great. In general, rivers and sea was one of the important ways of transportation, in many places the only way to transport large quantities of supplies. 

Even after the invention of the steam engine most common people never traveled. It depends on the country, of course. But in countries like Russia or Turkey or China, even in the early 20th century, most people were peasants, and they did not travel long distance. Mass travel developed in 20th century. Until the early 20th century, the most common way for a peasant "to see the world" was to serve in the army or navy. 

On my opinion, this statement "When we look to history we see that ignoring science has led to the crumbling of societies" is not confirmed by history. Societies, or civilizations come and go and there is no evidence that this is somehow related to the development of science. Science, in its present form, was mostly created by the Hellenistic Greeks, and this society did not exist longer than other societies. Neither it was stronger or more durable in any sense. Some of the later societies continued the development of Hellenistic science. A millenium later this ancient science was picked by the Western European society, but it does not exist long enough yet to make any conclusions. On comparison of Greeks and Romans. Most of those who say that the Romans were not interested in science, miss the point, that the lands where the Greeks lived were also incorporated in the Roman empire, and that science existed there for long time. So for example Ptolemy and Diophantus should be listed in "Science of the Roman empire". And these are among the best examples of science that ever existed. It is true that most scientific work was written in the Greek language. But this is not enough to label this science as Greek. (In early Western Europe, most of the science was written in Latin, and we do not call it "Roman science" because of this). EDIT. Another aspect of the question is that in the present time, the physical survival of mankind depends on science. The Earth would be unable to support its present population without modern scientific technology of food production. But this situation is quite recent. 

This is the Emirate of Bukhara conquered by Soviet Union n 1920. $URL$ So if this map is of 1923, it is somewhat out of date. Though the resistance continued after 1920. 

It depends on the situation. If you talk with a person in the street, you do not really know his/her citizenship status. If you talk officially with a foreign diplomat, you address him as he is expected to be addressed in his own country. The situation was analogous in Soviet Union. There were two forms of addressing: "tovarishch" (camarad) and "grazhdanin" (citizen). Originally "tovarishch" was used by the members of the communist party to address each other, but later spread wider. The neutral form was "grazhdanin", and of course no one really cared what your real citizenship is. 

Germany did not have strategic bombers (in the sense of this word that was used in Britain and US): $URL$ Strategic bombing of Soviet union was never attempted. In 1941-42 the Soviets managed to move most of their industry from the West of the country to the regions in the East, where they were not accessible by bombers of that time. 

Nazi brutality is very well known because this was a singular event in 20s century Europe, with no analog (in Europe). It is well known also in England and Poland, the countries with small Jewish population. (I mean that Poland has negligible Jewish population AFTER the Holocaust). And in France and in Yugoslavia. It is also well-known and well remembered in the countries of former Soviet Union, where the remaining Jewish population was smaller that in the US, and no sane person would say that "Jews controlled the media" in the former Soviet Union. 

What the genetic analysis proves is only that those many people share a common male ancestor who lived in 13th century. They cannot prove this was Genghiz Khan, because his remains were never found. So he (or his father, or one of his sons) is only the most plausible candidate. The number of descendants is not so surprising: those guys could easily have hundreds or thousands of children. Speaking of Ivan IV, his genealogy can be traced following historical records. I did not check this myself, but this is not surprising, and is frequently mentioned in the literature that Chenghiz Khan was among his ancestors. There was substantial intermarriage between Russian princes families and descendants of Mongols. 

When you say "in WWII" you miss the point that WWII lasted 5.5 years. And all these 6 years there was intensive arms competition on both sides. Soviet tanks T-34 and KV where by far the best tanks in 1941. No other country had anything comparable. (See the Schwern answer for details). But in 1944 this was already not the best tank: Germans tanks were superior. Soviets also had some superior airplanes: superior when they were first used. Examples are IL-2 and Yak-3. Another very effective weapons was the famous unguided rocket system BM-13, known as "Katyusha". References: Wikipedia articles on BM-13, IL-2, Yak-3, Kliment Voroshilov tank (KV). 

This strongly contradicts to what many other authors (ancient and modern) say about Egyptian astronomy and mathematics, but on my opinion, Neugebauer had really studied this question carefully, unlike those other authors. The legends about Egyptian math and astronomy come from the Ancient Greece, and later they were uncritically repeated by other authors. Modern research shows that these are really legends. Moreover, Neugebauer, who was mostly interested in the history of astronomy, also carefully studied Hellenistic horoscopes, trying to find there interesting information about astronomical knowledge. He places the origin of astrology at about -1000 in Babylon. This "science" penetrated to the West (including Egypt) after Alexander's conquest. His book (second reference below) contains an interesting graph showing the number of known Hellenistic horoscopes distributed by years. (A horoscope is relatively easy to date precisely from the information contained in it). According to this graph, there are none before the year -100, and the sharp maximum falls on the year 100, with sharp decrease by 200, and very sharp decrease around 500, when pagan science (including mathematics and astrology) was formally banned by Justinian. It is true that most horoscopes are found in Egypt, but this was Hellenistic Egypt, and majority were in written Greek, with some in (demotic) Egyptian. Sources: A brief but very informative account is O. Neugebauer, The exact sciences in antiquity, Harper torchbooks, 1962. A comprehensive source is O. Neugebauer, A History of Ancient mathematical astronomy, in 3 vols., Springer 1975. EDIT. I address some comments on my answer. Very few serious scientists would spend their time to study such nonsense as horoscopes. Neugebauer and his collaborators are actually the only scientists whom I know who did this. Surviving Hellenistic astronomy sources are so scarce, that literally everything which came to us from that time was carefully combed for even the smallest hints of relevant information. Perhaps I am missing something, and will be grateful if someone gives a reference to another reliable study. This does not include astrologers themselves, of course:-)