Yes, a computer could run the government. It would likely require both Intelligence and Consciousness (and Self-Awareness). I work in the AI field; please read this response to a different question in which I explain why Intelligence and Consciousness are distinct things. Your problem might be, however, that a computer capable of balancing all the issues involved in running the government, might be just as complex as a human being. It would depend very heavily on who gets to tell the computer exactly what government is supposed to accomplish. In a general sense this is easy; the government is supposed to provide a deterrence to bad actorss. Like invasion of the country (hence a defensive military, border controls), police (to prevent criminal behavior like murder and robbery, rape and fraud), and prisons or execution houses to separate criminals from society, or their life. A secondary function is collective action that provides collective benefit. A community well. A tax to build and maintain a fence around the whole village, and man it with guards, costs a tiny fraction of what it would cost for each person to build a fence around just their house and hire a guard for it. On a larger scale, the Interstate Highway System in the USA is a collective action that has paid and continues to pay for itself a thousandfold over the cost of its taxes, and would never have existed without government action. So in defining the role of government you will get into the politics of deciding whether health care should be provided as a common good, like USA military defense is treated, or health care is a profitable product that should be priced by the laws of supply and demand. The same thing goes for legal defense: We say legal defense is a right of all, but not good legal defense, we all know the public defenders do not perform anywhere near as well as the $1500/hr attorneys hired by the wealth. So should we prohibit such defense, and say ALL defendants must be represented by public defenders, PERIOD? Then you have larger problems of the government being used to legislate morality, as they see it. Should prostitution be legal, or illegal? We have both, just in the USA. Should pot be legal or illegal? Smoking? Alcohol? Teen sex? Pornography? Gambling? Homosexual marriage? Homosexual adoption? The answers to those questions comes down to philosophical and/or religious make up, really. And those roles of government should not be determined by a computer. 

You say they want it; so just make them insist upon it: Upon severe injury or death, the government will pay a large sum (which they must put in escrow (the care of a third party like the Church)), or we don't fight. If we come through the fight with recoverable injuries (including those that can be healed by magic), we get the smaller per-monster fee and your escrow is returned to you, or can be used to provide for another hero. Otherwise, without us, your monsters will eat your citizens, unrest will develop, you may lose your golden crown, and perhaps the fleshy part beneath it. If you can't get all fighters on board, then the market will work out; either fighters get insurance because enough of them demand it, or enough are willing to fight without it so the Crown does not need to provide it. 

The OP says: What value does gold bullion and jewelry have, when you can barely get enough water and food to survive? Virtually none. This is the scenario: Your character: A healthy male in his 40s, thin, but you have not had food in two days, and you haven't had water since yesterday. You are exhausted and have nothing stashed. The land is picked over so there is nothing to be found to eat. It hasn't rained in weeks and rainwater is the only thing you trust to be uncontaminated. You come to a fork in the road, literally, with recruiters offering you two different deals. Presume, for the purpose of focusing this example on the true dilemma, that you can trust both men to keep their word; they will give you what they promise, and you must give them what you promise. Both men are charged with recruiting a workforce to build, break land, and clear forest for newly formed farming and ranching communities. Neither man will tolerate a changed mind: If you turn them down, you cannot return later to take them up on their offer. The men are friendly with each other, their communities will be sisters. In exchange for an apple from their shared bag, they examine you thoroughly, both wish to make you an offer. The work is the same hard labor for both: carrying bags of concrete, pulling carts, digging with pick and shovel to clear land, building stone walls. You will work your nearly dead body for 12 hours a day. On your left is Aaron. He offers you, in return for each hour, all the clean water you can drink, and 500 calories of vegetable and chicken soup (with bread), and 10 minutes to consume them and rest. Every hour, you will work 50 minutes, and for 10 you can eat, rest, eliminate, etc. At night you have 12 hours of shelter (a tent), a community fire, and the companionship of your fellow workers if you want it. Altogether, you get 6000 calories a day, about what you will burn for a hard labor life. On your right is Bill. He offers you, in return for each 12 hours of work, a gold coin worth, IRL, about \$100. So about \$8.50 an hour, like a low wage job in 2017 America. He will also offer you a tent and community fire, but it is up to you to find and buy your water and food. Note that IRL, Aaron's deal is not even close to minimum wage. There are 1085 calories in a pound of chicken, which is always available at my grocery store for about $2/lb, so roughly 500 calories per dollar. This means 6000 calories of chicken, IRL, costs about \$12. For 12 hours of work, that is only \$1 per hour. But this is vegetable chicken soup, and many vegetables cost far less; see This Chart, which is a little out of date but still has the rankings of food by cost per calorie roughly correct. Many of these foods would not be available in a post-apocalyptic society, but presumably food and grain still grows, and chickens can be fed on peas, corn, beans and insects (e.g. termite farming can provide a good source of protein for chickens, and the chickens will do much of the work once you stir the nest). So let us say that in the end Aaron is offering you the equivalent, IRL, of 42 cents a day, $\frac{1}{20}$ of what Bill is offering you, \$8.50 per day. Yet most of us take Aaron's deal. There is no guarantee we can buy food or water, Bill is not promising to sell it to us, he offers us only the gold. Our fellow workers, in Bill's camp, don't necessarily have food and water to sell us, and we don't know where we would buy it (except perhaps from Aaron's camp, but workers there don't get to hoard food or water in order to sell it; they consume their pay each hour and that's it). Here is the major misconception people have about currency, rarity, and "intrinsic value": None of that matters more than trust. If your hungry and thirsty character, the worker above, has no faith that they will be able to trade a gold coin for food and water, then they will not work the first day for a gold coin. A currency does not have to be "rare" to have value, the only demands are that it is difficult to create counterfeit money (a trait that rarity can provide, but see my note on rarity below), and that the holder of the currency is virtually certain they will be able to trade it for goods and services they want: They have faith in the currency. Note on rarity: The physical rarity of materials (like gold and jewels) is not the only thing that makes an item hard to counterfeit; our own paper money is difficult to counterfeit. "Difficult to Counterfeit" is really an adjunct to faith and trust in the currency; if it is not difficult to counterfeit, nobody will trust it. If it is subject to wild inflation, or fluctuates too widely in trading value, then nobody will trust it either; meaning they won't believe it is worth, approximately, the same amount of labor it took them to get it. So in the end, the value of currency is all about whether almost everybody believes it can be exchanged for goods and services. It is not about rarity, or inherent value, or utility. It is about belief. If nobody in your world believes gold and jewels can be exchanged, quickly and easily, for the food and water in scarce supply, then gold and jewels will not act as currency. They will be worth about what pretty stones and shells are worth. In a post-apocalypse society, the most plausible outcome to me is that tools, weapons, food and sometimes medicine will be far more valuable in trade than gold or jewels. 

You cannot get there faster than light (from the perspective of the places you are traveling from and to, if they are [nearly] at rest with respect to each other (meaning even if they are both moving, the distance between them is not increasing or decreasing by more than a few miles per second). If they are 10 LY apart, it takes ten years of their time for a signal (or anything within a few percent of the speed of light) to move between them. This also means you cannot know what is happening on B if you are sitting on A, and vice versa. No kind of signal known to physics, not even a gravity wave, travels faster than light. If a revolution occurs on B, the people on A won't hear about it for ten years. Then it would take them at least ten years to get there and respond. Now, traveling at near light speed (say 99.99% and they have an unlimited energy supply to do it) the amount of time that passes for the passengers is contracted by a factor 70.71. So 10 years, or 3650 days, the passengers, ship and everything in it will only age 51.6 days. (This is not a "feels like" but actual time passage.) Also note that when they arrive at B, it will have been 20 years since the message about the revolution was first sent. (They may know more about what happened in that 20 years by capturing signals from B along the way there, so they may be up to speed when they land.) 

Without further explanation, strength is just better muscles. Muscles can be cut with a knife, penetrated by bullets or projectiles, and bruised, no matter how big they are. When bullets are fired into ballistic jelly designed to simulate the resistive power of flesh or muscle, they can penetrate 12 inches, easily, even 24 inches. Obviously the majority of muscles in your body could not be large enough to completely surround you with 24 inches of muscle. Your head, for example, cannot have muscles that big. Even 24 inches of muscle would not pose a barrier to a sharp 36 inch sword (or spear). Invulnerability is a different super power that prevents penetration (and bruising or damage) at the surface. Like the Superman movie that starts with Superman taking a bullet in slow motion to his open eye, the bullet flattens and drops to the ground. 

I see two reasons for a provincial level, and ultimately a national level: The main one is for legal reasons; a provincial level can resolve disputes between districts, that the districts themselves cannot. About trade or differences between them in local laws, or about the use (or abuse) of common resources (water, air, minerals, river or sea ways, migratory birds and animals, whatever). You mention railways: Who is responsible for repairing them? How are they extended across districts, in particular who takes the land required for a railway extension? Can a district shut down a railway? Refuse to allow the transportation of objectionable cargo (e.g. slaves, toxic or radioactive chemicals, nuclear bombs, criminal prisoners)? For rivers, can a district upstream dam a river to supply itself a lake of water, fisheries and electical power, and for the ten years it takes to fill that lake, dehydrate the downstream districts that rely on that river for irrigation and drinking water? If I dig a mine in District A to extract gold, and few hundred feet down the vein I am working crosses straight into District B for miles --- Am I stealing their gold? If I drill for oil in District A, and it turns out the lake of oil I am pumping out is actually under 20 other Districts too: Am I stealing their oil? Further, am I responsible for the hundred-foot deep sinkholes and property destruction that are caused by sucking out all that oil? 

Obviously you need stable orbits long enough for evolutionary forces to take effect (millions of years), but clearly that could be possible with a large moon and some smaller moons; to emphasize the difference it makes in tidal patterns. That said, always presume the wildlife will adapt to take advantage, both offensive and defensive advantages. So you could for example have behavior changes specific to the overall super-system periodicity: Nights of bright light are for hunting the nocturnal animals, but they know this and avoid the bright nights, but that makes them very hungry on the following night, and the hunters come out in stronger force then. Or, there are periodic but rare dark nights; maybe only one a year, and many prey animals adapt to mate on this one dark night: Because it is the safest night for them to be at their most vulnerable. Interestingly, that also makes every offspring exactly the same age, and creates a cyclic pattern for hunters of (in human terms) infants, children, young adults and adults for their growth cycle: e.g. If it is April, the gazelle are giving birth; all of them. (Note because of our cold-to-warm seasons, we have a similar pattern in earth wildlife; almost none are born in the dead of winter.) Although there are certain evolutionary "arms races" in which both sides reach some pinnacle of performance (cheetahs and gazelles), for the most part evolutionary adaptations reach some logical dead end due to an external circumstance that cannot be avoided. The owl is adapted to hunt small mammals at night; large eyes, silent flight, incredibly sensitive hearing. The mice it hunts have no evolutionary answer, other than a high rate of offspring. They haven't become any stealthier, their eyesight or hearing hasn't gotten any better to detect the owls, the day is still more dangerous than the night. Instead of trying to work out your actual orbits and masses of multiple moons, just choose some interesting plausible features. Perhaps they regularly eclipse each other and pull tide together, perhaps they are sometimes opposite and there is no tide at all. If they are together on one side of the planet, there are no moons on the other side, and tide is exceptionally low, maybe the night is exceptionally dark. Do any of these present opportunity or disaster for wildlife? Does it affect the plant life or sea life and because of that change feeding patterns for the land-based wildlife? Can something take advantage of the fact that double-low-tide exposes reefs that are usually under water? Does double-high-tide force some prey animals to retreat and create a feeding frenzy? The multiple moons scenario isn't about accurate algebra; it's about making a plausible story line due to the effects of multiple moons. 

Walking on the dirt road, they passed a thin path veering left, marked by a head-sized black rock. Callie shifted the sword on her back and nodded toward it. "That one there winds past the black mountain, a few days down, close on the Bent Village. My mother was born there. Said it was the most horrible place." Marc looked down the path, empty to the horizon. "A damn small mountain, or more'n a few days. What's horrible about it?" "She never says it, and too late now. Heard tell they mine crystals there, and the tunnels are like black glass, so you can see your spirit in them. Like on a smooth lake in the moonlight. Always wanted to go there." 

As mentioned; we already know there are rogue planets and possibly even black holes out there. Is the fleet in question cover an area the size of Jupiter? Why wouldn't the better explanation be that these red giants have large planets orbiting them, with total orbit duration > 100 years? We already know most stars have planets. Plus, a straight line to Earth eyes may be a triangle in 3-d space; and a closest-neighbor walk for the aliens would seem like a drunken walk among stars to us; until we map them in 3-D to see a clear path. That said, I think a solution to your problem may exist: Make the changes to the Red Giants, as made by the aliens, produce a more permanent feature which your scientist can observe, and might plausibly be the first to measure. for example, a particular signature combination of reduced or increased elements in the spectra of the red giant; or something else permanently observable about the star. As if the aliens extract something useful from the star necessary for their propulsion, or manipulate the star in some way. Then your observations can be millions of years old; covering hundreds of stars, and your scientist's measurement clearly partitions red giants into Mined vs. UnMined, and furthermore he can see the nearest-next-red-giant path in the 3-D map. There is no natural explanation for such a well defined path; it must be due to intentional selection. Then further than that: He can see, by comparison of current spectra to spectral observations taken less than 100 years ago, that the last two red giants on only one tail of this path were the most recently changed, just a few decades apart, the last point just a few years ago, so the next star on that path is one we could signal in time to communicate with these aliens before they arrive. Perhaps further plot developments allow him to measure the trip-time between red giants, say he discovers a subtle decay rate in the spectral signatures, and using that he discovers the aliens sometimes travel at light speed, but other times take decades longer than expected before arriving at the next red giant: He concludes they must stop and visit places for some reason, perhaps they discover life, or just something else worth mining besides red giants. Feel free to use that if it is useful; I am just spit balling here...