You linked to an industrial sized watermaker (75 gallons per hour) but they do come in smaller sizes for significantly less money. But think hard about how much water you actually need. I'd consider your 80 L/day to be very generous. Ocean water at a normal level of salt is sufficient for showering or cleaning. If the salt remaining on a washed item or person is a problem, do a quick rinse or wipe down with fresh. That alone should cut your daily cleaning needs drastically. If your toilets require fresh water rather than salt or the same sort of chemical used in an RV, you should look into fixing the plumbing, because that's a huge waste of fresh water. Save the fresh water for drinking and cooking, and look at cleaning with it as a luxury. $URL$ has a lot of good information about selecting a watermaker, as well as some tips to minimize your usage. For uses where slightly salty water is acceptable, but ocean water is too salty, you can simply dilute the salt water as needed with your supply of fresh, stretching the freshwater further. 

Bear bangers and bear spray are designed for slightly different situations. Bear bangers are intended to use when a bear is still a ways off, but is showing no signs of leaving, or is wandering towards you. The idea is to scare the bear off before he gets close enough that you need to be seriously worried. They generally shoot a few hundred feet. Looking through online forums, there's some suggestions that they are illegal in at least some National Parks, but I didn't find any specifics. But if you are planning on taking them with you, I'd recommend contacting whoever is in charge of the land you are hiking on, and asking if they are legal. Since they work with an explosive charge, there's also a fire risk (relatively low, but if it's a dry environment, the fire risk will still be high). They are louder than things like bells and shouting, but the principle is the same. Bear spray is for close encounters. By the time the bear is close enough for the spray to be effective, it's obvious that the bear is behaving aggressively. According to $URL$ bear spray should be used when the bear is 25 feet away or more, and should be sprayed for at least 6 seconds (enough to deter even a determined bear). Most of the sprays I read about claimed to shoot 30-35 feet. I'd guess that distance is in ideal conditions- warm, no wind. Bear spray is intended as a last resort, once its clear that noise is not making the bear back off. In short, bear bangers are meant to work as a deterrent, much like bells or shouting. Bear spray is meant as a defense, for use once you are already in trouble, and the bear is clearly behaving aggressively and is close. Edit: A note on bells, since their effectiveness is being questioned in the comments. A quick internet search shows that their effectiveness is low, and probably varies geographically and with species: Alaskan bears were observed ignoring it, Sierra bears were slightly less likely to attack a group with bells. Maybe because the Sierra bears are more likely to run into hikers wearing them, and hear them as a warning sign, while in Alaska, there's a lot fewer hikers, so it's just an unfamiliar, unimportant noise. But since the bells are cheap, and no one's reported evidence that they increase bear attacks, I'd still be willing to use one. If anyone finds evidence that they really work do work as a dinner bell though, I'll be very quick to change my mind. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

If your tarp is heavy duty enough, I'd expect it to work. Most blue plastic tarps are fairly thin and weak, so while it might work, it would be risky. The difficulty is that you will be abrading the tarp by driving onto it, probably subjecting it to abrasion from rubbing against the jeep's body, and risking the tarp catching on underwater debris. The thinner your tarp, the higher your risk. Even a pinprick leak could be a problem, depending on how long you are in the water. A flimsy tarp of any material will develop leaks or rip relatively easily, maybe even while loading for your first test. A sturdy one would probably hold up to a few trips, although I've got no idea how many. The toughest waterproof fabrics are used for whitewater rafting vessels, which gives an idea of how sturdy a tarp (not polypropylene) can be. Make sure before you start that you don't have any leaks in the tarp. I've never had to do this, but a possible setup that comes to mind is hanging the tarp in a cup shape and dumping in 10 gallons of water or more, then swishing it all over the tarp surface to make sure it doesn't leak. At the minimum, I'd spray one side with a hose, but that has a few problems: 1) it's hard to be sure no spray is reaching the far side, which makes leaks harder to spot, and 2) if the material is only somewhat waterproof, it might still seem impermeable when sprayed, while holding several gallons would show that it can't stand up to long, heavy exposure. 

Battery powered stoves and ovens are available, but they don't get as hot as a regular oven. They are designed to plug into a car's 12V outlet, so they need a car battery, which is impractical for someone on foot. As a result, they are not designed to be light weight. They work for car camping, though. In the US, they are often used by truckers living out of their vehicles for days at a time. You might be able to rig up a way to power one of these appliances from a lithium ion battery, which might make the weight acceptable to a hiker willing to carry significant extra weight. But for that, you'd need to talk to an electrician, not me. 

Depends on where you are. Near Las Vegas, there are plenty of abandoned mines where a body will almost certainly remain undiscovered for years. Talk to the local mob for specifics. 

That kind of problem is miserable, but fairly common. There are a few things I'd suggest to solve it. 

In addition to the answers already mentioned, I prefer red light while outdoors in the summer because it seems to attract fewer insects. I always seem to have more insects flying around my face if I use white, and fewer with red. 

I'd treat a new acrophobic hiker the same way I would any other new hiker I was out with. I start out by asking them what they are comfortable with before we even start, as well as what their fitness level is. For instance, I have a friend in poor shape with terrible balance who occasionally comes with me hiking. I choose routes with her that are much easier than I would do alone, and that mostly don't involve rock scrambling or unbridged stream crossings. But we've done a little scrambling anyway sometimes, and she's always been happy to learn she can. Along the way, I check in with a new hiker, especially when we get to a situation that's likely to be a bit tricky. In this case, it might mean a rocky climb or a trail with a drop-off. With a hiker who has no specific problems, it might mean asking how they are doing on a tough, steep section, or just checking on their energy and hydration levels after an hour and taking more frequent breaks than I usually would. With an acrophobic friend, I'd ask them about what sort of situation makes them most uncomfortable, then mostly avoid it. This would probably include scrambling, steep switchbacks, and cliffside trails, but it's their call. No need to avoid all heights, since they already know there will be some. The point is to give them an enjoyable experience so that they want to come back, and maybe push their limits further next time. 

I live an area where a lot of the woods was farms a hundred years ago. 50 years ago it was bushy fields, now it's heavily wooded with increasingly narrow cart paths running through it. A lot of the stuff I run into was probably dumped by someone creating a dump site a few decades ago, when you could drive to it with no problem, but if you see it today, it's pretty obvious the path wouldn't allow a car to pass. 

You'll need to test to be sure, but it will lose quite a bit of strength. When I sailed, I was taught that you lose as much as 80% strength by tying a knot. So if you have 500 lb paracord, by this estimate it could support about 100 pounds reliably when knotted. The weakening is at the point of the knot, so multiple knots doesn't further decrease the strength, it just gives you more probable failure points, all at 20% of the original strength. The problem here is that the 80% loss is a conservative rule of thumb. That's good if you need to plan for something where your life depends on the line NOT breaking, but your knotted rope can probably hold more than 20% of it's rated strength. I found a rope maker who tested some of their own ropes, and described both the testing protocol and the results. The result was that you lost between 35% and 68% of a rope's strength, depending on the type of line and the knot. Splices lost significantly less strength, but since you aren't splicing that's not really relevant. There are probably other lines and knots that lose even greater strength. Edit: This answer is about an unbroken cord with a knot in it. Rope is designed to be strongest when all fibers in it are straight, so the bent fibers, while bent, are significantly weaker than the surrounding straight fibers. The more severe the bend, the greater the weakening. If you untie the knot, the rope goes back to being straight and regains its strength. The picture looks like any weight on the braided cord would be supported by the equivalent of multiple strands, and the braid might not compromise the rope's strength as severely as a true knot. Braiding a single cord as you did functions kind of like wrapping a line between two anchor points several times. Any force placed on the ends will pull on all the bends, so the full force won't be on any single bend. In your picture, the force would probably be distributed between several bent strands, so it could support several times what a single knotted cord would support. But all this means is that if you really want to know, you need to test it. 

The cheapest ways to try cross country skiing are borrowing equipment, yard sale equipment, craigslist, or rentals. If you like it, and rent frequently, that stops being cheap. If you make friends who run or are otherwise active, ask around, and someone might have a spare set of skis and poles they can lend you - you can find them for a few dollars at yard sales sometimes, and some skiers pick them up as spares or loaners (This is why I've got 3 sets of skis for 1 set of legs). Then you'll just need to buy boots. Places to ski: Easiest: flat ground, groomed trails, golf courses, snowmobile tracks. Harder: Slopes, or anything with virgin snow (snow with no tracks). With virgin snow, it's generally best to go with one or more buddies who can trade off in trail breaking, or go for very short trips. Hardest: Very hilly or mountainous, especially with virgin snow. If you're sticking to flat terrain or groomed trails, you can pretty much get out and go with little or no instruction (depending on your tolerance for falling and being awkward). I don't know about Quebec specifically, but in Massachusetts, some golf courses rent cross country skis in the winter, and groom tracks for skiers to use. Other courses don't make it official, but still allow skiers on their grounds. Depending on what you are looking for, a season's pass to a local golf course may satisfy your need for exercise at a reasonable cost. The disadvantage would be that you could only ski at that location. If you want harder terrain, it would be worth either taking a lesson, or going out with a friend who skis. Going straight is easy to figure out, as long as you don't care about being the most efficient possible. Turns and hills are a little harder. If saving money is most important, and you don't have any skiing friends, you can learn technique from books and videos without much trouble. 

Genetics is one factor contributing to a deer's antler size, but certainly not the only factor. In many cases, maybe most, it isn't even the most important factor. Age: Young bucks that aren't fully mature will always have smaller antlers. A deer whose health is declining due to old age may also have smaller antlers. Diet: Antlers are regrown every year, and this takes a lot of nutrients and energy. A deer that can't get enough minerals and protein will not be growing large antlers. So a deer could easily have impressive antlers one year, then due to a hard winter and a drought ridden spring and summer, have much smaller antlers the next year. Overall health: Injury, malnourishment and disease will all mean that a buck's body devotes resources to more important functions that antler growth. 

If it is clean, fresh snow, it is safe to drink. This is basically drinking rain water. It hasn't had time to pick up pollutants when it is newly fallen. I live in New England, and kids do this all the time. You get taught early to only do this with white snow. Make sure that the snow is actually clean: the longer it sits, and the more urbanized an area is, the more likely it is to be dirty and to have picked up pollutants. If it's brown or gray snow beside a road or path, or yellow snow where an animal urinated, it's no longer drinkable. As far as what sickness you can get, it will depend on what's in the snow. With yellow snow, I'd assume you could get the diseases you'd usually get from drinking water with animal waste. If it's beside a road, you'd be ingesting heavy metals and chemicals found in car exhaust. Edit: In response to the comments as to the general safety of drinking rainwater, $URL$ - This is from a person who tested their own cistern (a holder for rainwater), and includes no information on the cistern's cleanliness, or whether it is open to the air and debris. Even so, the water was purer than well water or tap water the tester checked in New Mexico. The only significant pollutant was bacteria, which tend to grow when you store water. $URL$ - In the first sentence WHO simply assumes rainwater is drinkable straight from the sky, and the rest of the article is about storing and purifying after storage. If contamination directly from the sky was a major concern, it is reasonable to expect WHO to mention it when discussing rainwater harvesting. And anecdotally, when I've lived places where drinking rainwater was the norm, the only concern was bacteria from the cistern, not airborn pollutants.