The point I am trying to make through all this? It's far more complex than 'speeding it up'. You'd have to find a way to speed up each of these processes, and do so without creating a creature that won't buckle under the strain of the over-hyped craving for nutrients (they might starve to death while eating a meal, because of how 'slow' the body absorbs nutrients). Personally, if you were to through with this? Either get into the science behind it (biology, physiology, pathology), or try to steer clear of the STEM junkies that gorge on these details during any work of fiction, and are often left wanting. I would like to put more, but LORD! My poor brain and fingers are worn out:P 

Gender is a social construct. Sex is a biological contruct. As is, in the vast majority of species you have a minimum of three sexes: male (sperm produders), female (egg producers), and a sex not readily identifiable as typically male or female (a combination of the two, whether on chromosomal (XX, XY, XXY, XYY, XO, etc.), gonadal (testes, ovaries, womb, etc), or external genetalia (vagina, penis). Gender (identity) is a spectrum with at the two extremes thereof: masculine and feminine. For example, you could have feminine guys, masculine girls, or essentially any combination of biological sex and gender identity. Now, having said that, what you are likely talking about is the biology; ergo, sex and sexual dimorphmism. There are dozens of unique approaches I can think of off the top of my head when it comes to procreation and raring offspring. First, you have the posibilty of a 'slave sex'. Just like with the seahorse and some species of frog, that the egg producer either excretes the eggs (for or post fertilization), it isn't all that hard to believe there would be room in such a setup for a third sex to bring the eggs to term (i.e. guard them, offer nutrients). In fact, certain species of wasp use other species for this (burying the eggs in them so the hatchlings will have food after being born). Another example? Well, we look again to nature: ants. Sterile females (in some subspecies with wings) versus fertile queens and worker/soldier ants (infertile males) versus drones (fertile males). There you have four biologically divergent sexes in one species, and how they help the species servive (even if the infertile ones cannot procreate). Another way this can play out? Like with bees. In some subspecies (I'm tempted to say all, but I don't know for sure this is the case) females would suck/eat/drink a special substance (excretion) from the queen bee, keeping them infertile to not over populate the hive. This way, if anything happens to the queen, there is a host of females that can take over. It isn't as dramatic as the ant example, but it would work just the same. Another, slightly off-topic, example is to show how the parents go about raising the offspring. Black swans help here. A percetage of them form homosexual couples and start a threesome with females just for the eggs. Once she lays, she's kicked out of the nest, and the happy couple go about their lives. Then we get into 'gender differences' that could help with childrearing. For this we turn to Micronesian with Fa'afafine. The 'third gender'. They help take care of the home, help raise siblings, nieces/nephews, etc. If you want a more religious reasoning (depends on your species) you can also go with the Hijra of India. They were believed to be holy, conserated to a god that demands the removal of male genetalia as an offering to her. In the end, it's about what angle you want for these 'extra sexes/genders'. 

Here's the tricky thing about teleports: the landing location is always inherently "too small or otherwise unsafe", because no matter where they're teleporting into--assuming we remain reasonably close to the planet's surface, of course--it's going to be full of air that can't exist in the same place at the same time as the person. Normally this isn't much of a problem, since the air will move out of our way as we walk around, and flow around us to fill in the space we just vacated. But if our movement through space isn't continuous because we're teleporting, we've got some serious physical problems to work out in order to take care of all that air. And I'm assuming that someone did work it out somehow if the technology is in common use, because if the air stays in the same place as you appear, it could get mixed in with your body, and that can really ruin your whole day. This means that whatever's being teleported has to displace all that air. If you want a general idea of the effects of sudden air displacement, blow up a balloon and then stick it with a pin, and keep in mind that this is a very small amount of air, both by mass and by volume. Having an amount of air equivalent to an adult human be suddenly displaced would be very noticeable, and more to the point, it would have to happen before the person teleports in, so they don't get embolisms and die. If there's magical technology to make this happen, then there should be a way to detect the sudden air displacement. Set up a continuous spell that monitors for it, and when it happens, forces a bunch of air directly into the space being evacuated. By the description offered, this would probably cause the teleportation to fail. If not, it would really ruin the thief's day. 

Question? Any and all questions should be posed to the nearest homocidal maniac with a fully loaded, fully automatic assault rifle (and I really don't care if that's really a thing, it will still shoot you in the head!). Sincerely, The head of E-Conglomo's R&D Division. So you'd better make me look good! NOW GET BACK TO WORK! 

When life's kicked you to the curb, and all you have is your wits and magic, the sky is the limit what you can--and will--do to survive. Options: 

So you have your victim in your power. Bring out said victim in front of a crowd and carefully explain what is about to happen. Make sure these people are influential and preferably hard to convince. It makes for far more credible publicity afterwards. Once they understand that they are 'already in your power', offer the victim the covert 'command' (i.e. the predetermined 'stop your own heart' command). Make it something commonplace, like snapping, whistling, or a common word. You want this to be widespread, after all. 

Because the purpose of language is communication, in theory, what would be needed for a global language to arise is a global communication system. In practice... that's exactly what we're seeing. Look at how rapidly English is becoming the lingua franca of the Internet ever since the rise of the World Wide Web. It's already accomplished more, in a few short decades, than the combined resources of colonizing empires, missionaries, and traveling ESL teaching programs have in centuries. 

They want to keep education valuable by keeping it expensive Here's a crazy idea: We know that people with money are better off than people without money. Therefore, let's give a million dollars to everyone, and end the woes of poverty overnight! Anyone with even the most basic understanding of economics can take a single look at that and say "that's crazy, because inflation". Money is used as a proxy for labor and necessary resources, and putting more money into the system doesn't actually create more labor and necessary resources, so something has to give and it ends up devaluing the money. What does this have to do with the question? Well, here's another crazy idea: We know that people with education get better-paying jobs than people without education. Therefore, let's give a degree to everyone, and end the woes of poverty overnight in 4-6 years! With the context above, it should be immediately obvious why this will not work. Education doesn't get you a good job; it simply helps you distinguish yourself from less-educated applicants. It can be thought of as somewhat similar to money in this sense, and putting more degrees into the system doesn't create more good jobs; it just devalues the degrees. (See: US education policy over the last few decades, leading to some places where they literally require a Master's degree to be a pizza delivery guy, because that's how high you have to set the filter.) Which means you end up with a bunch of people trying to pay off a Master's degree worth of student loans on pizza delivery guy wages! (See: current US student debt crisis.) A government that's aware of the problems of inflation uses monetary policy to try to keep inflation down. A government that's aware of the problems of eduflation (yes, it's a real word, and it's a shame more people don't know about it) would use a restrictive educational policy to try to keep eduflation down. 

In the sense of a 'plague'? No, a4android is right, that's not likely to happen (though it isn't impossible, the only difference between an illness and a plague is scale). However, there are ways to get the effect you seek without bending things in the least. Let's say the noecebo that gets started comes with a self-reinforcing component? A poisoning of the mind, so to speak. All you need is for a few factors to be put in place. BEAR IN MIND! This answer is based on the concept that a noecebo is purposely pre-planned and injected into its victims with full knowledge and intent to do so. 

You absorb the energy and use that to power something else. Think of it like a fridge. The chemicals are absorbing the heat and transporting it outside. So you transport that energy to power up something you don't need or want anyone else to know about (your own personal McGuffin (tm)) You bend light around the area you want darkened. This is going to cost energy, but it gets the effect you want. 

This most likely would need to be vocal in nature, because as a few answers have already pointed out, verbal language lends itself quite easily to recording and preservation without alteration, which is extremely important for technological development. So yes, a non-verbal, telepathic culture could most likely arise and build a civilization, but it would never progress beyond the Dark Ages without speech. (Come to think of it, that would make for an interesting hook right there: a society in which speech is for precise technical matters of science, engineering and law, whereas telepathy is used for social communication.) 

So yeah, there are plenty of hooks you could use to create a civilization where a god that places what outsiders see as an excessive level of emphasis on happiness could be viewed as evil and problematic. 

Don't worry about it; Cthulhu's really not all that tough. Last time he tried to manifest in our world, he was taken out by some ordinary schmuck ramming him with a turn-of-the-20th-century boat, and we've learned a lot more about building destructive things since then. If it comes down to it, I bet a rocket launcher would defeat him just fine. There is precedent, after all... 

To all Evil Conglomerate Inc. interns, indentured students, and unpaid researchers, Congratulations! After being a nameless henchmen for far too long, you are finally ready for your thesis, to graduate to full-fledged mad scientist! The topic of your thesis (yes, we're choosing this for you, the 'mad' doesn't mean 'upset', so get over it) is as follows: You are to create the first functioning human (or human-like) cyborg. Requirements: 

Hmm. This is an interesting one. Unfortunately, my best offer is speculation, at best, but I'll try to give some very real scenarios where this could play out. If you were to take the flying fish ($URL$ and over time they find more and more evolutionary reason to spend more time out of water. Say, for example, there's a more robust source of food in the air (insects, small birds, etc), there might well be reason for any strains that show adaptation to prolonged time in the air (breathing air without gills). Or perhaps their normal food source is depleted, for whatever reason? Then the only option is to get food from above water. Then they either adapt or die. Another, and in my opinion far more likely option, would be if (for example) dolphins or orcas (far more likely for dolphins in this instance, purely based on weight and size) were to have a subspecies evolve from their numbers with elongated, or at least more pronounced, pectoral fins which could, in time, evolve into more wing-like appendages, should there be an evolutionary advantage to this. It really all depends on how the environment changes, and how the species changes to survive that. 

All of the answers on here so far have held on to an implicit assumption in the question, one that's worth challenging: the idea that only one side would have a dragon fighting for it. This goes against everything we know about the history of warfare; decisive, game-changing weapons don't tend to remain decisive for all that long, because the technology behind them ends up spreading. In one of the most dramatic examples, the Manhattan Project conducted its first nuclear test in 1945. Later that year, the technology developed by the Manhattan Project was used on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, to bring an end to World War II. It was later discovered that one of the physicists on the Manhattan Project, Klaus Fuchs, was a spy for the USSR, and between him and a few other spies, the Soviets were able to complete their first working test bomb in 1949, just 4 years after the USA. With these dragons providing such a decisive advantage on the field of battle, it doesn't matter what period of history they appear in; other people are going to want in on the game. It might take a while--depending on circumstances, they might have to go so far as to steal a dragon egg and raise the hatchling to maturity themselves--but it would happen, and from that point on, a dragon appearing on the field of battle would no longer be an instant-win condition. 

While the media starts covering your ground zero, you go and start the same process in another town far, far away. Repeat the abovementioned steps a few times, let this become an utter frenzy. More and more people that are susceptible will believe they have it, and more and more people who aren't will fear they might be the next victim. 

First is the surface goal. This is what you tell the masses, what you allow everyone to hear and talk about. It needs to speak to the masses. So if they are oppressed? Freedom therefrom. If they are hungry? Food for them and their families. If they are poor? Equality and fairness, so that everyone can reap the rewards of their labours. 

Short answer: yes. Proof? Examples will have to do (I'm no meteorologist). Typhoons of the Pacific ocean (62.46 million mi²) are typically more powerful than hurricanes in the Atlantic (41.1 million mi²). BUT! There are some that theorize this is because of the spin of the storm. You can check Weather Underground for historical data, but I can't find a comparative source. The take away from this, is that land weakens the storm. Open waters strengthen it. This has to do with water surface temperatures, with the 'dangerous' or active times being statistically around when the temperature of the water exceeds 25 degrees Centigrade. More importantly, the higher the gusts, the slower the system, giving it more time to build up before landfall. (I'm from the Caribbean, this is a yearly occurrence here). Keep in mind that the storms of the North Sea (for example) start off down in the Atlantic, follows the air currents up to Europe, and is considerably weakened up there. The water is too cold to sustain the weather system when compared to warmer waters. There's also the theory behind high and low pressure systems (which can form over land, though never create storms as power as over open waters, because of moisture differences). Check here for more information. Am I certain? The Great Red Spot on Jupiter agrees with me. Don't like it, then you should take it up with the Jovians ;) And I blame kingledion for egging on my inner nerd. Seriously, she's a slave driver! (my inner nerd, not you kingledion) 

Have your world's predominant moral system place a great deal of emphasis on balance. The god of joy's doctrine may seem seductive and beautiful at first, but only if you completely ignore balance and appropriateness. Here are a few ways you could play with this (and probably others as well): 

This is a pretty ridiculous idea that reeks of sour grapes, to be honest. And it's more than a little ironic, since several years later some researchers with the benefit of hindsight discovered that many of the most important discoveries of Planck and Einstein would almost inevitably have been discovered approximately half a century earlier, if it hadn't been for James Maxwell's untimely death of cancer. (And just imagine what Planck and Einstein might have been able to discover then, if Maxwell's death hadn't held progress back for decades!) This isn't specifically a longevity example, but dead is dead. When great scientists die, they tend to take a lot with them, no matter what it is they specifically died from.