In a world geologically much like Dune, there's no less than 300m of sand above compacted sand-stone across the planet. An Earth example would be Rub Al Khali, where sands reach 300-350m above ground level. 

Although this medieval, I will put it in contemporary Urban Planning terminology, as many successful medieval cities were successful on less-than-perfect locations, but this is to define the 'sweet spot' for your story. And I'm an Urban Planner. I'd love to address what's inside your city as well (civic and community facilities distribution, etc.), but that's for a different question, isn't it? Transportation & Communication Critical to the growth of a successful city is a collection of meaninful connections, in this case most likely easily-traveled roadways. Which means, while you may have a mountain backdrop for protection or scenery, you should have pathways to allow transporation, trade, and commerce to access your city: so a mountain pass, a land-bridge (if you're an island) or scattered oases (if you are in the desert), a river if you're inland. Being central and accessible puts you as the pinnacle of trade and boosts your city. Water Distribution Access to clean, plentiful water is a necessity, not just for food, but for water distribution. A fast-flowing, non-seasonal (you don't want floods) river can run through or adjacent to your city. It provides nominal protection, some food, and hygiene. If you insist on a desert city, consider qanats from nearby mountains. Wastewater and Stormwater Management Integral to the success of a city is a place to dispose of wastewater and sewerage; most likely this would be your river mentioned before. For stormwater, place your city at a higher elevation, with a gentle slope to the river or sea. You'll notice in any older city (London, Rome, Kaifeng, etc.) that when you're in the old-town areas, you can find your way to the river by just walking downhill. Civic Resources This is internal to your city, so not directly part of your question, but it addresses your city's location. There's a well-accepted understanding that a major city has a theoretical (not literal) radial arrangement with the smaller settlements. This is called Central Place Theory. You want to be the big city, so distribute the medium and smaller ones along this theory (not literally) around your city. [radial], [centers of academia and governance], [well distributed comm facs] Regional Resources This may be the most important. Your city should have access to farmland (down-river to receive the urban sewerage and so as not to put livestock waste through the city) and hunting areas (up-river, as the goods are sent by raft down-river to town). Almost any geographical feature, from swampland to mountains to water features can support the town and be used for protection from outside threat. Just ensure you have access through these harsher areas for trade. Happy mapping! 

In my story, I would like to have a contemporary Mars Rover find not only evidence, but a mostly complete skeleton of a homo sapiens that perished around 50,000 years ago when it was exposed to the surface (due to a misguided, childish experiment by aliens). As much as I do love Curiosity, Opportunity, and others; their abilities can barely scratch the surface (literally) of Mars. Although I'd entertain a near-future rover that can, say, explore the polar ice caps for a frozen skeleton, I'd prefer it to be one of our current champs. So, how can a 50,000 year-old skeleton (or body) survive the elements to be found by our robot pals on Mars? 

The problem lies in the fact that this is 10th Century Islamic tech in what is now southern Spain, and, as well, Ibn Muadhe knows the Earth is of course spherical and not flat. Using this tech and the resources of the Caliph's coffers, how can he get these two magical stones as far a distance as possible? And how far would that be? I'm thinking tall structures with the stones atop, but hoping for a creative solution using the properties that are allowed and the technology level involved. I'm willing to bend the rules of the properties of the stones just a bit if it can get me a really great distance in a clever way. 

I have made my billions here in the present day, and I'd like to have a permanent underwater settlement. It is about as useless as the Mars One mission (yes, I went there), but some people may come and go as they like or can afford to. This is fully pressurized and connection with the outside world is similar to a space station, whereby airlocks and submersibles connect you to the outside world, but at this location there's still some light and warmth. This is only a depth of 50m in the tropics - pretty far away from the island nation of Nauru, so not a lot nearby. Plopped right on the ocean floor, and yeah, I got my environmental permits. I'd like to house 1,000 people, of which 1/4 are research-related (6 months rotating), 1/2 are tourists (1 month, rotating), and the remaining are staff and I have even received express interest in full-time retirees to live 'on board'. So there has to be additional space for study, leisure, housing, etc. What are my opportunities and constraints for construction, power, water, wastewater, communications, transport, air, trash, etc.? I'm not interested in cost, but a magnitude of order would be helpful. Any other ideas are helpful, particularly design considerations. 

Yes, sort of. Mars, unlike Earth has a tremendous difference in heights, as much as 30,000m. As you begin to increase air pressure, it will be greatest at the lowest elevations. Keep your humans in the lowest of elevations and don't try to have a fully inhabitable Mars. Planes will fly in the low elevations, of course, but be unable to fly long distances in the near-zero atmosphere upper elevations. 

It's out there, but let's try to see what we can do. Horns - Since they share a common ancestor with humans, and there are humans born with horns, it is possible that those of your species who were born this way, were highly revered and bred very often, at the expense of others. Soon with each other as more of the genetic mutation started showing up, it resulted in evolving to popularity, eliminating any 'freak' born without horns over the millennia. Tail - Same as above. Long Canines - Wow, same as above. Grey Skin - Same as above Genetalia - Same as above, but sometime later, the chromosomal genotype became the norm, and it was very rare for an XX/XY to be born. The more 'successful' interexed (those with very distinguishable double genatalia), were selected naturally. If you want a person to be able to breed with themselves, I can't help you there - I think your species would suffer tremendously from that. Black Sclerae - Scientists belive we have bright eyes with whites, because it helped with communication, unlike our evolutionary cousins. In the case of your folks, they maintained the dark eyes of our common ancestor, because (taking a stab here), certain survival behaviors depended on not knowing where someone is looking. In your prehistoric times, tribal warfare was a staring contest: as soon as the opponent looked away, they got gored by the horns. So, over time, those with darker scleras were more successful. One thing however, I'm not sure that we would both evolve so distinctly as we would compete, but then again, we share a common ancestor with apes. 

Of course, this is assuming you can be flexible with your highland geography, and with flooding the people on the other side of your great mountain. 

If a human can live, say maximum 116 years (let's keep the math simple), then you have 876,000 hours of "life" after 16. If you add an additional 8 hours to every day, you get 292,000 more hours, or 133 aging years after you've turned 16 (your elderly octogenarian would live to 149 years old instead of 116). Can you be more specific? I can't really sleep much more than 6 to 8 hours on average, if I try. Some people can do a little more, true. I supposed if you can induce sleep, you can sleep nearly forever after turning 16, because you are not aging, and you are being kept alive by machinery. 

Water Life Life evolves entirely in the water and evolves to go underground rather than to breathe air, and the wave is a non-issue. Honestly, there's a lot of speculation that can happen here. 

Several Options (best when they're all together) Resources - When there are at least enough resources to stop chasing food, and start innovating, then technological advancement for an intelligent species can take place more rapidly. Also, you'll need the resources to physically get you off the planet. War - Part of the reason our space race began with Sputnik and Yuri Gagarin, was due to the Cold War and rigorous technological competition between the world's two superpowers and their allies. Desire - When there's a delicious planet nearby, and theirs is really rather dull and filling up, your people will start trying to figure out how to go there. Dreams - Long before our space race we as a species looked to the heavens, dreaming of flying, then dreaming of going to the moon. Compatibility - If your intelligent race is not "life as we know it," and are able to survive in space and they survive on an asteroid or small planet, it's not long before they can get the technology to get into orbit and beyond. (Okay, this one was a stretch) 

Water If you have major river, there aren't seasonal changes or snowmelt, so it is from a flowing artesian spring. This means it is a nearly constant flow. Your early civilizations start noticing that it takes this many turns of a water-wheel (or previously, a stick to get from A to B). "Wow Blorka has been gone for 92 turns of the water wheel. Hope she's okay..." Not too long after that, it was standardized to avoid the imperfections, much like we standardized distances and size. Now, "OMG Roberta has been gone for like almost a hundred turns. Text that girl and ask what's taking so long." 

In addition to the previous answers, I would also add two criteria that would make a place desirable: Transport & Fresh Water. Transport Transportation of materials and machinery is expensive and difficult. For example, the solid rocket boosters of the former Shuttle program were limited in size, because the location of where they were made required the trains bringing them to go through a tunnel. In addition to the criteria already discussed, I would add that a location with good rail, highway, and seaport connections would be desirable. Naturally, you should also have an airstrip and helipad (some special gadgets are brought in by air), but that can go pretty much no matter where you place your center. Fresh Water While you can truck this in, or produce it from de-salination, it would just help with costs if you had access to lots and lots of fresh water, as a lot of it is used - sorry, I don't know the exact quantity, but lots. 

Yes, it's possible. But your desert needs to be large. One possible way of explaining the replenishment of sand is to use the Arabian desert example. In the fall, the Suhoor winds will blow one way (East, coating Qatar, eastern Saudi, and Abu Dhabi with sand), and then the Shamal will blow west in the spring, blowing sticky moist (Arabian Gulf humidity) sand toward western Saudi. The problem with that scenario is that we'd have sandstorms in the spring and fall, but not in the between months. So what you'd need to do is have a desert in a more temperate latitude, that is large, and with small seas or large lakes on its periphery. It is very plausible to be bounded on one side with a forest & water. Like Andrei said, it would be helpful to have mountains for both those reasons, although not necessary depending on your world (e.g.- the Arabian peninsula). Vast stretches of land can dissipate your rainfall as well. Be careful, though, sandstorms are rarely like what you see in movies (if ever). They look frightening on approach, but once you're in them, it's just very hazy, with extremely limited visibility. Also, be careful, it's hard to live in a sandstorm that lasts a week, not to mention what you're suggesting. Many resources will have to be brought in to your people, as crops will struggle. For water, you could have to have a fossil aquifer with wells. (Photo courtesy Reuters; but this is what it looks like in a real sand storm)