In his The Syntactic Phenomena of English, McCawley discusses this problem of identifying subordinate clauses. He suggests testing whether a construction allows for the extraction of a constituent simultaneously from the main clause and a putative subordinate clause as a negative test, since in general this works only for coordinate clauses, not subordinate clauses. For instance, beginning with "She said to some man that the doctor would see him," if we form a question by extracting "some man ... him", we get *"Who did she say to that the doctor would see?" Since that is ungrammatical, we can conclude that the clause "that the doctor would see him" is a subordinate clause. 

In phonetic transcriptions, [h] is used for a non-syllabic voiceless vowel with quality the same as the neighboring vowel in the same syllable. (Sometimes this convention is extended from vowels to liquids and glides, as in [hwat] for "what".) Consequently, the first sound in an ordinary American English pronunciation of "Hawaii" with the unstressed vowel of the first syllable reduced to schwa is what you seek. 

Like interjections and topics, vocatives occur only in root sentences (in the sense pioneered by Emonds). A root sentence is, approximately, (1) an independent, free-standing clause, or (2) a clause conjoined with a root sentence, or (3) a sentence complement to a verb of direct or indirect quotation. For instance, (1) "O Lord, he is stupid!", but *"That O Lord he was stupid amazed us." (where I've put a vocative with a non-root clause), (2) "O Lord, he is stupid, and he is proud of it.", (3) "O Lord, he was stupid, they all exclaimed." If you want an interesting way of connecting vocatives with the rest of a root clause, I suppose you might resort to a performative analysis, where the speaker and addressee of a root clause are given explicit form: I (Greg) hereby exclaim to you (O Lord) that he is stupid. Or something like that. Less interestingly, you could simply provide for vocatives in a phrase structure rule describing the structure of root clauses. I have no idea what it might mean for vocatives to be "detached" from sentences. 

There is no point to quarreling over definitions. If you want to take cancellability as criterial for what you will call "conversational implicature", then go ahead and do that. Or, if you don't, then don't. One can ask for clarity, but there seems to be no empirical issue. I find your examples obscure. What is "it" in 2b? It can't mean "yesterday", because *"Yesterday was much colder than today last week" is ungrammatical. 

The short answer is no, you're not right. If you count auxiliaries as function words, "is" must be a function word, because it's an auxiliary. See Araucaria's answer for why "is" is an auxiliary. I thought I would just add a note here about how grammarians reason about such things. People trained in traditional grammar tend to make nominal arguments about such matters, i.e., arguments based on what a thing is customarily named. So, it may seem that "is" in your example, "The sky is blue", cannot be an auxiliary verb, simply because there is no other verb around that it could be auxiliary to. Is that a sensible argument? Not really. Because it assumes that the term "auxiliary" is a perfectly appropriate term, and that may not be so. The tendency in modern grammar is to use grammatical terms in a grammatical sense, rather than in a semantic sense. We count "is" in your example as an auxiliary because it displays certain grammatical properties in common with other words called "auxiliaries", as Araucaria goes into some detail about. The fact that this "auxiliary" can occur where there is no verb to which it could be auxiliary means that this old term, "auxiliary", is no longer perfectly appropriate. But this is a terminological problem, not a grammatical problem. You can't show that "is" is not an auxiliary by showing there is no other verb around. All you can show that way is that to refer to it as "auxiliary" is misleading. But how you refer to it doesn't affect what it actually is. We should resist the temptation to make nominal arguments. 

I can't claim to understand the passages you quote from SPE. However, I do think I have enough sympathy with their approach to help you decide whether you want to go to the effort of treading their thicket of formalisms. (I don't think you want to.) I think you capture the overall structure of the argument very well in this part of your question about how to describe exceptional forms: 

How can there be arguments against a "viewpoint"? I agree with many of Wells' observations. Not all. I'm not convinced that the facts really support his idea that there is a 5-way distinction of vowel stress necessary to correctly predict the syllable membership of medial consonants in English, for instance. I am not an unbiased observer, since I have my own theories about English stress and syllabification. I describe consonants in syllable onset as stressed and in syllable offset as unstressed. Then the shifting of consonants into the preceding syllable before an unstressed vowel is due to a simple stress assimilation: a consonant becomes unstressed (i.e. goes in syllable offset) before an unstressed vowel. If we adopt Wells' idea that the degree of stress of the vowel is important to syllable membership, then I'd predict that the syllable membership of the consonant subject to such assimilation is also a matter of degree. However that may be, I mention this to distinguish between a phonological theory and Wells' observations, with which I mostly agree. Wells is a keen observer. I'm not convinced he has a theory. 

which is "that" followed by an S from which a NP has been removed. In this way, movement is resolved into small steps, each of which can be described with a phrase structure rule (when the movement is actually possible). There is no unbounded movement possible, but we can hope that none is necessary. One could say, then, that Chomsky's proposal makes use of Gazdar's idea, without giving credit, and without pointing out that the general form of the proposal apparently makes transformations altogether unnecessary. 

the "would" of the last sentence is interpreted as being in the scope of the conditional in the first sentence. So, the scope of an if-clause is wider than that of a tense. The projection of an if-clause extends beyond a clause, so it is wider than that of a tense. So a tense is not in a maximal projection. 

English h is not a voiceless vowel; it's a voiceless glide -- the non-syllabic counterpart to a voiceless vowel. (If it were syllabic, it would be a voiceless vowel.) I disagree with Lawler's answer above only in regard to his omission of a non-syllabic mark on the first sound of [i̥it], [ɪ̥ɪt], [e̥et], [ɛ̥ɛn], [æ̥æt], [ḁat], which he writes as though each word had two syllables. 

negation in scope of quantifier: "Mary didn't see someone." (Ex)(not(Mary saw x)) quantifier in scope of negation: "Mary didn't see anyone." not((Ex)(Mary saw x)) neither in the scope of the other: "Someone left, but Mary didn't." ((Ex)(x left)) and (not(Mary left)) negation and quantifier in the scope of each other: not possible. 

Zero percent. Proof: The prefix "un-" is prefixed to an adjective to form another adjective. For instance, corresponding to the adjective "true", we have the adjective "untrue". But since "untrue" is also an adjective, we must also have "ununtrue". Similarly, "unununtrue", and so on, ad infinitum. Yet only one of these additional forms is actually used, viz. "untrue". (They all have meaning, however.) One divided by infinity is zero. 

No, you may think you do, but you don't need that. The predominant, traditional method of teaching linguistics is by the case method, akin (I imagine) to the method of teaching law, by the same name. You get a small set of language forms, you think about it, then give your best shot at analyzing it, write it up, and get evaluative comments from an instructor. You may perhaps get the instructor's own model analysis, or other students' attempts. You may agree or not with the instructor's comments, you may or may not see any merit in others' ideas about the data, you may agree that general theoretical ideas you have read about are some help in your problem analysis, or perhaps not, but if you disagree with your instructor about this, you will probably be expected to defend your views. Then you go on to another problem. It's a bit chaotic, and some students don't handle this well. They'd like to have more clarity and organization, and not to be so much on their own. But those students don't grow up to be linguists. 

I'm not convinced the notion "clitic" is really needful to explain what is going on. Some syntactic rules depend on what the words are, and you can't always trust traditional English orthography to tell you the truth about where the words are. Why should should you? Probably printers made up those rules. The rule of subject auxiliary inversion moves a word to before the subject. In your example, "don't" is a word, but "do not" isn't a word, and that's why we do not get *"Do not turtles live forever?" Two words moved, not just one. 

Yes, a simple chain of independent sentences is recursion. An interesting case of nesting recursion which seems not add to complexity is "This is the cat that chased the rat that lived in the house that Jack built." Recursion is not really a property of syntactic constructions, but rather of grammars. The simple chaining construction you're asking about would commonly be called "recursive" because in a phrase structure grammar it would be described with a recursive rule. However, there is another device in common use, the regular expression, that can describe that pattern with an asterisk operator instead of using recursion. 

Here are two very elementary books that seem relevant: Introduction to Symbolic Logic, by Hans Reichenbach. This is a classic with much about the application of predicate logic to the analysis of English, including the analysis of tense and aspect that has become more or less a standard. Logics and Languages, by M. J. Cresswell. This requires no more than a smattering of naive set theory, and I think it is a lot of fun. Cresswell builds up a possible-worlds type of semantics for English. (A disadvantage is that it never became much known or referred to, for some reason.) 

"Admissibility", according to Halle in "Phonology in Generative Grammar". Stampe has also used this term to refer to a theory of what words are permitted in the lexicon of a language with a given phonological system. Halle's early theory was that forms are lexically admissible when their addition keeps the grammar as simple as possible by not forcing the repeal of any lexical redundancy rules. In SPE, there is proposed a way to measure distance from the lexicon of a potential new lexical entry by counting the symbols in the phonological rules that would be required to change the new entry into some preexisting lexical form. (I don't think this makes sense, because then the admissible forms, at distance zero, would be only those forms already in the lexicon.) In Stampe's natural phonology, the admissible forms are those to which no process which could apply to an underlying form is applicable, and foreign words are made admissible during borrowing by applying such applicable processes. Processes which are prevented from applying directly to underlying forms by ordering constraints do not affect admissibility. The term "phonotactics" comes from older taxonomic phonemics, and is generally used to refer to an enumeration of facts about the phonemic forms allowed in a language, without involving anything about the rest of the phonological system or how borrowing new forms into a language works. Generative phonology and Natural Phonology are in agreement that although linguists can invent "phonotactic rules", of course, there are no such rules in phonological systems. 

In logic, the scope of negation is everything in the sentence that is formed by combining negation with another sentence. Similarly, the scope of a quantifier is everything in the sentence that is formed by combining the quantifier with a sentence. In the syntax of a human language sentence, the scopes are as they would be in the corresponding logical form. The scopal relation of negation and quantifier concerns which is in the scope of the other (if either is): 

Patricia Donegan gives a unified and conceptually simple theory of the vowel systems of the world in her 1978 dissertation, On the Natural Phonology of Vowels. I suggest you look there. 

Approaching the matter as a phonologist, I could ask what assimilations does "r" participate in. When "r" follows "t" or "d" in NA English, it becomes an r-colored palato-alveolar fricative, as in "treat" or "dream". In Hawaiian English, "r" causes preceding "s" to become palato-alveolar "sh", as in "street". This suggests that "r" is palato-alveolar, which I take to be, essentially, alveolar, but with the blade of the tongue raised and the tip of the tongue lowered. I don't know what effect there is on the root of the tongue for an "r", but I'd expect the root to be advanced (rather than retracted, as you report), since "r" has some affinity with palatals, and they cause enlargement of the pharynx. 

If you want extra credit, you might mention some cases where the tests you are supposed to use give incorrect results, depending of course on how your teacher reacts to criticism. For instance, in "A scoop of ice cream is delicious with chocolate sauce -- it is called a sundae", evidently "it" is substituted for "a scoop of ice cream ... with chocolate sauce", but the latter is clearly not an immediate constituent. 

In the past, useful surveys have been done by enlisting the help of many teachers in local schools. Maybe you could get lots of data quickly by buying lots of little digital recorders and sending them to school teachers, with instructions about what you'd like them to record from their students for you. There should be some payback, with you sending all the teachers the results of your study, which they could then share with their students. 

Begin with "The sloppy eating of fish is disgusting", with the noun "eating", and replace the PP "of fish" with the direct object NP "fish", thus creating a transitive construction. Notice that "eating" loses its status as a noun and becomes a verb: "Sloppily eating fish is disgusting." Why does that happen? It's because nouns can't be transitive. 

Sentences are useful because a language is a set of sentences. (And without language, where would we be?) 

Look to see if it has a subject. Clauses with subjects are finite; those without subjects are nonfinite. This criterion was once proposed by my friend Stan Starosta. Works for me, for English, though I think he intended it more generally. 

Assuming minimal pair means contrasting phonetic forms, here is one from my midwestern American dialect: [tʰæ̃j̃k] "tank" versus [tʰæ̃:j̃k] "tannic". 

In current English, the common modals are paired up in a fashion similar to present/past pairs: "will/would, can/could, shall/should", and sometimes "could" has the sense of a past tense "can". Of course, the "-d" occurs regularly as a past affix. Both "would" and "could" occur as past-shifted forms when direct discourse is shifted to indirect speech: