Al Ghazali about a century earlier had written a text called The Incoherence of the Philosophers, a critique on metaphysics (or, more bluntly, an attack on the philosophers). By philosophers he means primarily those scholars whose metaphysics is based on Aristotle and Plato, but his attacks really were focused on Avicenna, the intellectual predecessor of Averroes. Wikipedia summarizes the contents of his work as follows: 

This is the english translation I am reading from for Spinoza's Ethics Geometrically. In proposition IX of this work, spinoza states: 

Here, no proof is given (most of Spinoza's propositions are proven, but for simple ones at the beginning Spinoza merely cites the appropriate definitions and axioms). Hence, it appears that this proposition should follow from definition iv. Now, definition iv states 

I was reading An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding by David Hume, specifically the section titled On Liberty and Necessity (both parts). Hume reconciles liberty with metaphysical necessity by an ingenious argument, which I think is called the compatibilist position in the debate between determinism and free will. Essentially, Hume declares that the conflict between liberty and necessity is a verbal argument, and argues that everyone actually agrees with both the doctrine of necessity and of liberty when both are properly defined. While I usually greatly enjoy and generally agree upon Hume's philosophical expositions, I felt in this section that Hume was engaging in a kind of word jugglery, evading the actual metaphysical question. I was wondering whether any other philosophers hold this sentiment and went further to formulate serious objections towards the compatibilist doctrine. 

Socrates refuted one of the accusers, who claimed he was an atheist, by a simple argument. One can read of this both in Xenophon and Plato. The daemon of Socrates, an "other God", can be characterized as a spirit that warns Socrates against going wrong, it is opposed by his conception of Eros, laid down in the Symposium. Eros leads up, according to Socrates, to the Good, the Socratic deamon defends him against going wrong, against shaky thinking. Basically, Socrates sets up that relentless inquiry, in which one can attack any traditional thing, and measure it against one's opinion of the Good. At least according to what we find in Plato. One might keep in mind that the Socrates of Aristophanes is equally valid (perhaps more so since Plato was much younger). And that in his youth Socrates was not what he was in the prime of his philosophizing, or investigating by speech, as imagined or reported in the Platonic works and elsewhere. I will just make a general sketch. The issue is absolutely not capable of exhaustion. At the lowest level one could say that he offended the big men of the city, for instance the youth Anytus who was one of his accusers, by showing them up as fools in front of the Polis. Who stood on watching, with much amusement, as they were shown not to know the things they claimed to know. When the men who said they were best suited to run the country, the Polis, could not show that they had knowledge of the right way to do things, of the Good, they were discredited. On the other hand, in a very simple way, the gods were shown to be a bad example. For example, Zeus committed the most heinous of impieties, patricide. In one of Xenophon's dialogues Socrates manages to corrupt a simple man, with that argument, almost at once. On the higher level one can state it this way: In making man aware of the limits of tradition, Socrates did not replace the tradition with anything solid. He undermined, but did not establish anything. For brining in questioning, the life of the philosopher, Socrates deserved execution. But, on the other hand, afterwards, many of the Athenians regretted his death. I believe Hegel took this view, while, since he held that ultimately, the questioning led to certainty, one could speak here of a clash of values, leading dialectically, to the Hegelian Fenster, or window, on the absolute. However, if one looks at it form a Nietzschean view, Socrates, the first “theoretical man”, led the Athenians astray. Socrates defined man thusly: The unquestioning life, is no human life. Whereas Nietzsche taught, surge forward with that resolute Yes!. I.e., give up the search for Truth. So, one may think of the comment Henry Kissinger is so fond of remembering, the word of Chiang Kai-shek, who when asked whether the French Revolution was a success, replied: It’s too early to know. Perhaps the profundity of Socrates' contribution to the Western world forbids one to pass judgment on the matter. Athens was an illiberal society, like all societies before the modern age. Censorship by the State, against the citizens, “power vertical”, was in place even during the time when Socrates was at large. That he lasted so long was a sign of the relative liberality. In Plato’s Laws, one sees the illiberal neighbor country, the Laconian Polis of Crete. Therefore, if one reads Laws, where only the old men were permitted to challenge the laws, and have dialogic conversation about them, and compares it to the rest of the Platonic corpus, one can get an idea of the situation. 

He states that Avicenna and his followers have erred in seventeen points (each one of which he addresses in detail in a chapter, for a total of 17 chapters) by committing heresy. But in three other chapters, he accuses them of being utterly irreligious. Among the charges that he leveled against the philosophers is their inability to prove the existence of God and inability to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods. The twenty points are as follows: Refuting the doctrine of the world's pre-eternity. Refuting the doctrine of the world's post-eternity. Showing their equivocation of the following two statements: God is the creator of the world vs. the world is God's creation. The inability of philosophers to prove the existence of the Creator. The inability of philosophers to prove the impossibility of the existence of two gods. The philosopher's doctrine of denying the existence of God's attributes. Refutation of their statement: "the essence of the First is not divisible into genus and species". Refutation of their statement: "the First is simple existent without quiddity". Their inability to demonstrate that the First is not a body. Discussing their materialist doctrine necessitates a denial of the maker. Their inability to show that the First knows others. Their inability to show that the First knows Himself. Refuting that the First does not know the Particulars. Refuting their doctrine that states: "the heavens are an animal that moves on its own volition". Refuting what they say regarding the reason that the heavens move. Refuting their doctrine that the heavens are souls that know the particulars. Refuting their doctrine that disruption of causality is impossible. Refuting their statement that the human soul is a self-sustaining substance that is neither a body nor an accident. Refuting their assertion of the impossibility of the annihilation of the human soul. Refuting their denial of bodily resurrection and the accompanying pleasures of Paradise or the pains of Hellfire. Beyond heresy The three irreligious ideas are as follows: The theory of a pre-eternal world. Ghazali wrote that God created the world in time and just like everything in this world time will cease to exist as well but God will continue on existing. God only knows the universal characteristics of particulars - namely Platonic forms. Bodily resurrection will not take place in the hereafter only human souls are resurrected. Ocassionalism The Incoherence of the Philosophers is famous for proposing and defending the Asharite theory of occasionalism. Al-Ghazali wrote that when fire and cotton are placed in contact, the cotton is burned directly by God rather than by the fire, a claim which he defended using logic. 

Seems like what you are referring to are forms of ridicule, and attempts to decontxtulize the issue. To transfer the focus from the subject to you. One might simply name that denigration. Or, perhaps, defamation. One might says: Stop the personally denigrating comments, and extend to me the courtesy I give to you. 

Do you mean God, or some particular being, like an alien? One might always understand the devil to be a super-scientist, very ancient, but a created being, that had simply leaned all the nasty tricks. Thus, for the most part, such talk is considered heretical by the Catholics. On the other hand, super nature can mean the escalation of nature, as in miracles, things that make us wonder, perhaps because we aren't used to seeing them, under the Catholic reading. Water becomes wine anyway, by creeping into the vines, from the earth, after falling from the clouds, and then ripening, and being plucked, pressed, fermented. Jesus just speeds it up. Supernature. One would always say anything that really shows up is natural. If it wasn't, it would be illusion or a mistake. The more regularity a thing has, the more we are used to it, the more we call it natural, on that view. That tends to be the Enlightenment view, the view of the West for the last few hundred years, and ongoing. 

This is really just an elaboration on Mozibur Ullah's answer. Gravitation is currently described in terms of geometry (General relativity and all subsequent gravitaitonal theories including the brans-dicke theory are metric theories). The equation for gravitation, according to general relativity, is this: 

Don't worry if you don't understand the mathematics; all that is important is this symbol, ƛ, which looks like an upside down v. This symbol, called the cosmological constant, basically functions as the intrinsic energy density of the vaccuum. And there is one interesting feature about this constant; when this constant is positive, there exists a repulsive force expanding space-time. Hence, gravitation includes both repulsive and attractive forces. In a sense, gravity contains dual forces, and is an over-arching concept. 

What I don't understand is how this definition informs us about the magnitude of the reality of a being thing. How does Spinoza's definition of an attribute render proposition ix a trivial consequence (as the mere citation as opposed to explicit proof seems to indicate)? 

I am not perfectly informed on how Chalmers understands the “philisophic zombie’, but so far as I can surmise, at first blush, it is roughly the same as what Descartes called automita. Descartes would deny that that you write. To use a word that Descartes didn’t, but I think it is perfectly fitting, one anthropomorphizes the ant, on his claim. The ant is a universal, it has no substance, ergo: there is no ant. It is as though you said of a teddy bear, it is bob. There is a mechanism, a clockworks, that simulates intelligence in its responses, which react to external stimuli, which is received by internal centers such as the brain. So the same applies to the “ant” as to the university in the example one will have heard concerning the problem of universals. One walks about, sees everything, but were is the university? Nothing is there that remains, independent of the parts. The parts are bound together through the human wit, but there is no essence or inner thing, an ant. So when we say, Descartes says the ant is an automaton, we risk confusion, there is no ant. I think I shall ask about the Chalmer’s issue in another question. I must admit, I just, not five minutes ago, saw one of the great experts on this sort of question, getting into his car, but failed to ask him. 

Averroes attempted to refute this work with his The Incoherence of the Incoherence, which defends Aristotlean thought. However, this work was poorly received compared to Al Ghazali's critique. The main thing was that Al Ghazali had written a fairly well reasoned attack on the philosopher's account of metaphysics, which conflicted with orthodox islamic thought, and instead presented the case for the supremacy of god and orthodox islamic consensus while showing the Aristotleans to be heretical, thus garnering the title "Proof of Islam". So deeply entrenched then was his philosophical account that Averroes account, which went against the tide of Islamic account and to the eyes of his contemporaries, against islam itself, was bound to fail. Indeed, many of Al Ghazali's ideas can be found in the works of later philosophers (Descarte presents the idea that every moment is willed from god in the meditations, for example, and Kant raised some critiques of metaphysics that are similar to Al Ghazali's). In Christian thought however, despite the critiques of Averroes which echo Al Ghazali, the explicit philosophical movement of ocassionalism never took hold. Hence, Aristotle's ideas were still considered useful to an extent. St. Thomas Aquinas, despite disagreeing with and attacking Averroes's metaphysical positions, still incorporates Aristotlean thought in his works such as the Summa Theologica, finding several Aristotlean concepts useful. In Judaism, a similar dynamic occurs, wherein the philosophy of ocassionalism never took hold. In short, Averroes's metaphysics is rejected by all three Abrahamic faiths. However, the critiques of Al Ghazali against the entire Greek tradition, and the establishment of the doctrine of ocassionalism in Islamic thought, was unique to Islamic philosophy, and made it less receptive to Averroes's commentaries on Aristotle. The philosophical tides were more receptive however in Christian and Jewish philosophy, explaining why Averroes had a more profound impact on these two philosophical traditions. 

But if you understand it the origin doesn't matter, ad hominem (genetic fallacy) in the informal logical sense. The origin or genesis of the sentence, or proposition, may make us suspicious, may make us bring greater scrutiny to it, but it can not rule it out simpliciter as something that may speak the truth. The truth (on the most-widely accepted view, importantly, this is Descartes' view of truth) hangs on whether the thing said matches what is the case. That the thing is integral with the assertion in the sentence. For example, this is a sentence. You are now reading a sentence. Such must be true, whether or not the sentence got here due to the pernicious will of a treacherous being. -- Do you mean that you doubt what the sentence says is true? One could say that one takes it to be true, by devil's trick, but it is not true. That, I believe, is somehow unanswerable. Though, Nietzsche said that it makes no sense to assert that one doesn't exist. One says nothing at all. Since, "not existing", is put forward propositionally as a kind of existing. One might also possibly say, it seems to me, that one finds the whole issue unintelligible, that existence doesn't mean anything. Or, that the proposition can't say what it means to say.