How incest as a taboo is defined is dependent upon the culture you are raised in. If I remember correctly, Cleopatra was the result of 27 generations of brother-sister marriages. In some cultures marrying your first cousin is ok, in others, second cousins are ok. In some to marry an uncle is ok. In others, several generations. Every society defines it differently. Why there are rules in the first place has never been settled. Some have held that it was a 'natural' mechanism for not allowing a particular weak DNA characteristic to become predominant. Others have said it is mainly a cultural taboo, that allowing relations between family members would not allow for stable family relationships needed by all societies to develop culturally. Most of the taboos that are around were first developed when people were living in small to medium sized communities/tribes/villages of 100-200 people. Most pairings would take place within the small community as most people never had any contact outside their own communities during their entire lives. Having family taboos for pairings allowed inter-family bonds to be established which strengthened the community as a whole and at the same time allowed individual families to be stable family units without sexual competitions within an individual family. 

I think what troubles you is the difference between moments loaded with normative aspects and time itself. Our concept of a table is in itself purely descriptive, even if we can load a thought of a specific table normatively. A normative aspect of time would be saying how time itself should be like. And I actually cannot imagine how to think this. To clarify my point: Kant for example said that for conceiving objects we must conceive them in the form of time and space. Time therefore must, to him, be thought as part of the substance of what it means to be "something in the world" (Beware: this only holds for our very conceptions of these objects, not the objects themselves). But all concepts (in sense of "Begriffe") of what there is are descriptive, because they say what is needed to be "a table" or what we mean by "time". Normativity can only be attributed to concrete phenomena, let it be of an object, an event in time, or a concept (in sense of "Anschauung", perception of an object). In the light of this, again: It is weird to say how "time" should be like, it is like it is. There can be wrong conceptions about what time is, but a philosophical concept will (or should) always be "thin" if it is not an ethical term (one could say that this is because ethics have no "real being" like objects and are purely phenomenal). 

Although we may find some truth in the text it eventually can disintegrate into absurdity as we bounce from one signifier to another endlessly. Garver and Lee agree with this. They state: “If there is no ‘originary’ semantic relation, then it means nothing for a semantic relation to be contrasted as ‘supplementary’ rather than ‘originary.’” Derrida’s signifier/signified are caught up in a endless circulation. David Loy states: “For Derrida, what is problematic is the relationship between name and concept; so it is not surprising that he concludes with an endless recirculation of concepts.” Derrida argues that there is no reality outside the text. Matilal and Gambhirananda argue that the text is only the text and not reality. David Loy says: 

I am very critical towards theories that try to describe (self-)conciousness as emerging property of systems only. Emergence is nothing more than an euphemism for surrender: It is the admission that the theory cannot explain this in any way and - more importantly - in some sense that the theory is lacking something. The evolutionary problem of the becoming of the conditions that make personal self possible is perhaps not explicable at all, at least I am not aware of any convincing explanation. But what already has been explained long before is the becoming of personal self in a being that already is capable of it because of the structure of its existance (a priori conditions in the best of its meanings). Self-conciousness or the knowledge of the self is traditionally defined by the possibility of reciprocal self-recognition by and in other selves. This reflects on the problem of Descartes: In order to realize cogito ergo sum you already have to have a self that is part of conciousness first and foremost. Most theories of the personal self I know that adress the becoming of it do at some point refer to what was first worked out by Fichte, who's concept of the absolute self is commonly rejected because of its idealistic implications, but nevertheless his dialectics of self and non-self for the becoming of self-conciousness is regarded as generally correct. This theory is elaborated in his Grundlagen der gesammten Wissenschaftslehre, reformulated in his Grundlagen des Naturrechts (opus postumum! from lectures and manuscripts), which (of course, like many other ingenius works of German Idealism -.-) is not yet to be found in English as far as I found out, only in German. In the most abstract (and methodologically elaborated) way of the conditions a priori for personal self that I am aware of is established, deducted and described by Plessner in his The Levels/Stages of (the) Organic and Man, Introduction to Philosophical Anthropology (translation at work, yet unpublished). But he also cannot say anything about the becoming of them. (Disclaimer for those professionals that dislike philosophical anthropology because of Gehlen and Heidegger: This is totally different and by far more philosophical). To summarize, the problem is far too complex to squeeze it in any format suitable for SE. And any answer given would hardly be accurate. What I can recommend for further reading is the only published book in English language that does introduce into this thinking: Plessner's Philosophical Anthropology 

The astrophysicist Arthur Eddington wrote on the contiguousness of man with nature the following: 'I am convinced that you have minds which think. Here then is a world fact to be investigated. The physicist brings his tools and commences systematic exploration. All that he discovers is a collection of atoms and electrons and fields of force arranged in space and time, apparently similar to those found in inorganic objects. He may trace other physical characteristics, energy, temperature, entropy. None of these is identical with thought. He might set down thought as an illusion-some perverse interpretation of the interplay of the physical entities that he has found. Or, if he sees the folly of calling the most undoubted element of our experience an illusion, he will have to face the tremendous question: How can this collection of ordinary atoms be a thinking machine? But what knowledge have we of the nature of atoms which renders it at all incongruous that they should constitute a thinking object? ....But now we realise that science has nothing to say as to the intrinsic nature of the atom. The physical atom is, like everything else in physics, a schedule of pointer readings. ....matter is something that Mr. X knows. Let us see how it goes: This is the potential that was derived from the interval that was measured by the scale that was made from the matter that Mr. X knows. What is Mr. X?...physics is not at all anxious to pursue the question: What is Mr. X? It is not disposed to admit that its elaborate structure of a physical universe is "The House that Mr. X Built." ....From its own point of view, physics is entirely justified. That matter, in some indirect way, comes within the purview of Mr. X's mind is not a fact of any utility for a theoretical scheme of physics. We cannot embody it in a differential equation. It is ignored, and the physical properties of matter and other entities are expressed by their linkages in the cycle. And you can see how by the ingenious device of the cycle physics secures for itself a self-contained domain for study with no loose ends projecting into the unknown. All other physical definitions have the same kind of interlocking. Electric force is defined as something which causes motion of an electric charge; an electric charge is something that exerts something that produces motion of something that exerts something that produces...ad infinitum.' Neuroscience can answer 'how' it works but still cannot answer "Who am I?" 

There is no conclusive evidence as morals, for most of human history, were a matter of social habits (lat. mores = habit) that were passed through social learning and forms of direct communication (may it be language or others). In other words: There is nothing to base conclusive evidence on to be found by archaeologists. A possible answer to the title question Justin Stagl, a cultural sociologist, put it that way (Stagl, J. (2000): 'Anthropological Universality. On the Validity of Generalisations about Human Nature.' In: Being humans: anthropological universality and particularity in transdisciplinary perspectives, Routledge, pp. 25-36. Quote on page 26): 

Descartes' Cogito is a fact of self-representation of the subject as its object. As a sidenote, it was Fichte's original insight - and not Heidegger's - that this form of representation is special (see Förster, p. 163 fn. 14). Meillassoux obviously thinks that his 'cogito' is not such a representationalist conception (something that works against Kant as well, btw). 

other examples include Katha Upanishad (I. ii. 15) "It is AUM"; Katha Upanishad (I. ii. 17) "This AUM is the best support"; Taittiriya Upanishad (I. viii. 1) "AUM this word is Brahman." Swami Nikhilananda says (The Upanishads, V2, pp 223-224): 

"The present is only a line of demarcation between the past and the future; so we cannot rationally say that we care only for the present, as it has no existence apart from the past and the future. It is all one complete whole, the idea of time being merely a condition imposed upon us by the form of our understanding." - Swami Vivekananda