Suggests that the type of acid is important (acetic better than citric) and PH is a factor (as noted in the first article). I believe all commercial mayo is still produced using acetic acid. 

Perhaps the most obvious and commercially available is solar, which has options ranging from small pocket-sized chargers to roll-out military grade flexible panels. I believe Brunton makes a consumer grade version of the latter (not as bullet-proof), and iGo has some nice versions of the former. I have used both with some success, the panel is probably over-kill if you are just looking to charge a few AAs (we were charging GPS dataloggers and hand-held computers). However, the small ones are not something I would depend upon, tending to charge slowly. Both require (of course) sunlight. The second option is to carry more batteries -- either another set or two of fully charged batteries in the size you need, or if you have a variety of other electronics to charge, an old-school camcorder battery can be used to re-charge smaller batteries. Some companies make recharge-able power-packs geared toward cell-phones which function the same way. However, for anything critical (emergency devices) I would highly recommend ALWAYS packing a set of fresh, regular batteries that you can slip in when your re-charge options fail. Digression 1: I've often thought a little hydro-generator would be slick if you are camping near a creek - plop it in the current and charge overnight... but have yet to find one (or hear of a do-it-yourself) that is practical. Digression 2: While poking around for the hydro-power, I found this wind turbine which looks like a fun project... and possible could (should) be modified for water-born deployment. Water always flows. BONUS PRO-TIP: On cold mornings, gently warming a dying battery (ie in your arm-pit, or in a hot cup of coffee) can sometimes get the reaction going just enough to generate a last gasp of energy. Highly NOT recommended as standard practice due to explosion concerns, but in a life-or-death emergency, it might give you enough juice to make that critical radio call. 

Make time for it. Sometimes you have to choose: draw, or hike up that ridge. Put the supplies in the top of your pack, easily accessible. As you found out, if it is buried, you won't use it. 

--Core strength-- Your core is also super-important. Skiing (done right) requires a lot of twisting (shoulders stay pointing downhill while your lower body carves back and forth.) Crunches, sit-ups, side presses, etc are all super-helpful and common exercises, so I won't explain them. A new one I've added to my repetoire (thanks P90X!) is "Mason Twists" aka Russian Twists: Sit with your back straight and your legs elevated in front of you so your body makes a V feet at chest level. Clasp your hands. Rotate your torso, and hit the ground on the left side with both hands. Rotate your torso to hit the ground on the right side with both hands. Go back and forth, side-to-side for 40-50 reps in rapid succession. --Balance and static strength-- Skiing is a balance sport. Knowing how your body moves, how it is centered, and how your body responds is important. Consider various yoga moves: Warrior 1,2 and 3: I won't try to describe them here, since they are easy to do wrong. I recommend seeking a yoga class in your area. But the warriors are GREAT for strengthening your knees (common ski injury areas) and learning balance. Tree Pose: The ultimate balance posture. In its simplest form, stand with good posture on one leg for as long as you can. A regular yoga practice will help in all areas of fitness. **NOTE: Higher-impact exercises like plyometrics can cause injury if done improperly. Land softly when you jump. Do not attempt unless you are in good physical condition. If in doubt, consult a health-care professional. 

That means the (muzzle-) speed of the new arrow will be about 7% greater than the one of the old arrow. Using the "correct" formula In this case we get: 

That would again mean the new arrow is about 7% faster than the old one. By the numbers you could guess that the approximation is about 3% off the "exact" value, as predicted. Bottom line Again looking at the graph above, we can conclude that if the weights are close enough, I suggest the rule of thumb the relative difference in velocity is going to be about half the relative difference in mass. What do I mean by that: If you have a weight difference of 10% (as long as the weights are close enough, it does not matter which one you consider as 100%) then the difference in velocity is going to be about 5%. Again checking with the "exact" formula (considering ) 

In practice however you have to deal with the resistance. A good approximatin is that pulleys (as a 180° redirect) are about 90% efficient, and carabiners about 50%. This means if you pull with one unit of tension on one side, the other side only experiences about 90% (or 50%). We can use the same method again and we can see that in practice you only expect about a 4.5:1 advantage: 

(Note that the Force gets extremely high, the closer to horizontal the ropes are / the close is at ) With the assumptions from above we get , but this is just static loading, as soon as you "dynamically" sit down in it the forces can be higher. I'd go with a safety factor of about 5 to be on the absolute safe (that means 5 times the static weight it absolutely needs to support, consider that any knots weaken the rope, a knot can reduce the strength by up to ), so that results in about strength. I have no experience using parachord, but this site also suggests to use rope of at least . Another reference I just found is this online hammock anchor calculator. 

Using the rule of thumb: In this case and are not really that close, so this result might be a bit off compared to the other one: With the above values we have: 

The strength is dependent mainly on the angle between the two ropes form, on which the hammock is hung, and the weight you want the hammock to support. For a traditional hammock the angles of the ropes (measured to the horizontal) are about (just an estimate). Lets assume we want to design the system for a person weighing . Then we can derive a formula for the force ( acting on the ropes using trigonometry: 

If we swap the top pulley and the carabiner, we actually get a better MA of about 4.92:1 with the same gear (but we obviously lose the progress capturing). 

It's less about the type of shoe, but how your run in it. Minimalist running shoes should not "wear out" in the traditional sense since they have little or no padding to compress. Because many are just soles, then running until that sole is gone is perfectly fine. It is important to note that the reason they don't have (or need) that cushion is because "minimal" running shoes encourage a more natural style of running (where you use your foot-spread, ankles, and knees with more elasticity to absorb shock). "Traditional" shoes with their 3 inches of padding encourage poor running style (straight legged heal strike in front of the body) and thus need the padding to compensate. When the padding goes, you risk injury since your body isn't designed to take that kind of beating. If you run with a more natural gait in traditional shoes, then you don't need to worry about the padding going on them either. As an added bonus, since "minimal" or natural styles of running tend to have less abrasive force on the impact (flow along the pavement rather than skid your heel against it) you might notice your soles lasting longer than traditional shoes as well. 

Without getting into any specific recommendations, pretty much any decent water filter you can find will get you through well more than 20 liters and several days. By decent, I mean the standard ones you will find at a good outdoor shop: MSR, SweetWater (now also MSR), Katadyn, PUR. I've used filters with large groups (10 people) for 8 days. Assuming 4 liters a day, that is 320 liters on one trip... And then I used the same filter for the next trip... repeatedly. Make sure you get one with a filter that can be cleaned -- and clean it (esp if filtering silty / dirty water). A good filter should have a wear indicator to let you know if you've cleaned it so many times it might not be effective. 

*I spent several years leading work crews removing invasive trees in the back-country, and have tried just about every hand saw available on the market through weeks of constant use. I am not in any way related to Bahco. 

The priming wick on multi-fuel stoves is usually made of fiberglass material, and provides more surface area which makes harder to light fuels easier to ignite. Multi-fuel stoves (such as the one you mention, or the Whisperlight International) are able to burn a wide range of fuels -- some of which are not very volatile. For example, diesel fuel, and kerosene do not burn very well in puddle form, while white gas (standard stove fuel) ignites very readily and burns quite well in puddle form. (White-gas only stoves usually don't have a wick.) So, to help get less volatile fuels started (and thus heat up the stove) the wick provides a larger surface area that the fuel saturates and evaporates off of, making it easier to light.