I am currently reading Ian Hacking’s Why is there Philosophy of Mathematics at all, and it is mostly about the contemporary dabate platonism/ nominalism, so I would recommend it as a good place to look for an answer to this question. A crude copy-paste is given below. Hacking asserts that it is Paul Bernays who introduced the modern idea of 'platonism' and further he writes about the different brands of platonism, noting (p228): 

Of course. A progressing science is an ideological construct: one may prefer the status quo. We agree that human actions are somehow motivated and purposeful actions are ideologically driven. The decision to measure things is by no means obvious, especially when we note that the discourses of logic and numbers are not really coordinated in ordinary life (e.g. 'negligible' could mean either zero or non-zero). In practice most questions escape the simple logic of yes/no, producing a kind of shrug ('dunno'), and arbitrary decisions are taken with arguments about criteria and precision which remain always discutable. Science is not mechanical or automatical. 

David Graeber in his writings on value often refers to cultural-anthropological findings that connect hidden wealth and visibile signs for it . Today Plato's version seems to be more popular but Hebbel's drama Gyges and his Ring (1865) relies more on Herodotus, with modern commentators noting the links as done by Albrecht Koschorke in his Phantasmagorias of Power: Hebbel's Drama Gyges und sein Ring 

Zizek seems to be reiterating a criticism made against the adoption of mostly subjective attitudes. Here the historical source of the polemic seems to point back to Sartre's existentialism and an early comment made by Lacan in 1946. Sartre's elaborated views are difficult to sumarise and when he attempted to present them to a large public most often a kind a caricature replaced them. As he sought to present a Kantian self sustaining morality without external support and constraints, sincerity (as opposed to bad faith) and dedication became central for it. A popular exposition was given in his lecture L'existentialisme est un humanisme in 1945 and published the following year). In 1946 Lacan published a Propos sur la causalite psychique which pointed to an obvious weakness in Sartre's position: a madman is sincere and dedicated in his existence. Lacan's text begins with mentioning that 

Quoting Plato, "opinions are blind things" and they are bound to change as time goes on , facts are different in that regard , that they remain unchanged or get added/modified at best(in theory). Mathematical facts are the best examples , as the existence of numbers for example can be considered as an unwavering fact or at least the best we can claim to be so. We can always ask the question whether numbers really exist or just are a figment of our imagination or if its a necessary abstract and so on , in fact in mathematics many paradoxes and any such questions led to the refinement of it but never really to the dissolvement. This is the key attribute of facts, that they do not dissolve in itself when questioned and are refined and added on but stands by itself as a pillar to trust on. The same way it can be asked whether your people weighing 500 pounds are fat statement may be established as such but to be considered as a fact or even resembling it , it should be able to stand on its own and be able to withstand counter arguments as well containing many defending ones. Such as , would a person still be considered fat if he were to live in a society where 600 pounds is the average or what if he only has 5 % body fat and the rest are muscle? The claim is then easily deconstructed , because the statement is in itself lacking in detail or in correct general formulation. So to say it is a fact is in this example not very possible unless you elaborate on your statement. IF you were to state but for example being fat is dependable on time and environment , then you have something more resembling a fact then an opinion because europeans oftenly appear much fatter in for example Indonesia, where the average weight is much lesser. So it seems pretty solid in its empirical validity but when you ask the question , what of people who shorten their own life by eating fatty and pretty much weigh 500 pounds. Does it matter where they live or what the average is , if the fattening in appearance also means harming himself in health , should that person not be considered fat as well , as the adjective implies a negativity in itself independently of where one lives? So the argument is strong in one area , that of societal but still can be attacked from an individual, linguistic point of view. As you can see it is hard to determine a fact but you can certainly can say that one statement is truer than the other. The same way you can see facts and opinions, if an opinion is the most arbitrary thing you can state a fact is the truest one that can be seen as a theoretical pillar. And since one opinion can be truer or more resilient than the other , it is fair to say between those two you will find a continuum. 

If we look at this question formally, as suggested by @jowehler using Tarski's definition, then we must conclude that there are strictly more facts than truths. This is because, formally, there are facts we cannot prove as propositions. We cannot assign a truth value to the proposition because it is formally undecidable. 

My introduction to the subject comes via Philosophy of Mathematics, Selected Readings edited by Hilary Putnam and Paul Benaceraff. Some may not consider it to be introductory, but it is serving me well so far. It is a compendium of classic papers written by leading figures in the field; both mathematicians and philosophers. The book is presented in four parts. Part one deals with the foundations of mathematics and includes papers by Carnap, Heyting(x2), von Neumann, Brouwer(x2), Dummett, Frege, Russell, Hilbert, Curry, and Kreisel. Part two deals with the existence of mathematical objects and includes papers by Carnap, Bernays, Benaceraff, and Putnam. Part three deals with mathematical truth and includes papers by Ayer, Quine(x2), Hempel, Poincare, Benaceraff, and Putnam. The fourth and final part deals with the concept of set and features papers by Godel(x2), Boolos, Parsons, and Wang. Each paper is typically ten to twenty pages long, with few a bit shorter and a few a bit longer. I purchased it new from Amazon in late May of this year and have (sadly) read just four papers so far. The current Amazon US prices is about $59, but Amazon market place offers used copies for about $20. 

During Descartes' times there were enough books with advices and theory on how to write (good) poetry, known generally as 'Art poétique' (e.g. by Boileau, Horace or Aristotle). Rhetoric had gained a new popularity with the Renaissance, medieval uses of Latin were treated disparagingly and books on Rhetoric, old and new, were marketed with promises to make you successful. Descartes would have none of this and apparently he looks at all of them just as today we look at books of this kind. He was somewhat of an enthusiast for promoting new science and thought that reading and writing such texts is a waste of time, so he argues that natural gifts for thinking or feeling are more important that techniques: 

Angst is a key concept for existentialism and the foreign word has been adopted for lack of a good translation. It apperas to have the advantage of not presupposing that the unknown is some object but could be an extraordinary event or just anything unthinkable. Locus classicus and source of the name is a book by Kirkegaard translated with the title The Concept of Anxiety or The Concept of Dread. The French word 'angoisse', popular with the local existentialists, fits rather well the definition "fear of unknown". 

One should note that Descartes had no qualms about admitting "degrees of reality" and, as most of his contemporaries, thought 'the real' to be somehow superior to 'the possible'. (Leibniz said that god gives reality to the best of possible worlds.) It was only after the discovery of non-Euclidean geometries that people came to accept 'the real' as a particular case of 'the possible'. Eschewing ontology early in the XX.c. was called "ifthenism" 

Because older people will probably die sooner than younger people... And life is also very much associated with being given live, as in the birth of a child. So the closer you are to the date you were given life and farer away from the point where your life is probably empirically proven going to end the more you will be associated with one of them. 

You wouldn't define something to be false unless your intentions was to define it as such. But in the norm , definitions are ground rules on which you build your case. If you are to question the definition itself on its validity you would at the end use definitions in return to make a case on its validity. So you do need to have a particular ground on which you can agree on its trueness. So yeah, definitions you make are true by default in a subjective universe you build until the definition you made is questioned in which case , your definition is replaced, altered or stays the same. Whether your definitions are objetively true in any context is another case. 

You are implying that consciousnesses is: 1) a requirement for things to be set in motion. It is not even clear if human-beings themselves have consciousness or are rather being drifted by cause and effect motions. So one could question the concept of consciousness itself. 2) But if it exists, you set concsciousness to be equivalent to someone who imposes laws or a will, I am not sure if you are implying a deity here or not but then again this requirement is similar to the first one. But this reduces the question to whether there has to be a will for laws to come into existence. And this last point I am not sure of , because you base your argument on this particular element, disregarding the possibility of laws having the possibility of existence themselves. This is also the standpoint of many empiricists, who do not bother answering the question of by whom because they only are interested in there is, implying it just is, a priori, just like the “scientific answer” but only going into its structural logic. Assuming things just can't be and everything has to have a cause and effect , even the laws in particular which have to have the cause of a will, and the will has to have a subject which frees itself from this cause and effect chain, then this subject surely has to be a deity? This assumes that the laws are chained to the will, but this also implies that laws are bound to change if your will changes. So this will has to be constant and its sole desire should be to remain constant and only inhibit the will of existence of things in a certain regularity. But this could actually also be humans and or god. Depending on how you look at the will and how deterministic you think it is. 

In Wissenschaft der Logik (variously translated as The Science of Logic or The Acquirement of Logic) Hegel states that his dialectical method is "the only true method" of scholarly and scientific exposition. From the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy - 

Hint : Type corresponds to concept. Token corresponds to instance or example. Thus, species is a type while human is a token. Try to form a proposition about species that uses two different tokens. 

EDIT 30 May 2018 I was reminded of this question when I was reading one of Aaronson's papers over the weekend. I think I now understand the argument Aaronson is making here. Aaronson catches the ZFer on shaky ground when he notes: 

One example of such a text is the Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy. Although printed in a dictionary format, the entries are often remarkably detailed. Importantly, all philosophical terms used in each entry are annotated by cross-reference. Major entries are typically one or two pages in length, though the cross-referencing used can expand this considerably. Each of the major topics you have mentioned is featured - i.e., Kant, Plato, phenomenology, etc.. Of the additional subjects you mention, it includes entries for dreams, intuition, and imagination. For example, the entry for imagination cross-references Coleridge, thought experiments, and images. The small-print text covers a little over four-hundred pages, though that includes non-epistemological entries. The price is modest in paperback form. 

Considering your specific question, theory-ladenness applies specifically to scientific observations. If we are to identify theory-ladenness in an observation such as "Ice melts in the sun", then we need first to express this observation using scientific terms - e.g., H2O molecules undergo a phase transition from solid to liquid at a temperature above zero degrees C. (Note that I have modified your observations since if it is minus 50C, then ice won't melt whether the sun is out or not.) The theory-ladenness of this observation is now evident, since interpretation requires an understanding of molecular theory, temperature, etc.. More generally, it is not clear that the quoted description of theory-ladenness by Adam White is well-expressed. For example, it does not account for the case where an observation is made that falsifies (all) existing theory. In 1777, Antoine Lavoisier's experiments with oxygen led to observations that falsified the prevailing phlogiston theory. The absence of alternative theory meant that these observations could not be interpreted, leading to the need for new theories to be formulated. It may be that theory-ladenness is intended to apply only to post-19th century science. Prior to the 20th century, science was observation driven. We did our experiments, made our observations, and then formulated a theory to fit the observations. This changed in the 20th century when science became theory driven. We now formulate our theories and then make observations to confirm (or falsify) our theories. Whatever the case, the problem of an uninterpretable, falsifying observation remains if we are to use the quoted description.