In English appositive constructions, noun phrases can be juxtaposed to convey the fact that they are co-referential. "I, Don Quixote," "John, the baker," "the art-object, a bronzed umbrella," and "the other dog, the dangerous one" are all appositive constructions. In languages with robust case-systems, such as Latin, Russian, and Finnish, do appositive constructions typically each comprise noun phrases in the same case? Or is there typically a case in such languages that marks a noun phrase as apposite another one? For instance, could genitive be used in this manner to create phrases like "dog-NOM sighthound-GEN" to mean "the dog, a sighthound"? 

Why does the English complementizer "that" look like the relative pronoun "that"? for those This question may need to be carted off to the English Stack Exchange, unless there are other languages in which complementizers and relative pronouns also resemble each other. 

I'm not an expert, so please judge this answer accordingly. I don't think that your question has an answer. The words "basic" and "essential" are too vague; one cannot test a constituent for "basic-ness" or "essential-ness." For the sake of giving you the benefit of the doubt, I'm going to assume that you are talking about elementary units of analysis. In recipes, for example, ingredients (like flour, sugar, ground beef) and procedures (like basting, broiling, stirring, or baking) would be elementary units of analysis: a finite set of things in terms of which all recipes can be analyzed. Things get more complicated when it comes to identifying elementary units of analysis for linguistics. Words can't be such units, because, as one expert recently pointed out to me, "word" is a popular and hard-to-define concept that academic linguists don't need. Referents can't be such units, because referents constitute all the things and states of affairs that language can be used to refer to--in other words, almost everything in the universe that humans know about. I don't think that mappings between morphemes and referents can be elementary units of analysis, because meaning and reference are not identical and the relationship between them is best discussed by experts, and because morphemes aren't neatly mapped onto meanings in one-to-one correspondence, and the mappings between morphemes and meanings varies from language to language. Also, language has different types of putative units of analysis, because language has different components. Phonology (sound pattern rules), morpho-syntax (grammatical structure), and semantics (meaning) would each need their own units of analysis. When it comes to semantics, I don't think that anyone has identified a finite set of semantic primitives in terms of which all morpheme meanings can be analyzed. To my admittedly limited knowledge, no one has even established that such a list is possible. Your post suggests that you could profit from some first-year instruction in linguistics, or some introductory texts. You might want to look up "phonetics," "phonology," "morphology," "syntax," "semantics," and "pragmatics." 

Among the well-attested languages for which large corpora have been gathered, does the number of idiomatic expressions per language vary significantly? Are there fewer idioms in some languages than in others? Do certain factors affect the number of idioms in a language, such as the number of people who speak the language or the number of different cultures in which the language is spoken fluently? 

For those who came in late, there are such things as discontinuous morphemes, i.e. single morphemes that are interrupted by other morphemes. Note this example from this SIL link: $URL$ "A circumfix surrounding a root from Tuwali Ifugao (Philippines): baddang: root ‘help’v. ka--an: circumfix ‘NOMR’ kabaddangan: word ‘helpfulness’" My question is, do any natural languages have discontinuous coordinators that surround coordinated phrases? For example, are there coordinators that work like the ones in this nonce example? "Bob and Carol and Ted and Alice" = "and1 Bob Carol Ted Alice and2" "my money or my life" = or1 my money my life or2" "the tall man and the suspicious dog" = and1 tall man suspicious dog and2" 

Is the reality of zero morphs controversial among linguists? I haven't been able to find a wealth of information online about zero morphs, but did find a definition of them at the SIL Glossary of Linguistic Terms, which read as follows: "zero morph is a morph, consisting of no phonetic form, that is proposed in some analyses as an allomorph of a morpheme that is ordinarily realized by a morph having some phonetic form. Example (English)" example: "The plural form that is realized in two sheep is Ø, in contrast with the plural -s in two goats." Is this analysis of singular "sheep" vs. plural "sheep" accepted by most linguists, or do linguists debate other possibilities, e.g. that the singular and plural forms of sheep happen to be identical, no zero morpheme needed? 

Do some languages change more slowly or quickly than others? If so, what factors slow or accelerate the rate of change? (For this question, let's forget about the possible effects of modern mass media and concentrate on factors that might have always affected the rate of language change.) I know that, as long as a language has native speakers, the language will change. But how fast? (Thanks go to the book, "Language Myths" (Laurie Bauer, ed.), for telling us lay people that Appalachian dialects of English are not the same as Elizabethan English.) 

Here's a definition of anticausative verb from definitions.net: "anticausative(Adjective) (Of an intransitive verb) which shows an action affecting its subject, without indicating the cause" 

Are there any languages with exclusively asyndetic coordination, i.e. in which constituents are coordinated solely by juxtaposition, with disjunctive (or) or adversative (but) meaninigs communicated by adverbs or other word classes that don't qualify as coordinators? 

When we English speakers say phrases like "King Kong" and "delicate daffodil," some of us can't help but think that the "k" sound is rough-and-tumble and the "d" sound is mild-mannered. Apparently there is a term for sounds or parts of words that the speakers of a given language associate with a mood or theme. Apparently, there is a name for such sounds or parts of words--phonesthemes. $URL$ There's more information about phonesthemes on the Net, except, apparently, for the consensus among professional linguists about how seriously we should take the existence of phonesthemes. 

As I understand it, "homorganic" means having the same place of articulation, and is said of sounds like [k] vs. [g] and [s] vs. [t]. (I couldn't find a definition from a linguistics source on the Internet.) Can the term "homorganic" be applied to vowels and glides? For example, is the offglide in the diphthong [ɑɪ] homorganic with the vowel [ɪ]? 

The dative suffix has two different forms -nak/-nek. The -nak form appears after the root with back vowels (a and o are both back vowels). The -nek form appears after the root with front vowels (ö and e are front vowels)." The article at Free Net Encyclopedia covers a lot of ground, but leaves me curious about how vowel harmony typically arises. Does it arise in languages with big vowel quality inventories, or do big vowel quality inventories arise in response to it? Does the consonant inventory play any role in its development? Does prosody play a role? 

Across ergative languages, is there a case that typically marks the arguments in copular & existential clauses? For example, in sentences that translate as "The beetle is red" and "There is a flower nearby," is there a case with which most ergative languages would mark the equivalents of "beetle" and "flower"? For example, would that case usually be the absolutive case? Or would the case in question vary across ergative languages? I'm also asking about ergative languages in which clauses without verbs have existential meaning or specify relationships such as "being the same as" or "belonging to the class of." 

A noun that refers to one countable thing is singular. A noun that stands for one countable portion, part, or unit of some non-countable thing is singulative. See $URL$ Nouns that stand for things that one does not count (e.g. water, oil, benevolence) are non-count or mass nouns. See $URL$ What is the term for a noun that stands for more than one countable portion, part, or unit of some non-countable thing? [As per a comment below by jlawler, I have edited in the following example from English:] At the restaurant, it makes sense to speak of a) some beer, b) one beer, c) four beers, and d) beers all around. If a) is semantically non-count and b) has singulative meaning, what term do we use to characterize c) and d)? 

I've never heard of a natural language that has ergative-absolutive marking alone. From what I've read, languages with said marking also have nominative-accusative marking, with the choice or "split" between the two types of marking conditioned by some semantic or syntactic factor. For example, in some languages we see the following: Clauses whose subjects are most likely to be agents have nominative-accusative marking. So we have "I-nom. ate the pork-acc.." But clauses whose subjects are less likely to be agents have ergative-absolutive marking. So we have "The rock-erg. hit the car-abs." But from what I've read, said split can be conditioned by factors other than the agency, including aspect! Though I know that aspect does condition such a split, but why does it do so? What's the semantic or cognitive logic behind this? 

Consider sentences like this one. "Reluctant to place the dog and the children in the same houses as caretakers affected by the slobbering sickness, the authorities decreed that said children would be placed in the care of the Church of the Fiery Severed Fist of Our Beloved Deity while said dog would be placed in a large forest where the elimination of their waste would no longer constitute a public nuisance." At first blush, "said" seems to function as a determiner in the last sentence. "the said children*" or "a said dog*" are both ungrammatical, although "the aforementioned children" is perfectly okay. This particular sense of "said" does not appear to belong to an open class. Participles that premodify nouns can be, and often must be, preceded by determiners, as in the phrases "the dwindling candles" or "a rotating planet." However, we don't see "the said candles*" or "the said rotating planet*." We do see "said dwindling candles" or "said rotating planet." So "said," in this context, looks like a determiner. But I'm well aware that I could be missing something here, and so pose this question to the group. Is "said" really a determiner in the contexts that I've just mentioned? 

In languages whose syllables are approximately equal in length, how is stress typically indicated? Stress in English is typically indicated by any or all of the following: length, loudness, an pitch. I assume that, in the kind of language in question, loudness and/or pitch would indicate stress. Is there are preference, or do loudness & pitch for stress co-vary in the languages in question? 

In English, the verb "do" can be a transitive verb whose object stands for an action. So, we English speakers can "do a somersault," "do a back flip," and "do a cartwheel." The productivity of this construction is limited, but it does suggest a question: are there any languages in which a small and (synchronically) fixed inventory of verbs is used with other parts of speech (for example, nouns that stand for actions or states) to create phrasal equivalents to the many verbs that are found in most languages?