There are a few ways to become fabulously wealthy. Let's figure some criteria first. You can be wealthy by not spending (make things instead of buying them), by something you know (knowledge of things most people can't/don't know), or having something you can sell or provide to others for money. In this question you want "fabulously" wealthy so the first doesn't seem like it will help. You don't have magical knowledge so the second doesn't either. Let's exclude a few saleable items. Things where the serial number or origins are likely to be checked at some point leading to problems. Example - second hand jet engines in good condition are very valuable but you'd have to show a source, chain of custody and service record. Things that are regulated -money for example - are more likely to receive questions as well. Things that need a big infrastructure you don't have, will be hard to explain as well. I can think of a few things that might be valuable, but they all follow a similar pattern. Pick an industry where the output could be very valuable, but also very variable and unpredictable. Use your power to improve the odds. You'll have too run a business but unlike most, you'll know it will succeed. Two examples: 

Oh dear. These are all too complicated and reek of irreligiousness. Everyone knows that for evil, the only sure cure is the purifying fire. Set fire to the entire area around where he is. A 10m time stop ability isn't much use in the heart of a half mile wide incandescent circular forest fire centred on him. 

No,there's no logical reason. But that's not the whole answer. Your robot will be judged by its functioning. Whether we call its decision making method "logic" or "emotion", we will want it to make certain decisions, as we intend, and not make certain others. We will want predictability. That includes wanting predictable unpredictability - we expect it to move randomly under fire to evade harm, and we will test various random and quasi-random methods till we find "the best". If we want it not to kill certain people or to do certain things, how it decides that is completely irrelevant, we will pick whatever method we find most effective. Specific directives in some cases, machine/neural learning in others , and "black box" knowledge in yet others. We won't care. There is no inherent advantage to the aspects we call "emotion" unless it translates into a technical method for achieving these which proves more effective and efficient than the others. But... and here's the "but".... Nobody really knows what emotion is. Perhaps the things a robot would know, are analogs of emotion. Perhaps if a neural network learns enough, it displays states and decision-making which could be interpreted as emotion. We might never know if it freed that captive or didn't kill that child because of "emotion" or because of calculation, or because it weighed up the military and PR pros and cons.... and it might not matter. Emotions give no magic. If we want certainty of the robots conduct, then that's the goal, and whatever works, works 

One option is social norms and pressures rather than biological processes or magic. Society itself may have structural problems if people stay in perfect shape - will people want offspring and what will those offspring do, and will the same people have power (after all, if they have power within society now and never get worse off or frail, maybe they become Comrade President of the Electricians Society For Eternal Life). So maybe a society that found a way to engender near immunity to life's issues, also legislated that this must be reversed or treated to weaken it at some age between X and Y years old (with the person having choice about the exact timing) for all persons, so they gradually decline and die. Social rituals might spring up around this as well. Shame? "Life Celebration Party"? Tradition of spending final years writing an autobiography or their wisdom for future GE stations? Would there be politics around extending the timing or changing it and periodic debates about it? This kind of thing would add richness to the plot. 

The spider is aquatic (these exist naturally so its not a stretch to have that). Its exoskeleton (or something naturally on or released onto its exoskeleton) becomes oxidised upon exposure to air. An old nurses tale says that this spider comes to judge good and bad people, and to quickly drink a glass of ale and swear allegiance to god, so that if it's death the spider brings, then they die in a state of grace. Unfortunately the oxidised compound is highly soluble and dissolves in the last of the drink, thereafter reacting in the stomach with ales made from a particular process or crop, and becomes fatal even in microscopic doses. (Also plausible - cross reference ricin, ergot - I think - and other spoiled wheat/barley toxins). This allows a slightly different scenario from the rest, where it's the combination of seeing the spider, and traditional folk belief (with their usual grain of truth) which is fatal. Enough people die - and enough don't - to sustain the nurses tale. But someone who has worked it out would be able to check (or ensure) the ale to hand when the victim called for ale, was the kind which wouldn't be survived (assuming it isn't the same beverage that was in the cup). The spider being aquatic is not commonly seen and maybe even a bit mythical if very hard to find, but provided it can cope with the beverage in place of water, this explains why the spider is okay in the drink as well. It could even be that the spider is imagined to magically appear, and the idea that it was put there by an individual would be sacrilege or "beyond the pale". The main "hard science" stretch is whether enough can oxidise and dissolve in the short time available at the end of a drink. An alternative might be that the toxin doesn't need to oxidise. Instead it's a little denser than water and tends to accumulate in the bottom of the drink, where the spider has been exuding it, and the tiny dose is mostly concentrated in the last dregs of the drink. So it isn't seeing the spider that does it. Its the fact that only a person who sees the spider, has also just drained the last part of the drink in their cup (which exposes it to their sight). Variations on these ideas allow quite a flexible range of scenarios. 

Therefore you can see that it doesn't matter how heavy the space station is. What matters is its size and rotation rate. On this scale, that is all that determines how many "g"s you feel. 

One more for the list - high energy particles. The earths magnetic field precesses and occasionally (in geological time) "flips". That means for long periods of time (by human standards) the magnetic poles may be under any given large area of ocean. (This wouldn't have to be close to a frozen polar area as it is on earth. For example, the poles might not freeze on this planet due to currents or global temperature, the axis of rotation may be greatly inclined, or the magnetic axis is different from the rotational axis). So suppose a strong, not weak, magnetic field. You now have your magnetic pole under some specific large area of the ocean for a few tens or hundred thousand years. Unfortunately this area is naturally where the ships would navigate. The stellar environment includes fierce radiation of charged particles which is somewhat focussed and drawn to the surface over a wide area, rather than diverted by this pole, and... voila, lethal ocean passage, if you happen to need a few months to cross it. The effect would be increased if either, your species is quite vulnerable, or other mechanisms prevent things like ozone or whatever else protects us humans. Perhaps some aquatic life has evolved to produce ozone-destroying gases in modest concentration as well (perhaps because they photosynthesise or use the radiation, or it kills their parasites or at highish levels triggers mating behaviour since this is when food will exist as microorganisms take up the high energy levels, so they evolved this over time as a way to increase their energy source/intake). 

Change the scale, might be one solution. As several people point out, currency allows transactions over time and at a distance (unknown parties). Suppose individuals in some rural isolated area could only transact with those in their town, that would be plausibly sustainable (somewhat anyway). Then towns can barter with other towns, and towns in a region leads to regions bartering with regions. Since at each level of this barter hierarchy, the distance is not unreasonable for the parties concerned, and the trade is larger and focuses on different kinds of needs, perhaps it is sustainable. 

You don't have a problem. Not only is free oxygen only produced in large quantities (so far as we know) by life, but also, once produced, oxygen is extremely reactive. To explain why that's important - on earth, even after it began being produced by life in world-changing quantitites, it still took something like a billion years for oxygen to start gathering freely as O2 in the atmosphere. Before then, (almost?) all the oxygen produced, simply reacted with iron in the earth's crust producing banded iron ore (or other reactions and combinations, or dissolved in the seas), instead of gathering in the atmosphere. It takes quite a lot to get oxygen in the air :) 

I'm looking at this part of the question : "activating self-destruct mechanism disengage coolant system for the ship's main reactor, which then increases the core temperature and triggers explosion [by destabilising core]" is it plausible? The kind of reactor (or other power source) isn't specified. Although fusion is suggested, it might not be fusion. Fission seems less likely. The question is generally whether ceasing cooling would ever plausibly provide a self destruct function. I suspect the answer is "no": Engineering and power production principles An explosion requires uncontrolled rapid "runaway" activity. That's a "fail = unsafe" principle. Fission and raw flame can be unsafe on failure of a protective system, but generally no power source aims to be. This isn't a feature you could add to create a self destruct. It's an inherent property of an engineering/power generation method. Fission is inherently capable of runaway. Fusion (as far as we know) inherently is not - at least not on less than star-size reactors, where gravity and opacity can create runaway. Other invented systems are however you wish them. But the coolant system can only change a runaway-capable system from running as inhibited to uninhibited modes; it can't create a runaway capable system if none exists. Containment issues Another problem is that most explosions need time to build up, however short. Even current nuclear weapons with an explosive effect (rather than just dirty material dispersion) need a very tightly fitted and insanely precise engineered thick steel case, just to prevent the components simply melting or flying apart in the first fraction of a second. Think of a gun barrel or bullet case, used to contain the propellant as it turns to gas - same idea. A power creating reactor doesn't typically have the kind of case needed and it probably wouldn't be compatible if desired. (Because even a small space would probably be enough to adversely affect the runaway force and make maintenance impractical, although this is obviously a bit speculative and could be handwaved away). Power production vs. power storage To explode, you usually need to release some kind of stored energy, and this stored energy must be capable of being released very fast. If the power system doesn't contain a store of power, or at least the ability to produce power fast enough, this makes it a bit less plausible. But if it can produce power quickly, then this still doesn't imply a store that can be released all at once. A bullet, rocket, or fission reactor contains stored energy that is designed or inherently capable of rapid release, but not all systems have this. Without much detail, this would probably be an issue to consider as well, in assessing plausibility. Failsafe designing On principle, engineers tend to develop power systems that, on failure of control, are inherently safe not unsafe. You wouldn't want to fly a bomb. So your car systems have several hundred detectors (including code checks) that watch for risky engine status indicators and restrict rpm if so. (What if a switch stuck, or a detector was faulty?) Ditto all other power systems. Even your toaster's power circuit has a fuse somewhere. But in addition they design for safety even if active systems fail. If your car battery fails and the electronics lose power, you dont want the engine to be left in a full-power state mechanically with no way to turn it off because of electronic control issues. Coolant is a subsystem. You probably won't get engineers designing it to fail, because its so critical that the cooling system can never by accident (or due to some unlikely combination of faults), fail. Designing a bypassable safety system of this kind, with probable catastrophic effects, would be a bit like designing a lift ('elevator' in the US) for an office block where people work daily, and building in all safety features - plus an anti-terrorism feature that could raise it to the top floor at high speed and withdraw all safety controls (over cable drum rotation, lift car safety etc) and drop it at maximum speed to impact at the ground floor, just in case of a terrorist attack where the terrorists are in the lift. In other words, however desireable a defence it might be, you just wouldn't design a safety critical system and a path that completely undermined it. You'd do it some different way. Possible alternative solutions If the ship had some system that accumulated immense power, that power could be released in a specific manner. That's not a coolant failure but it would meet the needs of the question. For example, suppose the ship has weapons, and these weapons were reliant on huge power delivery accumulated over a few seconds and released in a brief but immensely powerful burst. Then the power accumulators could be used as a source of self destruct, by providing a path that would release that power against the ship itself. You'd have to think around the issues of containment (how do you stop the power transmission system just melting instead?) and impact (how would this lead to destruction rather than damage?) Alternatively if the ship contained something that already had explosive effect, it would only be necessary to initiate whatever explodes it. Again that's not a coolant failure. For example if it carried some kind of torpedo weapons, or mining explosives, or a store of chemical fuel needed by some kind of pods which are too small for a reactor, or was powered by immensely dense matter in some kind of futuristic force-field, then you'd just have to set off the explosives, provide a (fail-safe!) detonator for the fuel store, or release the force-field. But as stated, and looking at cooling systems only - no. 

I'm not sure "guns" covers it well. I'm trying to imagine something as primitive as a gun (of any kind) really being how it would work in such a future. Although that's what the question asks, maybe the OP would also consider solutions might come from thinking in a wider frame. Two examples: In the future, everyone has an IT implant. Those are already en route and I imagine they'll arrive in the next few decades - typing and screens are really a bit primitive compared to neural-computer lookup, and once they start to become common everyone will have them. Law enforcement of the future's non lethal weapon? Disconnecting someone's brain from the instant availability of all information they've been used to all their life, and possibly disrupting their sensory input and motor control output for good measure. Sounds minor but even that first part would be huge to someone who's relied on assisted information all their life, when the computer starts overlaying their world with static flashing black and white and screeching random noise, rather than the info they would expect and find useful...... At the moment we can do this via flash-bang grenades and apparently they're quite effective too. An alternative might be that in future, the streets and buildings are made of a smart material, for self cleaning and maintenances, and also for law enforcement use. Police can direct the street where a person is, to rapidly change texture, adhesion, friction, lighting, develop a slope or undulations, etc, to affect a person needing restraint. Let the environment which a person can't avoid, restrain them, rather than some person-to-person weapon. 

For me, the question falls apart at the part that goes "So, our two options are anarchy, and dictatorship. There needs to be a balance between the two". A change that fundamental will quite probably mean that the choices we currently might assume from human nature will seem very naive after a while, and choices and reasoning for them that we don't imagine now, would dominate. So assuming "new world but basically same life" doesn't work. Much like people used to imagine gods a bit like "people only stronger". Whatever people are now, these would completely change their understandings. Perhaps people there go "who cares what they do for the first 20 billion years, let them". Perhaps the concept of ownership and proprietary/possessiveness fizzles and people see reality as art, and random change/creation/destruction as development in that art, all equally valid. Who knows. Perhaps if death, loss and imprisonment don't help, people will do things they can't here and now, such as having your mind changed to mush - after all if you're a drooling wreck or have no memory of past matters, you can't so easily use your superpowers to change yourself back perhaps. Will that be possible? Point is, you cant import human expectations. You can't expect to take a completely new paradigm, then figure its going to work based on how people react/ motivate/behave in this more limited world and lifespan, because the very beliefs you're using to assess how it might develop and therefore what governance if at may exist or be wanted, won't be held since the reality underpinning them will differ. My bet is that human nature and understanding of life would change enough that governance as we see it just wouldn't be applicable, nor its lack a problem. Would the concept of "I" even remain the same? Doesn't seem likely. What would be discovered given that timespan? What would be valued? Why would it be? What would we learn of reality and its manipulation in a few quadrillion years (apart from "oh god, boring!")? People do things "to be remembered by history" but will that still be so? People do things knowing they'll be dead in a while and can forget it, will that be so? Those seem a bit more fundamental than how we'd govern and settle disputes. The question is at heart, all about how we'd manage disputes in such a world. My feeling is, you can't settle disputes without experiencing what causes them, why they matter to other people, what matters to the participants that can be leveraged to resolve it, and what motivates people generally. Can we imagine the answers to these that a few billon year old beings might have reached?