What you describe sounds pretty similar to the gods of Classical mythology. For sure, the source of their power was not usually thought to be technological, but something something magic something advanced technology... Besides that, they seem to have desired followers not out of genuine need but narcissism and self-importance, and perhaps bragging rights among themselves. You could reuse much of this mythology for your own case, assuming your "gods" have some social instincts that would justify sentiments such as pride. A less common (but adored by modern fiction writers) perspective is that gods are somehow bound to domains, and depend on followers to expand these domains. Eg. the god of oceans wants the whole planet to be flooded, since that will expand his domain and thus make him more powerful. I never got the impression that Classical people believed anything like this - at best they seem to have viewed the gods' dependence on ordinary mortals in the vein of an owners' "dependence" on his fighting cocks: There is no actual dependence, but there is mutually agreed pretense of dependence for the sake of sport. I think this just goes back to pride and bragging rights, though. Incidentally, one school of thoughts regards DC Comics superheros in a similar light: For instance, Superman is essentially like a God unto men, he does not need them, and they have little they could offer him - he assumes his guardian role and seeks humanity's approval out of dedication to his personal principles and beliefs. Then you have characters like Batman that are more nuanced. So these comics are a nice modern interpretation of the same thing. A second common trope is gods requiring either belief per se, or some other human quality access to which is secured through belief. For this you just give the humans some trivial ability which doesn't change in any way the ability of the gods to totally kick humans' ass, but is still a trick humans can do and gods cannot. For the first class, many fantasy settings simply have belief directly produce the god's power in a magical way. Since your divine power is technological, you can't really do this easily - you could perhaps badly abuse quantum mechanics and such to handwave it somehow. The second class is much easier. Maybe our mortality creates a unique motivation that immortal gods cannot appreciate, so we are capable of some great deeds that they are not, or maybe human psychology has some novel quirk that allows ideas the gods couldn't think of themselves. With the domain idea from earlier (easily produced by having each individual god's tech being different and only applicable to a limited context) is a great example: On the whole gods are vastly more mighty, but humans can do the one thing they can't - gods are bound to their domains but humans are not. Vernor Vinge's Zones of Thought universe has an example of this that I like: Advanced computation becomes more and more difficult closer to the center of the galaxy (the brain, itself a computer, apparently is not affected). The gods of the series (in fact planet-sized post-singularity AIs) can only exist on the outer rim, and hence try to get mere mortals to be their agents in places where they themselves could not function. The distinction between needing specifically belief, or service guaranteed by belief, is helpful. For instance, in Terry Pratchett's Discworld books (where gods and magic are both ubiquitous and well-known) the gods don't care much about heretics and atheists unless they "stand on top of a hill in a thunderstorm, wearing a copper hat, and yell all gods are bastards". So, not belief per se but respectful behavior, which in turn implies pride and social behaviors. This seems much more plausible for a sci-fi story absent a compelling explanation why mere belief would grant power. Granted, in Discworld gods do get power from belief, one book is even about a once great god whose name has become so obscure that he rendered powerless. In our world, nobody has credibly observed a god. So it is hard to say what would be considered realistic behavior for them. One could say that our gods have served philosophical function: Once upon a time they provided explanations for natural phenomena, later they provided the basis for moral and legal systems. Today we consider our philosophies to arise purely from our own reasoning, and all our moral and legal systems supposedly stem from axioms that we hold to be self-evident. Thus we seemingly have no need for gods, nor would the gods in your case have any niche that humanity has in the past provided for gods. On the other hand, your gods seem very similar in role to dictators: They are very powerful, and strictly speaking do not "need" any given individual. You could therefore model the role of your gods on real-life dictators, good or bad. The question is then why they would feel the need to be gods, not rulers (a trivial question, since in reality many dictators have chosen to deify themselves). Perhaps they believe that religion is a more effective way of control than politics - a view supported by the comparative longevity of religions in our history (millenia) vs. governments (centuries at best). 

Because the species finds linear forward motion comfortable, their settlements, structures, and rooms are arranged in intersecting rings. Wherever two rings intersect, the being can either choose to continue moving forward along their current ring, or turn off into the adjoining ring. They don't need to decide whether to turn left or right (or up or down, as the case may be) to enter the adjoining ring, since their tunnels all have a natural "forward" direction determined by the ridges in the floors/walls. Cross-tunnel tracks at the junction of two rings might serve as natural indicators of which way to go if the being wants to switch rings. This keeps the decision to a binary (keep going or change rings) instead of a potentially confusing choice between the left tunnel and right tunnel or forward. (Hat tip to @Yakk for exploring this idea in the comments!) 

How hot/cold would it get? The extremes in seasonal temperatures on our planet are caused by relatively minor differences in solar exposure times between summer and winter. With exposures as long as 9 years, expect much greater extremes: both an uninhabitably cold night side and an uninhabitably hot day side. Mercury serves as a good baseline because it is tidally locked but has no atmosphere. You should then adjust your numbers upward to account for the warming of an atmospheric greenhouse effect. Mercury has a surface temperature of 700 K (800 °F/427 °C) on the sunny side and 100 K (-280 °F/-127 °C) on the dark side. Your absence of oceans will exaggerate the temperature difference between day and night that might otherwise be mildly offset by transferring heat through ocean currents (thermohaline circulation). Furthermore, larger land masses allow a planet's surface to get hotter more quickly, and increase thermal reflection, which is why the northern hemisphere of earth (which has more land masses) is hotter on average during its summer than the southern hemisphere is during its. Fewer liquid oceans will probably correlate to lower atmospheric humidity in general, suggesting a diminished greenhouse effect such that the cold side will be exceptionally cold (colder than the coldest surface temperatures on Earth). For reference, the coldest temperature recorded on Earth was −94.7 °C (−138.5 °F). You can safely assume there'll be an absence of liquid water on the surface of both the day and night side, but with the potential for liquid water around the twilight areas. How would the temperature and rotation affect the climate? A recent blog post on the Universe Factory guesses that a tidally locked planet would transfer heat from the day side to the night side via planet-wide hurricanes. I don't entirely agree with that assessment; the center of the baked, low-pressure, zero humidity desert on the daytime side could become a meteorological "dead zone" with little wind and no capacity to support condensation or precipitation. Further, a tidally locked planet does not rotate and thus could not produce the Coriolis effect, so the Earthly process of cyclogenesis would not occur. However, the twilight areas of the planet would see an exchange of hot and cold air from the day/night sides through the process of convection, and from the interactions of cold high-pressure systems with the warm low-pressure areas. 

NB: The periods I give above are very approximate. I tried to note what historical events strongly influence the change in language, but ultimately different parts of the world were undergoing the change at different rates, as were different strata of society. 

Whales are a terrible animal to domesticate. Their generation time is very long (5-10 years for blue whales), and a human could do only a few rounds of selective breeding in their lifetime. Although then again, rapid maturation would probably be one of the top traits selected for. Still, it would probably take more than a century. Domesticating foxes took about 50 years, and whales breed much more slowly than foxes. There's also the question of where you would keep them. Whales are large and powerful. How would you trap them? In a small, artificial pool they might get stressed from lack of space. It would probably make more sense to just let the whales roam wild and come up with some gadget to locate them. Without predators or parasites, they would quickly (well, relatively quickly) overpopulate. You can then go catch them, milk them, and let them go. The ones that are aggressive or otherwise undesirable can be killed or sterilized as a negative selection to cause domestication in the very long term. Alternatively, perhaps the embryos might be genetically engineered to be domesticated already? That would be a nice way to explain why they haven't been domesticated before as well. By the way, whale milk is very high in fat. It would be very thick and cream-like, and much harder to drink than cow milk, and recipes would need to be adjusted. Although it would work for tea and coffee. 

The path of least resistance is to reduce the moon's speed. This will eventually upset its orbit so that it falls into the planet. The challenge then is coming up with a way to reasonably accelerate the moon in the opposite direction of its rotation around the earth. Conceivably, one could apply nuclear explosives or nuclear rockets to slow the moon's orbit. Alternatively, large, high-velocity asteroids or other massive bodies could be set on a collision course for the moon. Maybe the inhabitants would believe they'd avoided certain disaster thanks to the moon blocking the rogue asteroid, only to discover later that the impact has caused the moon's orbit to decay. Explosions and asteroids seem pretty dramatic, but nuclear rockets installed on the far side of a tidally locked moon could be surreptitious enough to go unnoticed. 

Individual members of the military will deviate from the average. In much the same way that the average soldier will be different from the average man, the average female in the military will not necessarily match the psychological profile of the average female outside the military. Their behavior will necessarily be informed by both their experience and training. Nobody is naturally an ideal soldier or general; the abilities to fight and lead in a war require the suppression of some instincts and the elevation or acquisition of others. 

Although I would expect to find mines primarily in some sort of useful orbit. Orbiting/deorbiting is the bottleneck of space travel, and most useful space travel does it often enough. Just denying commonly used orbits to your enemy could go a long way. Failing that, mass foci in deep space (such as space stations used for resupply) would be a good place. Trying to just carpet mine all of space seems as pointless as trying to mine an open field or ocean on Earth. 

In orbit, you have Kessler syndrome - doesn't even require explosives. Outside orbit, it relies on having commonly used routes. If you can find a way to accomplish this (wormholes or warp gates) then it's reasonable. Otherwise, the area you need to cover becomes quite large, so you'd need very advanced mine technology for it to be viable. The mines themselves are only that by analogy. Land mines cover a 2D surface, so it's possible for them to intersect every path, thus they can just wait for someone to step on them. With space mines this will never work, you need the mines to have their own propulsion. They must also have their own sensors to detect enemy ships and target them, so we're talking "smart mines", more like automated guided missiles. This also gets around the issue of asteroids plowing through your minefield. Every mine will have a "sphere of attack" which is a large volume (not necessarily shaped like a sphere or even a single bounded volume), bounded by its delta-V vs. the target, and where the target is coming from/how fast. So SOA depends on the target, and may not even necessarily center on the mine. When the mine detects a target intersecting this, it fires thrusters and attempts to intercept. The effect of this is that certain trajectories are precluded because if you follow them, you are guaranteed to have several missiles on you. The weird part is that while land mines define these trajectories based purely on space, with space mines you would also consider velocity (of both target and minefield - moving minefields are possible in absence of friction), delta-V and thrust of the mine/target. A military that uses mines would have access to competent statistical expertise and artificial intelligence (not the terminator kind, but the cruise missile kind) to set them right, although that's probably a given for space navies. They would decide on what enemy movements by what kinds of vessels are most dangerous, and lay the mines accordingly to get the most bang for their buck. Nimbler ships will tend to escape, and other ships if they are going too slow or too fast or in a different direction will also be unaffected. Since the mine is a fair bit of technology, you have some nuances that can serve as plot points: 

Fran is a naturally subterranean boring worm-like creature. Her cilia enable her to move forward and rotate. On her homeworld, the tunnels are bored with ridges or grooves that serve as affordances for forward locomotion, allowing her species to progress along the intended direction of the tunnel (forward) more easily (and conversely, making it more difficult to walk backwards). 

Selective Breeding Don't rule out selective breeding too quickly. If any of the megafauna reach sexual maturity within one or two years, a decade is plenty of time for a selective breeding program. Beginning in 1959, the Soviet scientist Dmitry Belyayev bred successive generations of wild silver foxes to produce tame ones. He produced human-friendly foxes by the fourth generation; his foxes were very friendly (eager for human contact) after only six generations. As explained in Scientific American: 

Note that Fran and her fellows don't need an accurate mental map of the network's layout in physical space to navigate the network; they instead need an accurate mental map of the connections between rings, which would look more like a tree structure or hierarchy diagram than a traditional map. 

The vegetation biome chart on the Wikipedia Biome article is a good illustration of the degree to which climate variation is not based on mere distance from the equator. 

Peru has warm and cold deserts, alpine mountains, equatorial rainforests, savannah, and temperate subtropics. The contour of land and the flow of wind and water currents have combined to produce a great variety of biomes within a relatively small area, despite being in an area with reduced (compared to more polar regions) differentiation between summer and winter. (Note: Peru does experience seasons, but the biome variation across Peru is not created by seasonal variation.) 

Without kingdom animalia you would still have kingdom fungi as well as domains prokaryota and archeae. These are all perfectly capable of respiration (in fact plants themselves can do it too) and would expand to fill in the new niche of oxygen consumption. Fertilization is already done by microorganisms such as nitrogen-fixing bacteria so no problem there either. Pollination will be an issue. Those plants that are pollinated by animals would likely go extinct. The other plants which are pollinated by wind or water will take over their ecological roles. If animals were to vanish overnight, many ecosystems would undergo crises, but ultimately a rich flora (different though it may be from what we are accustomed to today) would persist on the planet. 

Once again, recall that our 30 year old Englishman (let's call him Bob) could find himself in many conversations today where he would have no idea what's going on: Technical discussions between professionals, criminal slangs, various dialects and so on. But while it would be difficult for Bob to conceal that he's an outsider, if the other person is helpful it should be rare that they can't find a way to communicate (eg. speaking more clearly, slowly, without slang or in a more neutral accent). Mid-20th century onwards Up to roughly the 50s-60s, this situation remains the same. From various recordings, film, documentaries and other such primary sources, it seems like mainstream English underwent little substantial change. The accents may be a bit different, obnoxious teenagers may say "groovy" instead of "epic", but they pretty much talk in the same way. Possibly this has to do with the spread of TV, which established a sort of "common denominator" way of speaking for most of the anglosphere. After being amused by the trivial differences for a few weeks, Bob would get used to it and communicate without difficulty, and after a few months he could probably easily "pass" for a non-time traveler. Early 1900s WW1-WW2 seems like a period when spoken English begins to differ perceptibly. TV had not yet began to dominate culture, so regional and subculture-specific idiosyncrasies were common. In video, audio, and books written in an "everyday" language (either for effect or because the author was uneducated) begin to sound "quaint", and often feature expressions that seem confusing. Bob would be able to communicate with most people from Day 1, but he would frequently be confused about this or that subtlety of meaning. It would be a while before he doesn't have to say "Sorry but what do you mean by..." about commonplace words and expressions multiple times per conversation. It would be a long time before he can learn to "pass". Written English would be much easier, as evidenced by books, pamphlets and signs from this period, except for the occasional euphemism-du-jour which has since fallen out of fashion. The two world wars are handy delimiters, but I would say that this period was only really succeeded in the 50s (and maybe even 60s), and the preceding period ended several years before WW1 began. 19th century From roughly the first third (give or take 50 years, depending on time, place and other factors) of the 19th century up to WW1, I think the non-trivial unintelligibility starts. Beyond just I got the gist of what you're saying but I'm not sure what exactly that one remark meant, we are getting into frequent I have no idea what the hell you just said territory for at least the first few days, especially with less educated people from lower classes. Texts from this time are basically intelligible to modern readers, but it is clear that a fair bit of unintelligibility is lost in transcription, if you will. For instance, consider novels which try to render authentic every day speech, such as some of my Mark Twain's works. I'd conjecture that the period is associated with the Industrial Revolution, the dominance of the British Empire, and the advent of the Prussian education system (which is ubiquitous to this day). Age of enlightenment(ish) In early 1800s, 1700s, and maybe late 1600s we get written works (even on complex topics like philosophy, history, religion and science) that are pretty much intelligible, but sometimes effortful reading much helped by a good dictionary. Bob could, at worst, carry around a pad and communicate by writing, assuming he can find someone literate: we are now just before public education became common, and coincidentally literacy rates are shockingly low. Alternatively, he could attempt to speak like he would write, but there are still large differences in pronunciation, vocabulary and what is considered idiomatic. He would struggle to introduce himself to the first person he meets. If the person has some complex concerns (eg. a guardsman on the lookout for spies) I don't think he could resolve the situation diplomatically by the end of the day. If it's not weeks before he stops feeling like he doesn't even speak the same language, he should consider himself lucky. It might be a year or more until Bob is "fluent", and 5-10 years before he can pass. Once this process is complete, if he returns to his own time, he will experience a similar culture shock for several months to a couple of years. Middle ages Early Modern English, from which our current language evolved, was prominent from 1400s to late 1600s. During this time, English went from its pre-15th century form, which is unintelligible to modern speakers, to what we have now. We conveniently have Shakespeare's works, among many others, to demonstrate the nature of EME: It is very obviously on the cusp of being an entirely foreign language in all but name. Even written material is difficult to understand unabridged. An educated reader (even if the education includes reading Shakespeare!) can understand a fair bit of Shakespeare's writing, but there will still be a significant chunk which is hopelessly opaque: Too many words are simply not used anymore, or mean entirely different things. Without a glossary, it would be a tremendous effort to decipher them. We have no way of knowing exactly how people spoke day to day around this time. However, it's likely very different. Unlike the period above, you now have a vicious circle sabotaging any efforts at communication: Ordinarily, you would segment speech into words and then try to figure out the unfamiliar ones, but the pronunciation is too unfamiliar for that. Yet you can't figure out the pronunciation either, since you don't know what the words are and can't effectively look for them in the sentence! Bob is two thirds of the way to learning a whole different (but similar) language, like French. The vocabulary is different (even though a lot of words are the same, or at least about the same), the phonology is different, it's only the grammar that is mostly the same. How much does it take for Bob to become fluent in French? Let's say 6 years with instruction, well, call it 4 for EME. Of course, that is with instruction... The key event here is probably the printing press, which began spreading around England in the 1400s. Note, also, that only towards the end of this period did English start spreading to areas of the world (America) outside of Britain proper. Early middle ages We are now firmly on the other side of the hump and into "it might as well be a foreign country" area. A good, familiar example of this is Chaucer's writing. Bob can't read it. He literally can't even read the script. If it was put into a modern font (something impossible without professional help), he would not understand the words. If it was spoken it would sound like gibberish. Considering the various social aspects of this period, I would seriously doubt Bob's long-term survival. He could easily get killed, imprisoned, or otherwise get into a lot of trouble due to inevitable misunderstandings and miscommunications. If you have Bob ever managing to communicate with anyone, such as after years of trial and error, you have to invoke a stroke of luck soon after his arrival, such as a kindly benefactor who supports him for many months when he is unable to function in society. The key event is the Norman Invasion in 1066, which is when a bunch of Frenchmen invaded Britain, put themselves in charge, and didn't even bother speaking proper English. The dark ages Remember how I compared learning early English to learning French? If Bob arrives prior to the Norman Conquest, it might actually be harder. I would say that difficulty is comparable to learning a Nordic language, such as Norwegian, today. I doubt Bob would do any better than Hans or Xavier if he went this far back. The key event here is the Roman conquest of Britain, and the spread of Christianity: Both provided a host of Latin words and influence, which produces a fair bit of common ground for modern speakers to discover. However, if you go farther than that, just give up on having any intelligibility whatsoever. As far as 500 BC, I suspect it won't make much difference to Bob whether he arrives in the British Isles or China. Good luck, Bob! Wouldn't wanna be in your shoes! 

Impact of Size Differences Women over 18 are generally shorter than men of the same age. This can vary significantly by region and ethnicity. In the US and UK, men average about 175 cm or 5 ft 9 in tall, while women average 161.8 cm or 5ft 3.5 in tall. In the People's Republic of China, men average about 167 cm (5ft 6in) while women average 155.8 cm (5ft 1.5 in). Men are taller on average than women by 5.5 inches in the US/UK and by 4.5 inches in China. The size of warfighters is a significant factor in the design of vehicles, lodging, and equipment. Having smaller warfighters would make some things more difficult for manufacturers: for example, consider the height of a truck's running board from the ground; for vehicles with large tires and tall ground clearance, the running board or a ladder attachment may need to be lowered to allow shorter warfighters to reliably embark/disembark the vehicles. Along the same vein, assumptions about soldier carrying capacity when it comes to equipment may need to be adjusted downward. On the other hand, smaller warfighters means you can reduce the size of the cab or increase the number of troops carried, which could have a cascading effect along the entire transportation supply chain (trucks can carry more troops, ocean-going vessels can carry more trucks). Of course, within any population there's plenty of deviation from the baseline average. You could decide that the military retains some sort of size/strength standards that military personnel must meet, rendering such concerns immaterial (but introducing a new concern: a smaller recruitment pool). Impact of Psychological Differences There are significant psychological differences between men and women on average, but it's unfair to make a sweeping statement about psychological differences between every man and every woman. The differences may stem from any of genetic, hormonal, developmental, and social/cultural pressures. Research suggests that women are more empathic and more emotional than men in general. (Some research argues that women are simply more emotionally expressive rather than more emotional, so this science is certainly not settled.) It also suggests that they are less likely to display aggression directly. If women in general are more empathic, a female-directed military may be inclined to avoid conflict and pursue diplomatic solutions, but this relies upon the specific women with decision-making authority having both greater empathic perception than their male counterparts and having some means of applying their empathic perception to their (potentially faceless) enemy. In all likelihood, the impersonal and weighty justifications for engaging in modern war would hold the same sway, regardless of whether it's a man or a woman who makes the decision. If women in general are more emotional, including greater capacity for both joy and fear, that could also affect decisions to wage war or initiate conflict. But again, the decision to wage war is often made at a state level so the personal feelings or intensity of feelings held by decision makers may not change their ultimate decisions when faced with the same options and consequences. If women in general are less directly aggressive, this might actually serve to the advantage of their military in modern large scale warfare, where combat is often impersonal, waged by proxy with bullets, rockets, missiles, and drones instead of in close personal combat with fists, bludgeons, and blades. An indirectly aggressive military might be more willing to embrace asymmetrical warfare, including booby-traps, or strategic maneuvers like cutting off enemy supply lines. But there are two big caveats with trying to predict the psychological behavior of a military based on its gender composition: