Aircraft losses in carrier battles could be staggering. At Midway the United States lost the Yorktown with a capacity of 90 planes, but they also lost 113 carrier planes. Some of the surviving aircraft from Yorktown landed on Enterprise, refueled and rearmed, and attacked the Japanese again in the afternoon. A slightly different principle applied during the evacuation of South Vietnam. There are impressive pictures of aircraft being dumped overboard to make room for even more aircraft. 

Analysts concluded that battleships were killed by carrier aircraft, not by other battleships. This conclusion might have been influenced by several factors: 

This would have been different in each individual case. The lord grants lands and protection to the vassal to exchange for obligations and fealty. Just what a vassal got differed from case to case -- the right to the taxes from a mill, a couple of villages, an entire county, whatever. And what the vassal owed was usually roughly in proportion to the fief. This goes all the way up and down the chain. The serfs of one village might owe their lord different things than the serfs in another village, just because an ancient contract spelled it out that way. The Reichsritter were individual knights directly subordinated to the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire. The Kurfürsten were also directly subordinated to the Emperor, but they were princes ... 

Operation MARKET GARDEN was forced to make drops on separate days because they couldn't drop an entire airborne corps in a single day. Not enough aircraft, not enough airbases, not enough drop zones, the airspace getting crowded over the drop zones. When it became a bridge too far, as the movie put it, it became a question of helping to extract the paratroops on the north bank. The Americans published Airborne Operations in World War II, European Theater. This is from the US viewpoint, but it puts the various problems into context. 

Note that "financial union" as used in the political debate today is something completely different. 

The Nazi goal was a world ruled by so-called 'germanic races', with some so-called 'lesser' races put in subservient positions and others exterminated. As it happened, some so-called 'germanic' nations fought against Germany and were occupied (Netherlands, Belgium, Norway) while so-called 'lesser' nations allied with Germany (Spain, Italy, Japan, Romania, Bulgaria, ...). People from occupied countries also had to make their individual choice to collaborate or resist. Desperate for manpower, the Nazis actively tried to recruit helpers in the east, despite the fact that these were from 'lesser' races according to the Nazi worldview. They despised these men, but they used them. One cannot know what their fate would have been in case of a Nazi victory, a cruel death or a somewhat honored position? By comparison, Dutch citizens could get German cizitenship (and a conscription notice) if they lived in Germany. The same applied to Polish and other citizens of German ancestry after the occupation. There were even a few veterans of the African colonial auxiliary forces in Germany, the Nazis really didn't know what to make of them. Celebrity or dangerous precedent? 

There were very few naval wars and battles during the period in question, coupled with a rapid pace of innovation and uncertainty about the future development. Naval architects concluded from a few lethal, unintentional ramming incidents that intentional ramming was a viable tactic. They should have noted that if problems at course keeping led to unintentional ramming incidents, then intentional ramming would be even harder. 

There is ample precedent for Germany and other western nations coping with a mass influx of refugees, e.g. 

In 1953 West Germany entered the London Agreement on German External Debts. Communist countries were not included in the agreement. Further bilateral agreements and payments were made during the 60s (with some Western countries) and the 90s (with some Eastern countries). There were payments to to the Deutsch-Tschechischen Zukunftsfonds, which pays restitution to Nazi victims and supports reconciliation projects. Note that during the Euro crisis Greece demanded the repayment of similar debts; the official German position was that they had been settled with the 1953 treaty and subsequent 1990 agreements. 

I think a better question would be "Did the proximity of Seoul to the DMZ stabilize or destabilize Korea after the Korean War?" 

For your third point, consider how the Isis myth is integrated into the Egyptian pantheon. This is not conclusive, of course. 

I want to add another issue to the previous answers, the relation of volume to diameter. All other things being equal, when a shell is scaled up 1.5% from 128mm to 130mm, volume goes up 4.7% if the length is changed in proportion. The shell is 1.5% wider, 1.5% higher, 1.5% longer. Often old tanks were upgunned with larger guns rather than introducing new tank guns together with new tanks (see the KwK 40 on the Panzer IV). Old tank turrets got crowded, and finding room for larger guns and larger ammo was difficult. Sure, we're talking about just five percent, but that adds up. 

There seems to be an opinion in historical and military circles that people who are barely getting by don't revolt. They are too busy putting food on the table. You get a revolution when people have a hope that things are getting better, and when that hope is frustrated. Not absolute poverty but relative and subjective poverty. There is another line of thought which relates revolution to the bread prices, so that's not the only explanation for revolutions ... I don't have time to look for many sources, just this for the first case and this for the second. 

A possible explanation: Supposedly some Allied military travel papers were stamped TOGIB rather than TO GIB (to Gibraltar) to indicate that the soldier was involved in classified missions. Wikipedia says so, and I seemed to remeber that Holt mentioned it in The Deceivers, but it isn't in the index. Regarding other clearances, there was MAGIC/ULTRA, to name just one. 

In key areas, the German army was better. After Versailles, Germany was limited to 100,000 troops, and they were prohibited from cycling lots and lots of conscripts through basic training (that was a lesson of WWI and the Napoleonic wars). 

If any of those "ifs" had happened, if the Russians had taken much of East Prussia, if the Germans had raced through Belgium to find the French slightly more off balance, it might have become another 1870/71. 

In the aftermath of the first World War, approximately 12 million German workers (source in German) out of a population of 62 million went on a general strike to protest the Kapp Putsch. This is a slightly higher percentage, 19% of the population compared to 16% from your example. But it was a political strike, not one for traditional economic aims. I don't know if there were even larger strikes. 

It can be hard to draw the lines between a corporation (or similar entity) which is hired to use force on behalf of a nation state and a corporation that is allowed to use force by a nation state. Consider the Hanseatic League in medieval times. They raised forces and fought wars. Companies which ruled towns or towns ruled by their merchant class? 

By the tone of your question, you're seeing WWII as a crusade against evil where there can be no neutrals, and in hindsight I agree. The laws of war didn't use these categories at the time. Being neutral can mean trading with both sizes equally, or with neiter one. If one of the belligerents is closer and trades more, that happens. 

Depending on your time for the preparation and for the presentation, you might not be able to cover all the bullet points, or you might add some more. If you have lots of time, you might ask a Jewish congregation in your neighbourhood if there are ghetto survivors still alive, but before you do that you should talk to your teachers. TL;DR Warsaw. It was large, it shows deportation to and from ghettos, it fought. 

Stalin received a large number of contradictory puzzle pieces. He and his intelligence analysts believed the information which suggested no attack yet and disbelieved the information which suggested an immediate attack. 

We don't usually do people's homework assignments. However, I think you are on the wrong track when you ask about tanks and planes. Some things to read about: 

This is extremely "flowery" language. If it was translated from a German source, that didn't help, either. 

I believe you are making a false distinction between pre-1939 and post-1939 expansionism. Game theory assumes that people rationally evaluate the status quo and their next options. There are plenty of examples to show that this isn't the case in real life, from the Ultimatum Game to the Sunk Cost Fallacy. If governments were using game theory, 1939 would have been too late to break off. While the Munich Agreement might have resulted in temporary Appeasement, Hitler had clearly shown his intentions to revise the post-WWI order. If he didn't occupy the rest of Europe, Germany was to small to prevail against the rest of Europe. If he occupied the rest of Europe, the United States would be forced to take actions. 

People in the German Democratic Republic could and did receive TV from the Federal Republic of Germany. Terrestrial reception of TV was limited in some parts of the GDR, notably the Dresden area. In the last years of the GDR there were even cases where Westfernsehen (western television) was provided by local cable providers. Obviously those were the regular western programming, not targeted broadcasts like those mentioned by Peter in his comment. The GDR government tried to balance this with propaganda broadcasts towards their own citizens which aimed to discredit the Westfernsehen. They had some valid points, explaining how TV commercials don't represent "real life" in the West. Few GDR citizens believed everything their government said, but those TV shows injected some doubts. So in the case of Germany: 

Details vary from century to century and area to area, but ransom was a common practice, cf Richard I Lionheart. It was considered generous to waive the ransom, or to consider that horse, arms and armor were enough, but taking ransom was not considered dishonorable. After all, it encouraged the healthy return of noble captives. 

Take Germany or Italy Both were "latecomers" as modern nationstates, assembled from a patchwork of more-or-less-sovereign states sharing a common culture. This assembly process was driven not just by princes and kings and power politics but also by the citizens who wanted to form one nation. The line in the Deutschlandlied, from the Meuse to the Neman, from the Adige to the (Fehmarn) Belt, was a call on democratic citizens to throw out autocrats and to unite. (It has been abused for other purposes, which is why only the 3rd stanza is the current German anthem.) After some political wrestling the Lesser German Solution emerged, with Austria opting to become a multicultural empire rather than a rival of Prussia within Germany. Italy had to go through the same process, with similar problems to define the national boundaries. It was never just culture which shifted borders, but culture clarified where the people wanted borders to be drawn. 

Canal locks may be much harder to destroy than you think. Ships can catch fire and they can sink. Canal locks won't do either. As kind-of-evidence for this assertion, consider the St. Nazaire Raid. The Allies decided that they'd have to ram the gates of a dry dock with an explosives-filled destroyer. At the time, they had much heavier aviation at their disposal than the Japanese Navy. You might also consider the Dambuster raids for a similar target. 

The HRE was not a state in the modern sense, and neither were the components (as HorusKol) pointed out. The various nobles had hereditary rights with regards to the Empire. They were tied to a title which usually also included some plot of land. There were knights directly subject to the Emperor, there were church properties operated much like a noble fiefdom (three of them were prince-electors), there were a few slightly free cities. Any one of those power blocs would resist the attempt of other power blocs to bring more territory into the HRE, because they saw it as a zero-sum game. Notably, at some point the Elector of Brandenburg was styled king in Prussia, i.e. king while in Prussia but not king in the HRE. 

The Reichsmark is no longer currency. One could make a hypothetical case what it would have been worth if the bearer had gone to an exchange office, which depends on whether it is a pre-1923 or pre-1948. In 1923, the rate was 1:1,000,000,000,000. In 1948, it was approx. 1:150. So the hypothetical value could be 0.0000001 or 650 Marks. Here is a 50 trillion Mark bill (note that the non-US use of long-scale billion). As Peter Diehr pointed out, the collector's value today is unrelated to the nominal value.