Some planets, specifically Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune in our solar system, have planetary rings. 

Minor Planets Minor planets are things such as asteroids, they are usually small mass, rocky bodies. This is different from small mass bodies that might be predominantly ice or water. Dwarf Planets Size and Mass The IAU have not specified an upper or lower limit for mass to be considered a Dwarf Planet, therefore it is predominantly determined by one other feature called: Orbital Dominance Orbital dominance is achieved when a body has cleared it's orbit of all other bodies. For example planets are able to remove small bodies out of their area through impact, capture, or gravitational disturbance. Any body that is incapable of doing so is therefore classified as a dwarf planet. So if Jupiter was incapable of clearing its neighbourhood of bodies then it too would be a Dwarf planet. 

The planets rotate as an after effect of their creation, the dust clouds that compressed span as they did so and the inertia has kept it rotating ever since. It's fairly easy to prove that planetary bodies are rotating just by watching their features move across their respective horizons. This seems less easy to discern for amateur astronomers in the case of the sun though. Does the Sun also rotate as a by-product of it's creation? What evidence is there to support this? Does the sun have any discerning features that make it evident it is rotating? 

Heres more python than you can shake a telescope at. I just used @RobJeffries' algorithm. This is just a python script, the real answer to the question is @RobJeffries' answer and I've just scripted it. The mathematics behind generating statistically uniform distributions is explained very nicely there as well. Python is below the plots. You can see on an X-Y graph they thin out at the top and bottom. The 3D plot is live, you can use your cursor and move the sphere around. Of course not HERE :-), but in your own python window if you run the script. 

I was looking at the comparison of 2007 and 2015 HST images of the "disappearing" star N6946-BH1 in Phys.org's article Collapsing star gives birth to a black hole. The 2007 images is from the WFPC2 while the one from 2015 is from WFC3. I wondered why the WFPC2 image is substantially fuzzier than that from WFC3. I looked at the WFPC2 manual for cycle 17 and found it has the "L-shaped" detector. Three quadrants have CCD elements with pixel spacing of 0.1 arcsec, the fourth "planetary" array has a pixel spacing of 0.046. However it seems more complicated because - if I understand correctly - there are different focal ratios used for the two. 

Mercury Laser Altimeter So how does the MLA aide us in determining if Mercury has a liquid core? Well the purpose of the MLA is to: 

Sometimes when using my telescope late at night or early in the morning, especially in the more humid of seasons, I notice i sometimes get dew buildup on the lenses. How can I minimize damp buildup whilst using my telescope? Simply dabbing away the liquid with a dry cloth doesn't seem to do the trick as I am still left with some water tracks and residue that I just can't soak up, this then means that all of the light is refracted providing a very fuzzy and blurry image. What preventative measures can i take to stop damp build up in the first place? 

Sometimes you can be trying to observe very faint or very small objects in the sky and it wouldn't pay to have these obscured or marred by a scratch or dust on the lenses. I keep to good practices and make sure to replace the cap on the lenses when finished in order to stop dust buildup but inevitably it will get a little dusty and dirty, taking this into consideration: What steps do I need to take to ensure that my lenses are kept in top condition? Can I simply use a damp cloth or sponge and dab the lenses or should I use a softer material, like someone with glasses might have a softer lens cleaner? Do I require a special cleaning fluid or can a good quality clean be done without any additional cleaning agents? 

Question: What are the objects CO–0.40–0.22 and CO–0.40–0.22* and what is the difference between the two. How did the originally discovered CO–0.40–0.22 get its name? The news of the paper is described in the Science item Long-rumored midsized black hole may be hiding out in the Milky Way. There is a nice writeup in Gizmodo for lay scientists: Astronomers Think They Discovered The Missing Link in Black Hole Evolution The paper is not paywalled and can be read here: $URL$ 

Reading that the Leonids meteor shower is almost upon us, I clicked some links (e.g. EarthSky.org and NatGeo) to read more of the prediction; especially the part about when to best view them. I had a Déjà vu when I saw "early morning hours" because it seemed to me that "that's what they always say". I'm guessing that it's not a coincidence that the constellation for which the shower is named always seems to rise around or after midnight at the time of year when the shower occurs. So I'd like to ask if this is true, that they pretty much always are best viewed after midnight (except when issues of weather or the Moon interfere), and if there has ever been a shower where this wasn't the case — one that was best viewed before midnight. 

Most of the planets in our solar system all orbit along the same plane, supposedly because of the almost flat dust clouds that formed the planets. But some planets, such as the one featured below, have a significant tilt in their orbits that separates them from the normal plane of orbit for that star. 

Why is the Hubble Telescope in space? Do we get enhanced clarity and range by placing it in space? What can it achieve from space that it could not achieve from Earth? 

Why does this happen? Is this because of our atmosphere? Would they twinkle if you were just in space? How about looking from another planet in our solar system? 

White holes are purely hypothetical at this point and are considered only because it is assumed something like it could exist as the balance to black-holes. Reading this article seems mostly writers taking liberties with the information but poses an interesting question. What is a White Hole? 

If you are not hoping to look for nebulas then I do not suggest a light filter, as this will also dull the stars. Examples of which can be found here 

Below is a small GIF made from a small subset of images contained in the original 36MB GIF found at $URL$ as I just found in the Sky and Telescope article Asteroid Florence Has Two Moons. Although it's tempting to interpret the image as an optical image, I belive this is pulsed-doppler data from the Goldstone Deep Space Network center. I am guessing that one axis is range (delay) and the other is doppler shift. Still I can't figure out the geometry that would produce an "eclipse" (in this case the moon passing behind the larger asteroid) with it disappearing so "far" from the asteroid. Could someone help me out here? Is one axis delay (time) and the other doppler shift? One can start with this description but there is more to it than is discussed there. below: "A radar image shows asteroid 3122 Florence and tiny echoes from its two moons. Here is an animation that shows them more clearly. The direction of the radar illumination (and thus the direction toward Earth) is at the top." From here. NASA / Jet Propulsion Laboratory. This is a small subset of the frames contained in the original 36 MB GIF, and the size has been decreased by a factor of 2 in order to fit in SE's 2 MB limit. 

The middle line is the equator, the second and fourth line are the tropics, the first and fifth are the polar circles. What is the relevance of these bands on Earth? Do these exist on other planets? What purpose do they serve? 

Once a body has been identified as a star it is classified into a subsection of either O,B,A,F,G,K or M (I think there are also 3 more letters recently added) What is the origin of this classification system? Do each of the letters stand for anything? 

Image courtesy of Science Daily What might cause a planet to have such a tilt? Is this the star capturing a wandering body into orbit or is this a phenomena caused by the formation of these systems? 

Solar Flares obviously release extreme amounts of energy and extend thousands of miles out into space. Because they are so big I would like to be able to observe some of these events through a telescope but I am wary of damaging both my eyes or the sensitive telescopic equipment. How might I safely observe a solar flare through an amateur telescope? Might this be solved by using light filters to dim the amount of light entering the telescope or is a more specialist piece of equipment required?