In baseball, any player can play any position (unlike, say, rugby where certain positions can only be played by designated players). This is why it has been possible for a single player to play every single baseball position in a single game. There is nothing stopping a team playing their normal catcher as a pitcher or a starting pitcher in any other position. I think that MLB suspensions are equal for all players because pitchers are not officially registered as being pitchers. Consequently, the leagues do not enforce that a player always plays in a certain position. Therefore, MLB doesn't have the right to give a longer suspension to a player only because he usually plays as a pitcher (even though everyone knows he actually is a pitcher). The equal suspensions for all players is probably part of the collective bargaining agreement between the leagues and the players' union. 

In baseball, a player can replaced by any other player who hasn't yet appeared in the game. Can this replacement be made after a player has started batting and is still at the plate? 

There is a good answer on yahoo for it. Basically it varies from country to country because of the co-efficient system UEFA uses, England, Spain and Germany all have clubs entering into Europe because of how their teams have performed over the last few years in Europe. UEFA did introduce the rule about winners of the cups going to the Europa League to give teams more incentive in the domestic cups. Regarding Man Utd in 2008, they beat Spurs in the final and spurs would have already qualified through their league position so in that case it goes to the 7th placed team. Stoke were entered into the UEFA cup when they finished runners up because they were outside the top 6 in the league that year. 

Don't know if many people remember watching European football back then but I always enjoyed the Cup Winner's Cup. I was wondering why UEFA decided to get rid of the competition and effectively merge it with the UEFA cup? Was it played on the same night as the UEFA cup? 

Note that the Men's shorts must be at 20cm or longer, whereas the Women's shorts must be 7cm or shorter. However, women (though not men) may opt out due to religious or cultural beliefs, as seen in §4.4 of the same laws: There are also other clothing articles under these rules, for example covering neck and hair. If you prefer text to graphics, here is a quote from the same §4.4: 

A lot of sports require any athlete to cover their stomach. Beach Volleyball only applies these regulations to men. 

Generally, men move faster on court and have a more powerful smash - this is plain visible in Mixed doubles, where the man often covers three fourth of the court, and in smash statistics, where men are up 30km/h or more. On the other hand, the defensive ability of top women is very close to that of the men. For these reasons, a high shot to the back to a man will put you into a disadvantageous situation where the opponent can play a high-speed smash that you'll struggle to defend against. This is doubly true in doubles, where the back service line is closer, and a front player will cover all short replies. On the other hand, the same high shot to a woman (in level doubles, mixed doubles, or singles) will put you into a much more neutral situation: The smash (if any) won't be as powerful, and she may not get to the back fast enough to execute one of the really threatening jump smashes. The same is true for beginners as opposed to more advanced players, by the way: Beginners will struggle to reach high shots and not be able to produce any threatening shots from the back of the court, especially in singles. At lower levels, a high serve to the back may even put you into an advantageous position. Today's top female players are getting to the point where they are able to dish out threatening shots from the back doubles service line, and therefore we're seeing fewer high serves in Womens/Mixed doubles as well. Even in singles, top players like Carolina Marin or P.V. Sindhu are able to attack high shots (serves as well as clears during the game). That's why players of their caliber often employ backhand serves (easier to play short shots, and to disguise the occasional long serve) as opposed to the forehand serves(easy to get a very high shot) which are ubiquitous at lower levels in singles. There is only some relation between the selection of serve and the receiver's height; professional players can easily produce high serves that go over the reach of any human. Because tall players have a higher center of gravity, they take longer to go the back. That's why discipline and gender of the receiver is a much more accurate predictor of the type of service. In other words, if you serve high to Hiroyuki Endo (1,72m Men's doubles expert), you can be certain that the response will be a thundering smash. 

From what I have read and heard he was released because his knee made him a liability. On this forum the fans talk about it said that Paule Le Guen deemed he was surplus to requirements at Rangers and that Andrews was afraid to take a medical at Reading in case he failed it as it would look bad when he was trying to find a new club. I didn't see any interview where he gave a reason behind his release but the amount of injuries he suffered must have made up Rangers' mind about releasing him in 2006. 

There are guidelines for social media which is enforced by the IOC. Basically they are encouraged to use social media to post or tweet photos etc as long as; 

Gymnasts are also usually quite small, there is actually some debate over whether gymnastics can affect growth (but I don't think there is much evidence behind this). According to this website American gold medalist Gabrielle Douglas is 

Longest additional time: 12 minutes 58 seconds (Arsenal v. West Ham United, 23 January 2013) Here is the match report for the game from the Guardian. The time added on was due to an injury to the West Ham player Potts. 

No, not in any of the sports I am aware of. Male swimmers, on the other hand, must have bare stomachs. 

Depends on the sport and discipline - sometimes the differences are enforced, sometimes it is in principle possible to opt for longer clothing, and sometimes it's up to the choice of the individual player. 

So if the racket side hit the shuttle during the rally, it's a let, i.e. you replay the rally. In all other cases, it's a fault of the side which hit the shuttle: 

The precise rules for clothing are published by the international sport federations (FIVB for Beach Volleyball, FIG for gymnastics, FINA for Swimming etc.). Typically, they consist of 

Notice the at courtside: At a tournament, there will be two boxes per side into which the players must put all their stuff. The players are allowed to lay out a new racket on top of the box. At a lower-level tournament, these might be wash baskets, marked lines, or simply "somewhere close to the netpost". These boxes are where players get new rackets. They may also ask a coach to fetch a racket for them and take the racket off the coach near the court. But outside the intervals (at 11 and between games), players must stay courtside (which means on the court or at most a couple of meters from it). In other words, going to the changing room or local badminton store during a rally is not allowed. In practice, racket changes during play happen quite regularly. For instance, here is a 16 minute compilation video. 

Nowhere in the rules does it state that 1 technical and 1 flagrant-1 foul will lead to an ejection (instead you need two of them). As I understand it you can commit 1 of each without facing an ejection. 

Also they can't use their social media to promote sponsorships or advertisements. This next quote is probably the most important and interesting part of it as it seems to be the downfall of most footballers when they tweet! 

Diego Costa is making his debut for Spain tonight and he will almost certainly go to Brazil as their main striker considering his form this year. You could imagine the reception he would get playing over there but if he lined up vs Brazil or even scored against them then I'm not sure he could ever go back! Does anyone know of any cases where nationalised players have played or even scored against their country of birth? 

. $URL$ Also height isn't always an advantage in soccer, just look at the average height of the Barcelona team (Messi, Xavi, Iniesta, Pedro etc). 

Before each game, the umpire will ask each side which of the players will be serving or receiving. If there is no umpire, the opponents may ask, or more commonly, players just position themselves. At the start of a game, both server and receiver stand on their right side; their partners may stand anywhere on court as long as they don't obscure the opponents§9.5. When the receiving side wins a rally, the players remain on the sides they were at the start of the last rally§11.3.2. The right to serve cycles through§11.4 

Looking at the google search results for the term "double-elimination game", you and the cited article seem to be the only ones using the term. As the first people to use a term, it is upon you to define it (you could argue that the article is the first known instance of the term, so it gets to define it). However, the related term double-elimination tournament is well-defined across multiple sports. If you look at a number of the google search results, you'll find that almost every mentioning of double-elimination game is actually referring to a game in a double-elimination tournament. You can also refer to google ngram, which lists word usage over years, and see that "double-elimination game" is not even listed in that dictionary, but "double-elimination tournament" is widely used since about 1950. In a double-elimination tournament, there is a top/winners and a bottom/losers bracket. 

That interview was from around 2013, I believe he is open to the idea of it being used at Euro 2016. FIFA seem to have the seem view of the issue. Some pundits and ex-footballers believe it would also slow down the flow of the game but the main reason for it not being implemented seems to be financial and logistical. I would guess that we will say goal line technology being used in only major tournaments such as the World Cup and major leagues like the English Premier League where the technology is currently being used. Here is an interesting article on Fifa's attitude towards it. 

I was watching the two big games in the Champions League this week and both of the games were spoiled by the red cards (the card in the City-Barca game was a clear red as it was a clear clear goal scoring opportunity whereas the Arsenal-Bayern game was not so clear cut). It got me thinking; 1: when was the rule around clear goal scoring opportunities introduced and 2: was there a case that made them introduce it? I'm thinking something like when they clamped down on tackles from behind because it was this kind of tackle that forced Marco Van Basten into early retirement or Lampard's goal in the 2010 World Cup which got a debate on goal line technology going. 

So the answer to both of your questions is: Because the FIFA laws say so. I can only speculate as to why these laws are there. Most likely, referees and spectators will prefer to have any spelling they can pronounce. For instance, I have no idea how to start pronouncing 郑智, 武磊 or 郜林. Although the spellings Zheng Zhi, Wu Lei, and Gao Lin probably don't match the correct pronunciation, they are sufficiently recognizable and allow any European to approximate the player's name. Even worse than not being able to pronounce these names, it may also be hard to distinguish them during a fast-paced match. In effect, names written in unknown character sets do not fulfill the primary function of a name; identifying a person by name would be hard. I'm not aware of any ruling that forbids writing out the full player's names in press materials such as club websites. My guess would be that it's more important for the name to be consistent than right; if every English fan mispronounces the name the same way, they can still talk about the players. Incorrect renderings may also result in a better pronunciation. Asking a German how Sigþórsson would be pronounced, the result would be likely be Siɡpʰɔʁsɔn, whereas Sigthorsson's German pronunciation of Siɡtʰɔʁsɔn is much closer to the correct one (in addition to creating an excellent pun). The players have to follow FIFA laws. Just as some players would like to play with a cool cap, or have sponsor names on their shirts, they have to bow to the laws. Also, some players may themselves prefer their names' pronunciation to be consistent but wrong - or sometimes, as in the case of Sigþórsson, rendered incorrectly but pronounced (more) correctly, because a recognizable/spellable name increases prominence, and increased prominence translates to increased income. 

Thats according to fox. It's used to measure cognitive intelligence, I'm not an expert in NFL but quarterbacks are essentially the same as playmakers in football (soccer), some playmakers have even been described as quarterbacks. One of the most important attributes for a playmaker is the ability to read and analyse situations and make the best decision in a matter of seconds. The wonderlic test is designed to test these types of attributes so for certain positions it does make sense for teams to test these abilities. 

I don't think it is any definite measure of success though as some players do play purely from instinct, they may not be even able to describe how or why they make the right decision. I guess for quarterbacks this test makes sense though as there are a lot of plays to understand and memorise. There has been a 2009 study by Brian D. Lyons, Brian J. Hoffman, and John W. Michel that found that Wonderlic scores failed to positively and significantly predict future NFL performance for any position (wikipedia)