My grandpa gave me his old 1974 Raleigh International (all original Campy) as a graduation present. Since the stock wheels are for tubular tires, and I do want to ride it around town, I want to get wheels for clincher tires so I can change the inner tube when I flat rather than having to mess with glue jobs. A new rear wheel means that I can have an option of getting a rear wheel with shimano hyperglide so I can choose modern cassettes. Because the shifters are friction shifters rather than indexed shifters, does it matter how many cogs are in the cassette? Do I have to stick with 5 or could I even go to 10? I stand corrected that the frame is steel and not alumninum. I was mistaken because the bike is significantly lighter than other steel-framed bikes I have dealt with. I apologize for this error. 

I have perfectly ordinary standard-pull brake levers on my bike. When the temperature gets below 20F or so, the left-hand one seizes up, not wanting to pull, and not braking well if I force it. Once the temperature warms up a bit, it's fine. Diagnosis? Cure? I'm pretty sure the actual brakes are fine, and the cable looks okay too. (If there's a duplicate, feel free to kill this one; I looked but didn't find an exact symptom match.) 

This isn't a "need" so much as a "nice-to-have," but I certainly appreciated having handy-wipes (alcohol-soaked individually-packed wipes) along after fixing a flat on my trail ride last Friday. Also useful if whatever you're looking at is so grimy/dusty you can't see or handle it properly. If weight/bulk is not at a premium, in the States it's possible to buy a can or square of diaper wipes. Same idea, different branding, works just as well. You may find that your first-aid kit has these already; in that case, just keep 'em stocked! 

Remove the tire, innertube, and rim tape from the wheel. Using a spoke wrench, loosen and remove the nipples. If you are using the same spokes, remove the spokes from the old hub. Lace the wheel, making ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN that the valve will be in the right place. Check out Sheldon Brown's step-by-step wheelbuilding page for the procedure of lacing a 3x (three-cross) wheel. You will want to use a little bit of vaseline on the threads of each spoke so you can tighten the nipples more easily. Go to a nearby bicycle cooperative (you can google bicycle co-op near nameofyourtown) to use a truing stand, and use the truing stand to adjust the wheel. Make sure the wheel is dished properly and that you have proper tension on the spokes. 

I do this. It works well enough. Warmers do tend to slip a bit over the knees, but honestly they do anyway. Go for it. 

In Madison, Wisconsin, Red Bikes will take old bikes. Budget Bicycle Center on Regent Street is the dropoff location. 

You might be able to get away with a handlebar bag (Ortlieb has a waterproof one that claims to hold 7l) plus a messenger bag or light backpack, or the underseat stuff sack mentioned by Chris in AK. I agree with commenter Blam that leaving the shoes at work will drastically reduce the needed volume. A porteur rack in front might do the job too, and perhaps be a bit easier to remove than a rear rack. (Much depends on your brake setup; it's easy to get a front rack off my bike because its disc brakes don't get in the way.) Linus and Velo Orange have nice porteurs. 

You could easily do this your self but you'll likely end up with a rivet gun and a box of 100 rivets you'll never use again (on a bike at least). Whatever method you chose, I'd suggest completing it before any of the rest of your bike build (I'm guessing from the missing front end that you're rebuilding this bike). If you can't get it fixed you might have to scrap (or at least rethink) the project and you don't want to waste any money on other parts until you know for sure. Regarding welding: Aside from the heat issue of welding aluminum, you'll also have a tough (impossible?) time finding someone who can weld a steel boss onto an aluminum frame. Or you'll have an impossible task of finding an aluminum boss to use instead. Think about it.. there's a reason the manufacture glued the boss on in the first place. ** Be extra careful if you are repairing a brake boss. It holds more force and obviously has more dire consequences if it breaks off again. 

On the cheaper side, a tarp or a vinyl tablecloth should do the trick, and be more easily tidied away and stored. Even a decent-weight shower curtain! 

Turn left directly from the bike lane. Keeping a weather eye on traffic, move into the left-hand lane and turn from there. Veer right onto the sidewalk (avoiding buses, obviously); wait for the pedestrian light to cross. 

So it now seems obvious to me that brand name alone is not a good quality heuristic; my Shimano Revo shifter just went south and was replaced after two years, which seems far too soon. (LBS put a SRAM of some variety on it; I hope that's better.) But I do know Shimano makes good higher-quality, more-expensive components (right?). What are the lesser-quality component lines from the big brand names? Are there any rules of thumb -- other than price, obviously -- for recognizing them at the LBS or on readymade bikes? I'm not looking for manufacturer flamewars here; I'm interested in quality differences within a given manufacturer's lines. Or is it just price? 

Since you have a relatively "flat" spot there (at least flat in the longitudinal direction) you have two options: 

I have some standard rims and I (accidentally) bought tubeless tires. As long as I use rim tape and a tube, can I run these tubeless tires? I know I won't be able to run low tire pressure. But if the tube holds all the pressure is there any danger of the bead unseating? 

it allowed the rotor to work against the 6 posts on the adapter causing some wear it allowed the adapter to work against the hub, also causing some wear. 

Unscrew what's left and epoxy it together apart from the internal workings. Buy a replacement cover. I couldn't find any online shops selling replacement covers, but a call to Shimano* will probably net you the exact piece you need. You'll need to know the model number which should be displayed somewhere and look like SL-xxxx. I can't imagine a new one will be more than $20. 

There are housecall vets, (a very very few) housecall doctors, and of course food delivery. I don't see why housecall bike repair wouldn't fly. 

Planet Bike's small parts page has a section for tail lights that includes quite a few shims and adapters. You may be able to find just the thing there. Good luck! 

I find that at warmish cold temperatures like the 30s-40sF, the most important thing is to keep my hands and ears warm; the rest of my body takes care of itself after a few minutes of riding. (I am assuming your normal garb does not leave exposed skin other than hands and head/neck. If it does, well, fix that first.) Have a good pair of wind-stopping gloves; experiment with glove liners if the gloves aren't enough. A fleece earband keeps my ears and forehead warm and doesn't get in the way of my helmet, but if that's not enough or your nose complains, try a hoodie, stocking cap, or balaclava. You may find that keeping the wind from stripping heat away is plenty enough for the rest of your body, in which case a standard rain jacket or nylon windstopper will do the job. If it doesn't, try a hoodie or put on a fleece vest or jacket under the rain jacket. (A water-resistant jacket with fleece lining is essentially this; Land's End carries such, among others.) Other minor considerations: Sleeves that are snug at the wrist (e.g. stretchy knit cuffs or buttoned cuffs) keep the wind from sneaking up your forearm. Crew or longer socks do the same for your ankles and calves, or failing that, a cycling cuff-band.