(I hope you like my MS Paint doodles) As a final thought on this concept, since a troglodytic lifestyle doesn't necessarily lend itself to the evolution of great eyesight, Fran's species might have a dependency on olfactory markers for subterranean navigation, much like the pheromonal signaling used by ants or the territorial musk/urine marking employed by some mammals. The relative absence or overabundance of scents in an open-air city would add an extra level of navigational confusion for poor Fran. 

A notable downside is that such a targeted breeding program (seeking only to make the animals tame) might negatively impact their suitability for other tasks. For example, if their fear response to new people and situations is reduced, their utility as guard animals similarly decreases. Of course, generally the bigger the animal, the longer it will take to reach sexual maturity. A fox may reach sexual maturity in seven months, but a bear could take three years, and an elephant takes at least 15. But if you decide your dinos are more like birds, ostriches can sexually mature between 2 and 4. Training Of course, animals don't necessarily need to be domesticated to be trained. Wild-caught raptors were historically used in falconry, although in most modern countries this is now illegal, so only captive-bred birds or birds taken from wild nests as eggs or nestlings are used in modern falconry. If your scientist can somehow acquire a juvenile and imprint on it, that could facilitate training. Human history is replete with examples of dancing bears and circuses that feature tamed lions and tigers; Isaac A. Van Amburgh trained large wild cats for public exposition in the 1830s. His methods were reportedly quite brutal, involving both starvation and beating the animals with a crowbar. Carnivores may be easier to train than prey animals as they would arguably be less afraid of new experiences (hence the early domestication of dogs in human history). In addition, their natural hunting instincts can be integrated into the training process, as with falconry. A well-read Victorian-era scientist could conceivably be familiar with the basics of falconry; the Old Hawking Club was founded in Great Britain in 1864. 

Ocean currents are determined by a large number of factors, but the changing of the seasons is a relatively minor one (having the most notable impact on equatorial currents, where the Coriolis effect is weakest). A planet without seasons will still have a Coriolis force, solar and lunar tides, and wind/ocean currents that are shaped by the contours of land masses. These can drive major changes in biomes independent of seasonal variation. I mentioned Peru in the context of the Humboldt Current, and I think Peru is a great example case that deserves extra attention. Peru is relatively close to the equator, so you wouldn't expect it to see great seasonal variation the way (for example) northern Europe experiences summers and winters. But check out the different climates in Peru: 

Orally ingested contraceptives have already been developed for both men and women. The dystopian government can integrate such contraceptives into a centrally controlled food or water supply. Persons who successfully apply for a reproduction license would be provided with "clean" food and water that has not been laced with the contraceptives. They would continue receiving such supplies for a period of time and in such quantity as determined by the government to be sufficient for pregnancy (the expectant mother would presumably require the clean food/water until the birth of the child, while the father would only need it until impregnation is achieved). 

I believe mechanical means of transportation would still be developed. As a basis for prediction, consider the case of the horseless carriage. Why bother inventing a car when you already have horses? The answer comes from the cost of ownership (space, feed, water, manpower/expertise, equipment) and the significant time investment needed to raise, train, breed, and maintain a stable of horses. At some point it becomes more economical to use a machine than to support a living creature. The requirements for raising a dragon are likely more complex and costly than raising a horse, so the same economic pressures would apply. Said pressures would be especially strong in any mythos where dragons are exceptionally long-lived and thus require significant time to rear, where they are potentially dangerous (introducing fire-damage liability), or where they are carnivorous and thus require more costly investment to be kept fed. If anything, having an animal that predates a mechanical means of transportation might escalate the rate at which such transportation is developed. Consider that horseless carriages were able to take advantage of technical developments (wheel axles, cobblestones), trade and transportation infrastructure (highways and roads), and traffic laws all of which were developed originally to facilitate the travel of horse-drawn carriages. A civilization with flying transportation that predates the invention of airplanes and balloons would be more likely to establish airport analogs at an earlier stage in their development, as well as develop laws and occupations concerning air travel which would ease the introduction of and possibly the transition to mechanical air travel. They'd also introduce inventions associated with air travel (like parachutes) and uncover scientific principles (such as those related to flight or meteorology) at an earlier stage which would increase the relative safety of mechanical air travel upon its inception. 

Notice that western Europe has a relatively warm, temperate climate, even though it's at similar latitudes as the taiga forests of Russia and Canada. This regional warmth comes from the Gulf Stream that brings warm ocean currents from the Gulf of Mexico to European waters. Similarly, Peru has a colder ("subtropical") biome for its latitude, which is driven by the Humboldt Current importing cold water from the Antarctic. 

(In the real world, this was eventually reconciled through Einstein's theory of General Relativity, which posits that all objects are constantly in freefall, and that mass merely warps the structure of spacetime, affecting the direction and rate of that freefall.) Mechanical explanations of gravitation The problem of how gravitational effects are generated seemingly from nowhere caused a great deal of scientific exploration down avenues that we now consider dead ends, but which at the time were serious attempts to explain gravity through solid mathematics and universally recognized mechanical processes and laws of motion. These obsolete theories can be referred to as Mechanical or Kinetic theories of gravitation. Here are a few examples: 

The ring-tunnels can be quite broad to accommodate multiple beings concurrently moving together, but should not be so large as to be confusing. Long, wide rings might serve as rooms for storage, recreation, and labor, activities which may at times require the beings to rotate or turn around as they undertake their tasks, but the important consideration here is that they always can tell whether they are facing forward or backward based on the design of the tunnel. Forward and backward are the only two cardinal directions. This limited directional sense could be further exacerbated by minimizing the effects of gravity on Fran's homeworld, so even up and down become less relevant. Extensive three-dimensional intersecting networks of rings compose the underground cities and streets of Fran's people. A human moving along such a network would be utterly confused by the homogeneity of each intersection and the overall structure's inability to conform to a rectangular coordinate system, but Fran's species has both an extremely good kinesthetic sense of forward progress and a knack for remembering the relationships and spacing between rings, allowing them to recall which rings intersect with each other, which entrances belong to which rings, and where they are at a given moment within the ring network.