The trouble here would be dealing with more complex components. There are two main types of electrical components. Active and Passive components. Passive components tend to be simpler, your resisters, capacitors, transformers and so forth. These it should be possible for our engineer to work out given his multi-meter and some basic knowledge. Does it measure as having any resistance? (Resistor) Does it allow an AC current to pass? (Capacitor) Is it made of a lump of ferrous metal wrapped in two sets of wires? (Transformer) Though our engineer will probably still destroy quite a few components working this out. Active components on the other hand are an entirely different kettle of fish. Most active components look like a blob of plastic with some metal sticking out and some markings to tell what they are. Think every thing from the classic transistor to the CPU inside your computer. Almost every engineer when faced with a component he doesn't know will stick the code printed on it into Google to find the datasheet. Our poor engineer doesn't have this option. (Language being the big barrier here) Many many human components are encased in very similar packages, this makes standardisation of machines to produce things easier so I would expect the aliens have probably done some thing similar. 

The problem would be that they would be well inside the Roche limit. And would need to be well inside the Roche limit for a very long time for the tidal locking to occur. Tidal locking actually takes a very very long time to happen. The process it is thought to happen through is explained quite well in this wikipedia entry. That's with out taking into account the atmospheric drag of the second planet being inside the atmosphere of the first causing it to slow its orbit and then smash together reasonably quickly. To pull this off you would need some form of magic involved. As another small side, though the moon's orbital period and rotation are tidally locked we don't always see exactly the same chunk of it. It moves slightly and we get to see about 9% 1 more surface area than we would if it was completely locked to us. Unless the two planets were exactly locked together you would not be able to build a building across the gap as it would crack if there was even the smallest movement. 

Now pick-up the longest path. Hold it up so that the two safety pins on each end are level. Shake out the mesh then take the lowest hanging loop and pick it up and hold it up so the pins on both ends are level with the pins from the first loop. Repeat this operation until you have the minimum number of strings left. Unhook the strings you are holding above the line from the mesh. This was a bit tricky keeping them all untangled. You should now be left with a single line of safety pins linking each town. 

Yes but... The problem would likely be the cost of shipping. Raw oil is very unlikely to be found on Mars to make the plastic with, so your down to synthetic and high energy processes to manufacture them locally, or shipping them in. It would likely be more helpful to a colony to have actual plants around, this would have the added bonus of filtering air as well. Though they would require water. These plants could be shipped to Mars as seeds to cut down on the weight requirement. Locally generated compost could be used for soil and presumably the colony will have some source of water or they are going to have trouble lasting very long. From the physiological point of view plants have been shown to have a therapeutic effect on astronauts. Don Pettit famously kept the blog of the astro zucchini while he was in orbit ( $URL$ ) I can see this idea helping, however there would have to be a significant advantage over say some clever 3D effect screens acting as windows to make it worth the extra cost. As they say in space travel every gram is expensive. 

I think your question hinges on intuitions about physical and conscious continuity as necessary prerequisite for personal identity. In Old Man's War consciousness is transferred to a new body by synchronising the new and the old brain. Imagine you are connected to a new body without any brain activity so far. At first you are only aware of your old body, then you are aware of both bodies and finally you are only aware of your new body (because your old one is euthanised). In this case the transition is experienced as continuous consciousness and you would be hard pressed to argue that "you" aren't "you". Another idea championed by Ray Kurzweil among others is that you replace small parts of your brain with chips (possibly to counteract age inflicted damage), then these new technological brain cells learn to interact with your biological brain and ultimately your whole brain is only hardware and software. Here you even have a physical continuous identity because the single changes are so small. Also there is no "old you" around. This kinds of technique could possibly assuage your misgivings about immortality. 

An easy solution to your dilemma would be a one-way-road. A stretch of land that is only passable in one direction. A wide fast flowing river surrounded by impenetrable forest would be an obvious candidate for this scenario. In that case your travellers would travel in a circle and part of that circle would be the river: A very fast and convenient way to travel … but only in one direction. Travelling on this river could easily be more than ten times faster than hiking back trough the (dangerous) woods. So the kids would only have to stay hidden for a few days, which is probably more realistic than waiting for the seasons to change. 

Yes. Among humans there is some correlation between brain size and IQ: "Our results showed significant positive associations of brain volume and IQ (r = .24, R2 = .06) that generalize over age (children vs. adults), IQ domain (full-scale, performance, and verbal IQ), and sex." The standard deviation in brain size is on the order of 100cc and the average volume around 1400cc, as far as I know. So just tripling human brain size should lead to IQ-gains of 2*1400*0.06*15/100=25.2 points. Tripling the size in every dimension would be a 27-fold increase. Of course that correlation doesn't necessarily hold in a range far beyond the human range, so there might be diminishing returns. Now, as has been mentioned, correlation isn't causation. But in this case it probably is, because big brains come with two distinct disadvantages: You have trouble getting born and you have a very high energy consumption baseline. So, evolutionary big brains have to pay for their existence somehow, and the only likely way seems to be higher intelligence (of whatever form). And of course if brain size-iq is too "pseudo scientific" for you, the same argument works with height. The effect will be a lot weaker because height only increases in one dimension, but still 16 points, which makes sense in the context of a story. 

So if we ramp it up to 30 points aka 2 standard deviations per generation you'll get your 60 standard deviations in the next thousand years. Politically this has to be tied in with the elimination of genetic diseases and risk factors for diseases. It's not a designer baby, because you don't actually change anything. You just help your kid to be the most healthy, intelligent and happy kid you can have. Overall however, adoption will be driven by competition. The asian countries will start and the western countries will decide not to be left in the dust. Stephen Hsu blogs about this in great detail. 

The downsides to this method: It takes quite a while to set up. You need to steal a map. It is very easy to end up with the mesh in a complete knot. I am not convinced it will always give you the correct answer. (But it seems close) 

Joining the ranks of the EMP crowd I'd go with Explosively pumped Flux compression bombs. These work by generating and compressing a magnetic field using a power supply, a coil and some explosives. See the the wikipedia entry for a full description and description of how they work. The magic trick with most of these emp type weapons is the power supply but given we are talking 200 years into the future it is not unreasonable to assume that power storage (batteries) have got a lot better. Look how far we have come in the last 100 years and extrapolate forward. An explosively pumped flux generator is actually quite simple to build given a power supply and explosives. However it is single shot, quite small, and usable like a Molotov. The hardest bit to get hold of is probably the explosives to blow the coil. These would be used in a riot to disable the police vehicles and any electronic equipment on them. Cameras, Radios, movement assist devices. This might even completely immobilise them depending on how their armour works. 

I was going to post this as a comment on @Zibbobz's answer, however it kind of grew to being its own answer. If there was some local fauna which was kind of like kelp. With pockets of hydrogen gas to help hold it's self up. The plant would have evolved this to help them scatter their seeds or pollen over a very large area. When the dragon wants to go hunting it grabs hold of lots of these. Cuts them free of the ground and floats up, up and away. These plants will have evolved to have very stretchy gas sacks so they can reach higher altitudes. (a normal weather balloon can stretch four times its size during flight1) During the early phase of the flight the dragon takes many deep breaths to oxygenate its blood and then holds its breath once it passes out of the range where it can breath. Whales can hold their breath for up to 90 minutes. Once the dragon is high enough or the balloon/kelp pops it drops down in a very stream lined shape with its wings folded back. It is still holding its breath. Here it will break the sound barrier. The pray it is falling on will not see or hear it coming. The pray is going to have to give it a huge amount of energy. This has to feed a dragon after all. As the dragon needs to slow down it first goes from noes down to nose level then slowly expands its wings. Hopefully managing to glide out of the fall before it splatters its self into the ground. The highly flammable plants may be a problem with this plan. Maybe need to explain that the plants seeds can be activated by fire and thus why they are around fire breathing dragons. We are trying to deal with big dragons, some amount of hand waving is required to deal with the square/cubed law.