This leaves you with using steam engines for electrical systems. You could - in theory - use a nuclear reactor, which boils water and then turns propellers. Buts thats not as exciting and steampunky as using it for propulsion. 

People find a way. Unless you are very precise with your legal juju, there will always be ways around it. For example: lets say I create a small business with very little gross income, but very little costs either. just trade a few self-baked cakes per year. I make my home the property of the company. When I'm 70, I sell the company to my hei, with the condition that I can live on the premise as long as I am alive (such conditions are legal in germany, not sure about the U.S.). What you have achieved is making inheritance more complicated. the consequence is that rich people - who have most of their assets in companies eitherways - can pay the lawyers they need to ensure their assets end up in the hands of the person they desire, while poor people would not have the same opportunities. You'd make it more difficult for already poor people to give what little they have to their heirs, but don't really make it more difficult for rich people. So, the effect would probably be the exact opposite of what you intend. You make the poor even poorer and the rich aren't affected all that much. Its probably the middle-class that has most trouble getting the inheritance to the people they want, so you weaken the middle-class. 

Wheels are much more then just useful for vehicles. Wheels or gears are an important module for most mechanical assemblies. So even while they might not use the wheel for vehicles, they will definitely use it to build complex machines. Eventually, they might even find wheels useful for displacing especially heavy objects. if they want to carve out rocks from a cave, wheels and tracks might be important to get those heavy rocks out. 

If the Crew can reset this button, then so can an attacker. If he can't figure it out himself, he can always capture fleeing crew members and "persuade" them to give him the information on how to reset the button. There are a few reasons to destroy a craft. The first and foremost reason is to protect secrets - both data contained within the data storages on the ship, as well as technological data. If you can get your hands on a brand new F-35 it would be awesome. It could be that up until know, humanity was either alone and they have found a new enemy, or humanity was united before and now there are factions. Self destruct was not neccessary because there was no enemy from which to hide data/technology. Now there is. Self-destructs become mandatory for all new ships, and old ones must be retrofitted within the next X months. Maybe it becomes illegal to completely shut off the ship because that way it would be too easy to board (automated defenses are now required, and they need to be powered). This means ships that become retrofitted with the self-destruct also get fitted with automated defensed, and a complete shutdown is not longer possible because power generation must stay on, as well as targeting systems, a rudimentary attitude control, and the automated defenses. Maybe the retrofiiting process takes longer then required, and some ships can avoid getting retrofitted for years. This would be ample time for a storyline with both types of ships to happen. 

It flows at the speed of plot. If you want to have situations in your world where people are threatened by failing force fields, make it flow. If you want to have a world in which force fields are used to mold lava into shape and then be safely turned off, then make it so. It depends on the kind of world you want and the kind of stories you want to emerge in your world. Both are possible, and both lead to very different worlds and stories within those worlds. As far as flow velocities are concerned, lava flows at different speeds depending on composition. Lava flows can range from 10km/h to 60km/h. it obviuosly flows faster if it was piled up against a high force field before (like a bursting dam). 

No, not by any sensible definition of steam engine, at least not for propulsion (since you mentioned drag, I will focus on propulsion first). A rocket works by throwing out propellant to the back. This provides forward thrust. Now, in order to gain more forward speed, you need to either throw out more propellant, or throw the propellant out faster. In orbital mechanics, there is no drag, yes. But you are still subject to gravity. You are nit weightless, you are in free fall, which means objects and people inside the spaceship appear to be weightless. Being in orbit means actually falling sideways fast enough that you miss the ground and swing around. In order to change your orbit, you need to change your velocity. This is called delta-v (which literally means "change in velocity"). You need to change velocities quite drastically. In order to get fom the ground to low earth orbit (LEO) you need to have ~9400m/s delta-v alone. So, back to what I said before, you can either throw out more propelannt, or throw it out faster. In your spaceship, the supply of propellant is limited. Thus, maximizing the speed at which you throw propellant out is the key factor. This is called the exhaust velocity. But, you can't boil water to arbitrary temperatures, so the exhaust velocity (which is achieved by expanding the exhaust in a de laval nozzle) is still limited. And even if you could boil it to arbitrary temperatures, you still need fuel to boil it in the first place, which is limited, too. It turns out, you can build a steam rocket. but its horribly inefficient. According to this Wikipedia site, you can achieve an Isp of 195s with a steam rocket - well below the modern Hydrolox rocket which achieve Isp greater then 450s (Isp and exhaust velocity are closely related, ve = Isp * g0). So your efficiency is horrible. This means the only way you can get anywhere is by increasing propellant mass. The concept of "mass fraction" is actually quite important for modern rockets. To give you an example, the STS external tank was 96% fuel and only 4% structure. A soda can has 94% soda and 6% structure (by weight). So the ET held more percentage of fuel then a soda can. Modern rockets like the Ariane V or upcoming Ariane 6 have even more propellant. You can easily see that its not really feasible to miracuosly improve the fuel fraction by a great margin (or we would have already done it, while still using more efficient propellants).