The expansion of the universe it self does not cause atoms to increase in size (because of the electromagnetic forces holding them together), but it does cause galaxies to move apart from each other (e.g., observed galaxy redshifts and Hubble's Law). In reality, the expansion of the universe is known to be accelerating slightly (see Perlmutter et al., 1998). This acceleration puts a very small outward force on everything (including atoms). Although the electromagnetic forces in atoms hold everything together, it causes electrons to orbit protons an (infinitesimally) larger distance. If the acceleration of the universe's expansion increased many times over, this could have the potential to tear matter apart. The case of extremely large expansion acceleration is called the 'Big Rip'. 

The Wikipedia article says that Spica A has 8 times the luminosity of Spica B (presumably that's at maximum.) Magnitude is -2.5*log10(I/I0). So if the combined magnitude is 0.97, the magnitude of component A is ~1.1 and the magnitude of component B is ~3.3. 

This is unpredictable. The solar system is a chaotic system and it's long-term behavior can't be predicted. But it's also a very stable chaotic system and the planetary orbits have been stable for 4 billion years and will remain stable for some millions of years into the future. See the Wikipedia article for an overview. When we numerically integrate the orbits of the planets into the future in an ensemble (doing many integrations, each with small differences in starting values that are still within experimental error), a small fraction of the ensemble members diverge chaotically. (E.g., Mercury is eventually flung into a wild orbit which may impact Venus.) The key point here is that it is intrinsically unpredictable more than some millions of years into the future -- we're definitely safe for much more than a thousand human lifetimes -- other than statistically. But base don those statistics, it seems likely that the solar system will be disrupted due to chaotic dynamics before the Earth's orbit decays due to tidal forces or anything like that. (Another presently unpredictable future is an interloping star coming close enough to disrupt planetary orbits. Stars pass through the Oort cloud on a regular basis -- one each million years or so -- but getting inside the orbit of Pluto is much less likely and hasn't happened yet as far as we can tell. Nonetheless, this could happen any time.) 

Yes, the Sun rotates. This can be observed by tracking a variety of features on the Sun, such as sunspots, X-ray brightpoints, coronal holes, filaments, and small magnetic flux elements. Another way to determine the rotational speed of the Sun is to measure spectral lines at the edge of the Sun's disk and determine their redshift. It is thought that the rotation of the Sun is due to the way the primordial gas cloud collapsed in on itself to create the Sun. Also, it is likely that the Sun originally rotated much faster when it initially formed, than it does to day. This slow-down was probably caused by 'magnetic breaking' in which strong magnetic fields threading our primordial Sun out into the solar wind resisted the rotation. Today, the reason that the Sun rotates at a different angular speed at different solar latitudes is due to hydromagnetic effects. One cause is thought to be the nature of convection within the outer third of the Sun. Interestingly, below a the convective envelope, beneath a boundary called the tachocline, the Sun rotates as a rigid body. You can find more about this in Schou et al., 1998 

I'm not sure what you mean by "nebulae". You could mean "matter in a gaseous or plasma state" or "cloud of low density gas and dust in space" (which is what astronomers mean by nebulae.) The former case is believed to be correct, and it pretty well described in Wikipedia. I'll summarize. Immediately after the Big Bang (10-20 seconds or so) the universe was full of extremely hot and extremely dense matter -- hot enough that not only did atoms come apart, and nuclei come apart, but even protons and neutrons came apart into a quark-gluon plasma. This cooled into a stew of elementary particles, which cooled into mostly protons, neutrons and electrons, which cooled partly into nuclei. At this point we're maybe a minute into the expansion and the universe was full of a plasma that was still hotter than the center of a star. After around 300,000 years, the plasma cooled enough to recombined into atoms. Stars eventually started to form. No astronomer would call any stage of this expansion a "nebula" -- they first formed later after the atomic gas left a milion years after the Big Bang started to condense into stars and patches of gas and patches close to vacuum. Bottom line: Nebulae did not exist until millions of years after the Big Bang, but the universe was filled with hot gas much earlier in the Big Bang. 

Sunspots are cooler because their magnetic fields inhibit the replenishing of heat from convective flows (due to the interaction between plasma and magnetic fields). This allows them to cool radiatively. The rest of the solar surface is constantly being replenished by convective cells that re-heat it. Solar plasma at the photosphere radiates roughly as a black-body, meaning that the energy (and wavelength) spectrum of radiation follows the Plank function. The Plank function scales up and down with temperature at all energies (and wavelengths). The brightness of a blackbody at a given energy (or wavelength) is determined by the value of the plank function at that energy. The image you showed is taken in the 'photospheric continuum', which is a black-body dominated part of the radiation spectrum. So, because Sunspots are cool (compared to their surroundings), this means that their Plank function is lower than their surroundings, and hence their brightness is lower, causing them to appear dark in the image. 

There are two issues: Would there be gravitational waves to be detected and would LIGO detect them. On the first issue, gravitational waves are quadrupolar, and a cylindrically symmetric system will not produce any. (Specifically, the second time derivative of the quadrupole moment of an isolated system's stress–energy tensor must be non-zero in order for it to emit gravitational radiation.) So a head-on collision of equally massive black holes would not produce significant gravitational waves. If the BHs were of different masses, or the collision not quite head-on, gravitational waves would be produced. On the second issue there are at least three ways LIGO might might miss them. First, they might simply be too faint. A merger through rotation is one of the best ways to produce gravitational waves, and a head-on collision is one of the worst (during a BH merger, of course). A second way it might miss is if the merger is in one of its blind spots. Each LIGO detector has blind spots and there's no rule that says a BH merger can't be in one of them. (In fact, the neutron star merger was located by use of the blind spots. The third gravitational wave (GW) detector, Virgo, in Italy, didn't pick up the neutron star merger. It was bright/loud enough that it should have, which meant that the merger was in one of Virgo's blind spots, which helped to narrow down its location. A GW detected in only one detector would be listed as a possible GW, but not as a detection, because it might simply be terrestrial interference. But another way it might miss is if LIGO had not been looking for the waveform of that kind of merger. General Relativity allows us to compute in very good detail the GW signal from any type of collision that we think likely. Because the GW signals are so faint, the first step of detection is matching computed GW waveforms to the data and looking for matches. Once a match is found, the signal is analyzed in more detail, but they have to know where to look. If no one expected the waveform and it was not strong enough to pop out of the data and yell "Here I am, dummy!" it might be missed. Since head-on collisions are expected to be very rare, it's possible that they are not in the library of waveforms that LIGO checks. 

What you are talking about is making a 'mosaic'. This technique is commonly used in astronomy to stitch together many images that are off-set from each other of some (apparently) large astronomical object (e.g., a star cluster or a nearby galaxy). In addition to covering a large field of view, making a mosaic generally also improves signal to noise where the images overlap. One way to realign the images is to uses cross-correlation to find the optimal shift for consecutive images in order to align them. This can be done in common data analysis languages such as python (free), matlab or IDL (not free). I have not used black-box software to do this, but here is a list of programs that might help: $URL$ Hopefully some astrophotographers here can recommend some software. 

The total energy of the universe consists of the mass energy of all the matter (both normal and dark), the mass-energy of the radiation and of the dark energy plus the gravitational potential energy of the universe (which is negative). The hypotheses is that this sums to zero. As far as I know, there is no experimental evidence for this. But there is good evidence for the size of the various mass-energy terms. The best current estimates are that the mass-energy of the universe is: 

First of all, at that distance seeing the Moon and seeing the Earth amounts to the same thing. At its closest, Saturn is around 3000 times as far from Earth as the Moon is, so viewed from Saturn, the Moon is never more than about a minute of arc away from the Earth. If you can see Earth from the North Pole of Saturn, you can see the Moon, also. (Though it would be a lot dimmer.) But if you can See the Earth from Saturn's pole, then you can also see Saturn's pole from Earth. So your question can equally well be phrased as "Can Saturn's north pole be seen from Earth and if so, when?" If you look at pictures of Saturn from Earth, the rings are sometimes tilted so far that they cover one polar region, though it's also true at those times that polar region tilted away from Earth, anyway! Most of the time the rings are either not tilted enough to cover the poles or tilted to cover the south pole. So the answer is that during most of Saturn's orbit around the Sun, the rings would not obscure the sightline from Saturn's north pole to the Moon.