This is sort of on the more realistic side of worldbuilding, but maybe somewhat exaggerated for the sake of a setting. What's the fastest atmospheric pressure drop in weather records? This question is kind of more asking how quickly a flash flood could happen, especially maybe a decade in a future. Of course, heavy rainfall contributes to that, but a storm surge caused by wind and pressure is what I'm interested in. 

Maybe this question doesn't go too far, but when reading about liquid metal type materials like those that can harden with electricity or magnetism, I was kind of thinking of something there. For those who have read through stuff about developments in smart materials, is there a known material that could be made to harden and flatten like some kind of shield or harden and extend to a sharp point? 

We can ignore the last category for our purposes here: the other two will provide clearer evidence. Unspent fissile material The unspent fissile material will be either uranium-235 or plutonium-239. Uranium-235 has a half-life of over 700 million years. Thus, virtually all of it will still be around after the two million years in the question. This will be an excellent clue for the archaeologist: not only will it show that someone spread a lot of expensive, highly enriched uranium over the planet, it will also give them a good estimate of when, as you can analyse the amount of decay products from the decay chain to see how long since this took place. Plutonium-239 has a much shorter half-life, only 24000 years. This means that after two million years, it will be gone. However, it will not have disappeared entirely, but have also turned into uranium-235. This will mess with the time-span analysis of above somewhat, and introduce an uncertainty of about 100 000 years. Fission products Nuclear fission creates a range of different nuclides. In general, these are short-lived and unstable, but they will also generate daughter nuclides that are stable. The archaeologist will thus find a mixture of different isotopes, in proportions that does not occur naturally, in the same layers as the above uranium. This will clearly show that not only has someone spread a lot of uranium-235, but also a lot of fission products. The theory that would best explain this is an all-out nuclear war: 

Chromosomes, when paired, occur as both autosomes and allosomes. A pair of autosomes are identical in form, size and behavior. This is not necessarily the case for allosomes. Whether the allosomes in an organism are homozygous, heterozygous, diploid or haploid is typically used to determine the sex of that organism. In the absence of allosomes and environmental factors, what mechanism(s) would allow autosomes alone to determine the sex of an organism? EDIT: There are two such autosomal mechanisms of which I am aware exist on Earth. 

Humans are derived from arboreal shrew-like animals that survived the cataclysm which wiped out the larger dinosaurs. As far as I am aware this series of events is entirely the result of chance. Would being marsupials have adversely affected the development of heuristics, tool use, civilization, etc? 

The whole concept of higher dimensions has always been a fascinating one, but I have to ask if anyone has found anything, like a popular science article or something, that suggests a useful way of interacting with them. One of the big problems with the idea of interacting with them or going to them is that doing so suggests a loss of energy from our dimension. At this point, there isn't any evidence of energy being literally lost from the universe as far as I know (discounting any zero point energy stuff). There is the suggestion that black holes could exist in higher dimensions or that dark matter could, but other than that there isn't much. The only way that I've heard about for going to other dimensions is by using an extremely huge amount of energy like the energy in particle accelerators. Is there any lower energy way someone or something could interact with a higher dimension that has some science behind it? 

Large-scale nuclear disasters are unlikely. They would also release a lot of uranium-238, which would also be detectable. One could postulate a civilization which has reactors that only runs on highly enriched uranium, but that would be an extreme expense without any clear benefit. Large-scale deployment of dirty bombs is even less likely, for similar reasons: they would tend to leave a lot of fission products, but there is no reason for there to be a lot of uranium-235 and no uranium-238. 

Nuclear fallout will be around for an long, long time Nuclear fallout (note: "nuclear fallout" usually refers to radioactive fallout. I will be using a slightly different meaning due to the context of the question). will be detectable until earth is destroyed - if geology allows. I am no expert in formation of rock sediments or the spread of nuclear fallout, so I will assume that nuclear fallout will be preserved in relatively clear strata in e.g. sandstone. If so, any civilization with a relatively basic understanding of nuclear physics will be able to see that there was a big release of fissile material (uranium-235 and plutonium-239), along with products from fission processes. An atomic bomb works through a chain reaction in which a lot of either uranium-235 or plutonium-239 fusions (there are a few other choices of isotopes which might be technically possible to use, but they seldom are) . However, not all of the bomb material will be spent; a significant fraction will be released as fallout. This means that a bomb will spread isotopes from three different groups: 

All organisms on Earth reproduce by one or more of fission, budding, vegetative propagation, sporogenesis, fragmentation, gamogenesis, or agamogenesis. How could an organism reproduce using none of these methods? The first thing that came to my mind was manufacturing or viral infection, but I don't wish to rule out other options. (By manufacturing I mean a biological equivalent of industrial manufacturing or 3D printing. By viral I mean the parent injects a virus into a host which instructs it to grow more infector.) 

In a generic fantasy setting there exist "magic-users" who may, depending on their specialty (like any skill, you have to specialize to become competent), raise armies of zombies, cause literal firestorms, summon and command demons, turn shadows into physical substances, etc. They don't rule the job market because any fighting man may train hard enough to pull off physical and mental stunts that would be impossible in reality, allowing them to stand toe-to-toe with the magic-users. How is this possible? EDIT: By "physical and mental stunts" I mean the sort of stunts seen in action movies like leaping across buildings, dodging bullets after being fired, ignoring the fatal convection next to a river of lava, resisting mental trickery, and so forth. Stuff that isn't particularly flashy but is impossible in reality like magic.