Do nearly half of Americans live in areas that are deemed acoustically unsafe? Only for a rather broad definition of nearly. Table 5 (page 20) shows an estimate of the number of millions of US population (to a "first approximation") exposed to above Ldn value of 58 dB (louder than the limit above) as 92.4 million. In 1981, the population of the USA was about 230 million, so about 40% were exposed to above acceptable levels. Is 40% "nearly half"? I'll leave that for the reader to decide. 

So, longer-term, Weight Watchers remained effective for most of them, especially those who stuck to the program. Five Years After Hitting Goal Weight, Keeping the Weight Off 

This essay, sometimes straying into superlatives and past what the scientific evidence supports, discusses some of the history of the research, and makes an interesting distinction between fresh aloe vera and the gels found in cosmetics. 

The author goes on to recommend some other, more successful preservatives based on other experiments described in the paper - including sodium bisulfite and/or ascorbic acid. There are descriptions of some combinations, including lemon juice, where the extra acidity may help improve the effect of the sodium bisulfite. 

Whether it is the most important factor is a rather meaningless designation. Not dying in child-birth is a more important factor, as a facetious example. 

It depends what sort of press release you are talking about. You may like to focus the question more. For example, in a recent document, three accountancy researchers claim: 

So, I wandered over to the Center for Disease Control's Oral Health site, and looked for some references. This seemed to be the most direct reference they provided: 

They concluded that the FBI conducted satisfactory screenings, and independently reviewed the Saudi nationals involved and confirmed they had no known links to terrorism. 

The job role of writing headlines varies between organisations, but, yes, there are plenty of organisations where it is written by someone other than main author of the article. Wikipedia can't be relied on here, but it gives an [unreferenced] overview of the situation. 

Assuming that evaluation of cartoons has a reasonably strong correlation to the ability to produce comedy, it seems that there is not a strong genetic component. However, shared environment has an effect. This does not prove or disprove that training in comedy can help. It only disproves that one is born funny genetically. 

So, the bottom line, is 16% of people maintained their weight after 5 years, and 50% managed to keep at least a bit of the weight off. This suggests that 50% were NOT able to keep their weight off for 5 years. 

If you believe this etymology (and the understanding that fruit, in general, is considered healthful, you may decide you do not care whether the (modern) apple is special. However, 

The definition of "least racist" isn't clearly defined here, and there are a number of measures that could be used. One suitable measure might be "the highest proportion of people who strongly agree or somewhat agree with the statement 'the presence of foreigners is good for the country'" Unfortunately, I do not have statistics for that question. I do have a close proxy, which is a city-wide rather than a country-wide survey asking for level of agreement with the question 'the presence of foreigners is good for the city. It isn't available for every country in the world, but instead for 75 cities around Europe, 500 respondents per city. 

However, IQ doesn't just change over childhood. More importantly, it doesn't just change over long time periods. It may change over the source of a single day. Here is a selection of studies supporting that idea: 

A 2006 study in the BMJ looked at the sex ratio of children in China before and after the One Child Policy, as part of a large survey of 39,585 women. The conclusions answer the question: 

This paper attempts to address that by looking at media reports from 152 mass murders from 2007 - 2011. The author considered a number of typologies they found in the literature, including Fox and Levine's: 

(That's Australian dollars, but the units are largely irrelevant.) If you squeeze more people per square metre into an open-plan area than a traditional office, that is even more savings per employee. (I'm half-expecting responses that this is a false economy, but that is largely dependent on the commercial conditions the company finds itself in. There may well be some situations where it makes good economic sense to sacrifice longer term productivity in order to reduce up-front costs.) 

However, some measures may have negative effects. Women who avoid contact by crouching empty their bladders less. The "highly unlikely prospect" however may have happened. A case-study suggests Neisseria gonorrhoeae may have been transferred to a small girl from a toilet seat, possibly in the act of wiping it down. 

These scientists measured smell of over 100 women in early pregnancy, and got a similar result. Sense of smell wasn't stronger, but some smells were subjectively less pleasant. However, they also measured their sense of taste (gustatory) and found it had weakened. 

This answer doesn't require much more than a single link. US Patent 6930686: Method and apparatus for drawing thick black lines 

If we examine the World of Lucid Dreaming web-site which is the source of the claims, we find that its claims have no strength. It doesn't assert that paranormal dreaming exists, but merely one may find it. First there is a definition, claiming that sharing a dream environment is paranormal: 

However, the quote from the Guardian is talking about a specific community - babies of Pakistani origins, in Britain and Wales. Both the scientists quoted by the Guardian and the 2008 acknowledge this is a more difficult situation: There may be higher genetic risk in a sub-population: 

In fact, this is a well-known limitation to human (primate?) physiology that has been understood for decades: Jargon File for "Gorilla Arm" 

The report referenced by PETA was updated in June 2007 by the American Veterinary Medical Association, and is now called: AVMA Guidelines on Euthanasia They do discuss electrocution techniques, with references. 

The claim is largely supported by a 2015 report by GSMA (an international consortium of mobile operators). The report does not appear to be peer-reviewed.