It seems that the only downside to dropping your bat while running is that you simply have slightly less reach to ground yourself with. Beyond that, the bat is mostly not necessary for running. I was expecting to find a rule regarding equipment being left "in play" on the field, but it seems that these laws only refer to the fielding side's equipment, and not the batsmen. 

No, the NBA team can not pay a player less than his contract due to injury. They can, however, get a salary cap extension under the Disabled Player Extension, as detailed: 

According to the NBA section of this Investopedia article, each season there is a "playoff kitty" which is divvied up amongst the various teams dependent on performance, from which the teams can choose how to distribute amongst players. Here's the exact quotes: 

I expect that the umpire would signal "time on" on giving a free kick before the centre bounce, but even if they didn't, the timekeeper is able to do it of their own accord because the football is clearly in play at that point. At this stage the match is in the same state it would have been even if there was a centre bounce - the match has started, the ball is in play, and the timekeeper has started the clock. 

To refine TrueDub's answer somewhat, we can completely ignore drawn and tied matches - obviously that's going to result in one win and one loss, and given that it's extremely unlikely for there to be any significant bias towards the "better" or "worse" team winning a coin toss, those results can be safely ignored for the purposes of seeing if winning the toss gives an advantage. Out of the 1452 matches that ended in a (non-tie) result that Cricinfo gives data for, the team that won the toss won 765 (52.686%) of them, losing 687 (47.314%). From this it's reasonable to assume that winning the coin toss probably gives a slight advantage under at least some conditions, although not enough to be too much more significant than statistical noise. Unfortunately, I do not believe it's possible to easily get the average runs scored for each team - TrueDub posted the average runs per wicket, but that can be heavily misleading as it is common for a Test match to end without 40 wickets being taken. It seems like Cricinfo does not have the numbers you are looking for, though. TL;DR: The team that wins the toss wins about 1 in 40 more matches than they'd expect to. 

Usually what is call a friendly match is a game outside a tournament. Like in many other sports, this kind of game is usually used as a test for both team. Usually in this kind of game, although all the rule book is used, sometimes there are a relax in some rules, like quantity of substitutes, and many times both team plays in a relaxed way, and the refeere usually don´t show as many yellow and red cards. Some games, like the ones that are the last one for a player, includes several more relaxed rules, like the player playing for both team, or an unlimited number of replacement players. The last one are usually not call friendly match, are better know as tribute match. 

The problem with your second scenary is not the pass per se.. is the position of player C. if player C is behind the ball, there is no problem if the pass go foward or backward, since the ball in that case is the line that mark offside position. 

According to this on line newspaper (that has his corresponding real version), the record is holded by a team with 7 penalties (but it doesn't said in how many matches). But it has info about this team, Talleres de cordoba, who in 1952 has 6 penalties in 5 consecutives matches. 

I can't speak specifically for the NFL, but this does actually happen regularly in a lot of leagues. Since the 2000s, Carlton and Adelaide in the AFL, as well as Melbourne Storm in the NRL, have both been punished for salary cap cheating in this form. The main thing stopping it is the punishment (Melbourne Storm were retroactively stripped of all of their premierships in that period and fined millions of dollars), which often far outweighs any advantages. For instance, Carlton were fined nearly a million dollars and stripped of all of their draft picks for two years, and then proceeded to be the worst team in the competition for most of that decade. The Adelaide Crows were fined nearly half a million dollars, were also stripped of two years of draft picks, lost arguably their best player in a trade to another team without receiving the compensation they otherwise would have, and had a number of players leave in quick succession, possibly due to the scandal. They went from being one of the best teams in the competition in 2012 to being a laughing stock. Melbourne Storm, in the most infamous salary cap breach in Australian sporting history, had paid roughly $1,000,000 a year to their players outside of the cap, with "off the books" things like payments into offshore accounts, $20,000 gift cards, and boats. They were fined millions, had two of their premierships (and three minor premierships) removed, and were also stripped of their World Club Challenge champions title. In short, yes, rorting the salary cap is very easy, and many people and many teams have done it. The thing stopping it from become extraordinarily common is that a sports club has so much scrutiny under it, and so many people who need to be kept quiet, and in the end, the punishment if you get caught means that it just isn't worth it. 

Well.. Any answer here could be a little subjetive about this. I would start saying that even if you understand the game, that doesn't mean that your body will do what your head wants to do. The other factor is practice. When you are a young boy, your body learns movements a lot better that when you are growing. that's why players usually are young people. It's very hard to learn how to move your body while you are growing up. The best you can do at this point, is do a lot of drills on passing, movements and shots. You will not learn in the course of a game, at least not without help. The other thing you need is a coach (any type, even a friend that do the things in a right way), it can help you pointing out flaws he see, or at least showing you how to do particular things. But even if you do all that things, there is a chance that your play never gets better. There are a lot of cases where coach where not great players, and great players are horrible coach (just see maradona coaching). also, besides 5 a side soccer can make you go attacking and defending, start playing only one position until you get a better aproach on it. 

According to what I get on the golf course, the pre-shot routine prepare your body for the upcoming sequence of movements. Golf teachers usually teach you to get the feeling for the next shoot until you fell comfortable, and this become a routine in every shoot. Usually when you are about to shoot, your mind can play a lot of tricks on you (and more tricks if you are in front of water :P ). Making some practice swings should make your more confident on the shoot, and also will let you focus on your objective, since your body should remember the feeling of the shoot you want to make. It's like telling your body how you want to do the shoot. Usually the pre-shot are slower, you can see it clearly easy on professionals. Also take in mind that a routine makes you more confident about what are you going to do. I will add that usually a lot of sports has pre something routine (in tennis you see the players do always the same before serve). 

The rule looks that way, but from a realistic perspective, he would not, as in all other situations in which a player "catches" a ball in that manner, it is considered a good catch. I do not see an umpire enforcing that rule 

I realized I've been using the term for years but never realized that taken literally, it makes no sense. "Alley" - other than the word alley, I have no idea what this could refer to. "oop" - most likely a shortened version of hoop? Is it a shortened version of another phrase? 

You are correct. It is worded so that an illegal slide into third base would make the runner going to 3rd out, and the runner going to 2nd out. It is worded that way so that if the third baseman still tries to throw to first, the batter-runner would be out. Another situation would be bases loaded, ground ball to the pitcher. Pitcher throws to catcher, runner coming home commits illegal slide, catcher throws to first. This would mean the runner coming home and the batter are out, because the play was attempted to first. I can't wait until this rule is used to complete a triple play. 5-4-3 triple play with an illegal takeout slide at 2nd. Runner to third is out by force, runner at 2nd and batter are out fro this rule! 

The goal is totally valid, and I really doubt he will face any disciplinary charges. The play was stopped by the referee because a player was lying on the field after a challenge. To restart the match, the ref has to drop a ball (law 8 - dropped ball) to restart the match. Usually there is no rule about who will keep the ball, but implicit rules usually make the team that not have the ball, to give it to the opposite team, sending it out, or kicking it far in the other team field. The ball was in fact kicked far to the opposite field, but Adriano run for it and made a goal. He just violated a gentleman convention. 

So to clear it a little, if you are not behind the kicker, you have to wait for the kicker to run past yourself, or wait for the other team to catch the ball and play with it (in the case of a far kick, this is usually what happens) source: $URL$ 

Yes.. if the Player try to take advantage of it, it usually penalized with a yellow card. Usually there is no foul involved, so the flow of the game goes on. It is considered unsportman behavior. 

Maybe golf when you play foursome or fourball?? they are not playing all at the same time, but that's because how the field is made. At least they are all playing one after another, and in groups. They all are playing against each other. 

Additionally, playoff pool distribution amongst teams may not be even. As explained on wagesofwins.com, teams can distribute the money however they like - so I'd imagine that the "big name" star players will get a disproportionately large share of it. That said, If you look at the bottom of that article, if the pool was distributed fairly, making the playoffs only results in a $7,760 payout per player - so not a massive incentive. You have to make the NBA Finals to get a really large bonus. 

I can't find any players who strictly meet this criteria, but Cristiano Ronaldo certainly has a case for it. He jointly holds the record for goals scored in a 38-game Premier League season (31 goals in 2007–08), as well as having held the record for the most goals scored in La Liga, with 40 in 2010–11 (albeit only for a solitary year, as Lionel Messi scored 50 the very next season). I specify a "38-game Premier League season" because in the early to mid 1990s, two players (Andy Cole and Alan Shearer) scored 34 goals in a single season, but they had 42 games to do this in. The Premier League officially acknowledges both of these totals as records, which means that if you found a stats book from 2011 listing the record number of goals scored in any individual season for every top-flight league, Cristiano Ronaldo's name will probably appear twice. 

Futsal is a very "quick" sport. Usually players has to run a lot (like in basketball). That's why this kind of sports has a big rotation of players on the field. If you are playing friendly, the last defender could be a nice position, only covering your own half and helping attacking from the center of the field. If you need a rest, being a goalkeeper is the easiest position to rest, since you barely leave the penalty area. That's always depends on the type of game you are playing. If you are playing in a league, you will have to make sure your teammates doesn't fill all the positions you can handle. Or make sure that the team has replacement players. If you have a good goalkeeper (this position needs a lot of reflex, the ball in this game goes very fast), then stick to be the last defender. And start training to regain your fitness. 

There is no rule about that the pitch has to maintain some aspect. in fact a field can be 90m X 45m or 90m X 89m, but the last one would be a very strange field. 

The best drills for kids are the basic one. Since the kids doesn't resolve good on tactic and strategy (almost all of them), is better to let them do what the football is about: passing and kicking. run with the ball using cones and kicking is by far one of the easiest and more accurate drill for kids. Passing to a fellow player and kicking also is a good drill, both for kicking and also for make a feel of team player. Some kids will kick better than other, then you can focus on different types of kicks and ball control for them. And play.. play a lot, the kids are there for playing :)