In the mid 90s I spent some time playing football and training at the University of Nebraska. I was in awe at how the football program generated such an advantage under Tom Osborne. You walked the hallways next to the locker room and you see each year's roster, record, stats... 10-2 was an off year. Some of the things I noticed: 

He is making a generalization about the power I offense. Generally he is right. You basically have three pass to run out of this formation for both the fullback and the halfback. You have a basic side screen, you have variations of an out, and you have up and outs. I am not going to write a chapter on each of these but can cover the basics: 

I think this depends on how the teams handle their practices. If you are playing for a Tom Coughlin, Chip Kelly, the Harbaughs, or any other coach running a a tough training camp and practices you want your bye week on the early side. Given that the NFL severely limited hitting in practices during the year, most of the major hitting is done in the first 6 weeks (counting camp). That is where you will see most injuries and player fatigue. So a team playing for a tough coach will love a bye in weeks 4-7. While on the other hand there are coaches who run softer practices and rely on athletes being able to perform without going through daily hitting. They probably wouldn't care as much about the bye weeks and would probably would prefer something that broke up the season well, maybe in the 7-9 range. Also a younger team would probably want an earlier bye week (STL, SEA, TB). It is hard for coaches to change schemes during a normal week. But during a bye week they could install new packages and rework things. For a more veteran team (DEN, NE, GB) they probably don't care as much about this and probably have the ability to install smaller packages during a normal week. 

Why do they do it? Because I told them too and they won't be on kickoff if they don't (and possibly the team). 

I will say that at my high school in the mid 90s we only ran unbalanced and had a future NFL RB go for over 300 yards a game at over a 10 clip. There is a huge tactical advantage if a defense doesn't rotate correctly or over rotates later in the game. And just the fact that most defenses don't normally see this. In fact every once in a while we ran the swinging gate. This is a very very very effective play when practiced properly especially just using some basic spread principles (RPO). If you have a dominant player at a skill position - WR, RB, or QB you can really isolate that player in a 1 on 1 match or make the team double that player at the beginning. The swinging gate is so effective that most pee-wee to high school rules have stipulations to either outlaw it or make it less effective. An example is some/most organizations at that level consider the center ineligible and these kinds of formations are why high school rules are so stringent on player numbers for pass catching eligibility. The actual rules of football allow the center to be eligible if he is at the end of the line of scrimmage. About 15 years ago I was coaching a 7th grade boys team. They were not very good but had 3-4 good players. We had the fastest kid play WR - the lone - player on one side of the center (because the league made me do that). I had a good QB that could run and a bruiser at RB. Then I put my fastest lineman at center. What does a team do? You have to have a man on my WR. You also have to have a free safety playing the middle - or we just run a post. But here is the kicker. You have to have 3 players minimum - 2 lineman/1 LB or more likely a lineman/2 LBs play against my C/QB/RB. They better be really really good players. Because my center will block the closest LB, my QB will read the DL, chances are the DL is so slow he's not even a factor. Then either I have a one on one for at least 5 yards or I could possibly have a 2-1 if QB beats DL. So within 5 plays the other coach puts 2 DL (one split wide) and 2 LBs. Remember there is a CB and FS there too. So now we have 6 players shading my QB/RB/C/WR. So then my QB just throws it to the other side and my team is playing 7 on 5. And my QB can throw it to the other RB and that RB can pass it too. Since most coaches know their 5 players are screwed they have them rush hard... Flip it to the end and a TD. The play was banned after the first year we ran it. Probably average 15 yards a play vs 2 on other plays. 

The climate of the region would mean that the field would take a long time time to dry or would be wet most/all of the time. If you are putting a baseball field up north it is more important that they have a field to play on vs. having a good field. If it is rainy 2-3 times a week and 40-50F during the spring your fields will never dry. Gravel can be played on the next day. The soil is so rocky that you might as well gravel it. This is less common but seen it in South America. 

At that age group you pick the best players available. Being the best is not only ability but willingness to play hard all the time (and do some dirty work). Also defense should count for more than offense at that level. Even good rec league players aren't GREAT scorers, so defense is more important. You can get lucky and make shots, you can't get lucky (consistently) and make jump shots with a guy in your face. Also for that age range I would think big men would be less coveted (most tall young rec league players can't finish). I played in a league a few years ago with a lot of college teams (out of season). What is funny is that most of the teams were just the bigs. So we are facing a team whose PG is 6'5". Well the first game we lost by 40. The second game we pressed the entire time... didn't lose another game. Just by putting guys into buckets you are disabling your team. You can start 3 "PG"s and 2 "SF"s in a rec league and be dominant. If the two best players are both centers then get those two guys first. I would do the exact opposite of what Matt said. I would go best players for first 3 rounds for sure. After that I might bump a guy up or down a little based on need. And when I say need it would have to be a really drastic need. Example of the need flaw: So you are in round 3 and have no PG. The 4 best available players are bigs. You take the next best PG. Well now you have your team ran by a middling PG who will look to dominate ball since he has best ball skills, but he really isn't a good player. You would be better off getting the big and creating a mismatch. Understanding that you might have a few more turnovers but easier scoring once you get the ball up. 

I am going to answer this with my coaching glasses on. Mainly a football coach but have been involved, especially at high school level, with baseball team's conditioning programs. Also was a decent pitcher in high school with a low 80s fastball. I see three factors that have slowly increased rest needed for pitchers: 

There is really no "baseball" rule preventing you from doing this. So the umpire will have to decide if the delay in the game is worth it. You cannot have two gloves on the field at once so at some point you will have to run to dugout and come back. As a long time umpire, I would just simply tell you it isn't happening. It is an unnatural delay in the game. If I allowed everyone to do it half the game could be retrieving gloves. What do I say to the SS that likes a different glove for lefties or the outfielder who wants a different glove to clog the infield... My simple answer would be no. I will let you switch it once, then you are set. But umpires can let you do whatever and maybe you could get away with it being a catcher. If you have a good umpire though they will not let this kind of ridiculousness happen - what if the hitter had a different bat for each count variation? On a more semantic approach - why would you choose a catcher's mitt? Catching a foul tip or pop up is far far more likely of an occurrence vs. a super hard throw and close play at the plate. Played catcher for years and the only reason I need a catcher's mitt is for hard thrown pitches and for when a guy is stealing (easy to get the ball out of catcher's mitt). Since neither of those happen in softball your request is even more absurd. 

Start time is the estimated kickoff time. Back in the day some tickets would actually say EST Kickoff Time 2:00 PM. However most tickets don't include times anymore since game times are so often changed for TV networks. +1 for anyone that can find an old ticket with Kickoff Time printed because they definitely existed. As for NFL and major colleges you will find that their kickoff time is usually right at the estimated start time. They want that kickoff right at the slotted time to get the viewer hooked in. In the NFL a game is behind if the kickoff happens at 12:03 for a noon game. This does happen and might be a variety of reasons - malfunction at stadium, ref needs to hit the bathroom, whatever - but most games do start right at noon (within a minute) if scheduled for that. College games are pretty much the same way although there is more variance for issues to arise and the games will more commonly start a couple minutes past estimated kickoff time (which is the same as start time). I have refereed small college games and we are told that captains meeting is 10 minutes before start time and they want our games starting right on time. For smaller colleges/high school the captains actually might have a bunch of questions, which we answer and we might start a few minutes late. I have also had both teams run out, no questions, run back, and expect the kickoff right away. Which we try to slow things down but have started a minute or two early. For major colleges/NFL they will never start early because TV networks can't support this. They get cues on the earliest they can kickoff. I have been to plenty of college games where the kickoff teams have stood waiting on the field for 3-4 minutes. Everyone is wondering the delay but its the TV networks. The exception of this rule is Superbowl, Monday/Sunday Night Football and college bowl games. These are big events and the estimated times are a pipe dream - they are close for Sunday/Monday Night Football but still may be 5-10 minutes late if they have breaking news they want to cover. That is when they want you to start watching and kickoff may be 10-20 minutes away. They can really only do it if there isn't another competing game you can switch to. So to answer your question the start time is the estimated kickoff time. There are no hard rules governing this though other than TV networks. Referees at all levels have specific time slots for the toss and captains meeting which is always before the start time and allots enough time in most cases to start when people are expecting it. You can always see the whole game if you tune in at that time but you might be a little early for major events.