Several online forums I've frequented have had discussions removed when suicide methods are mentioned. The reasoning have been that discussion about suicide themselves are suicide triggers. While it sounds plausible, and it's not that hard to find anecdotes, is there any research confirming that sentiment? Clarification: If you frequent suicide forums you are exposed to a constant stream of suicide information, so naturally that could probably give you that extra push if you are prone to self-destructive behavior. My questions is not about suicide websites or forums dedicated to suicide methods, who naturally attract people contemplating suicide, but whether discussion about suicide in other contexts also function as triggers. Example: On a nutrition forum, it's not unheard of threads shifting to discussing toxicity, and then someone mentions cases of suicide by overdosing on a compound. Are you justified in fearing trigger effects even in this context? 

The motivations behind the techniques seem plausible, and it's easy to find supporting anecdotes. However, are there any studies that actually confirm the efficiency of these techniques compared to other techniques? Is the Suzuki method "better" than other methods? Edit: For any plausible definition of "better". 

The Suzuki method is influenced by the violinist Suzuki's observations of how children learn to speak their mother tongue. Some of the characteristics of the method are 

This sounds just a little bit too much like the classic Weapons of Mass Instruction / Al-Gebra joke. Has this event in Lousiana actually happened, or is this satire that got picked up and spread as if it had really happened? 

References within that article contain many more medical explanations for perceived out-of-body experiences. Whether there has been a person called Mary Ann Schinfield is difficult to determine. However, the claims about this person are incredibly unlikely to be true. 

This means US$1.25 in 2005 prices or, equivalently, $1.00 in 1996 prices. Progress to this target is significant in most of the world. According to World Bank figures, the number of people living from less than $1.25 per day has dropped significantly, both in relative and in absolute terms. The figure below is from Wikimedia Commons, based on data from the World Bank: 

This article in The Nation contains an excerpt from “Ecological Redemption: Ocean Farming in the Era of Climate Change,” a lecture by Bren Smith given at the Thirty-Fifth Annual E. F. Schumacher Lectures on October 24, 2015.. The lecture reads like one big advertisement for growing ocean vegetables in zero-input farms. Reading it makes one wonder why this technology doesn't feed the world already. For example, it claims: 

It's a very common claim that ADHD is over diagnosed, or even doesn't exist; and in particular I've heard claims that AD/HD is over diagnosed within the US since it's diagnosed more often in the US then in some other countries. I'm trying to determine if this is true, to the best of our ability; which admittedly is very difficult. Assuming we accept AD/HD exists as a disorder which can and should be treated in some individuals can anyone provide studies which could indicate the likely level of over diagnoses within the US. Actually, to be more exact can anyone point to studies on number/percentage of individuals likely to have been misdiagnosed with AD/HD when they do not have it; or how those rates of false diagnosed as AD/HD may compare to other nations. 

I've heard on a few occasions claims that one should not play the lottery because it increases the odds of committing suicide later. Here are a few articles I found that at least reference the idea: $URL$ $URL$ What affect does winning the lottery have on the odds that an individual will choose to commit, or attempting, suicide? For this question lets define 'winning' the lottery as winning a minimum of $10,000 dollars from a single ticket. I'm also happy to accept studies that look only at the affect of larger lottery winnings then the 10,000 minimum I set. I'm asking specifically rather winning the lottery increases an individual's risk of suicide, not if lottery winners have a higher chance of suicide then non-winners. Since a number of factors which increase odds of an individual playing the lottery are also correlated with chance of committing suicide, most obviously socioeconomic level, I'd prefer to look at studies that attempted to correct for this effect if possible. 

Other studies More recently, Séralini et. al (2012) conclude that a particular kind of genetically modified food is harmful to rats, but only on timescales similar to the rats lifetime, which would suggest that effects in humans may only become visible on a timescale of decades. The work by Séralini is highly controversial. He has been accused of fraud and his articles have been described as debunked; whether this is true or a sign of the debate itself being toxic, I don't know. Wikipedia has a whole article Séralini affair, which links further to himself and his articles. They're too controversial to base any conclusions upon, really. An advocacy group called Earth Open Source has published a report GMO Myths and Truths, where GMO is understood as genetically engineered crops. This document specifically collects material critical of GMO, and is therefore not objective by itself, but it does build upon peer-reviewed publications and the authors have PhDs in relevant fields (molecular genetics and biochemistry). They list a number of studies linking how GMO's can be toxic, similarly to the note by the Union of Concerned Scientists. Concluding note "Safe to consume" or "harmful to humans" can relate to direct or indirect effects. Not all GMO food is automatically unsafe, but there exist secondary effects. For example, some GMO adoption leads to increased pesticide use, and there exist ecological risks which can indirectly affect human health. For further reading, these issues are addressed by the Union of Concerned Scientists, the UNEP, and the Earth Open Source report. The scientific debate continues.