I'd add a historical perspective to the great answers already given. The data from a very illustrative article "The Greek Debt Restructuring: An Autopsy" by Jeromin Zettelmeyer, Christoph Trebesch, and Mitu Gulati. The private creditors would bear the losses if Greece defaulted before March 2012 These organizations held the Greek debt by 2011: 

@dismalscience said it all. I'd add that the EU is trying to get Greece's property in two indirect ways. First, the troika demanded from Greece to privatize some of its public assets. While privatization is beneficial in the bull market, asset prices in Greece are, of course, at their prehistoric levels. Greek companies are all cash constrained now, and the likely buyer of this discounted property will be other European companies, mostly from the net creditor countries. Second, the leaked drafts of the troika's new demands asked Greece to put its "valuable assets" in a Luxembourg-based fund. The only point of this transaction, as I see it, is to seize the assets if Greece defaults later. And, yes, correct me if my suspicious about the latter are wrong. 

The key is production capabilities, not relative specialization. In words of Hausmann and Rodrik (2006): 

The first paper is a very good overview of both models and real data. There're many empirical papers, in fact. Even the US special services made research on networks. In one case, they tried to identify key officials in the Iran government. In another, they used network structure for dealing with insurgents in Afghanistan. 

The public sector kept its employees, so on average you have no peaks in 2010 (the first figure). And after 2010, you see a decline — basically caused by the same determinants, now working in the opposite direction. 

Manias, Panics, and Crashes by Charles Kindleberger (Full book pdf) An easier reading compared to Reinhart and Rogoff. It informally explains how crises occur and presents some famous examples. 

($URL$ You need $15 mn just to keep it alive. Recall that, meanwhile, you are supposed to provide credit, so you'll have to borrow more money for this. With 150K GBP in capital and fractional reserve rules, a new bank will be wiped out with losses. And it has no impact on the competition in banking, which is already quite tough. 

I didn't see the evidences on the recent European immigration, but the event is similar to the Mariel Boatlift story in Card (1990): 

In fact, most major 19th century economists, such as David Ricardo and Karl Marx, wrote pure political economy, which was overcome by economics after the Marginal Revolution. You may read them, but be aware that their theories happen to be mostly wrong or incomplete. 

I assume you're talking about field experiments and empirical work in general. (Not Vernon Smith's style lab experiments.) AidGrade 

Java, C#, C, Julia are used when performance is important (heavy simulations, combinatorics, etc.). In a specific paper, software is easy to identify uniquely with plots (google "stata plots" or "r plots" for gallery) or replication files, as mentioned here. 

In general, economists suggest that low-skilled natives suffer a bit from an influx of low-skilled immigrants (but again, we're talking about large numbers, >1% of population): 

Data Many sources, actually. The best one is the Quality of Government dataset, which includes different measures of institutions in a single big panel: $URL$ 

Does the current academic consensus remain with Barro's 1995 paper? Are there any new estimates of the impact of inflation, threshold levels of inflation, and changes in inflation on long-term economic growth? 

This Time Is Different by Reinhart and Rogoff Detailed, structured, and comprehensive. A brief paper by the same authors on the same topic: This Time is Different: A Panoramic View of Eight Centuries of Financial Crises. The paper's abstract: 

You can see that these papers address many issues at once, including "failed" hypotheses. So, any journal that includes empirics also includes failed experiments. 

Depends on what you mean by "success". Economic growth is simply change in gross output expressed in market prices. Prices tell you what citizens want and how much of it they have. Equating marginal utility with price is a useful abstraction in this case. Economic growth is trivially desirable: it's about people making things they need. When "success" is defined in some progressive terms, it's no longer trivially desirable. Zero employment policies — like those in the Soviet Union — hurt productivity. Premature investments in clean tech worsen intertemporal tradeoffs. You actually get back to GDP to measure these successes. Still, measurements of economic growth can get better. Like Stiglitz et al's suggestion to use net disposable income instead of GDP per capita (see Commission on the Measurement of Economic Performance and Social Progress, Mismeasuring Our Lives). Adjusting per-capita metrics for inequality would also be a good idea. 

Price movements don't need large money inflows. Indices are generally built on spot prices, meaning the price of the last deal. This deal reflects the valuation of the company, but not the volume of transactions. The market capitalization of Microsoft is $360 bn (MSFT). It's growing for the last 30 years, but it's only the number of shares outstanding times the price of one share (44). If someone starts buying MSFT, he pushes the share price up, while spending a fraction of percent of the total valuation. But this can't last forever because soon too many people will sell MSFT, and the guy will need more money to increase the price per share. The fundamental factor that keeps the prices high is expectations about the company's earnings. This is why people don't sell MSFT when someone is trying to buy it. But you don't need much money to synchronize expectations and the price per share. That said, prices do react to the money influx, which can be triggered by changes in the interest rate and international capital flows. 

Of course, the impact varies by country and incentive. See references and citations of this paper for more research. 

The website aggregates results from multiple programs, including those that showed no significant relationships. Also read Vivalt, “How Much Can We Generalize from Impact Evaluations?” But also any academic journal publishing the empirics Some researchers publish insignificant results of empirical work as a matter of refutation someone else's theory, usually along with significant results. Field experiments in economics allow for this, since you're trying to test as many hypotheses as possible when running a $1M-plus experiment. For example: 

The Applied Theory of Price by Donald N. McCloskey McCloskey published the book (pdf) for free now. The Chicago school's other economists also published their books on price theory (see Milton Friedman's and George Stigler's). 

Until the euro remains the official currency, the public and private sector in Greece have to pay wages and invoices in euro. They're also paying external debt in euros. But euros are fleeing the country and the banking system. And Greece can't print more of them. It means that firms and people have less and less liquidity. To escape the barter economy, Greece needs some sort of money that can circulate legally within the country. And this money needs to be printed without ECB's permission. So, this is the exit everyone discusses. Notice that no one, in fact, takes away the euros. Two currencies may coexist. And what's the default everyone is talking about? Just a failure to keep up with the payment schedule, mostly to the IMF. It says nothing about how much of its public debt Greece will never pay. So, it depends on the negotiations whether the creditors will agree to stretch the payments or reduce the interest rate. This default is not directly related to this exit. But both depend on how much euros the country gets from abroad. Until export is weak, the IMF/EU credit line remains an important source of euros. The failing negotiations regarding this line may cause both default (on public and private debts) and the exit. 

Public spending spillovers. The European Union isn't very united, and national governments still think locally. When they implement a stimulus, its effect on demand and employment spills over the neighboring countries. (That's one reason why the US is effective: the American states relied on the federal stimulus after 2008.) Business lobby. The public debt coupled with fiscal deficit are associated with higher taxation. And some European countries did raise taxes. Naturally, in this case, business and the rich prefer austerity over taxation. Leave alone the ideology of government intervention, which they also dislike. Government inefficiency versus demand. Some national governments in Europe score low at public governance. The logic is, if you give them more discretion, they'll spend money on hiring other inefficient public officials without much effect on the economy. See, for example, what the EU thinks about GIIPS. Ex-post, fiscal multipliers happened to be higher than the EU thought, but the time was wasted. 

See RePEc's software top. You'll find much Stata, a bit Matlab, and nothing else. From long personal observations, economists' preferences are ranked like this: 

That's for a 7% shock. In contrast, Europe experience a 0.1% shock in labor supply. Maybe the only difference we'd find will be in the areas where immigrants settle densely. For more reading: 

Noticeable works about the impact of inflation on economic growth are dated back to the 90s. For example, Barro (1995): 

The eurozone had economic growth before 2008, so appreciating labor was expected, especially due to increasing labor mobility. Wages were converging to Germany's. In addition, Southern Europe saw an influx of capital (this is how they caught the debt crisis). Capital triggered some speculative economic growth — 4% in Greece — and an increase in wages. One more thing. When the crisis hit in 2008, the private sector fired a lot of people. But high-paid employee remained. Which lead to this 12% pike in the business sector alone, as the average wage of the remaining workers increased: Unit labor cost, year-to-year change: Business sector services only 

The minimum required capital matters, but in the opposite direction: the more capital you have, the more likely you can challenge big banks. Because the costs of a new bank look like this: 

Bruno and Easterly, “Inflation Crises and Long-Run Growth” (1998), reiterate that extreme situations matter for growth: 

There're two types of countries that have little debt: resource-rich economies (Turkmenistan, Iran) and those who can't borrow (Afghanistan, Haiti). 

Each startup typically attracts multiple investors, each having its own evaluation of the company. Investors participate in funding series, when equity is sold at the same per-share price. Otherwise, it's difficult to explain an investor why he paid more for the startup than others did. When a startup finds investors who buy their stakes at high evaluation, the startup cuts off more reasonable investors. And reputable VC funds don't like overpaying. So, the startup ends with some silly investors holding their equity, while unable to find more money at comparable prices. In the end, founders are better off while targeting realistic evaluation, not milking a single naive investor. 

The MIT has the best graduate economic program, and its undergrad program is definitely in the top 3. The faculty is technical-oriented, which means a lot of math, so you'll be well prepared. The list of requirements included in a syllabus of each course says what other courses you must complete before approaching this one. So, you'll know your learning path in advance. Each course includes lecture notes and recommended literature. I'd also keep in mind that while you save money learning this way, the process is quite difficult (especially due to solving math problems alone) and puts you out of sync with institutional aspects of formal education. Like, it's harder to enroll in a grad program or get an advantage in employment.