Internal politics. There was a period where the politicians made bigger and bigger messes and the voters grew more and more impatient with them. It seemed like everybody was corrupt. A new party called the Openness Party appears. They have a charismatic leader and win votes with a simple promise: "No more secrets!" It starts as a local party and wins the mayor's seat in a city. And they deliver. As the months go the city administration becomes more and more open. A number of corrupt city employees are discovered and punished. A major pollution problem is stopped when BigCorp can no longer bribe people to look the other way. The city budget improves as politicians can no longer attend "meetings" in faraway luxury resorts. The Parking Authority's private golf course is opened to the public. Riding a storm of public approval the Openness Party enters national politics and wins again. After a few years almost every aspect of the government is open to inspection by the media or by anybody who cares to do so. There are very few remaining secrets, all of them military in nature. When they meet foreign diplomats, of course they will invite media. Why not? 

The descendants already have by their very existence have had an impact on the ancestors. Their existence implies that the ancestors did and all their descendants did not go extinct. In short, self-consistency. Anything that the descendants experience must be consistent with what the ancestors left behind. This is a strange kind of "causal channel", but narrative-wise it can work (with effort!) Imagine the ancestors run into a large military force. Then a "cut" to another scene, followed by the descendants learning about the result of that encounter. More generally, the ancestors can set a goal or encounter a challenge, then you can cut to the descendants discovering the result of the goal/challenge, then cut back to the ancestors having completed the goal/challenge. The narrative causality doesn't line up with the linear time causality. You can even go meta on the narrative. Set up this non-linear pseudo-causality, then throw in the fact that the pseudo-causality was a misunderstanding. The descendants aren't actually exploring the actions of the group of ancestors you are following! But instead a different people. Or maybe only possibly a different people. Then you cut back to the ancestors, who now have to overcome some problem that the narrative had earlier indicated was predestined to be solved. And there is always the cheesiest version of that switch -- the descendants are actually the ancestors and vice versa. 

Me and my friends were brainstorming campaign ideas earlier and we came up with a setting. Essentially it's our universe but with one BIG difference... Humans can use magic. The ability to use magic has been around since the first lifeforms formed (protozoa, bacteria, virii, etc.). The Magic System relies on (some) of that human's metabolic energy . The humans (in this world) have "nodes" scattered across their bodies. These nodes absorb ambient energy within the environment and store it within capacitor-esque cells (like fat cells that DON'T make you fat). When you cast a spell, some of your metabolic energy (and some of that "capacitor" energy) is expended (essentially Magic is like a muscle, use it and it's strength grows, don't and it atrophies). "Flashier" spells require more energy than "Simple" spells (an exmaple of a "Flashy" spell would be a Lightning bolt or a Wrecking ball-sized fireball. Whilst a simple spell would be a baseball-sized fireball or generating a lightsource). Note: Here are the Node locations: Chest, Left Hand, Right Hand, Left Foot, Right Foot, Brain (in rare cases), Blood cells (blood cells contain weak nodes that are about the size of mitochondria). Note: Nodes cannot be removed or destroyed Think of the nodes as the M-R Nodes from Aberrant: here's a link:$URL$ Note: SPELLS CANNOT ALTER REALITY So my question is... would the scientists of this universe still call "Magic" Magic? (or would they come up with a different name for it?) 

We have not been able to fit these two together. One of the reasons for this is that we have not been able do experiments that test both at once. Objects that are small enough to have quantum effects are not noticeably affected by gravity. At least not strongly enough that we can distinguish between different theories of gravity. Our other theories (eg. electromagnetism) can be fit with one or the other, but not both at once. Black holes changes things. Here gravity is very strong and even electrons will feel the pull. If we would be able to bring along both a neutrino source and a neutrino detector, we would learn much about these mysterious particles. However, at current or near-future tech levels neutrino detectors are very massive and not something you can move off-Earth. Even without that I am sure there are numerous experiments we could do with a humble electron ray that will be very useful. The main experiment I see done is sending a laser or a ray of electrons in very close to the event horizon, and putting a detector where it comes out. Useful results would be angle of deflection and time taken for the journey. Maybe also how spread out the beam has become. If the hole is rotating, sending beams both with and against the rotation will be interesting. Why humans? This is about science, which means we won't know in advance what experiments we want to perform. Results of the one experiment will suggest new physics theories. These will suggest new experiments to perform. A machine cannot do this. (Unless you have powerful AI) If there are no humans on the spot, the results will have to be sent to Earth and new commands sent back. This will take too much time and the black hole will move away before we are done. I suggest a crew consisting of a mixture of astronauts and physicists. Both will need to have a good understanding of the other side, but in the end they are different in their goals. The astronauts will want to keep everybody alive and return home in one piece. The physicists will want to perform more experiments. More! MORE!! Other answers have suggested sending several unmanned probes instead of a manned one. I suggest a manned ship carrying many unmanned probes. The ship stays prudently far away from the radiation, the probes go closer, not close enough for tidal effects to destroy them, but definitely into hard radiation areas. Parting gift. The time comes when the hole moves away and we have to go home to Earth. Leave something behind for aliens to discover, maybe something like the Pioneer Plaques and Voyager Golden Discs. The hole will be a scientist magnet from every civilization it passes nearby and a good meeting spot. Maybe we will find an alien artifact already there... 

I'm currently working on a Sci-Fi story. Many of the super-materials in my story are composed of "Neo-Matter". List of Neo-Matter particles: Up-Neotron, Down-Neotron Neo Matter is essentially like regular matter except with a few unique traits 1: Neo Matter can interact with particles that cannot interact electromagnetically (ie. Neutrons, Neutrinos) 2: all Neo Matter particles have a neutral charge and are their own antiparticle 3: Neo Matter particles have the half life of a neutron. 4: Neotrons are the smallest unit of Neo-Matter and cannot be divided into anything smaller. 5: Neotrons are as big as neutrons. 6: Neotron atoms do NOT contain electrons My question being... Is it possible to scientifically explain "Neo-Matter" and if not... what can I change to make it scientifically explainable? Note: If Neo-Matter IS scientifically explainable then could you explain how Neo-Matter Molecules could form? Note: the ONLY force Neo Matter interacts with is Gravity $URL$ If you want an example of something similar here you go. 

Remember by previous question regarding the reversal of entropy?... Well now it's time to see if an object can be immune to the effects of entropy (or exempt from it. I'll go with either). Criteria: 1: Object is NOT affected by Entropy in any regard 2: Object is Immune to the effects of Entropy My Question: How do I scientifically explain a material EXEMPT from the effects of Entropy (handwaving is allowed. But don't make the answer one big handwave if possible) 

We need an approximation of their technology level. Suppose the trip took 1500 years. The ships are the size of US aircraft carriers. And the distance was about 20 light years. The ship would then be travelling at 0.013c, which is pretty fast. We'll use Newtonian energy approximations (it is relatively accurate at 1% c) and we get roughly 0.5% of the mass of the ship is kinetic energy. An aircraft carrier is about 100 kilotonnes. So the KE of the ship is 5e22 J, or 1e23 if you count coming to a stop at the end. Slightly more if you want constant accelleration (as that leads to a top speed 2x higher; this is reasonable to not assume, as at 0.01c the interstellar medium isn't frictionless). Plowing through the interstellar medium is another issue. At 0.01 c each square meter of the ship impacts 158 micrograms of hydrogen/year. Over the 1500 year journey, that sums to 237 milligrams. A cylindrical aircraft carrier has a cross section of 5000 m^2, so that comes to about 1 kg of hydrogen. In comparison to the ship mass that is trivial; thus the interstellar medium is mainly dangerous as it is a form of hard radiation. In comparison, the binding energy of Earth is about 1E32. The big problem with assembling a planet is dissipating that binding energy. The binding energy of an earth-sized planet is enough to send 1 billion supercarrier sized generation ships to nearby stars. So the task you have for the ship is 1 K-type civilization higher in effort than the ship itself. Another way to look at it is that it would take a K-2 type civilization 6 years to process enough energy to disassemble or assemble a reasonable tempurature earth-like planet. And if you are anywhere near a K-2 type civilization, why do you want a planet? But we can approach it that way. Assume these generation ships where sent from a K-1 type civilization. The trip might have begun with the plan to aim for somewhere else, or get resupply or something, but a solar-system wide war that ended badly for everyone wiped out the civilization behind them. Over the 1500 years, they managed to avoid a similar conflict, and developed technology sufficient to reach a K-2 level of civilization; they just are missing a star. They arrive in the destination solar system, and they release von neumann machines. These first disassemble small bodies and reproduce, gathering raw materials. This provides them with an industrial base. Huge solar collectors are built to lift more mass out of gravity wells and build yet more solar collectors. Matter is fuzed and transmuted on large scales. Low atomic matter is sucked out of gas giants using ridiculous technologies (fusion candles whose only purpose is to shoot gas up the gravity gradient? Orbital fountains? Vacuum energy pumps?) Computronium is produced and a Matrioshka brain is constructed to aid in further technological development. The star starts to go dark. Only as they approach a full K-2 civilization does the "lets build an Earth" project start. A full K-2 civilization would take 6 years to pull this off; either they efficiently wait until they are a K-2 civilization (or beyond using exotic technology), or they do it slowly before hand (you know, for practice). Regardless of which they do, if they approach K-2 exponentially almost all of the work will be done when they are almost-K-2. A 1% K-2 civilization requires 600 odd years to build an Earth. Of course, the technology level required makes the 1500 year limit a bit of a joke; this civilization has mostly moved out of physical bodies by this point. The building of the duplicate Earth might be a thank you to the ancestors, and a nature reserve for them and a biosphere. Pretty expensive even for a K-2 civilization however. 

Mirrors. For use in sun ovens. Also to make solar panels more effective. Since mirrors are pretty fragile, it depends on how nomadic these survivors are. 

Adding to the answers of @celtschk and @Anne: They both say that cancer is an inevitable consequence of having a multi-cellular organism. One can imagine that other species have more cancer or less cancer than us, but they will have cancer. Of course, as medical science gets better, we get better at detecting cancer in an early stage, and we also get better at curing cancer when we find it. We will probably soon reach the point where cancer no longer is a big deal, just a matter of seeing your doctor regularly. Total immunity is probably impossible, but we could certainly be less cancer-prone than we are. Multiple redundant systems for mutation detection leading to repair or cell suicide would help. Actually, we already have that, but they aren't quite redundant enough. The problem is that evolution leads to "planned obsolesce". As we age, we accumulate damage from all sorts of sources. From a evolutionary point of view, it is easier to just discard one generation when the next generation is ready, rather than putting lots of effort into repair systems. Any species which is fresh out of their biological evolution era is likely to be in a similar situation. As the species mature and starts modifying their own genome-equivalent, they can get away from this and become more robust. This will not only improve cancer defense but also delay aging in general. Story idea: Write about the one single person on the planet dying from incurable cancer in some distant future. It would have to be somebody who have both skipped their medical controls AND have some complications that makes the cancer incurable. Scientists are working day and night to overcome these complications, but will they succeed in time? Stray thought: A species whose global religion tell them that cancer is a sign of divine wrath, and who always kills the whole family of the diseased. This would give a strong evolutionary pressure to have strong cancer defense. Never totally immune, but far better than us. 

At the scale of interstellar trade or exploration, there are a few reasonable situations. If there is FTL, physics is extremely strange and not at all like what we expect. A reality check in this case is difficult. So, assuming no FTL, interstellar trips will involve tiny self-replicating hardware "seeds" that grow into a civilization. Machine intelligence, in short. Now, it may turn out that organic or hybrid intelligence is more efficient than machine intelligence at a myriad of tasks, or that uploading "real" brains to an emulation layer is the most efficient way to get intelligent actors in the machine. I will assume that growing intelligence in a machine may be wasteful, because real intelligence requires something as complex and rich as reality to grow, while maintaining and training existing intelligence is much easier. In this case, the aliens could enslave humans for brains. Humans consume a biosphere, which doesn't use much in the way of resources that a star-wisp civilization needs to replicate, but still generates intelligent actors. So the star-wisp civilization doubles itself a few dozen times in space, builds an invasion force, and invades the planet. There are only a few true intelligences, but a myriad of "smart bots". They descend upon Earth and harvest our brains. Maybe they start with voluntary uploads, but given how weak our defences are decide that it is more expedient to just upload almost everyone and discard the unsuitable. A breeding population is left behind to provide for further harvests. The generated intelligences are modified and trained to do tasks and have loyalty furthering the production of starwisps, solving certain categories of problem that require true intelligence. The orbital civilization bootstraps up to somewhere between K1 and K2 level, then starts launching further starwisps. It is a race, because there are other starwisp lineages that are also spreading out, and the faster you get 1 or 2 out there the more likely you get "ahead of the curve"; and if behind the curve your starwisps arrive in an already colonized solar system and your lineage dies out. Once this first wave is complete and a few dozen starwisps are sent out, the solar system fortifies against other starwisps arriving and starts a colony of the original aliens. As noted, the most efficient way to produce new intelligences is to grow them organically, so biospheres are built, artificial bodies are created, machine intelligences downloaded, and children are raised. Enslaved human minds remain useful during this period, but are reduced in importance as more and more of the intelligence requirements of the hybrid civlization are provided by their own biological creatures. Terraforming of planets is started (as they are more robust than orbital habitats). Once a few stable biospheres on planets or moons are robust and up and running, the terraforming of Earth begins. This results in the extension of the human lineage, but by this point they are no longer of economic use to the aliens. 

Let me pitch you a setting... The year is 2017 and economic unreast is everywhere and a gang by the name of "Fukdahrooles" is trying to cause societal collapse. My question being... how could Fukdahrooles cause the collapse of society and make America a free-for-all brawl for terrority Note: here are the limitations. 1: The only source of income they have is the Drug Trade and odd jobs. 2: they are widely hated and are considered a Terrorist Organization (like ISIS). 3: THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO NUCLEAR WEAPONS. my question is... How could Fukdahrooles cause societal collapse in the easiest way possible? 

The Year is 2019, and thanks to a series of random events the act of Insider Trading has been legalized across the globe. How is the Global Economy affected? Do small companies/nations collapse due to this? and more importantly... how does this affect the stock market? 

(Note: I am WELL AWARE of the fact that I am asking for an explanation of an inherently unscientific concept. But the members of this particular Stack Exchange are so wonderfully intuitive and so ingenuitive I was hoping that you could answer a question among the lines of this). Whilst many early Science Fiction franchises were more "pseudoscience" than actual "science" they DID in fact introduce a concept that I believe has been able to intrigue intuitive/scientifically analytical minds for years... Stasis Beams. According to Wikipedia, Stasis Beams are: "confined areas of space in which time has been stopped or the contents have been rendered motionless" Objects within a "Stasis Beam" are render (near) Indestructible. My question is... How could I scientifically explain Stasis Beams? (you can even take out the Indestructibility part if it conflicts with science)