Guerrilla warfare B227 is basically doing guerrilla warfare. As long as they know where the Agonizer moves, they can stay out of the way indefinitely. But, how do they know when the A is out of line of sight? I'm not saying they can't, just that it has to be explained. There can be spy satellites, there can be scouts on the ground. Either way, these will become targets for the A. Afterwards, they have a much better chance of surprising the B. Maybe the ships give off neutrino radiation that can be detected straight through the planet. If so, the run-away strategy will work indefinitely. Generally, you don't win wars by running away, but the way you have set things up they just might. A's strategy of conquering places and then pulling all the soldiers out again is not how you do war. Even if B didn't come and reconquer things, the locals would take over the moment A lifted off. So, A must leave soldiers to hold the territory. And B will lose soldiers killing them. In the end, it is a question of who runs out of soldiers first. Points of interest aren't generally spread out evenly across the entire planet. On Earth, a ship hovering far above the North Pole could cover most of the landmass and definitely most of the industry. The opponent would have Australia, which is nice, but not much compared to the US, Europe, Russia and China. 

Stars are very hot. You don't want to get too close to one. Certainly not close enough to pull matter away from one. That is, most stars. Red giant stars might be manageable, but you would need some pretty aggressive cooling. Also, "pulling matter" is not something you do in a scientifically accurate story. There are no tractor beams. Instead you travel through the outskirts of the star and simply collect the matter as you pass by. You want to go fast to avoid getting too hot. But the faster you go, the harder you hit the matter you are trying to collect. Both problems get better as you pass further away from the star, but there is less matter to collect. You might need to do many passes. I am sorry that I have any clear numbers to give you, but this should at least give you somewhere to start researching. This is not what you ask, but I think your best bet is to go find some nice cold ice asteroid to mine. You will more than enough hydrogen to fuel any reasonable sized ship. You will also find other useful stuff, like oxygen. 

Of course we must preserve this life and leave Mars in a state where they can survive! We can't let a few alien algae stop Progress! Survival of the Fittest! 

Conway's GoL. Conway's Game of Life tend to towards two modes: Extreme chaos and extreme order. (To see this, start a simulation of about a million random pixels and see what happens) Different areas can show different behaviour. In extreme chaos mode every pixel changes seemingly without patterns. In extreme order mode every pixel either is stable or changes in a very short cycle, usually 2 time steps, sometimes 3, very very rarely more than 3. Life Life would be different. There would be patterns, but they would not be strict. As the life form multiplies, there would be large-scale repetition of approximate patterns. You would recognize life by this: Large number of "cells" that looks more or less the same, and that seems improbable from a local point of view. The Environment Around these cells would be an environment of the usual chaos and order patches. This environment will be deadly to the life. Simply random changes will kill off the poor innocent little cells. In the beginning these life forms would follow a very simple strategy: Multiply faster than the environment kills them off. Advanced strategies, "intelligence" Eventually, however, they would become smarter. They would change the environment to be more friendly to them. They would also find ways to recognize each other. They could either compete, to ensure more space for their own children, OR they could cooperate, to tame the environment. Some would pretend to cooperate with their neighbours, but secretly preparing to kill them off. Then recognition would become more complex, to see the difference between close relatives that can be trusted and cooperated with, and strangers that has to be fought. The life forms would invent war. At what point should we call them intelligent? That is a matter of definition. I leave that definition up to you. Looking from the Outside. For the outside observers, all this looks like more and more complex patterns, over larger and larger areas and longer and longer time intervals. I suspect it would be quite clear to the observers why things are happening, this cell attacking that cell, that cell cooperating with that other cell to build a wall and so on. One indication of intelligence would be that the observers no longer understands what happens. At first you will have observers going "Oh, so that is why it did the odd thing 10000 time steps ago!". Later they will say "I have no idea how they achieved that!". That point is as good as any to say that the life has become intelligent. 

Self-selection The Universe contains a very large number of sapient species. But not all of them come to Space Station 'A long way from anywhere V'. The Magma Men of Plodial 4 know that they would freeze solid if they tried to visit, so they stay away. The Methane Breathers of Blubliblub know they would catch fire in an oxygen-rich atmosphere, so they stay away. The Kiniggits of Galia know they would be poisoned by all the water vapor in the air, so they stay away. And so on. What you are left with is just those species that are water-based and oxygen-breathing, thriving at approximately the same temperature. Fortunately that is still a good number of species. The Methane Breathers of Blubliblub and other places have their own stations where they meet only other methane breathers. The Kiniggits stay on their ships, and the Magma Men really doesn't travel much... Life support is such a hassle at 900 degrees centigrade. 

One unanswered question is why we haven't already seem these particles. One of the experiments they do with particle accelerators is to smash particles and anti-particles together at high and opposite speeds. A collision of this sort can produce anything up to the energy supplied, subject to certain conservation laws. These laws state that electric charge, spin and other quantities must add up to the same numbers before and after the collision. This can include new and currently unknown quantities like "neo-ness" The point of using particles and anti-particles is that these sums start out as zero, one particle's positive charge is canceled by the other particle's negative charge and so on. This is the very definition of anti-particle. One can get zero after the collision by producing particles and anti-particles in pairs. And you can do this with any particle and its anti-particle. (The question stated that these particles are their own anti-particles, which mean they definitely have anti-particles) So, if there exists a particle with the same mass as a neutron, they would pop up regularly in these collisions. And with the long half-life, we would certainly see them before they disappeared. Or rather, since they don't interact much, we would see energy disappearing from the system, much like when the neutrinos were first predicted. We haven't seen any such particles. It seems very likely that they don't exist. One possibility is that they are much heavier than neutrons. I don't know the range of these experiments, but they have already discovered the Higgs boson at 133 neutron masses. Your particles would have to be heavier than that. 

If a mage were to appear on Earth today, and didn't hide their abilities, we would study the heck out of them until we figured out how they did their magic. And, as you say, then magic would be just another science. So, what could stop us? One cornerstone of science is repeatability. The same experiment done by me today and by you tomorrow should give the same result. For magic to stay magic it would have to be non-repeatable somehow. Unfortunately, this also makes magic less useful and more dangerous. Possibility 1: Magic is less useful and more dangerous. Sane people doesn't use magic. Insane people use magic, and can do amazing things before eventually destroying themselves. Desperate people also use magic. Since these people haven't trained as mages, magic can't be too difficult to do. You might get suicide bombers entering an enemy city and invoking a massive spell without knowing what it will do. One way or another it will probably be destructive. Possibility 2: Magic is actually acts of a god. If you are a nice follower and do things the god approves of, you can ask that god for help and they give you a miracle. These gods doesn't enjoy being studied by scientists and will ignore their requests. Persistent scientists might get hurt. If you go this way you should put some thought into the god's motivations. Preferably something more than "They want to be worshiped". That kind of god has been done to cliche by both mythology and fiction. Possibility 3: Magic could in fact become a science, if only mages and scientists would cooperate. But they don't. Mages enjoy the aura of mystique and don't want to be studied. Mages do in fact use semi-scientific methods in their own studies, but since they don't cooperate the proto-science doesn't advance. This situation is not stable. Sciencists will collect every scrap of information they can get their grubby hands on and eventually solve the mystery. Mages could fight back by killing scientists and burning libraries, but it is very hard to stop knowledge from advancing. 

You say that these people is like humans. No immortal would be like a human, since our mortality is a cornerstone of everything that makes us human. There is no reason for these people to feel pain. Pain is there to stop us before we do something fatal. No fatality, no pain. There is very little for these people to fear. Fear is there to stop us before we do something that would be painful. No pain, no fear. There would be no need for these people to be social at all. Human originally banded together for mutual protection. These people have no need for protection. Military discipline would be impossible. It is built partially on the mutual protection idea and partially on soldiers fearing their officers more than they fear the enemy. No need for protection, no fear in general, no military. These people aren't anything even remotely close to human, and it is impossible for us to guess how they would behave. 

Binary logic can be seen to lead to dualism. Or being a result of dualism. True/False, Good/Evil, Us/Them, Body/Soul, Man/Woman etc. All these distinctions aren't really as sharp as some people want to make them. If somebody use this kind of logic to argue for something bad, the backlash can make the whole dualism/binary logic thing seem bad. 

Informants. Make it easy to snitch on your neighbour. Reward it. Make it compulsory to snitch on your neighbour. If you knew about something and don't tell the government, then you are an accomplice! The religious people themselves are a close knit group who will not tell on each other, but there are always others around who will notice things. And who will talk to the police about it. A good propaganda campaign that paints religious people as dangerous deviants that will abduct your children and baptize them, makes people more likely to go to the police with their suspicions. 

Energy beings are themselves rather difficult from a science perspective. The problem is that energy generally flies apart in all directions, which is not what you expect a "being" to do. You have also tagged this "supernatural", which is good in the sense that you can say "Magic keeps it together". However, that is not very scientific. Whether you call it magic or not, your being has solved the problem of staying in one piece somehow. You scientists can maybe duplicate this effect, putting the being in a "bag of its own skin". Without knowing how the magic skin works, it is hard to be more specific. Another possibility is the "pain fence". If the being approaches the limits of its "cage" it will get a jolt of pain that makes it retreat. For an energy being you will need a full cage with both floor and ceiling to keep it contained. If the being is not able to stay off the floor this is quite cruel. This pain can be caused by energy jolts of some sort. Electricity is probably the easiest. While the being probably eats energy, getting too much at once will be painful. If the scientists don't know what they are doing they have two problems. They can accidentally feed the being and make it too strong to handle. Or, they can use too much energy and accidentally kill the poor thing. Avoiding one problem causes the other. Another source of pain is something that counteracts the "magic skin". This is more a "barbed wire" type of fence. Step too closely and you bleed. Again, they have to be to be careful not to kill the being, but in this case the opposite problem is not the being getting stronger, just getting loose. (Bleeding, angry...)