I am looking for video game type programs for aerobic exercise I should have a look at. What I am looking for is: (1) To be able to set time, intensity and perhaps physical difficulty. (2) To record what I am doing, preferably with the possibility to combine it with heart rate data. (3) Some kind of feedback, measure of what I am doing. A bit fun. The idea is to repeat workouts the same way, but have the possibility to select for slightly higher intensity/difficulty. Can be various combinations involving coordination (like dance), mobility, strength, and compound full body (Like burpees or kettlebell). In my case I prefer low impact and not rapid movements (No running, Dance should be like low impact zumba, and boxing or regular burpees are not ideal). 5-15 min sessions Should be indoor. The core exercises would be step/squat type movements - low impact, low disturbance, muscular and functional. Cardio equipment in gyms typically works this zay. You can select different varied programs, time and a level. Next time you can do the same or increase a bit. Have an X-Box and a Wii with a balance board. 

My workout is divided as follows: Chest/Biceps, Legs, Back/Triceps and Shoulders. I workout 4-6 days a week, depending on my week's schedule. I have been off work lately for these past 15 days and working out with full swing. Although I have noticed that even when I get 8 hour sleep at night, I am very sleepy even after I wake up. What is causing this? Muscle soreness occurs after a day of first 3 workouts, but its tolerable, only slightly more than before because of increased weights. I am getting the same nutrition, only a bit better than before. What should I do to avoid this sleepiness and feel energized once I am awake? Thanks 

22/M/55kg/176cms My last StrongLift 5*5 workout was on 28th Nov 2014, and I weighed 58.2 Kgs then. Since then I haven't worked out one bit and my diet is getting less by day (at least thats what I am feeling like) evident from my current weight. Why I left- To concentrate on my job which involves- sitting for long hours at one place for 10 hours, 5 days a week. (Software Engineer) Now I feel it was a bad decision, for a month or so I pulled alright without working out, but now I feel kind of unmotivated and lethargic and strangely a bit weaker. Just as I was weighing in today, I decided to screw job and focus on my body, I want to get back at lifting, same StrongLift 5*5 program from the start, but I want to change my nutrition part. This is where I need help, I want to build a diet regime, I want to eat those proper carbs and proteins 7 days a week. Please help me build that and recommend me sources from where I can even get ideas on what to cook. Please help me get back with a bang. Thanks :) 

I always used to be a very flexible person. In middle school, I could do full splits straddle and front-and-back on both sides. Even into high school and college, I continued to be able to do lotus positions, kicks above my head, deep lunges, stuff like that. I kind of fell off the wagon with it, but I'm trying to get back into it. Right now, I'm having a major problem with cramping in the soles of my feet during certain stretches. The two stretches where it has become most evident are the Pigeon Stretch (pain in the front foot for both sides) and the kneeling shin stretch (it seems to go by a variety of names) on both feet. I get some degree of the same problem as the kneeling shin stretch just sitting in Seiza. The muscles in the sole of my feet ''feel'' cramped and hard. Massaging them will help relieve the pain and tension for a bit, but it often comes back when I stretch again. I've tried doing basic ankle stretches beforehand, but to little avail. I occasionally get something like this when doing deep lunges, but never nearly as badly. I guess I'm a bit worried that, if I keep pushing through, I'm going to impair my stretching progress because my body will associate stretching with pain, but I don't want to drop these exercises because the pain seems unrelated to what I'm actually stretching. 

After doing around 8 months of bodybuilding routines with little gains I finally decided to switch to a powerlifting workout, StrongLift 5.5 by Mehdi, I am 178 cm tall, weight around 57.4 Kg. Before this I had only done high bar squat and bench press. But after looking at the SL videos I found that my form was poor, e.g. I wasn't going parallel on squats, my shoulders were coming off in bench press, hell I wasn't even holding the bar properly (not on the palm). After completing two workout days - I noticed lower back pain on first day, especially after the row, I thought my form was still not 100% and there has to be some soreness. It was better after a day of rest but the second workout of OHP and Deadlift brought the pain back. Although its better after a days rest, it has me worried. I need to know how to prevent this pain in my next workouts, exactly what to look out for. Thanks 

More likely, given you're using the bars, is that you're doing "hollow body", which is the same technique, except you're bringing your head and legs in as well, and sort of "sucking in" the gut. This is more useful, because it promotes a whole-body movement and static strength, and can be done in a larger variety of positions. You can see a video of this being done on the parallel bars here which sounds like what you're describing. 

The traditional "7 Minute Workout" includes two exercises that require a chair or other elevated surface, the ones mentioned above in the title. Due to an unfortunate incident involving a guest who twisted too quickly in their chair and shattered the back (freak accident, I suspect), my wife has banned use of the chairs in the house for exercise. Until I acquire a secondhand chair from Goodwill, what are some good substitute exercises? It would need to be something I can do at high-intensity for 30 seconds. The two exercises are listed as "Whole body" and "Upper body" respectively for the body parts worked in the original list. 

The morning, but hydration levels tend to vary. One trick is to drink a fixed amount of water when you wake up, and then wait a fixed amount of time. Should be set so that bowel movements and urinating are done for a while when you weight yourself. 

I would do this in a gym with cardio machines, and I imagine fixing work is simpler than fixing hearth rate. How do MAJOR fitness apps such as Google Fit support such protocols? 

Often I can only exercise in the evening, but I don't do it because I fear the effect on sleep and circadian rhythm. I am thinking I should have a better understanding. So how does different forms of strenuous exercise close to bedtime affect sleep and circadian rhythms? In my case it would be HIIT-like sessions, possibly lower intensity, for 5-15 minutes. Resistance training in the evening is usually "Anti DOMS" maintenance or "getting back in" where I try to train light and not cause microtrauma/DOMS (But often I miscalculate) 

The most important exercise if you're sitting in the office all day is regular short walks on the hour. Sitting has been shown to have negative effects on circulation in the legs which has a subsequent effect on mortality, but a short walk seems to solve the problem entirely. I've seen suggestions of 10 minutes every six hours, 5 minutes every hour... I personally just take a quick circuit of the office, generally refilling my coffee cup or water bottle at the same time so that I look busy. 

Pigmie's "How to do a MUSCLE UP in only 5 Minutes". I know that you said you're looking to start with the high pull-ups, but if your stated goal is muscle-ups, why not advise you that direction? I will first state that I am not an expert, and I have not learned to do this myself. However, I have gone through other tutorials by this fellow and he seems to be pretty good at breaking down the progression to provide a sense of progress as you go through (although, in my experience, he more or less assumes physical ability to easily do the exercise, just ignorance of technique). Pre-requisites that he lists are the ability to do a chest pull-up and the ability to do a dip at the top of the bar. You stare you can do the first. Hopefully, you can also do the second. 

I have heard various powerlifters on youtube to use the leg drive(1) and keep your shoulder blades tucked in or together throughout the rep(2) (just as we do on the low bar squats) while doing the bench press. I am on stronglift 5*5, 22/M/58Kg/179CM, and as the weight is increasing gradually I want to learn how to use the legs as stabilizers on the bench press, even though I have them in correct position I am not able to generate any force with them. Secondly, a common recommendation is to keep your hips glued to the bench, back arched and shoulder blades as tucked as possible to prevent unnecessary shoulder use, I have been trying this but it seems I loose this tension mid way. But today I noticed this all the more because I felt some abnormal sensation in my right shoulder (maybe the rotator cuff). Please help me achieve 1 and 2 effectively. 

Its been a month and a half since I started following SL 5*5 after a gap of around 6 months from the gym. Having started from the empty bar, I have reached: Squat - 110 lbs BP - 75 lbs Row - 80 lbs OHP - 55 lbs DL - 165 lbs As you can see the barbell row and the OHP are lagging behind - for the row, everytime at the gym some trainer comes and ask what are you doing, this will ruin your back etc, so it has demoralized me a bit and made me conscious to check my form (I shot a video, but form looked OK). And these days, squats are a bit challenging which leave me which less energy for remaining two exercises. So my question is, is it time to leave this workout and switch to some conventional routine like doing machine rows, lat pulldown etc? If yes, then please help me build one. If not, then how do I progress with SL? Or should I just mix the two? My current weight is 56 kg, height 180 cm. The gym has all standard machines and equipments. Thanks. 

I am not an exercise expert, but my gut feeling is that the incline has you leaning forward at the waist and/or craning your torso back in an effort to compensate. Obviously, you need some degree of leaning to compensate for the fact that you are no longer aligned heightwise with gravity, but it's usually a more minor thing. I would advise having a friend watch you run normally, and then doing the incline, and check to see if you're bending over at the waist. Alternately, you could set up a video-camera on a tripod or window sill for a side view, and analyze it yourself. 

Your research is probably leading you to sites with essays like this one. The answer is there as well: 

If you're just doing push-ups, it's all about the angle. As your hands go higher, you're targeting more of the upper-chest. As your feet go higher, you're targeting more of the lower-chest. The catch is that lowering your hands (or elevating your feet) will also make it harder because you're supporting less of your weight with your feet, increasing the amount of work your arms, shoulders, and chest have to do. 

My current body weight is 57 KG (125.6 pounds) and am 179 cms tall. I am on stronglift 5*5 and my squat weight has reached 110 pounds and deadlift at 155 pounds, while the weights for other exercises are comparatively lower than my body weight, I'd like to know what would be the correct weight to start wearing a belt while squatting and deadlifting or even consider wearing a belt at all? The idea of wearing a belt came to my mind because I noticed some lower back soreness today, which has never happened before. Also I am wondering if the belt provides some support to the back, all I know is that it gives your abs something to push to. 

Some background - Its been around 8 months since I have been exercising regularly, I am 178 cm tall, used to weigh 52.4 Kg when I had started, I have increased to 57.8 till date. Though I was advised about whey protein all along in the beginning I ignored it thinking it was a supplement, it affects kidneys, I can consume that much protein in chicken and fish etc. Now at this point, I think the gains have not been as much as I had anticipated, mainly because of not reaching the daily protein intake on some days as I don't eat meat daily. So is it a good idea to consider taking whey protein? How much, which brand? Or just keep on going as it is and reach my goal of 64? Also, once I decide to stop taking it, will it affect my weight? 

One possible risk is that milk can thicken your phlegm (although it doesn't actually make you produce more), which may create difficulty as you begin to breathe more heavily, because you'll have to either breathe through the phlegm or cough it up and spit it out. More speculative, while I don't see the milk simply "curdling" in your stomach, you might run into mild symptoms similar to lactose intolerance due to your body directing blood away from your stomach, meaning less of the milk is being digested. 

Lastly, the Runner's World article I posted said that some people have luck with wrapping their legs during running. According to Dr. Sheldon Laps, DPM, a podiatrist, "What you're doing is binding the tendons up against the shaft of the shin to prevent stress." I am far from an expert on the situation, so this is largely regurgitated material I've found elsewhere, but I hope that it is helpful to you. 

Along with Gyrfalcon's suggestions, I'd also recommend an app like "Zombies, Run!" which gives you a narrative while running. I've got a mixed opinion on the "zombie chase" bits, which I feel do not properly handle courses with hills or other obstacles that prevent you from raising your speed for a prolonged sprint, but the actual storyline is kind of fun to follow. You could also listen to an audiobook, but my experience is that I find it hard to convince myself to listen to said book while running instead of listening in the comfort of my own home.