Additional points not mentioned in the existing answers: Cleanliness It should be shop-clean with little road grime, and shiny chrome. However if its been hanging in a shed for a few years it will have dull chrome and a light coating of dust. The dust of storage sits on "top" compared to dirt from riding which is up underneath. Seller may have washed it, so focus on areas like around brake calipers and around the bottom bracket/chain stays. Records If seller bought it new, ask to sight any receipts. Also ask if seller has used a recording service like Strava or mapmyride or edmodo. If they have then their rides should be captured and totalled. Tell seller you want to see how fast the bike has gone. Smell Plastic and rubber items have an odor, which comes from the more volatile organic compounds outgassing over time. A new tyre should smell like a new tyre for a bit, but perhaps not as long as you want. Trust Do you trust this person? Do they still ride? Would they be okay letting you go for a couple-hour ride on the new bike, alone or together? Does your bullshit-detector trip or your spidey-sense go all tingly when seller says something? 

Keep looking forward - don't watch your hand. Find the gear lever by touch only. Lessen the weight on your hand that is not shifting gear. Make it more like riding hands-free but don't let go of the off-side. Learn to lean forwards to change gear, don't lean out to the side. Downtube shifters are slower to do the actual change. Start pulling/pushing the lever as your power stroke is ending, and as the front foot passes the forward-most position. Lighten up on the pressure a little early too. Ideally the gear change will have occurred before the next foot hits TDC. After a while you will know how far to push/pull the lever to achieve a good enough gear change with minimal trimming required. 

I owned an electrified MTB for a couple years and it was a fun learning curve. Some things I learned 

Answering for completeness: Don't get in this situation and Prevention is better than cure You should have picked up that the brakes were not as good as they were by feel (poor braking) or on visual inspection noticed that the inner cables were starting to fray. Most bikes have two independent brakes. For yours to both fail at the same time is quite unlikely. And even if you did successfully add a rear brake, a continuous lack of maintenance may leave that in as bad a state as the other two brakes, A basic M check should be done weekly. 

Based on your description of the cut, it was caused by the rim and the under-inflation. Check the valve hole in the inside of the rim with your finger. It should be smooth with no sharp edge, and no burl or daggs on the corner. If there are. file or sand or trim them off with whatever tool you have available. It could be the rim tape was missing or not covering the hole - you may consider replacing that if it doesn't look right. 

Cross-training - do gym work to build your core strength and endurance. Avoid bulking up though. Technique - find hill climbing positions that work for you. Lightness - drop all your water except a couple mouthfulls before the climb. Don't take anything up that doesn't directly contribute. No tools/pump/spares. Remove excess clothing too - you should already be warmed. Timing - Ride with a tail wind up the hill on a cool morning. Records - keep accurate records of your progress... strava segments are awesome for this. Attitude - Think "I'm gonna do it - going to smash my PR! Going to go faster than Tim, better time than Harley!" Motivation - follow someone faster than you up the hill, go into oxygen debt in the last couple hundred metres (ie flog it) Bunch - Draughting on a climb is less effective but still useful. Ride the hill with a bunch if you can. More motivation - join a race that goes up your hill. 

Is there a matching ding on the other side of the rim at about the same place? If yes I'd say it the bike was ridden hard into a pothole with a sharpish edge. Source - I found an unexpected kerb while riding recently. The front wheel came up in time but the back wheel didn't rise soon enough, and I pinch flatted with cuts ~10mm long, wrecked the tyre, and now have two small dents just like this, but a little longer and shallower. Personally I'd remove the tyre and gently file off the lip shown in the photo. Look inside for a matching rim. File off no more than you have to. The braking surface should be smooth and not able to catch the brake pad at all. Don't file the outside (round) edge of the wheel, and don't bother trying to fill the gap. If you're concerned about weight imbalance, file all the dinks out and then put the rim, tyre and tube back in the frame while its off the ground. See if it has a definite "heavier" point that settles lower all the time. Use some clip-on spoke reflectors as weights to balance your wheel again. 

If you want one rider to have an easier time of it, look for different length cranks. They'll still have to do the same cadence as the other rider. Suggestions: Get a matched pair of doubles or triple chainrings. Set your timing chain on the big ring, and use the stoker's middle/smaller ring for the normal chain. If its too low geared, swap the timing chain to the middle and put the rear wheel chain on the big chainring. Once you've settled on a good combination, you could remove the chainrings you're not using. If you're building this tandem from scratch, separate the IGH hub purchase from the build. 

Trialling a recumbent is a great plan - don't just buy one, find the local users group and explore the options and shapes. They're not cheap sadly. Options like handcycles exist too, which free your knees from strain totally. Also try flat pedals for a bit and see if your feet move around without the clipped bits holding your foot down. Could be your knee needs some freedom? An electric assist bike might be right up your street - you push a little and the bike helps your effort. Imagine an exoskeleton that looks like a bike! Based on the medical nature of the cause, you're indeed in need of physiological input - Matt's comment is right in that you want advice from a medical fitter, not a bike shop targetting racers. 

Weather protection comes in the form of a helmet and perhaps a rain poncho, and even knee-high gumboots. And electrification of these would be limited to a front-wheel kitset only. On the plus side, you can locate the batteries in the cargo tray. I'm sure you can google for "electric adult trike" and come up with some pricing, but such answers are off topic for SE. 

If it is the back wheel not spinning freely even when off the ground, sounds like your brake may be the cause. A teardown can be a complex and messy thing, how's your mechanical skills? Final point - if there is only one brake and its not working right, don't ride the bike till its fixed. Many locations require two separate braking subsystems. Where's your front brake gone ? Also, riding it in the current state may worsen a repair into a replacement. 

A 51cm frame sounds too small for you, assuming you're average limb length for your height. You can put the saddle up really high, but that makes it a more aggressive body position, and your seat post is not as well embedded in the frame. You don't mention your age - I'm guessing you may still be growing, in which case the too-small frame will be getting smaller as you grow. Answer Pass on this bike - there will be another. 

Given its only a month old - return to the shop for the first "tune-up" which is standard in most parts of the world. If you bought the bike on line, you can either learn to do it yourself or take it a bike shop and pay for a tuneup. Depends on your mechanical aptitude. Sounds like your bike mechanic visit missed something. 

From $URL$ and there are more photos there. If so - it has single pivot caliper brakes, and definitely steel rims. Your first bet would be to swap out the brake pads. Then change all the brake cables, both inners and outers. These are both maintenance tasks and do not detract from the bike. Replacing the single pivot with dual pivots would help, but finding something period might be difficult. IMO safety is more important than originality, but others disagree. Finally, steel rims tend to be poor at braking anytime. If you can find some 700c alloy rims, they will brake much better. Downside is they're fractionally smaller than 27" wheels, so you'll need new tyres and tubes, and the brake calipers will need to reach further, which can compromise their effectiveness. 

Answer: No - you can't just move the brake levers up the curve of the handlebar drops. If you did this, the bar tape would be bunched up above the hoods and skinnied-out below the hoods. Tools: You'll need a 5mm hex driver (maybe 4mm or 6mm, maybe a philips if its old, or flathead if its ancient) Some tape to finish the bartape wrap, and sharp scissors to cut the tape. Method: Unwind the bar tape carefully, reposition the brakes, then do up the bar tape again. You'll probably put one, maybe two turns of bar tape below the brake hoods that were above the hoods when you started. The brake cables should move okay - you might need to remove and refix some temporary tape.