(2) Detection by EM Spectrum (2.1) Radio and microwave. RADAR is a system that actively scans regions of space, by emitting electromagnetic radiation mostly in microwave range, and hoping they will hit our ship and reflect back. Also, they might not emit any radiation at all, instead, they will listen for any emissions we do. If we try to contact someone using radio, we give away our position. Other radio sources that is emitting radiation might hit us, reflect from us, and enemy might listen. (2.2) Passive infrared detection. The enemy will try to look infrared signals. They are often released by black body radiation in normal temperatures. Basically, a thermal detectable signature because we have non-zero temperature. Also, other infrared sources might hit us, reflect and go to enemy, making us detectable. (2.3) Passive visible light detection. Looking.. maybe with naked eye. Or telescopes. Or whatever. We might be emitting visible light (lamps, engines, or whatever). Or, any other visible light sources (say.. sun, etc) might be emitting, hitting us, and reflecting back to enemy, which in turn it will detect. (2.4) Detection by radiation of higher energies. Cosmic radiation interacting with matter might emit photons, which can be detectable (to a ultra amazing high ridiculously accurate detector). Maybe we should ignore this situation. Or postpone to a future version. 

Well as a given people will still have cryptography. To avoid punishment messages will be hidden using code words and the like, within larger messages that would appear to be about something else. Even if law enforcement had strong suspicion that a message contained a secret message, proving it would be difficult, and maintaining plausible deniability would be easy. Cryptography would have to be done such that it isn't definitely apparent as cryptography. This still isn't that significant, unless the legal system suddenly lowers the standards for a shadow of a doubt quite a lot, proving something is coded when it is intended to not appear to be would be nigh impossible. Cryptography would be pretty similar it would just be slightly inconvenienced. EDIT: What I mentioned is technically stenography not cryptography, anyway stenography will become widespread partially replacing cryptography. 

(3) Effective cloak. There are 4 possibilities of interaction of classical light and us: Reflection, Transmission, Absorption. In addition, there is the possibility we are emitting such things. 

(4.4) Absorption. Since transmission (the ideal one) is unfeasible, we shall place our hopes here. And thank for us, absorption is possible. 

(1) How enemy might detect us (1.1) Active. This is the active way of detecting. Enemy will emit some signal. This signal will interact with the hull. Iff hull reflects, then the enemy will pick up the signal. Analysis of the signal will identify our position, our speed, and possibly more data about us. (1.2) Passive. This is a passive way of detecting. Enemy will not emit a signal, at all. Enemy will just listen for signals. If we emit a signal, enemy will detect us. If we reflect from signal emitted by someone else (say.. sun.. or another ship), enemy will detect and gather data about us. (1.3) Cast Shadow. Other sources emit signals continuously at all directions. Say.. The sun. If the enemy is looking at sun, and their sensors detect the sun stopped transmitting its light in some small dot! Since the source emit continuously by hypothesis, conclusion is something is in between the sun and enemy ship. Something has been detected. Detection of cast shadow might be done with light of stars, sun, continuous radio emissions, etc. 

As mentioned in your question, quantum entanglement can't actually be used to send non-random information, as a result the only way to send things or information FTL is by using a warp drive (which still relies on theoretical negative energy that may not even exist). The warp drive is what you need to get FTL travel, but it is also the only way to do FTL communication, if you had another way you could probably use it for travel as well. It seems the only way to do communications FTL is going to be communication drones, but the drones would probably send their information in radio waves once they dropped out of FTL near their target. Intercepting communications or stopping them would be tricky, at FTL speeds intercepting anything would be nearly impossible, but once they have dropped out of FTL messages would probably be sent with radio waves, which would entail using the same methods we use today. In addition we know that the basic idea behind a warp drive doesn't break any laws like many other proposed FTL. We already know that space itself isn't limited to the speed of light, only matter and energy is. Galaxies sufficiently far away will never have their light reach us due to the expansion of space due to dark energy, to us they are effectively using a warp drive go FTL. Warp drives are dependent on whether we can harness negative energy, but we already suspect that the fabric of space has negative energy as dark energy, but that would probably be impossible to harness since it's evenly distributed. 

(6) Visible Light. (6.1) Emission. Trivial to avoid. Just shut down all the lamps in the outer-hull. (6.2) Reflection. We cannot reflect from other visible light emissions if we plan to be undetected (6.3) Absorption. Same argument for infrared. If we plan a good cloack, we cannot absorb visible light. (6.4) Transmission. Here we are. Its a must. And same argument of infrared applies to visible light. 

(7) What we need. (7.1) Geometry. Making things in the right geometry to reduce radar cross section and be invisible by radio and microwave. Maybe a fractal pattern. Or something to make the waves cancel out. I don't know. (7.2) Infrared and Visible light transmission. We need to perfectly redirect the infrared and visible sources as if we are not there. This is proving to be quite difficult with our current technology level. (7.3) Black body Radiation. Following (5.1), we need to make sure enemy does not receive our black body radiation. If you have hypothetical material that nicely does (7.2), then it will not heat up (since there is no conduction, no convection, only heating by irradiation in space, and (7.2) transmits everything, not heating it up). After some time, it will be as cold as environment. Since at principle you know where the enemy is, you can transform inside-ship black body spectrum into unidirectional beam, and waste it away not pointing the beam at enemy. That way, you remain undetectable, and you have successfully dissipated your waste heat. 

It should be noted that a product like a nanobot would typically be regulated by the FDA or a similar agency. Most likely laws would prohibit anyone from selling apps for the nanobots unless they had gone through a lengthy approval process. Therefore the idea of allowing non-professionals to develop nanobot apps would probably require major changes in regulatory law. Only the most visionary medical companies would consider publicizing the hardware architecture and programming interfaces for their nanobots. Commercial cell phones became available in the 80s, but it wasn't until 2007 (when the first iphone was released) and 2008 (when the android was released) that phones with public APIs and free development environments were widely available to the public. 

Ok so I would like to make this answer to point out that in such a system the rich would always be to effectively buy votes at the base rate instead of at the exponential rate. You brought up that if you pay people to vote you can't be certain they'll vote how you want. The problem here is that this would be a very small issue for the rich. You only need to find a bunch of people who you are certain will vote in your favor such as religious evangelicals if republican, then just buy votes by giving them money. Even if there are laws against it it would be impossible to stop. You could hide your vote buying by only giving a few votes and spreading it over a larger group. Or better you could just give them donations that aren't for voting per-say but they would likely be motivated to spend it on votes, and if they don't then they don't get more money next election. As for whether the rich people in both parties would cancel each other out: Well even if they did it would still be exclusively about who spent the most money, but in addition one party would probably have a slight monetary advantage, since money is the only thing that matters in this election once one party got ahead they could leverage that to stay ahead forever becoming a one party system. In response to your edit: 

So the answer is yes, I could go out tomorrow and sew a stainless steel shirt if I wanted and was willing to spend a few hundred dollars. And I could do it without having to invent any new technology. But I'm not sure I would ever want to because it would be pretty itchy and uncomfortable. 

Alternatively, companies could use the robots like existing companies use entry-level engineers. "go fill out all these forms our process requires". "go review this schematic for errors". "go check that the parts list isn't missing anything". "go design this trivial power supply circuit that we need but I don't want to waste my time on because I am doing the more complex development work". As a result the existing engineers may become more productive because they are freed up from the necessary but less productive parts of their job. 

For this question I'm assuming a utterly infeasible technological breakthrough suddenly makes wormholes technology possible. However there is a major catch, the 2D "windows" as they're called don't allow through matter or gravitational pull. The "windows" can be opened for about a half a million USD. Once opened these portals stay open indefinitely unless closed. Opening a portal requires a large amount of energy, and the use of expensive and bulky machines on one end of the wormhole, with only a small machine and energy on par with a car battery required on the other end. The portals are flat windows that look like portals, however were you to walk up to one you would pass through it unaffected. The portals size can be as small as a millimeter or as large as 2,600 meters, any larger would require using multiple portal machines and linking them together. A portal can have any shape with the smallest definition being a millimeter, however portals are totally flat. Each side of the flat portal corresponds to a side of the other end of the portal. Each of the two connected portals must be the exact same shape and size. Portals will continue moving as the machine that created them was, at the moment it created the portal, other than controlling its initial motion you can't move portals except as detailed below. This means if the machine was orbiting the earth the portal will continue this motion, even though it isn't itself a object and has no mass. Portals also continue accelerating or decelerating as the machine was when it created it, however while portals can continue accelerating indefinitely they will slow acceleration such that they approach, but never reach the speed of light. A portal on earth will not slowly drift, since slight changes in planetary motion such as the lengthening of days is effectively counted as deceleration thus the portal undergoes the same slowing, this only holds true for motions that continue at the same rate of acceleration/deceleration as when the portal was created. The end of the portal which requires the expensive machinery to create can be kept linked to the machines so that it moves with them, however this means you can't use those machines to make further portals. Weapon note: To prevent the scenario of potential apocalyptic destruction, due to someone launching a portal through the sun. I have decided that a wormhole will collapse if more than about the equivalent of a kiloton of TNT worth of energy tries to pass through it in a second, though most energy that can pass through it in a second is equivalent to a ton of tnt. Since the portal only allows through at most a ton of tnt, any additional energy is reflected back when it hits the portal. This is still a lot of energy so it still has a lot of weapon potential. Keep in mind, as far as I know all energy would be in the form of photons. TLDR: It's a portal that only lets light through.Well actually other details of it are more complicated, so read the whole question before answering. What uses would be implemented for such a technology assuming it essentially appeared in our world overnight? The most obvious thing I can think of using it for is as a source of near infinite energy, you could get one end of the portal in an orbit much closer to the sun and use the energy to boil massive amounts of water (also may be useful for desalinization). Using it to allow faster than light communication is an obvious application as well (though given our current technology that's not super useful). 

It should be noted that iron is the heaviest element that can be produced by ordinary nuclear fusion in stars. Fusion that creates heavier elements does not release energy and therefore stars are not likely to produce them. Therefore likely core materials for a planet are probably below iron on the periodic table. Also that elements with odd numbered atomic masses are typically much less abundant in the universe. Based on their abundance in the universe C, Si, S are the most likely to form the bulk of a planet, but none of them are magnetic. Nickel is another possible choice for a core and it is magnetic, but much less abundant than Iron. Most materials will not retain any magnetism once they pass their curie temperature. For iron the curie temperature is 1043 Kelvin For Nickel the curie temperature is 627 Kelvin If there is magnetic field generated in a molten metal core it is most likely due to circulating electric currents in the metal rather than permanent magnetism. In that case, any conductive metal would probably do. Aluminum is the third most abundant element on Earth, and it is very conductive, so it is a reasonable choice. 

While something like a warp drive is a staple of ftl technology in sci-fi, I wonder how this sort of spatial warping would operate on a smaller scale on earth. The idea has occurred to me to have a character with gravity and antigravity powers try to warp distance. This distance warping wouldn't extend more than half a meter from the character's body at most, and at minimum would only be skin-tight. This special warping would bear some resemblance to a alcubierre warp drive, though based on answers I am now informed a natario drive is more plausible. This power can't used to reach anything approaching relativistic speeds, however I wonder how this would work as a form of superspeed. Another detail that needs to be covered is how it works when the character interacts with objects: What happens when the character tries to move a stationary or slow moving object? What about trying to move bullets and other objects that are fast in relation to the hero's actual speed, and are slow compared to the movement of them and other stuff in their warp bubble. (The hero is also a vampire which grants the required secondary powers) How exactly would something like a warp bubble work in a atmosphere at non-relativistic speeds? Could it avoid the collateral damage normal super-speed entails? How would this spatial warping affect the atmosphere that occupies the warped space? What would this power do when the character interacted with objects not in the field: both slow moving objects and stuff like bullets. What would such a power look and sound like, both to the user and bystanders (I'm assuming the hero has super fast perception and some degree of super senses to cope, and can already run ~400 mph without warping space, or otherwise using gravity control). Ultimately I'm really hoping this power will allow things like this scene (except with superspeed that isn't wildly inconsistent) Bonus Question: What other clever uses would you use a gravity control power for, other than the standard and obvious uses. Assume you have all the other powers mentioned as well: Super senses, super toughness/strength and a baseline speed around 400 mph, In addition assume an ability to increase perception speed to a nigh unlimited amounts. Super-reflexes also protect you by immediately ramping up perception speed in response to danger sensed by super senses, effectively one's subconscious is always perceiving things in slow-motion watching for danger.