Nothing more to fear from that. He can't get you fired or closeted just for knowing something he doesn't want anyone else to know. The absolutely worst case and unlikely scenario would be if he's doing it, his supervisors are doing it, and there's no omerta about it and they decide you're a snotty annoyance they need to get rid off. Sounds Hollywoddian. 

You Can Indeed Learn Everything, but... It's true that all languages are within your reach, once you've mastered a few. It doesn't mean you'll be readily productive with all of them, and that they'll all be as easy for you to pick up on the job. Don't expect to pick up Haskell in a heart-beat if you've only ever used VB and C, for instance. So, in the end, it's still helpful to the recruiters and employers to be able to create a vision of what you can and cannot do right now, and what you will be able to do within a few months once you're working with them. Rate Yourself I like the Dreyfus Model of Skill Acquisition, or its variants: 

Effective communication in a sysadmin context is about the usual things, but some areas are more important: 

But your question was how to address this item in an interview. Personally, I've used my ServerFault profile and a few articles I've managed to get published to help address this very question. If you have anything like that out there on the Internet, even if it was just a casual forum somewhere where you went deeply technical and it helped, that kind of thing is valuable: it allows the Interviewer to see a sample of your work. If you don't have enough of an online presence to field this question completely, keep in mind that we all do communication every day. And these days, most of it is recorded. If you've ever had to shepherd a very expensive project-proposal through a budget process, you've effectively communicated and can put that on a resume. If you've received praise on the quality of the documentation you produced, that's resume fodder as well. When I'm looking for a sysadmin, the communication-skills I'm looking for are: 

Apart from 2 times where the same nosy co-worker came back with a follow-up or a flat-out guilt-trip ("so, when are you going to make an honest lady out of her, eh?"), it always stopped at that. And when the nosy-type fires, just fire back ("so you're saying my partner is not honest?!"). Gets awkward, silence ensues, people move on. It's fine. Obviously, other evasion tactics are great as well. If you want to evade, I'd look for a way out of the conversation. Any "oh by the way, that makes me think, X, how are things with Y?" But as you say you're not good at that I don't suppose it's your favorite route. Whereas the above recommendations above are not evasive or elusive: you just block the question. (Surprisingly, it appears that when my partner was using the same approach, people where nosier and trying to find out if I had convinced her to give up marriage or something. Oh well. Guess some things look too unatural to some people, and they've got too much free time on theirs hands.) 

A key test is the soft approach. If you come to them with, "I noticed this problem, can you help me fix it," and they help you, it's a sign that your initial approach is overly confrontational. You've now found the range of 'threat' they need to trigger defensiveness, try to stay under it. If it's too low to be effective, then you'll need to involve management. If they immediately start assigning blame, then you have the difficult kind of person. There are a couple of ways of resolving this, but at the core people like this need to be hit back just as hard as they're striking out in order to get through to them. This can actually be done by a peer like you, but it builds a workplace that many (western, American) people find uncomfortably acrimonious. Some offices do work like that, it's a cultural thing. If you're not willing to engage in shouting matches with him, this is a job for a superior. They have the needed mallet to provide the required whack, and eventually can have difficult people like this removed. It is a hard problem, and as a peer you can only do so much. 

Personal Opinion: I wouldn't (Note: I've worked in the UK as an EU citizen with the right to work there. Can't recall giving my passport to a recruiter at an given time. Did to my employer, real estate agents, and banks, though. And National Insurance, most likely.) In my opinion my employer would be allowed to get a copy of my passport once we're far along enough in the recruitment process. I would never give it to the recruitment agency. I guess you could if you wanted them to take care of formalities for you and make your life easier, but I find that rather unpleasant, considering I even generally decline to give my passport details to hotels when I travel. There's an article of the Telegraph on the issue of showing or not showing your passport on request (2010-12-03, so slightly outdated already and laws surely have been amended in various ways). An important bit is this: 

Some employers, notably government though large employers are likely similar, can't offer individualized increases, or make 'reclassification' hard due to overly broad job-classes. There can be significant variation of skill level within a job-class, which further makes reclassification-for-raises (sometimes called 'promotion') difficult. Certain skills can command a premium over market-rate (Blackboard Admin vs SharePoint Admin), even though abstract job-duties and experience requirements are the same. For organizations that can't offer individualized compensation packages this is a major problem, this is why you see certain skill-sets hired at a higher job-title than they otherwise would be. 

There is also more to compensation than mere salary. There are a lot of books out there on non-monetary compensation. For an example of how under-paid techies can stay in one spot despite known pay disparity vs. market-rate, take a look at the previous job I listed above. That job was sticky for a variety of reasons. There is another value that employers know about called the total cost of compensation for a worker. This value includes things that don't show up in the pay-stub, or if they do they're in the negatives column: 

I am wondering what is the best way to approach sick leaves when dealing with remote workers / telecommuters. Is there an Additional Stigma? What's the Difference when You're Already Home? I feel like there's an additional stigma for remote workers: there's the fear of suspicion of co-workers that they're slacking if they take a day off even though they already work from the "comfort" of their home office, and the notion that they're already partly on leave anyways. While working from home doesn't mean you're in your pyjamas with a cup of coco working with your laptop on the couch in front of the TV zith kids screaming around and chit-chatting with friends or relatives simultaneously (or at least I hope that's not the general case, but to each their own so long as you manage to work...), the naming itself of the "home office" carries with it the notion that you are already home. So it's not that far-fetched to think you could just sit at your desk and work at a slower pace, especially as "it's right there", you don't have the actual commute, and you don't risk spreading your germs around the "real" office and contaminate your co-workers. Surely, You Can Drag Yourself to your Desk or Stay in Bed and Type, Right? Plus it's not unusual for companies to allow people to work from home if they feel sick. Whether that's a good thing and a form of pressure is a different question, and it comes with known caveats, but as this practice exists, it makes it even harder to consider taking a sick leave for tele-commuters. Of course we're not talking about a prolonged sick leave for a broken limb or a long-lasting condition that would require treatment and really impeach a worker's abilities. So... 

It's a bad idea, that's for sure. But how to handle it involves the above. In all likelihood, a strict reading of the contract bans such usage. However, some companies like to apply "common sense" to the application of contract language, so may actually permit certain banned usages so long as it doesn't impact anything. Don't do anything precipitous until after you've learned a few things. In this case, since you're new to the company you're not really in a position to understand how corporate culture modifies contract language application. Secondly, you don't know who allies are, so embrace that role and go to the manager of those systems (someone, er, like me). Declare ignorance of how things work (which is true), explain what you found, and ask how this works. You're seeking education, not tattling on a co-worker. At that point, you've done what you could. You've reported a questionable behavior, and probably now have a much better grasp for the edge-cases around your employment contract. If it turns out that such usage actually is banned, you'll have earned an ally in that manager. If it turns out that it's allowed, you'll likely get some of the background for this specific case, which will help your understanding of how the company works. 

Would do. Amend wording where applicable. I'd say that just saying you need it to provide "proof of employment" to some organization is likely to be the least suspicious and usually lets them know you need it rather quickly. 

List it as a side-project, disclosing only what you have done and the target industry of the app. Don't say what it does, don't say the name, don't say whether it was commercial or not. Be prepared to have to disclose more information in an interview, or to reject questions politely. Basically, do the same as what you'd do if you were to list a project protected by a rather strict NDA. And keep in mind that it technically isn't "employment", so be upfront about that (hence the listing as "side-project").