It's hard to say because you don't give very precise information, but if I had to hasard a guess I would say that you experienced a combination of factors: 

Think of dieting as just another stressor on the system that is your body. There are two stressors you care about: dieting, which makes your body adapt by being leaner, and lifting, which makes your body hold on to lean mass rather than fat. If you take this view (dieting as just another stressor), then the course of action becomes obvious: 

Overall, it will work well up to a point and then stop working, as most things do in fitness. My 2cts would be that it would work better in the other direction. Methodologies like block periodization make use of something called phase potentiation, which means that one phase of your training makes you better at attacking the following phase of your training. Traditionally, a hypertrophy phase (meaning lots of sets and reps, as you would have at the end of your training cycle) powers you through a strength phase (what you would have at the beginning of your training) (which powers you through a "power" or peaking phase depending on your sport). 

Train hard, and recover harder. This is a very complete schedule, but I would warn you to be careful of the other part of the equation that is recovery. Your body is a machine that is tuned to respond to external stress (dieting, strength training, aerobic training are all stressors) and that stress needs to be increased slowly so as to not cause yourself to stall or worse, get hurt, and it needs to be evacuated (by taking lower effort weeks here and there, called deload weeks in strength training) regularly. Sleep a lot, eat well and take it slow - think of it as a marathon, not a sprint. Stronglifts is a good start but I wouldn't recommend to stay too long on it as it isn't a very balanced program. It will help you exploit your existing muscle mass to the fullest very fast but it lacks the hypertrophy work to make you a well-rounded lifter, which can lead to potential injury on the long run. Once you are past the "easy gains", switching to a more well-founded program (like the Juggernaut Method, 5/3/1, or any periodized program) will help you move forward. I would also recommend that you read "Scientific Principles of Strength Training" if you are interested in resistance training - despite its name it's an extremely easy and fast read (I got through it in an afternoon). 

A beginner like you, the age doesn't matter if you are starting now you are a beginner and it's not bad at all, shouldn't consider about strength if starts just now (beginner can be a person that is working out 0-2 years). First you have to get known with the place (the gym), the machines, the dumbbells, the barbells, etc. You have to learn how to execute the exercises in the proper way and understand how a training program (split) works. Only in this way you will understand how your body responds and reacts on your workout. Besides your training the really first thing you must schedule and define clearly is your nutrition. Only with an appropriate nutrition you will be able to build muscles and strength properly. Combined with the necessary rest. To sum up: 

But. If you want a wake up call before your workout drink a single espresso 30-45 minutes before. If you want an energy pump, a small fresh apple is just enough also 30-45 minutes before. 

After 6-7 months and if you have hit a plateau you can move on strength training. Till then i strongly recommend you to learn the fundamentals and build a good base. 

You can have red meat about 3 times per week, change the rice or the potatoes with pasta 3-4 times per week. You can have fish like salmod, tuna, tilapia 3 times per week. Beans or any other legume you like also 2-3 times. You can change the almonds with nuts or any other you like. In general for all these, don't fry your foods, just prefer to eat your olive oil raw at your salad or your meal. Cooking at a stir fry, on grill or steam cooker are great choices. Adjust the amounts of those foods (the grams of rice,chicken,etc) per meal for your needs and you will see the results you want. 

Your calorie intake is aroung ~2000cals for maintenance and ~1500cals for losing weight (around 1lb/per week). As far as you are aiming for weight loss i suggest a 40carb/30protein/30fat macros ratio. For you that means 160gr/120gr/53gr. Considering that you are an athlete you should have a proper diet. Breakfast 

You are correct, that would mainly be neural adaptation (the second factor) with some small effect on size. 

First, I'd advise against doing Sheiko if your goal isn't powerlifting as it's extremely specialized. I'd also advise against doing StrongLifts as it's just a dumb program in general (for various reasons, including the unhealthy mindset it creates in beginners, the poor technique it develops, and the fact that it's based on blatantly wrong assumptions). Assuming that you do like lifting weights, your best bet is to find a balanced program that can accommodate your desire (eating at maintenance, becoming more generally athletic rather than specialized in the powerlifts) and set it on autopilot. As it was mentioned in another comment, 5/3/1 is popular because of its simplicity and its flexibility, as Jim Wendler (its creator) is very keen on making people strong and fit (in an athletic sense) rather than out-of-shape powerlifters (which he was before). I'd recommend picking up the books (5/3/1 second edition and Beyond 5/3/1 are good and complementary) and reading up as it's a program sustainable enough that you can probably do it for the next decade. There are also a lot of excellent apps for 5/3/1 (like Wendlerized, on Android) that can help you take the thinking out of the equation, even though I'd still recommend reading the books to understand the program. 

From the research that I have read, the length of your break has no influence on hypertrophy. The best indicator of hypertrophy is either volume, as in tonnage (sets times reps times weight) increasing over time, or more recently the number of "hard" sets per workout, meaning the number of sets which leave you close to technical failure (not at failure or past failure, just close to it). Doing exercises one by one gives you more time to recover and go harder on the next sets (meaning you can do a greater volume on hard sets), which is thus more optimal for hypertrophy. All that being said, what you are doing right now is called supersets/multisets and it can be ok to some extent to save time. For example, I frequently superset antagonistic movements (bench press with dumbbell rows, overhead press with chin-ups, etc.) because they don't really influence each other, but I always keep at least one of them light. I wouldn't recommend doing more than 3 exercises though, and no more than 1 heavy compound lift at a time (squat, bench, deadlift, overhead press, barbell rows...) to stay safe.