Seems quite reasonable. I would recommend a few changes/additions, both in keeping with tradition and to improve the model. Firstly, on coat color. I agree that the human hair and the horse hair should match, but skin tone really doesn't need to. My cat has black hair and white skin, so if she were bald from the ribs up, she'd be mismatched too, but its perfectly normal. Most animals don't have stripes or spots on their skin, despite have striped or spotted coats, so a centaur might have brown hair and white skin, or even white hair and black skin, although it would probably be more visually pleasing to keep the two colors similar. Additionally, I would think that the human's hair would extend farther down his spine, like the mane of a horse. Maybe not all the way to the second shoulders, but at least down past the first shoulders. Secondly on internal organs- Digestion: As mentioned in some of the comments, a centaur really can't survive on human-sized organs, so I recommend horse guts in the horse part. Big lungs, big heart, big stomach, but only one stomach. If a centaur is really a mix of human and horse, it should have a human-esque stomach, capable of processing meat. Classical centaurs are archers, presumably not shooting at grass and berries, so give them big, horse-sized human stomachs. This also solves the problem of low-nutrition grass. If centaurs were only eating berries and leaves, they would be too busy grazing to get anything done, like teaching Achilles and Jason to fight. Side note, if Chiron had spent a little less time foraging and a little more time teaching, Achilles might have known to wear boots into battle instead of sandals. Heart: Definitely a big horse heart in the horse chest, but I think a smaller, back-up heart should be in the human chest. Most mythological creatures are pretty hard to kill, so it makes sense that if you spear the centaur's horse-heart, a secondary, emergency heart could take over. Of course, this heart couldn't keep the centaur up and active, but it might be enough to keep him alive for a while in a comma-like state. It would eventually give out, but if he got a horse-heart transplant or something, he might pull through. With that in mind, a second, smaller set of lungs should be in the human half as well. If nothing else, it would increase the oxygen uptake and blood flow of the centaur. Brains: Of course, centaurs are assumed to have human intelligence, suggesting a human brain, but brains do a lot more than just support consciousness. People say humans only use 10% of our brains, which only accounts for conscious use. 100% of the brain is used, just not for thinking. A lot of it is devoted to little things like telling the heart to beat, the stomach to churn, and the lungs to fill. Not to mention processing nerve signals, handling balance, and regulating temperature. A mouse and a rabbit have similar conscious brains, but a rabbit still needs more gray matter because the rabbit has more body to manage. A horse is less intellectual than a man, but the horse still needs a bigger noggin because the horse is much bigger, so I advise a secondary brain at the juncture of human and horse. The lower brain should handle basic functions, the higher brain should handle consciousness and personality. Another way to do this might be to extend the brain down the spine, eliminating the troublesome second brain. Some animals already have brain extending down their brain stems (that's why, if you do it right, you can cut the head off a chicken and he'll still run around) so it's not an impossible idea. 

Training This is similar to dealing with psychological warfare in general. Training is needed and this has to be done through realistic simulation. If you have friendly gods who are willing to help, they could create practice illusions for your warriors. If not then humans must do their best with lights, mirrors and costumes. 

This goes more than twice as deep as the tallest building is high. Whether anyone would want to live there with journeys of up to an hour to reach the surface, is another matter. 

Our world is a simulation; it is part of an exhibition in a science museum in an alien dimension. Lately, visitors to the museum have become bored with the exploits of the inhabitants of the sim. It costs money to run and attendance has fallen. The museum's director is seriously thinking of pulling the plug. The problems All we do, as members of this sim, is (a) procreate (b) make media that is either trashy or about the sim we live in. (c) argue about religion (d) make war (e) Invent technology that is far behind that of the alien race that visits the museum to see us Question What can the human race do that is different from what we have always done and that will make us a viable exhibit once more and prevent ourselves being switched off and replaced by something more interesting? 

My first thought would be that everyone else went away. Perhaps we live in a relatively bad area of the universe and all the life forms that could do so left. Think about what humans are doing. We want to get to Mars, because that's the next "great leap for mankind," but after that, are we really going to stay in our little corner of the galaxy, poking around on every little planet out there as our home world deteriorates? Absolutely not! We'll be on the first ship out, once we have a ship to take us. Our technological boom is powered by the destruction of our planet, to the point that we might never be able to save it, so once a viable escape option becomes a realistic and nearly certain option, the odds are good that we'll damn what's left of the planet to finish our ship and then be off to the best planet we can reach. That probably won't be the nearest one, or the occupied one. It will be far away and it will have the kinds of elements we deem desirable in a home-world. It seems to me that most intelligent (the use of 'intelligent' to describe species that wreck their planets may be a stretch, but you know what I mean) species would probably do the same thing we humans are doing, and as you said, technology advances so quickly that once the first breakthrough in this technology is made, the rapid expedition of life from a planet is not far behind. This creates a natural separation of those-with-awesome-tech from those-without-awesome-tech, and if we assume that our planet (or whatever planet you may be writing from) is in a district of space that no one wants to live in once they know there's an alternative, it's quite reasonable to assume that the only life-forms we would have contact with in our pre-overpowering-technology stage would be other species in pre-overpowering-technology stage. It's not because that's the only age of life there is, it's just that that's the only age of life that hasn't left yet. Along this same vein, you could work in that some life-forms built up to near-overpowering-tech levels, then crashed their societies, either through destruction of resources or overpopulation or what-have-you, and now are either primitive once more, barren wasteland planets, or maybe some kind of steam-punk blend of futuristic lost technology in a less-advanced society. You could also make some kind of historical event that allowed for the evolution of life at a specific time. Like, maybe there was some kind of massive super-nova/black-hole/worm-hole/antimatter something-or-other that created a wave of magnetism or some such that allowed for the evolution of life from the elements. This wave would travel out, and as it passed over a certain area in space, it would spark life on every 1 in 100 star systems. Because life started at about the same time in the same neighborhoods of space, the life on those planets would be about the same age. As you went farther from your home-world, you'd find life that increasingly differed in age from your own species. 

Give them a super good river You're a benevolent God, so give your people a nice, reliable, tamable river. I'm not sure what is irrigating your farmlands, but I'm going to argue that a river naturally will get people to move and explore. 

A river will also make people move downstream, eventually leading people to an ocean, lake, or sea. Here are some reasons why: Floods There will naturally be periods of heavy rainfall, and since lots of people have their houses built on the river (some of them perhaps less well off than others), naturally some of these buildings would be swept away in floods. Since floods cause things to go, you know, downstream, plenty of people will have reasons to go downstream to go look for their loved ones or to try to recover valuables that have been washed away. You don't need floods either, plenty of people might fall in the river after a night of drinking or have boats capsize, for people to want to look downstream. Curiosity This is the biggest one. Once it's super easy to go downstream (just get in a raft and go!) people would want to. Some of them might be thieves who want to avoid the law. Some of them would hear about vast treasures to be had downstream. The river, cutting itself through the vast landscape, would be an inescapable lure, pointing itself down and out, away from everything you've ever known and giving you a path to follow into the unknown. 

The tag 'science-based' relates purely to the physical effects of changing size whilst maintaining the same overall density and keeping the same shape. The magic has its own rationale which can be considered as separate and is not relevant to the question. When a brain is changed in size, the intelligence and psychology of the original creature remain unchanged. A duck still thinks it's a duck and presumably experiences the world as smaller and gravity as stronger. Successive transformations, e.g. smaller and smaller are not possible. You must restore a creature back to its original size before transforming it again. 

Well it's a good job this is the stone age. There will be plenty of stones around. These will be used for your computer's memory. Draw boxes in the dirt and the presence or absence of a stone in the box represents a binary digit. Don't restrict yourself to monks. If you do, the calculations will take forever. Maybe have an annual pilgrimage. All the followers of the religion turn up en masse and act as various components of the computer. If there are enough followers they can multi-process. The monks orchestrate the whole thing. They also provide input and read the output. Oh - I've just noticed this from Dan Smolinske's comment. That about wraps the whole thing up. 

If you have to be precise down to the nanometer, probably not. The meter, as we know it, is defined as "the length of the path traveled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299 792 458 of a second." The meter was first defined as one ten-millionth the length of the prime meridian, a distance you are unlikely to be able to calculate without some advanced technology. An alternate method that might be more plausible, though still unlikely, would be to construct a pendulum with a half-period of one second. The distance that the pendulum swings is approximately one meter. Beyond that, there is really no sure way to tell a meter without having some kind of meter-related measurement. If close enough counts, and if you have the right materials, you might be able to use a sapling. If you know how much a certain kind of tree will grow in 365 days, you can figure out how long it would take to grow one meter, then cut the tree. Similarly, you could look up/remember how long one or another bone is in an average however-old human and base your ruler on that. It still won't be perfect, but it will be close. And really, who is going to call you on it? 

The biggest problem will be chromosomes. Do the two species have the same number/size chromosomes? How are the genes distributed across those chromosomes? It is going to be impossible to select for this. It would require monumental strokes of luck at regular intervals. Rather like the balls coming out of the pockets of a snooker table and forming themselves into a perfect triangle. Probably the only way to do this would be to evolve them both backwards until you reached a common ancestor. This would require you to know the entire genome of the ancestor and evolve backwards to it one step at a time. Very expensive, very time consuming and completely pointless. 

Talk fast (literally) If there's a stargate, there is a good chance that there is a civilisation also. An Earth year gives you time to explore before you return and set up camp next to the stargate. Find the locals and make friends with them. Any civilisation will have its own means of time keeping so your priority is to synchronise your time with theirs. Then perform the necessary conversion and allow a good margin for error. As others have pointed out, you have only your body to rely on and most bodily functions are variable in periodicity. Therefore you need to know a constant. Solution You need to prepare before your travels but that's only sensible for any gate traveller. 

Clouds Different types of clouds sit on different layers based on altitude, air pressure, and relative humidity. You mentioned your atmosphere has breathable air, does it also have water vapor in the atmosphere? Are there rain clouds? Methane clouds? Sulfur Dioxide clouds? Maybe an enterprising character notices that the moisture collectors are collecting more methane than before, or that when they head into a storm cloud, they get more violent turbulence than before. Depending on how far up they are, maybe they are used to riding out some of the more violent storms that happened lower in the atmosphere, but the protagonists have a rude awakening when a storm that they previously wouldn't have paid mind to 10 years ago tragically destroys their town. 

This means, that as people spread out along the river and travel up and down it and more importantly down the river, you're eventually going to end up at a sea or lake or ocean. Then, everything that made the river so appealing to follow will be cranked up to overdrive as people move up and down the shore in both directions, and eventually people would be so interested in what is beyond the sea/lake/ocean that they build big honking ships to go and try to see what's on the other side. If this whole scenario super plausible that's because this is exactly how early civilizations evolved and expanded. 

Although you exclude intervention by humans, I don't think it is realistic. For example, if one of the machines is constantly being blocked, its humans will notice and take action. They will find where the problem originates and then complain to the the owners of the other machine. There is no simple way to keep humans out of the equation. What the machines must do is to keep their battle private while manipulating the humans to unwittingly do their bidding. Machine A wants to shut down machine B without alerting machine B's owners to its own activities. It has to be much cleverer than simple denial-of-service and other heavy-duty tactics. The humans on both sides will notice the extra traffic. I think that the computers must use humans without the humans realising it. One way to do this is by intercepting, deleting and forging emails. 

If as suggested, it was going to take in the neighborhood of 100 years to build then it would make more sense for Noah to herd the animals together and walk them to the nearest mountain. He could then build a Hollywood-set type of boat and hope that God wouldn't look too closely. 

Servals are solitary creatures that are highly territorial. Usually that means they make poor targets for human hunting companions (they much prefer to hunt on their own). Contrast this with dogs, who were most likely bred from wolves, who are pack animals. Check out this video for explanations on traits that make animals more domesticable. Servals have a short lifespan (compared to humans), reach maturity fairly quickly, and are fairly intelligent (all traits that are helpful with domestication). There is no reason why they wouldn't be useful in vermin patrol, setting up shop near fields and grain stores to protect them from being eaten by rodents. That's how modern cats were domesticated. This means that servals are probably able to be domesticated but would not do well as a hunting companion. 

A river will make people want to spread out, gradually extending out the civilization and causing them to build towns and hamlets farther and farther away from the main city. Here's some reasons why: Fish Fish are a great source of protein. Fish guts are a great source of nitrates which can improve crop yields or reduce the amount of time a field must lie fallow between usages. Fishers would gradually spread out over the length of the river to try to find different pockets of fish or just to go upstream of a popular spot that is being overfished. Farmland A good river deposits nutrient-rich silt and irrigates the landscape, meaning that all up and down its banks would be super fertile, especially compared to the surrounding landscape. Nearby animals would come and graze on the grass growing near the river, as well as drink there, meaning the river banks would become great spots for hunting, too. Any enterprising farmer would want to settle away from the rest of the other farms to try to get more good land to till. Washing, Water and Waste I assume your city has people who wear clothes, get thirsty, and use the bathroom. The river will naturally be a super convenient place to dump your trash and, you know, take a dump. I'm sure some of your more well off citizens would want upstream water so that it doesn't taste so... earthy, or to wash their clothes where they know their neighbors don't dump their garbage. This means that more downstream city folks might find themselves more vulnerable to cholera, or in general get a dirtier river, causing more wealthier folks to try to move upstream. Trade Eventually, people in the one area of the city are going to realize it's really easy to move heavy objects if you put them on a raft than dragging it along by yourself. This will mean there will be warehouses and markets on the banks of the river. Merchants will associate the river with more trade and more wealth. People will build up their houses around these markets, and then it comes to pass that the only way to really expand your business is to build up more river docks. This and the waste problem will cause people to: Riverfront Spreading It's a treat to be able to have riverfront property. The views are nicer, you get better breezes, quicker access to water, your own little private quay. People will grab property on the riverfront, and as your city develops, more and more people will have to build farther and farther up and down the river to grab that good riverfront property. 

Well, building on ideas from others, I now have my own thoughts. New zombies are made by being bitten. Presumably this because of something in the zombies' saliva. The commander could collect zombie saliva (I'm not quite sure how yet) and give buckets of it to his archers. Before firing they dip their arrow heads into it. When the enemy soldiers become infected they are near their own side so they attack them first. The only problem, as has been pointed out, is that this will result in huge numbers of zombies wandering about even if our side wins. They may be worse than the original enemy. Therefore we have to devise a zombie trap. This could be a deep pit. There is a pole in the middle to which is tied a live enemy. The zombies are attracted to him but then fall into the pit. 

That makes no sense. A celestial object (say a stable star) would be very useful for determining units of mass and/or units of luminosity. It would allow standardisation over vast distances. However the mass of a star has no relationship to the value of currency - it is just a constant. Value is measured in terms of supply and demand (diamonds are rare and highly valued). Equating mass to value is like equating apples to headaches - they have nothing in common. Edit in response to comment Mass in itself has no value. Scenario 1. I walk into a bar in a gold-mining community.