First congratulations for getting back on a bike. As others have stated the typical weak point will be the axles and wheels. I would recommend having the wheel bearings serviced by your local bike shop. Ask them to check the spoke tension as well. I've seen quite a few low end wheels with poorly adjusted bearings and almost no grease in the hub. I would then run the tire pressure to the max spec on the tire sidewall. Even then they are likely only suitable for pavement or bike path use. If wheel problems occur consider investing in a set of wheels designed for a tandem bike. They are capable of supporting 2 adults. While they will cost more then your current bike you can use them on your next bike when you upgrade. Another option is a used LandRider auto shift. They are frequently listed on Craigs List for under $200 in my area. They are rated for 350 pounds 

It sounds like you have a broken or worn shifter. Grip shifters have small plastic teeth inside them. The teeth loosely mesh so that it will move when twisted but tight enough to maintain the selected gear. These shifters are still common and relatively inexpensive generally around $10 US. 

I am reasonably assured the larger tire will fit. As has been stated here before, bicycle tire width sizes aren't an exact standard. Maker A's tire size 2.0 inch may in fact be larger than Maker B's 2.1. The best information comes from user reviews about a specific model. Just to be sure look at your current tire. Does it barely fit between the frame stays? When on the smallest front sprocket how close is the front derailleur from hitting the tire. If the tolerances are very close the larger tire may not fit. Tire design also comes into play. A full knobby tire ( WTB velociraptor) may hit while a microknob (Geax AKA) may have enough clearance. 

I agree if the bike is new and has not been abused the shop repair it for free. I have repaired several "new" bikes with a sticking link. I generally remove the affected link and replace it with a master link for a chain of the correct size. Total cost under $5 if you already have a chain tool. I don't know why it happens, perhaps just a manufacturing defect. 

I would look for contamination of the pads and wheels. Oil residue from the roadway may have gotten on to the brake surfaces. Try to clean them with a mild cleaner. I typically use the blue glass cleaner. If the brake pads are several years old they may be getting dried out or glazed. You can try to resurface the rubber face of the pad with a file. The improvement if any tends to be short lived. Avoid sanding the pads with sandpaper as the grit can imbed in the pad and damage the rim. Also consider some performance oriented brake pads. The pad materials have different characteristics such as wet stopping, dry stopping, durability and price. 

I have done the six to eight conversion on an older road bike. By the way I have broken two seven speed rear mountain bike axles. So it does happen. I went with a mountain size (14-32) gear range. I added flat bars and rapid fire shifters. The larger gear range allows me to climb easier than the old 12-25 freewheel did. As @joelmdev stated, I did change the axle spacers. The axle was long enough to reuse without replacement. The frame required some hand spreading to fit. I think the key is to realize the limitation of the drivetrain. You need to use the gearing to keep from overloading the axle. I would not take it on anything rougher than a gravel road. Unless you have a bunch of parts laying around it may be cheaper to find a used wheel with cassette. Also consider the added cost of the freewheel tool (maybe two of them if the brands are not compatible). 

The cotter pin holds the pads in the correct position. It would only be removed to replace the pads when worn. For information sake the silver color plates are springs that help retract the pads away from the rotor when the brakes are released. They also prevent brake squeal by limiting vibration. 

There appears to be a "Ritchey" name tag and emblem on the rear drop outs. While Ritchey currently sells components to a variety of manufactures I can't find any information on when they started doing this. I would assume that a frame this old with Ritchey components was sold as a Ritchey complete bicycle. Identifying the actual model may be impossible as many time the frames were used in different models with the drive train components being the main difference. 

Any brand link that is rated for a 7 speed chain will fit. Sram refers to there's as a Power Link, KMC calls it a Missing Link other are quick connect. What is important is that it not the type with the "U" clip that it together. That type is only for non derailleur bikes. 

I just checked two frames and forks drop outs. They all measured at least 9.5mm. They all allowed a 3/8" bolt to pass through. If you are having doubts about your particular frame, get a 3/8" bolt and see it fits. You also need to verify that the nuts will sit correctly in the front fork.The nut must sit flat on the fork not on top of the safety tabs (also called lawyer lips). 

Doing a little research, Pegas was a Romanian built bicycle brand. They opened in 1972 and are apparently still in business. Some further research show similar images labeled Pegas Mini Strada. The long screw at the fork crown indicates it likely came with a front hand brake. Trying to determine value is generally frowned upon on this site as values change with time and location. 

When the tubing is cut the cutting tool leaves a ridge in the inside of the tube. A reamer removes this rough edge or burr. It is hard to say if your mechanic used a bicycle specific reamer which may be part of a bearing facing tool or a generic deburring tool. 

There is a good chance that the pad adjustment slots are not long enough. There have been pages posted on other sites that detail making them fit, however the ones I have seen require some fabrication skills. As brakes are pretty important I would tend to stay away from crude add-ons just to make them fit. You may get increased brake performance by reinstalling your Sora calipers with some performance (as in more costly), brake pads. 

The coaster brake is the primary brake. It should be used as your first means of stopping. Rim brakes on coaster brake bikes are typically a safety design. If the chain were to break or come off the sprocket you would have no coaster brakes. In the U.S. the hand brake is normally installed on the front wheel. The front wheel provides more braking power as you weight shifts forward. 

I have my doubts about using superglue. Superglue typically dries into a stiff,hard non-flexible film. The tire bends and flexes and the glue will fail. If the crack is a small age crack in the side wall and doesn't go through the cord inside the tire, I would just put in the tube and ride. If the cut/crack goes all the way through the cord and is visible inside the tire you can cut a piece of the old tube and glue it over the split on the inside of the tire. If you don't have anything but preglued patches use one or two of them to cover the hole. Install the tube and inflate the tire. Check the tire in the repair area to see if the crack is spreading. I have used a tire boot (it basically a large patch) on mountain bike tires with success. MTB tires run at much lower pressures. The boots are available at your local bike shop and are worth having for situations like these. 

The wheel in question uses sealed bearings. They are generally not serviceable. Service consists of replacement. You mentioned they appear to have plenty of grease on them. With a good bearing there should be grease in them and sealed in place by the seal. The only time grease will be visible is if the seal has failed. The seal usually fails because of bearing wear allowing movement. 

Without knowing your location I can't give specifics. If you check for a local or regional mountain bike assoc. they should have some trail guides. In the northeast we have the new england mountain bike assoc. Most of these groups have websites with trail reviews. Not all of the trails are singletrack or downhill many are cartroads and firebreaks. Many trails are accessed via fireroads with descriptions and difficulty ratings. I use MTBR.com they have a state by state listings and reviews from users. Some will have maps or links to get them. Some have gps coordinates to locate key areas. 

A google search of Spoke Protector led to several suppliers. The size is based on largest cog. Most however are spec'd by overall dimension in inches not tooth count. There are two mounting styles I am familiar with. One type snaps onto the hub. There is a difference between freehub and freewheel mounting. The other variety mounts by snapping onto the spokes. I can imagine that you need one that matches the spoke count of the wheel. 

I can't say enough about Bikepedia.com as a resource.Most bikes made in the last 15 years are listed.Most will have the original selling price and specifications.Many times a seller will present a bike as being five years old based on how long they have owned it when in fact it maybe six years old.Bikepedia can help with this as some colors or components were only offered certain years.This is very helpful when comparing bike A to Bike B after you get home and are making your mind up because you can't afford both.One cardinal sin is to head to your LBS take up an hour or two of his time, test ride his bike then complain about the price and buy it in line. 

I am in the process of building a bike with a new frame and fork. The groupset will be from a donor bike. When it comes to fitting the bike and cutting the steerer I would like to do some trial rides to check the fit prior to cutting the steerer.Can I leave the steerer long and install spacers above and below the stem until I get the fit correct? Could I leave a spacer on the top so potential resale would be more likely? 

I have found that the top of and old sock over a neatly folded trouser leg works well.Cut the top of the sock long enough to cover your pants with leg fully extended to the top of the sprocket.The plus side is you don't ruin good socks stretching them over your pants. 

You need to measure the actual seatpost diameter with a micrometer. There are over twenty standard size seatpost clamps. The difference in size can be as little as .1mm. It is possible that it is a 31.8mm or a 32.0mm seatpost diameter. A micrometer costs about $20. If you feel it is a tool you'll never need again, bring the frame to your local bike shop ask them to measure it and buy a clamp from them. Also pick up a tube of carbon paste while you are there. The paste decreases the clamping force required to keep the seatpost from slipping. 

Another possible effect of over oiling without wiping the excess from the chain is the chain slinging oil onto the brake surface of the wheel.While this has no effect on the drive train it does effect brake performance. 

Not only is it safe it is fairly common. When disc brake became more affordable many after market manufacturers sold dual brake wheels. Disc hubs and "V" brake rims. Just don't use "V" brakes on a disc only specific rim. The dual use wheel may have been a way to limit new inventory to one type of wheelset.