For most casual group rides I've ridden, there are points where the lead pack pauses to wait for dropped riders (usually at the top of climbs). When the last dropped rider has regrouped, the pack immediately starts off again. I've always wondered why this is, would not the last rider be the one most in need of rest (especially if it's me!). If time were an issue, why not just keep going leaving slower riders to go at their own pace? If concerned about keeping the group together, why not slow down? 

If you are looking for a perfect saddle according to your current position, you will spend a lot of money and never be happy with your purchase. Marketers have created "specialized" (not the brand) seats so that we as consumers will buy more. Think the number of variations you see in running shoe, or tooth paste. They will all do the same thing with relatively equivalent effect. The only thing different about them is the description and minor details. Based on my experience, I have been able to change positions between casual and aggressive, depending on fitness, health and general season in life while keeping the same saddle. How your bike fits dictates your riding comfort more than your saddle type. Review what changing to aggressive position does. First, you are lowering your handlebars, this alters the amount of weight you support with your arms and therefore changes how you hold yourself overall on your bike. The change also incrementally increases the distance between your saddle and handlebars - which in turns puts more stress on your saddle region. To counteract this change, move your saddle forward. The best way to do this would be to measure from saddle front to the of your stem pre-adjustment. Slam your stem and move your seat forward until the distance between your stem and seat is equivalent. This will help, but going into an aggressive position by definition trades some comfort for aerodynamics. That being said, I don't want you to think I'm not for buying a new saddle. Just have the right motivation. Get one that fits your hip bone shape and has the right amount of padding that you desire personally - ignore the spec mumbo-jumbo. I have an older model Fizik Arione and love it. I highly recommend it regardless of your riding position. 

I can only offer my opinion: a $1500 bike is quite an attraction for thieves when parked in public space late a night: in front of library, station, cinema, pool, gym, or pub. I would not recommend using a such bike in this situation, no matter what locks you use. If you are using your bike in less public situations (to and from work, shopping, mostly during the day), locking frame and front wheel with a U-lock to a stationary object in combination with the rear lock is probably good enough. Any thieve would have to deal with two locks, which is quite a deterrent. 

The EN 14344 norm is electronically available and covers every detail imaginable. It says in particular about front seats: 

A 10-speed cassette is spaced narrower than an 8-speed cassette and for that reason will fit onto your free wheel. The problem is that your shifters are indexed for 8 speeds and won't work with a 10-speed cassette. You could make it work if you have downtube shifters that are not indexed or where indexing can be switched off. The article Drivetrain Compatibility has many more details about spacing of cogs and the pull exercised by the shifter. 

I believe you will have to remove the reflector to get to the screws and there doesn't seem to be a non-destructive way. The mounts for the reflectors look like they are designed as one-way plugs. You could drill holes into the reflector to get to the screws without removing the reflector - which would be difficult to put back on. Even if you get this screwed back together, this is not going to last: the plastic is too weak to withstand the forces exercised from the metal plate when you stand on it. I'm not sure this is worth the trouble. These are cheap pedals for which you can buy replacements on Ebay for under $€£ 10 from China including shipping. 

Take a detailed look at your tire, has debris like glass, rocks or metal embedded through the tire? Pick out any debris you may find. Wipe down the inside of the tire with a cloth, not your hand (in case there is debris, you don't want to find it as it cuts your hand). Check the bead of the tire and make sure there's no nicks, cracks or cuts. You may need to replace a tire if you find cracks or cuts here. This mainly happens with old tires that have dry rot, but it's good to eliminate it as a possibility. Check your rim. Is it free of barbs, or other debris that would cause problems. Wipe down the rim with a cloth like your tire. Make sure the rim tape is laying flat on the inside of the rim. If it has moved off center, the spoke holes can cut you inner tube and flat your tire in no time. Additionally, stock rim tape that comes on beginner wheels can be a sharp, hard plastic. Re-center the tape if need be. If the tape as folded, you can pick some up at your local bike shop pretty cheap. Re-assemble your wheel with minimal tool use. Your tire levers can be your greatest friend getting a tire off, but your worst enemy to getting a tire on. The tool can unknowing pinch or cut your tube only to start your next flat early. Partially pump up your tire (~30 - 50 psi) and squeeze the tire to seat it properly within the rim. Then pump it up to your 100 psi. 

Ortlieb is selling an adapter for this problem: Ortlieb Aufsatz für Ultimate6 Montageset -- this is in German, the link to the English language page was broken. The second image is a view from the front and how the adapter fits into the bag-mounting fixture. The price is below 20 Euro. 

See norm DIN 912 / ISO 4762 - the relevant number for the tool head is s given in millimetre: s=5mm (M6) and s=6mm (M8). The '#6' Allen key has a 6mm wide head and fits M8 screws and likewise the '#5' Allen key has a 5mm wide head and fits M6 screws - so there is room for some confusion here. 

If the bike had a serious crash, the frame will have a deformation where the down tube joins the head tube. Since this is usually hidden from view, inspect this spot. Most other problems, like a worn-out bottom bracket or a cassette that needs replacing, can be fixed - a damaged frame can't. Of course, you still want to notice these problems to factor them into the price. 

I'd say, it's time to replace the tire. It doesn't really matter what caused it - could have been low quality, age, or extended use. The cracks mean the layers the tire is made of are separating and in the long run you will see more punctures because the material is softening. A brand-name tire costs 15 to 25 EUR/USD/GBP which I consider low enough to not take the risk of punctures. 

Due to the critical job of your brakes in helping you race safely, the wiser action is to replace your equipment rather than try to fix this type of break. The shifting and brake system may work now but the system is compromised and can fail at any time regardless of how you patch it up. It's hard to swallow, for sure, but you are putting yourself and those you are racing/riding with at risk by continuing to use broken equipment. Depending on the age of your shifters, Shimano equipment can be mixed and matched so if the price of replacement at the highest level is too much you can look into replacing with Ultegra or 105 without noticing a great dip in performance. 

This is a hypothetical question but I'm curious. Assuming an endless, freshly paved road with no turns, what would be my maximum speed? EDIT My question is too general so to help I'm adding some extra assumptions: 

Drive trains with a front derailleur system are designed with to have overlapping gear ratios ranges for each front chain ring to allow you to spend most of your time riding with the chain not stretched to the extremes of your rear cassette. Riding in your largest gear on both your front and rear is call Cross Chaining. Cross Chaining puts unnecessary stress on your drive chain system by forcing your chain to work through extreme angles to propel your bike forward. Additionally, you'll get a grinding noise when using the most extreme gear combinations as you are forcing your chain to go from front to extreme back. Best best to avoid that sound is to practice shifting both your front and rear derailleur. Starting out, it may feel awkward but your bike and ears will thank you ;-). It is worth spending some money at the mechanic to give it a good inspection to make sure everything is in safe working condition as well. Nothing is worse than having something break when you are riding. 

From the way a dynamo works in principle, I would expect it to work with either running direction. I would try that first and would not expect any long-term problems when it does work. If you provide details about the dynamo hub, maybe someone can comment on that model specifically. If it obviously doesn't work when turning backwards, I would change the cabling to the other side. 

Front-mounted child seats are not illegal in Germany but face stronger restrictions than seats mounted in the back. Good sources and discussions (in German): 

In total, there is too little to gain from answers for the community in the short and in the long run to make them worthwhile. Hence, they should be banned in my opinion. 

In summary: take out the inner tube, find the leak, and inspect the inside of the tire before putting in a patched or new inner tube. 

I believe the plastic part is similar to the one identified by number 21/22 in the diagram below. I don't have a name for it, though. I am also not suggesting that this is the exact model that is on this bike but I believe it is the same principle. 

This is about adding a hitch for a bike trailer. I can see why the company recommends to have the quick release on the right (cassette) side, whereas it is usually on the left. The hitch mechanism needs room and is often secured with an additional strap. By putting the quick release to the right, there is no danger of the hitch (and the strap) interacting with the quick release lever. 

I'd recommend hitting up a local bike shop for recumbent bike options. Since product availability is pretty location specific, only this general advice is helpful. Even recommending a particular website may not be helpful depending on your country of residence. Regarding handle bars: your entire position on your bike is going to have changed in the 10 years of recovery (welcome back!). Getting your bike professionally fitted is well worth looking into. I did so after getting hit by a car. Not all bike shops offer this service though so it may require some searching online to find a place that offers fitting. Generally speaking, you will probably find a more upright position more comfortable. That means raising your handlebars and possibly pushing your seat forward. Raising your handlebars can be done with spacers as well as purchasing a new stem with a steeper angle. It's best to get these options dialed in in real-time with a professional that you can give immediate feed back to. Regarding handlebars specifically, refer to @Criggie's comment. Handlebars are generally system specific and would require more than just swapping the bars. 

Short answer: you will not notice the difference in tire choice. Since you are adding a couple kg of rucksack luggage to your bike, that will be what you notice, not your tires. Since you are touring and not racing your thoughts should turn to endurance of your body and your equipment. The heavier, puncture resistant tires may be a wise tire to use so you won't be as concerned about flats enroute to your destination. The extra KG you will be carrying is going to make noticeable changes to how your bike handles along with how much effort your are going to exert uphill. Take the time leading up to ride with your expected gear in place so you know what it's going to feel like. Cheers! Have a great ride.