I feel sympathetic to a point. When when I read, “starting to get complaints from my superiors at the charity.” I start to wince. While you see what you are doing as charity work, it seems to me this charity is offloading a lot of real work into your role. Even worse, now that you are working full-time they seem tone-deaf to the reality of the situation. The best suggestion I can give is to simply tell the charity that you don’t have the time, but you would be happy to train others to take on your role. That way you wind down your role, they get someone else to fill in the gaps & all should be happy. But that said, I would also broach the topic of seeing if there is any way for you to be compensated for the work you are doing for the charity. Meaning, you don’t have enough time in the day to do work for them anymore. But would they be able to use you as a consultant? Or perhaps they could pay you some competitive wage that would make doing work for the charity truly a part-time position? In general, it seems like you just have to wind down your role at the charity for now. And offering to train others backfilling your role is the best thing you can do. 

Shorter answer: The chances of you getting salary equivalent of benefits you reject are slim to none at best. Some companies out there might decide to give you a token amount in your paycheck if you opt out of benefits, but don’t expect that to make a significant dent in your overall compensation. Benefits might be portrayed as some dollar equivalent bundled in with compensation by human resources (or a recruiter or someone else on staff) but the reality is benefits are not some magical coupon that can be exchanged for compensation just because you don’t need the benefits. Longer answer: You say this; bold emphasis is mine: 

She’s part-time. And she’s your boss’ girlfriend. And what else? The reality is family & friends get hired in different gigs all the time. You shouldn’t fear her for being the girlfriend of your boss unless she proves herself to simply be riding on nepotism. 

Then what about saying, “The type of work I do requires me to be on the phone or be on Skype regularly & I want to make sure I am not disrupting others?” For all you know there could be special spaces setup in different co-working spaces that accommodate needs like this. But whatever you do taking the tact of reading the contract & trying to sneak in under the radar will not win you any friends. 

You don't provide any context for your employment compensation. But unless you are an hourly employee in the U.S. you are considered to be a salaried employee. Which means if you are salaried and attend meetings outside of normal business hours, there is no expectation of additional compensation. A salaried employee might have normal work hours but you are generally expected to be available 24/7 unless you make other arrangements. If you are an hourly staffer and the agreement was you should be paid for hours beyond your normal workday, then you should bring it up with your supervisor or human resources. 

Do you see where this is going? Basically his “disturbing lack of delegation” is not just on tasks. It sounds like this CEO is on a death march to make this company successful for him & only him. You are basically being seen as being lucky to be eating his dust. And it sounds like when the dust settles, equity might not happen & you should be grateful for the “experience.” And how you can use that on your resume to get a new gig. 

There is that saying that goes, “Jack of all trades and master of none…” that would apply to your scenario. You might be doing all of the tasks you describe, but even if you are very good at doing all of them it will be hard to prove that to a prospective future employer. Now does that mean you should jump ship? Hell no. At this point if this is your first gig out of college and you are only 15 months into the position, you are doing fine. The reality is pretty much all first gigs straight out of school are horrible, spread out and disorganized. That said, 15 months is about the right time for you to focus on what skills you want to be dead center in your next position. And once you feel you have a grip on that, then you should start applying for positions elsewhere. The reality is any recruiter/human resources person will see you are pretty much fresh to the field and will forgive you for having a gig that is “all over the map.” But the key to this is when you interview for other positions—heck, when you are even putting together your cover letter—you should make it very clear that you want to move onto a new role that focuses some aspect of your skill. 

Yes, it’s unethical, illegal, immoral & will not make you look good to other clients. Lack of payment for services does not grant you the right to do something like that. But if you feel slighted & feel like you need to act in some way, the best thing you can do is—if you have a portfolio site—have a page on the site that lists “Delinquent Clients.” Now, not everyone wants to do something like that—even I don’t—but if you you feel you need to out them, creating a “Delinquent Clients” page seems like reasonable step to protecting yourself & warning others of bad clients. The approach I would suggest is simple: Don’t make it a spiteful explanation. But basically just state the facts: On this date I agreed to do work for a client for this amount, on this date I delivered work as promised & as of today I still have no received payment. The key is to highlight the good work you did, the good faith you acted in & focus on how despite these efforts the other party did not fulfill their agreement. You might also even want to couch the claim in the wording of “I do not believe this client was acting in bad faith, but I did work, contract agreements were not fulfilled & I am at a loss to understand how to handle this.” But the key is would you want to hire someone who sabotages client work irregardless of circumstances? And would you want to hire someone who keeps a public list of grievances. A “Delinquent Client” list on your portfolio site can help you if you make sure to not be spiteful & stick to the facts. The goal is to show the world you have been treated unfairly by a client, not that are vengeful. And the reality past all of this is you should have asked for a 50/50 split on the work done. Meaning, you do not begin to do any work unless the first 50% of the payment is received. And you will only get the next 50% when the work is fully completed. The benefit of this is if things go bad in them middle of this project you can walk away maybe not with the full fee desired, but at least you have something.