Comparing ratings and construction of sleeping bags of different manufacturers for the same classes of product can become an useless exercise if the testing methods are not the same. It does, however, become more meaningful when you are comparing products of the same type and from the same manufacturer as it makes sense to presume that they used the same testing methods for both (although a manufacturer could conduct different or less testing for their economical line) Usually one of the things a manufacturer would tell is that in rating their products they assume the use of sleeping pad and tent, obviously the influence of cold spots would be rather different if you were in the open with just the bag directly on the ground. PS: to clarify V vs trapezoidal chambers after the comments. The baffles (those strips of material that form the chambers) have the function of helping maintaining loft and stopping the down to just pile up wherever it wants (but allowing moisture to move through). In the simplest construction you stop the fill from wandering sewing through (think a quilt) but where the stitches are there’s nothing, no fill and if some fill is there is pinched down by the stitching so no loft. That becomes a cold spot, simply there is no insulation. Now give some room and add a baffle completely vertical (the box construction), you have loft. the fill is kept in place but each baffle is stitched to the top and bottom faces and those stitching lines are vertically aligned. While insulation is much better than before that alignment still represents a cold spot. The solution to this is offsetting the stitching: instead of being one right on top of the other you can build other shaped chambers slanting the baffles, now the stitches are offset which is good but the structure (since the baffles are slanted all in the same direction) doesn’t help the loft much. Now if you build a trapezoid the the baffles are still slanted but in alternate directions: that structure actually helps supporting the loft (think cards castle) and the top stitching is offset to the bottom one. When you get to this trapezoid shape the element that still remains with room for improvement is the amount of offset of the stitching and that happens when you bring the baffles to form a VVVV. Now the bottom lines of stitching are right in between the lines of stitching of the top stitching and you have maximized everything you could in this kind of construction. Obviously the V chambers bring the baffles to a certain degree of slant, while a trapezoid is a bit more vertical, if you have little fill by design then that slant can be so much to compromise the help that the baffle structure gives to maintain the loft unless you start making a lot of narrower chambers, which adds weight and complexity and a lot of stitches (stitches don’t keep you warm). Everything depends on its use and there’s no point to make a sleeping bag structure very complicated when there are more cost effective solutions. These are details that only the manufacturer can quantify and tell you about, you hope they did their R&D on that. At one point things become a compromise to stay viable products. Some manufacturers will go as far as using a mix of chambers in their bags where the more loft and V chambers are on the core and feet and a bit less loft and trapezoidal chambers are for the area in the middle. Not all the manufactures build their product the same way, with the same size chambers, same materials etc etc. Even if they are all sleeping bags you end trying to compare apples and oranges if you are in front of two different products from two different manufactures. The variables to consider can become a lot and at a certain quality level its a lot of work for nothing. In that case the only hope becomes testing each product to compare results and if one is lucky somebody else has done all the work (in the proper way) and published the results. You dont have this problem, you are considering two line of sleeping bags from the same manufacturer, and the products are rather similar. Once you understand the construction, and how you will use the product, the other things are money, remaining gear, quality and packability (compresses a lot when packed and returns to proper loft when you unpack it, doesn’t lose loft overtime), is the manufacturer conservative or not in its ratings, and your personal preferences (you can be a "hot person" or a "cold" one, and what kind of sleeping system that bag is gonna be part of. Lastly just to not make it easy: dawn is good, packs well, keeps you warm and cozy... while its dry! The whole thing changes if the sleeping bag gets wet, so the conditions you use it have their importance. 

At this point it's simply gambling, which is your choice. Again scope out the area. If it looks like trees all fall in one direction, think about where you could place your tent. If in the case a tree does fall, where would you be safe? Is the wind moving in the same direction that it appears the trees fall? That probably means it gets pretty windy and the wind has the ability to push trees over in that direction. The area you are looking in is certainly beautiful. If you decide to camp here, just try to be cautious, scope out the area, and then make a strategic decision. All of my tips are just measures to take, but no guarantees. Sometimes trees will fall over no matter how good they look and how good the soil is around it. Try to find the area with most space and clearing around it. If you decide to camp, hope you have a great time! 

It kind of depends on which bear, black bears are one thing and brown bears another. And lets say that you have actually taken all the precautions to not attract a bear in your camp in first place, a bear wont be going through your pack in search of your iPod. First be aware of your surroundings when you set up camp, so you know where to move. Give a look around as there might be cubs, you don’t want to move towards those. If you can walk away do so, slowly, walking not running and always face the animal, be careful where you put your feet, you don’t want to trip and fall. Keep your deterrent ready for use. Do not move in a direction that would make the animal think you are gonna take/protect a source of food. When you first see the animal don’t make sudden movements or noises, if surprised it will go on the defensive. If its a black bear he might already decide to move out seeing you, if you want to try to make him move out then the idea is to make yourself look bigger and make a lot of noise. Keep deterrent ready. Before deciding to move any bear out of camp make really sure it has an escape route, if the animal feels trapped things wont go well. Usually black bears wont test you unless its a female that is trying to defend their cubs. They normally don’t see people as food. Brown bears instead are a whole different story, the theory goes as above but forget making them move out of camp and to that you add the probable play dead emergency thing, it seems the problem with that is that people don’t wait long enough before restarting moving and the animal comes back but I’m not sure how much one can actually play dead waiting for their soiled pants to hit the fan. Obviously the best thing is to not have the bear in camp, no food should stay in the camp, same goes for soap, toothpaste, toiletries etc. For the same reason, food that cant be prepared in a "clean" way shouldn’t be prepared at or near the camp (fish cleaning for example), don’t smear food on you (your clothes aren’t a napkin for cleaning bacon grease from your fingers) etc etc. Give a look around the camp area for what people camping there might have left/buried, clean that up if you can. (lots of people think that since they are leaving they can be sloppy) A bit of reading: $URL$ $URL$ A video: $URL$ As for deterrents: bear spray!!! Guns yes, they are guns etc etc but: unless you shoot and kill things can go downhill fast. Plenty of guns enthusiasts handle guns and know how to shoot at a target, hunters are used to the gun etc. All more or less controlled situations, a bear coming at you is way different matter, not easy to keep calm. Not all guns would be effective on a bear so you have to consider that too. If you camp with family and friends or all have a gun and know how to use it under pressure or its pointless, many times one has a gun the rest nothing, he cant be guarding both camp and somebody that is taking a bathroom break and if something happens to that person its done. Bear spray is inexpensive enough that everyone in the group can have a can, even a kid can carry it and learn to use it properly. It doesn’t kill the animal either (and if a nervous trigger happy element accidentally sprays another member of the group is not a disaster like if they had a gun) If you read the accident reports there have been people defending themselves with guns and it worked, but usually they had time to do so and they were experienced. In many cases people don’t have the time to get the gun, and if they did they didn’t have the time or capacity to aim it properly. With the spray there have been also accidents were they had it and didn’t have the time to get at it, but in the cases they got it ready it worked because it was just point towards the animal -> shoot. Another way is to bring camping someone you don’t like and slower than you ;) 

Have a quick look around. Does the area look like it is prone to things falling off the tree or actual trees falling over? If so better find a more suitable area. If the area looks clean and maybe only leaves have fallen around, you're probably safe. 

Mosquitoes thrive in warm and humid climates. It's extremely important to not allow stagnant water near your home. This aids in the reproduction cycle for mosquitoes. If you like to keep bins of water outside to collect rain for your plants, don't do this as the still water is very enticing. I sort of broke off on a tangent there. But back to the question. The climate you want is a very dry climate or very cold. Mosquitoes can't thrive in super dry climates. The reason being there is no area to lay their eggs. During stretches of very dry and hot climates mosquitoes will bite less. The female is the only one that bites, because the protein helps develop the eggs. But in dry weather being hard to find water to lay their eggs, their is no reason to feed on blood. So the biting is much less. But that doesn't mean you will find zero mosquitoes. From here: 

The trail is divided in quarters marked by signs (still more about elevation than actual distance) and the elevation is signed in 40s increments 

Trailers can be literally thrown around by a tornado, even high straight winds can be a concern, under it is not a safe place. Usually the idea is to know when they come and move out well before they hit: you, family, pets... these are the important things, the rest is replaceable so don't waste time in trying to save objects. Keeping a bag ready with whats necessary for you+pets in an emergency (a "bug out bag") so that you can just "grab and go" can be a good idea. That bag would also be the place where you would normally store things like personal documents and important medications, so even if you use something everyday you know its either in your hand or in there. Many RV guys consider a weather radio an essential item (in addition to that there are all the various websites and mobile apps that can help in keeping an eye on weather conditions at all times, and I'm talking about things in-depth like NOAA). In risky areas where travel trailers are common there might be some sort of community shelters (or buildings that offer shelter to the community, heard of schools doing that for example), also look for any nearby suitable buildings where find refuge in the area (like parking garages) etc. The responsible for any organized area for trailers should be able to give you the right informations on what are your options, otherwise you could try asking the local police or fire dept. Camping I heard plenty of people that say to keep an eye on the landscape that surrounds you, to use a ditch or similar. Id say that it cant hurt to be aware of the possibility but consider it a last resort thing. 

Ensure the ground isn't easily broken up. Nice firm, but not too firm, soil will keep the tree firmly in the ground. If the soil is like sand or mushy like a marsh, this could result in the tree uprooting itself due to wind or too much water in the soil. 

To best assess the likelihood of a tree falling or a large branch/limb take the following considerations: 

This might seem obvious but actually take a close look. Does the tree look like it is in a good upright position? Does it sway wildly with even the slightest breeze? Do the roots appear to be fully in the ground? Does the outside of the tree look like it is leaking any fluid? If so, does the area around it look normal (i.e. no blackish areas or cracking)? These are important factors. A tree that leans to one side obviously has it's center of gravity offset. This could lead to the tree uprooting itself. If the tree is very bulky and doesn't allow the wind to freely move through it, this can drag branches and limbs, which may result in a limb or branch falling off. Walk around the tree and ensure there are no roots that appear to be coming out of the ground. I don't mean ones that you simply can see in the soil, but if it appears the roots are literally rising up out of the ground, this can be a bad sign meaning lots of erosion and loose soil. Finally, if the tree looks like something may be eating it or that it might have a disease, avoid this. These things can make the tree weak at its joints. 

It's the big part of the point. You match it to the diameter of the shaft (or widest part of the insert or shaft reinforcement). If you get a diameter much larger than the shaft it can bug you when you go pulling the arrows from the target (depending on the type of target you use). With my crossbow bolts, sometimes had to unscrew the shaft to recuperate it losing the tip (and you don't want to leave a tip in a club target). To go more in depth, you match: 

As general rule a physical assessment is necessary as it can be the result of compensation for other problems (flat feet or hyperlordosis for example, just to name a couple). The treatment involves stretching the Iliotibial Band itself (eventual thickening cant be reduced that way but the ITB is attached to muscles so stretching that has a direct effect on those), taking care of the muscles and trigger points that refer to the area and a series of stretching and strengthening exercises, but they would do nothing if the causes aren't addressed properly. Recent studies have changed a bit the traditional belief that ITB syndrome is due to friction. They have shown that it might be associated with the compression of an highly vascularized and innervated fat pad between knee and ITB or a damage to the Periosteum (the outer layer of tissue covering the bone) at the ITB attachment.