Contrarily to most philosophers, pragmatists do not define themselves as searchers of truth. Rorty substitutes the idea of “truths to discover”, of “truths that hide behind appearances”, with “beliefs to explain”. The process of explanation is done, not in reports to a court of Reason, but relatively to a certain public, according to the principle of utility. Although wherein utilitarians like Mill, utility is measured in function to the gain of pleasure and decline of pain, pragmatists are vague: useful is what enables creation of a better future. Better according to which criteria? Rorty admits that pragmatists do not have a precise response: 

Thus, to avoid all ambiguity, maybe it would be more suitable to replace the term “relativist” by the one Rorty employs to categorize thinkers like William James, John Dewey and Michel Foucault: “pan-relationalism”. In the ways relativism and absolutism are generally presented, the choice between these two notions come to two dead-ends: “the absence of possible discussion” and “the faith in abstractions”. If we can question the idea of replacing categories in the heart of philosophical tradition, pragmatism nevertheless highlights the necessity in defining them better. 

What is going on here is the implicit use of a criterion like Popper's falsifiability to assign the burden of proof; and a helping of Laplace' "I have no need of such assumption". If a sufficiently specified God is discussed, then it becomes reasonable to ask for evidence for either existence or non-existence. We have climbed Mount Olympos, and found no sign of Zeus, etc. However, typically such debates are about very unspecific notions of God. The believer could still offer evidence, by specifying God however he wants, and then suggesting matching evidence. The New Atheist argues that until that happens, the default position should be to assume non-existence - just as we do with many other hypothetical constructs. 

Your argument shows that a naive implementation of utilitarianism that defines global utility as the sum of personal utilities would not work if utilities are allowed to include both positive and negative infinity. For this argument to have any bearing on utlitarianism at all, you would need to argue that both positive and negative infinity are indispensable as potential values of individual utilities, and you will find this to be very difficult. Note that we already run into big problems here simply by considering probabilitistic events: What would be the expected utility of tossing a coin to either receive $+\infty$ or $-\infty$? All formal approaches I am familiar with tend to demand that utility values are real numbers, and hence disallow infinite utility values. In particular in a context where we are going to aggregate different utility values, it may even be prudent to demand that utility values come from a bounded interval, to avoid running into this situation: SMBC comic 

it doesn't make sense in my opinion about duplication of yours by the machine. otherwise its organic assemble power is already questionable. i think "if soul exists and you can extract it, then soul's transportation is completely possible".since it is not physically exists, transport of it just like a transportation of a complicated thought. thus it make sense if you can define soul that do not cause contradiction to the transportation. but it is very questionable rather or not the human body itself can be teleported. certainly one of the approach is Star Trek that recreate the body by the machine and only the "soul is transported". theoretically it is worked, if you can accept a new body for each travel. another approach to assuming your soul and body is in one form, a machine can breakdown, transport and assemble you again. assuming that this process has to be fast or this process is above 4th dimension ( not limited by time), otherwise organically you will be defined as dead. the fact is that soul itself is questionable object. also the reason that cause human "dead" is questionable. and the state of "dead" is also questionable. and the formation and storage of memory is also questionable. above questions should be solved first for other options. 

Any lie, whatsoever its reasons are, constitutes an injustice towards humanity in its entirety, because in allowing ourselves to lie, this action results that statements in general do not find credibility, and that, consequently, all rights that are founded on understanding fall equally. The second argument is more singular, because it consists in warning temptation to accept the “well-intentioned” lie against detrimental consequences that may result from it: If you have, for example, prevented by a lie someone with murderous intentions to act, you are responsible on a legal standpoint of all consequences of the outcome. But if you held yourself strictly to the truth, public justice can do nothing to you whatsoever the unforeseen consequences be. 

The axes of research and intervention on man are of interest – the manner techno science changes our image and modifies our body. In itself, there is no need to be "posthuman", "transhumanist" or something else to feel like making a genetical test on your embryo, to follow a cellular therapy, operate aesthetical modifications and so forth; yet, it’s this sum of small things in all sorts of domains that people start to create by need or desire that gradually diverge human evolution. For the sake of answering your question: Transhuman is a process, a transitional state. Posthuman is a result. Etymology suffices to clarify the difference between "trans" and "post": transhumanism aims the improvement of man, whereas posthumanism seeks to surpass it. The transhuman process position might be aimed towards a clear goal (maybe a posthumanism), or a sort of shifting where we accumulate and test, often with negative and positive restrictions in some directions, typical of pragmatical positions that pretend to be without ideology in adapting the one of the moment. Obviously, I object this position that pretends to be disideologized and that details very rarely what it means by a certain foundational concept. 

An approach to make sense of the necessary vs contingent truth distinction is by considering a theory $T$ and a model $M$ of that theory. Theorems of $T$ are the necessary truths in $T$. Statements that hold in $M$ but are not theories of $T$ are the contingent truths. If we follow this approach, then the question of whether AC (if true) is a necessary or contingent truth essentially depends on the question what our chosen foundational theory is. We could consider all models of ZF as potential mathematical worlds, and just explore one where AC is true right now. But we could just as well start with ZFC as theory, and thus deem AC to be necessary. Ultimately, this question does not really lead us anywhere, I believe. 

There are different kinds of mathematical truth, and depending on what you would want in a notion of absolute truth, some of these may fit - or not. My personal stance would be that absolute truth is not a fruitful concept, and probably not worth thinking about too much. The agreement about truth amongst mathematicians A defining feature of mathematics as a field is that mathematicians can generally reach consensus about the truth of a particular mathematical statement, by providing a purtative proof, critizing its weak points, shoring them up, etc. This process can require clarification/abstraction: If the a priori assumed axiom systems of the involved mathematicians differ, they may have to move from "X is true" to "Axiom system Y proves X". If a statement written by a mathematician using classical logic is read literally by a constructivist, it will often be false - but constructivists know how to read classical mathematics in a way that retains truth. Even on the "fringes" of mathematical foundations, say the ultrafinitists would typically attack results as being meaningless, rather than being false. We thus see evidence of a notion of truth that trancends individual view points or perspectives, in manner that most fields of philosophy are not privy to. This also differs from the one in the natural sciences, where experiments can provide an arbiter of truth. On ontology The notion of truth described above is - on purpose - divorced from any assumptions about the ontological status of mathematical objects. One can refuse to entertain this question at all (which essentially leads to formalism, and the unresolved questions of why we are playing this game, and why math works so well to describe nature). The stance that most readily leads to a notion of absolute truth would be platonism in the strict, "one mathematical universal", form. This does not mean that any mathematics not done in the "one and only correct system" is invalid - since we can translate between the various systems, we can recover (almost) all other systems as a fragment of the chosen true reality. A stance that seems widespread amongst mathematicians working on foundations is that of mathematical relativism (described very nicely by Andrej Bauer here). We just accept a plethora of mathematical universes, and study those we find most fascinating. Depending on what is meant by absolute truth, this might be incompatible with such things. Conclusion Mathematics offers far more absolute truth than other areas, but asking for perfectly absolute truth probably doesnt make much sense. 

there are a lot of daily social activity of human civilization actually contradictory, or it has no direct logical reasoning to support such operation. for example 1. talking to someone that you don't really want to know about 2. emotional context 3. stock market trend i want to ask if "contradiction = wrong" is because we lack of knowledge to find the reason for the contradicted thing? or something is definitely contradictory in any state of affair? if the answer is first (contradiction = lack of knowledge to find the reason of it), is that means we are asserting we have not enough knowledge when we asserting other arguments have contradiction (or both of people are lack of knowledge when the owner of the argument also cannot provide the logical proof) if the answer is second (something is definitely contradictory in any state of affair), is such thing can be defined as the contradiction of truth ( thus we found the truth by reversing it)? thanks. 

knowledge itself is static and human knowledge usually can grow regularly (through learning). human learning trajectory (all, but not only a single human) is a dynamic, there is no such limitation on absorbing knowledge, however, due to the evolution and other side effect which can occur, human tends to forget or remove relatively useless knowledge naturally (that explained why history told us human always committed the same mistakes). it means that human can absorb unlimited knowledge logically, but there is a threshold exists in their DNA. it is a typically machine learning tricks, when during with complicated issue, we tends to know the answer, instead of the procedures to solve the issues. human learn "forget something they have learnt" and they will claim it is "a new thing which they haven't learnt". it is a iteration of knowledge which could restrict the human learning process (it is the reason why human can find satisfactory in their mediocre life). as the same situation prolonged to a single human life, human start not willing to learn new thing by choice (free-will). they tends to apply their experience to solve the existing problem. as long as problem is able to be solved by the current knowledge foundation, human usually will not learn/know new thing. thus, any stimulation(issues, problems, threats) can boost the knowledge base of human, for example world war 2 there is a lot of difference type of technology invented and researched. human tends not to explore the universe, or their own bodies until the crisis of human population and serious disease. a single human is a event driven object with some randomized pulse to force them to do creative things. but the entire human species are still event driven as the correlation activities of them (society).