From what you've said it sounds like you're doing satisfactory work. I suspect you are being too hard on yourself. But I can certainly understand why you're worried, and feeling financially insecure. I have a few suggestions that may help. If you haven't done so recently, visit your doctor and check that your recovery from the surgery is going as expected. The doctor may want to do some blood tests to verify that it's just the medication making you tired; that there isn't another problem like an iron deficiency contributing to your lack of energy. After a long period of low energy and reduced activity, it's not easy to return to full activity. Even if you were back to 100% energy tomorrow, it would still take time to regain muscle strength, etc. You might ask the doctor if it's OK to do some mild exercise, like walking. Even if you can't go far, just making a habit of some sort of exercise may help. Getting a bit more financial security will lower your stress level. However, it sounds like you don't have the energy yet to take on additional work. But I think you're onto a good thing with the research you're already doing. Keep learning. Learn things that you're interested in, and also gain skills that will make it easier to get a job in case you need to. Having a plan and working slowly but steadily toward a goal will probably help you feel more secure about your finances. 

If you've already explained your situation to them, and they still can't or won't be flexible, then you're out of luck. You don't really have any "rights" when it comes to interviewing, they can choose whether or not they want to be flexible, they don't "owe" you anything as you're not employed. So no, you don't have any rights, and it's probably best to just forget this job, or find a way to have someone watch over your Aunt while you interview. 

I'm not overly happy in my current work environment. The people are good, the hours are perfect, the amount of flexibility I have is nice, but the job itself is pretty terrible. Lack of work at times, not really growing my skills, and there is little to no advancement opportunity. So I have a degree in IT. I want to continue to work in the IT field, but currently there is nothing open in my area that fits my skillset. So I'm looking for a new job but I can't seem to find anything in IT. There are plenty of jobs outside of the IT field that I feel I would be qualified for. My question becomes, is it bad for me to work in a job that is not IT for a time until something in IT opens up? Will it look bad on my resume? Will potential future employers think, because I quit an IT job to work in, let's say Sales or something not IT, that maybe I couldn't handle my previous IT job? 

Grumpy handled this very poorly. However... As someone who was a developer for decades, and is now a maths researcher doing a lot of predictive analytics, I kind of see Grumpy's point. While software developers have to be prepared to learn bits and pieces from a wide variety of disciplines in order to do their job, there is a significant difference between a developer and a researcher, just as there is between a manager and a developer. This isn't like he's refusing to learn a new programming language or figure out how to interface with some weird hardware; it's more like he's refusing to do graphic design or manage a team or fly a plane. Grumpy may be maths-phobic. But it's also possible that he knows enough about statistics and data mining to suspect that it will be a difficult, murky slog. In this particular area of maths, it's very easy to learn some techniques, but it's also easy to apply them in the wrong situations! A high-school student could learn how to do ARIMA, but knowing when it's valid and how to choose the right parameters are more at the graduate student level. A lot of mathematicians don't like statistics, not because it's harder than other fields, but because it's more... fiddly. Like you, I jump at the chance to learn new maths, and I love my job. But I can see how Grumpy might feel that he's being asked to do something that's just too far outside the role of a developer. As I said, he handled it very badly, and I don't excuse that. But he may have some justification for the way he feels. 

Short answer: No, don't put this on your resume. Long answer: Just because you were let go during the trial period, due to slower than normal adaptation to the job, doesn't necessarily mean you're bad at what you do. Maybe you just take longer to grasp all the ideals that the company has for their employees. This can lead to you being let go, as you are not "perfect" in their eyes. Now, knowing that yourself, doesn't mean everyone will see it that way when you walk into an interview. Even if you explain what happened, they might just assume you're putting yourself in a positive light instead of telling them what really happened. I would say leave the job off your resume and just go from there. Build your resume up on your strengths and past employment that you performed well in. The people who read your resume will only see that you lasted in your previous job for a month, and they'll wonder why, possibly might kill your chances of getting an interview. Again, don't get down on yourself. Each company has different expectations of their employees, some expect you to be a pro within a week, some expect it's going to take longer to get settled in and they understand things can take time, especially for a new employee. Just keep working hard and keep your resume focused on the good. 

It sounds to me like the problem has nothing to do with race or ethnicity per se, it's that you feel excluded from the team. That sort of thing can happen if everyone but you loves football and talks about it all the time, or if they all went to the same college, or if everyone but you hangs out together, etc. Even if you didn't mind, this situation is not good for the team as a whole. So here are a few suggestions: 

I'm going to assume that by "do I have to?" you mean "am I expected to?" or "should I?". ("Am I legally required to" would be off-topic.) You should expect to hand over the email account (i.e. give them the password and stop using the account) if any of the following apply: 

In the last two cases, it may be acceptable to simply close the account. Ask Mom and Pop how they would like to handle it. 

I have the problems you describe, but to a lesser degree. I will be able to recognise someone after I have encountered them regularly, in situations where I know their name, over a few weeks. I haven't been diagnosed, but my guess is that I either have mild prosopagnosia or am at the low-functioning edge of "normal". Perhaps my experience will help. I smile at everyone. Partly that's because of my difficulty with faces; I don't want to offend anyone. But partly it's because, as corny as it sounds, smiling makes the world a better place. Whenever someone smiles at me, it makes me feel a little better about my day, and I assume others have the same reaction. Also, I am an introvert; smiling lets others know that I'm not standoffish even though I may not say much. I am still "caught out" occasionally when people realise that I don't recognise them. While that's a little embarassing for me, the other person never seems to be offended. You may not feel comfortable smiling at everyone, and I don't think you need to be someone you're not. But many people with prosopagnosia chose to smile at everyone; it's a common coping technique. You might want to give it a try. 

I would definitely talk to the boss about your situation and see what he is thinking. You may have given your boss the impression that you're not to be counted on to work, and they may have the wrong idea. You should ask your boss for a closed door meeting, where you can discuss what happened to you on that first day, and explain why it happened. Let him know that you are able to work, and are willing to do what you need to do to prove to him that you are to be counted on, and you will be at work when they call. He may just have the wrong idea, so the worst thing you can do is just let this go and hope for a good outcome. You need to address this, don't be confrontational, don't storm in and demand to know if you're being fired. Just ask for a meeting, talk to him about your situation, and maybe you'll find out they just didn't need you for those few days. It's always a good idea to just talk it out. Also, as Vers said, you should probably consider also just starting to look for a new job as well, as if being gone a day or 2 gets your boss mad enough to fire you, after all you've done for them in winter times, then maybe it's not a company worth your time to stay with. 

First, don't take it personally. It might be because you're young, but I suspect it's more likely that the task isn't a priority for her manager, so it's not a priority for her. And maybe, in the grand scheme of things, this project isn't as high a priority for the company as the tasks she's been assigned. Here's my recommendation: When you need someone else's co-operation to accomplish something, first go to them, explain what you need and why you need it. Explain why it's important for the company (or at least why it's important to your boss). Ask if they will be able to do it, and when. If they say they can't do it, go to your boss and let them know. Not as a complaint, though. Just explain "X said she's unable to help with this, so what's our backup plan?" Alternatively, if they say they will do it, but after a few reminders it's not getting done, go to your boss. Again not as a complaint. Say something along the lines of "I think X has too much on her plate right now to do this". After that, one of the following should happen: 

The fact that there were no technical questions asked, that would pertain to how you would do this job, were you to be given it, means this was most likely just an introductory interview. An interview to ask those generalized questions like "where do you see yourself in 5 years", or "name a time where you were in charge and had to make a difficult decision". In this instance, the position of the interviewer is irrelevant. Since she was just conducting the introductory interview, there was simply no reason to question her position with the company. It may not have been meant as an insult or meant to offend, but that's probably how it came off, especially after she said "I will send your application to the hiring manager", it's clear she wasn't the one making the hiring decision, she was just getting those common questions out of the way. In my experience, the phone interview is generally just an "introductory" interview, kind of see how you may fit into the workplace, a few generalized questions that they ask to get them out of the way so the next interview can focus solely on the technical side. Next time, just worry about answering the questions(and no it doesn't mean you can't ASK questions), and let them decide who is going to interview you. If they're interviewing you with unqualified people, maybe that's not a company you want to work for anyway. 

It depends on what you mean by "protect your reputation". If your concern is that people might think you were in a fight, or that someone is abusing you, but you don't want to talk about it, you could say something like "It was just a stupid, embarassing accident, and I don't want to talk about it". If your concern is that people might think you were clumsy, then one of the other answers might be better. 

Since you're not getting clear responses to your questions, one possibility is to make an estimate based on some assumptions. Then present both your assumptions and the estimate to your boss. Keep a record of both so that you will be covered when the boss later figures out what he really wants, and questions your implementation or the time it took to complete. 

I suspect you're reading way too much into the situation. Here are some reasons your boss might be frowning: 

I would not trust a company that changed benefits on me after the contract was agreed. I might make allowance if I was convinced the change was due to an honest mistake (e.g. people one pay grade up get free parking, and that perk was accidentally included in my contract) but unless the change was minor I would feel free to change my mind and accept a different offer. It sounds like you still have another open offer. Given the situation you are ethically entitled to back out. When making your decision, you may want to take into account your concerns about the company's honesty. If you do decide to stay, it's reasonable for you to ask for some adjustment to the contract. They may say no, of course. 

First of all, I wouldn't threaten to leave the company. Let me explain. During a performance review, you are (probably) going to be asked what you like and dislike about your year so far. They usually ask you if you'd like to work on anything specific or just keep doing what you're doing. Granted they might not ask those questions, but it would definitely be a place where you could talk to your manager and ask about what you can do, if you can get different projects this year, etc. Just say you're wondering what projects they have in mind, and see if maybe you can suggest and/or push your manager a certain direction. Telling him "if things don't change, I quit", will probably not put you in a great light, and might even jeopardize your job. What I would do is make a list of the things you want to work on, ask your manager if any of the things you want to work on are feasible for the company and gauge his/her reaction. If they don't or can't give you the projects you are looking for, then it's probably best to look for another job. Obviously it'd be nice to give them a heads up, but it's not up to you to make sure their feelings aren't hurt, it's up to you to watch out for yourself. The best you can do is make sure you give proper notice if you do find another job, and do everything you can to finish out the work you're on before leaving. Leaving on good terms is nice, but it's not always up to you.