Depends where you are. Here in Germany an e-mail is an official document, so the footer contains: My name, position and department, the post address, various telephone numbers and website. Then a baby logo Then it contains the official stuff; the registered office, district court, managing directors, etc. This part is mandated by law and is not negotiable. Then a note about confidentiality. On the other hand we don't have any header at all. You could persuade them to do without the opulent bit at the top. You can see all that in Outlook or whatever anyway. 

Go to the boss and say, boss, I think we need another person in the team. I'm off on a long holiday next year and what happens if one of the others gets sick or something? We have plenty of work to keep three or four people busy. We really need backup. So let's look at getting some help in. There. You've covered all bases and hurt nobody. 

I am the only Brit around, so I do a lot of this. You have to be tactful; Oh dear, there are some typos in here, would you like me to have a look? It seems to work, they keep coming back. I have been doing this for so long that it is almost my second job. I keep a dictionary and a grammatical guide and a thesaurus here and show them the problem, and say a lot of Brits get this one wrong too. It's got a lot better since spell-checkers arrived. When I write something important in German I ask someone to proof-read it for me, and say; I'll do the same for you sometime. As a matter of fact it can be a bind if the students want me to proof-read their dissertations, but if it's too long I just do the first chapter and tell them to extrapolate. 

I did not verify with the California code, but have read it in the past. My answer is from what I remember. If you wish to keep being employed and receive wages then you obviously have to do what your employer tells you, within reason and what is lawful. If they say you can no longer work from home then you have to work from the designated place of work, of course you can refuse, and they can fire you for no reason any time (you can also quit for no reason, any time). Considering they changed the rule and you are no longer allowed to work from home, and you still do work from home, they can regard this as being absent without leave. Since you are not present at your workplace doing your job. They offer you to use up your sick leave during your stay at home (I assume it's a medical reason preventing you from going to work). If you do that then make sure to not work, because you're having paid time off, or sick leave in this case. Take time to recover and rest. It is silly, to say the least, to work when on (sick) leave (I know many a fool does, and many people get stressed and burn outs, how surprising). You can of course refuse to use the sick leave, and your employer can then consider this as being absent without leave, stop paying you for the days you are not at work, ignore the fact you could be working from home (since that is against the rules now) and eventually decide to fire you because you are not at work. Don't think that just because you are working from home that it is by default considered work. It is only considered work as long as your employer thinks it is and since they decided to not allow work from home they would not consider it work, I would think. 

Does it have to be water? In canteens and hospitals they have hygiene bottles mounted on the wall so you can clean your hands as you go in. They have some cleaning solution in there. You could even put water in these - one of those big bottles they have in drinking fountains - and have buckets underneath. 

The foul smelling part is flammable. Light a candle or one of those room-scenters with a candle inside. Or one of those tea warmers with a candle inside. Works really well in the bathroom too, if you have a big party and lots of people using it. 

Yes, actually, but not in writing, do it in person and off-site if you can. I have done this; I transferred department to get away from the swine, and after a reorganisation he got assigned to us. So I left, officially to get some more varied experience. The boss said, what is the real reason? And I said, because I never want to be in the same room as X ever again. And he said, there's something wrong here, four of you are leaving to get away from this guy. I told him some of the nasty stuff X had done to me and many others, trying to keep it light-hearted and zippy. Last time I went past, I saw X had been downgraded and had to share an office (this is as low as it gets here). So it helped. It made me feel better too. 

This is a work culture you are not likely to overcome, and even if you do manage to work remotely, you may still be unhappy. For six years, I worked remotely 2 days a week at a company that discouraged working from home except when it was needed. How? I negotiated this up front when I was hired and they were desperate, and later when they tried to take it away, I let them know (nicely) that I'd probably be looking for another job if they pulled back this benefit. They never questioned me again about it. Perhaps the same hard-nosed attitude will work in your case. I have since switched jobs to a company that openly allows working remotely a few days a week so long as you get your work done. I can certainly say, this is a welcome relief to be in a "work-from-home" culture, than going against the culture like the first job I talked about. At my first job, you were lucky to get a conference line number to call into for meetings, usually you had to track someone down to start it up after the meeting started. At my new job every invite at my current company contains details on the conference call. We don't use our conference rooms much at work, most people would rather just talk at their desks unless we have to whiteboard. To sum it all up, If you want to work from home on a regular schedule, you will enjoy it much better under a new company that has the internal culture to support it. 

I don't know what country you are in, but where I live engineers are responsible for what they deliver. So if someone dies because I deliver faulty products or knowingly allow faulty products to be delivered, then I go to prison. Ditto if actively lying or conniving in lying about what your products can do, or whatever, you, yes you yourself, are guilty of fraud. As it says further down, if it's a lie, preface it by "my boss says". Never sign off code or test reports if you don't like it. Never. Better still, find an excuse not to present this stuff to the customer. But firstly, get a new job and get out of there, don't wait another day. And find an alternative exit route in case of fire. And, oh yes, if there is a fire and people die because you didn't report the chained-up fire exit, then you too are at fault. I see below you reported it in a roundabout way, but do it in writing. Mail your boss and his boss that this is illegal and dangerous. Do it right now. This is not a joke, these are people's lives. 

Eating together is not only a perk, the company wants you to socialize and even (shock) continue to talk about work. So it may not be a requirement but nice if you can make it, and if you are not there you may miss something special. How about: 

Yes you can and should put it on your resume. Don't mention on your resume you quit, just the start and end date, work done, expertise gained etc. Make it look positive, any experience gained is a good thing. It is up to you what to answer when asked in an interview about why or how it ended (often they don't ask). There is always a way to spin it into something positive. Also you can ask for a reference and most managers will give you one, even though you quit. Quitting is part of this whole "game". It's in their best interest to give a good reference, it reflects bad on them as well if they wouldn't. And it's a small world, you never know how a bad reference can some day hit back. It may be a good idea to clearly explain why you quit, in an email or written letter. In a form that would provide feedback so they (hopefully) could improve things. Sound positive, don't sound bitter or angry. Thank them for the opportunity, that you learned a lot, such things. Leaving a bad situation isn't necessarily a bad thing and can be seen as a sign of strength. Especially if you do it gracefully. As an aside this sounds like a bad situation to get out of asap and it sounds like they are (ab)using an intern position as a real job. There are laws against it. I know in California an employer is not allowed to (ab)use an intern position for regular work tasks, this also means an intern has more freedom with regards to work times and all that.