So if each woman produce 6 children per generation, 3 of which are women, and the population is half men, after 10 generations you have ~120,000 people. After 20 generations you have ~7 billion people. I'd expect it to be somewhere in that interval without perfect information. With perfect information, they walk around tapping things and those things reform into the exact ingredients they need. They touch them together, tap them, and they bond together. Their actions look more like magic than industry. 

Magic space bats with devices soak energy out of extremely high pressure systems (only on Earth) and harmlessly dissipate the heat. Internal combustion above certain pressures and gunpowder just doesn't work. Ubiqutous nanobots who eat explosives and gunpowder. Organic living life has counteragents; gunpowder doesn't. Reptile invaders who listen for gunshots, and destroy whomever does it. Biowarfare agents that eat explosives and gunpowder to cripple the opposing side leftover from the last war. "Humans" are simulated beings in a computer system whose environment mirrors the real world with safety systems to prevent use of guns. Distopian anti-gun government genetic engineering during the fall of civilization implanted a genetic phobia of guns. We don't know, they just don't work. Post-singularity AI biometalic implants prevent construction of tools that are pure weapons by engineering a blind spot in our conciousness. 

So, we are talking non-matter based distributed networks of the descendents of uploaded minds piloting exotic high-energy weapons. Nothing is going to resemble a WW1 battleship or WW2 aircraft carrier. Those where designed based on the energy budgets and situations of a gravity-locked biological life form using 20th century technology, not a space-based intelligence using 30th century technology. If there are civilizations using space battle ships that fire relativistic projectiles and guided missiles, they'll be the equivalent of US white supremists stockpiling assault rifles for the coming civil war. History has passed them by. 

FTL does not lead to time travel if there is a preferred absolute frame of refererence -- an "Ether" equivalent -- against which FTL (or instant transportation) is measured. Lacking that, FTL ends up being relative to your current frame of reference. And when you move "normally", time and space being to bleed into each other a bit via a rotation like mechanism. You say "the same time" at two far apart locations, but how do we measure it? In relativity, there is the future (things light can reach from now), the past (things light could have reached you from), and elsewhere. If we define a "at this moment" plane through space-time, when you move the angle this plane cuts through space time changes. If you move towards Alpha Centauri, the "same time" there moves backward in time relative to being "stationary" relative to Alpha Centauri. So you send a message to Alpha Centauri "instantly" in your current frame, and then they send a message back, and it arrives in your past. We can avoid this by inventing an absolute frame of reference against which "the same time" is measured. Doing so would require rebuilding most of physics and somehow deriving our current physics as a special case. 

Fossil Evidence There are millions of bits of dinosaurs, and around 10,000 "full" dinosaur fossils. Dinosaurs lasted for about 160 million years, and died off about 65 million years ago. In terms of biomass, I'll assume humans are about as dominant as dinosaurs (all of them together) are. Dinosaurs left 1 artifact every 160 years on the planet (and one "full" specimin every 16000 years). So a full human skeleton is unlikely to be found by this future civilization. Bits of human skeleton are likely to be found. I suspect industrial civilization artifacts far outnumber us in volume and count. Buildings are huge, our garbage is everywhere. So I suspect they'll get fossil evidence of the strange thing we build (buildings, cars, plastic bottles). Both of these would show up around about the same time as our civilization discovered and understood dinosaurs. Geological Evidence of War There are two kinds of geological evidence. The first is the direct blast effects of the nukes. Spread all over the world at the same strata will be nuclear-fuzed glass, both from direct blast and from erosion/ejecta. These will be similar to comet/asteroid impacts that we have geological evidence of. This layer will also have a large number of strange isotopes. A concentration of moderately unstable isotopes of medium-long length will be spread over the planet, and concentrated in this layer. These won't match anything else in nature really; unlike the dinosaur-killer, whose isotope mix matches other asteroids, it will be a mystery for a while where this mix comes from. Only when they themselves discover radioactive decay, nuclear transmutation, and nuclear chain reactions/bombs will those isotope mixes start to make more and more sense. Some larger bombs may even leave craters large enough to last millions of years, depending on what kind of bombs are in fashion at the time. Such lakes would have large amounts of the nuclear glass in them. Connecting said nuclear glass to an ancient intelligent civilization will be tricky. Geological Evidence of Civilization Beyond actual artifacts, humans move a lot of dirt. We have reshaped the world. Over 2 million years an average of 100 feet of material is stripped off (and replaced) over the world; humans have, on average, done about 1 to 10 feet over the time we have been on this planet (usually moving it somewhere else). While it may not be visible everywhere, it may be visible some places. A project we do (roadworks, canals, pyramids, etc) that reshapes the landscape may be buried by erosion from elsewhere, and unearthed either by natural processes or by digging by the later civilization. Recognizing it as being caused by a particular civilization may be challenging, but the layer of ash, dead plant material, and glaciation evidence directly above that strange layer may draw attention to it. A nuclear war is likely to wipe out cities. Any cities spared by such a war would be a decent concentration of metals, as we have spent centuries mining metals and concentrating them in our cities. Some may be ground to dust by glaciers, with the dust deposits being mined; but somewhat intact cities could draw economic activity, and induce curiosity. 

Natural selection. Of a kind. Over the ages these immortals where generated by their god. Some of them shyed from conflict. Others embraced it. Others where neutral. The conflict-scared and neutral where wiped out century after century. Those that survived formed empires and led their peons against other immortals and against free peoples. Most of those that failed to form empires where killed and enslaved by other immortals and free people's. Those that live are those that lived. Violence is only against survival when the alternative isn't worse. War is worse for non-combatants than it is for soldiers. There will be some immortals that are peaceful and hate war, but they are far outnumbered. Of them, the vast majority are immortals that have been broken and enslaved by free peoples or other immortals. A minority of a minority are the peace-loving immortals that remain free and indepenent. With the end of new immortals, the dynamics have changed a bit. But immortals are also creatures of habit, and adjusting to the new era isn't for everyone.