There needs to be some way to coldstart the ship This isn't an Alfa sub. There are times when it's perfectly reasonable to power everything down, pull all the main safety switches, and walk away from it for awhile. If you do that from inside the ship, how do you get out? You can't, the control has to be external. Likewise in the reverse when you pull the ship out of mothballs and go to use it again. There has to be an external hatch that will let you set the main battery and safefy switches to running position to power up doors to get in. It should also have a power connection in case the battery is flat. For that matter, the batteries may be normally exposed to space and in a compartment only accessible from outside, just as they are in an off-grid solar home for perfectly sensible reasons. Pulling the main battery switch may be enough to shut down the mad AI. 

And then you could get on their national health system and get your care, because these things would quiet the question of why her history is a black hole and why she's never had a vaccine. Another option is go to a country where the medicine is quite good, but very disorganized, balkanied and inefficient (and they like it that way). Where it's rather common for an anonymous person to walk into an urgent-care with no identity or insurance documents whatsoever and ask for a-la-carte care and peel off $20 bills to pay for it. I'm speaking of course of the United States. Doctor's offices keep their own medical records and don't share unless asked by another office. You could keep your own medical records and get 100 vaccines at 100 urgent care's or free clinics. There, the risk is missing an important vaccine. ** my greatest aspiration is to travel to England, find where Immigration enforcement is working, step out of a blue Police Box that wasn't there before, and go "pardon me, are you with Border Force? Would you mind--" and pull out my passport. 

This reason must be obvious enough for government to want to grant it. We know the investment isn't money; because money isn't that patient. The resource is likely something else: massive societal commitment (Logopolis), a social debt, state/planetary security, something a mortal will want his great-great-grandchildren to have. ** don't forget the still-ongoing cost of nuclear waste cleanup at Hanford, Oak Ridge, Los Alamos etc. Hanford alone is going on four times the original Manhattan Project cost. Yes, inflation-adjusted. An expense that will seemingly never end. If Manhattan Project patents were monetizable, you bet they should be extended indefinitely, to pay for the cleanup. 

* Presumably, isotopic separation is cost prohibitive; an element is all-in or all-out. If an element has a desirable isotope, but is contaminated with a slower isotope that neither helps nor hurts, that's OK -- but if a third dominant isotope has a too-short half-life, then the entire element is out. Or, if the problem isotope has a 10-year half life, you should search for spent fuel that's at least 40 years old, as that is a very cheap way of excluding that isotope. 

** This coefficient void in Russia and Canada. RBMK and CanDU reactors have positive void coefficients - boiling increases their power. That ain't good. 

** Maglev: another technology that moots the gravity issue, because the car floats on a cushion of money. Seriously, cost is the problem: the technical challenges result in very high cost, at least as compared to bulletproof off-the-shelf old railroad, which can get within 5% of maglev's speed. As such, unless cost is no object, I tend to write off maglev. 

Contrast with The Global Warming Initiative LLC. Operative word LLC. It's just crazy. Aside from the tax situation really working well, the real eye-opener was that nobody questioned what they were doing. People just assumed if a corporate entity does it, it can't be pure evil. (and yet they own a cell phone. How can this be?) Yes, there were lawsuits against individual Members. And some of them won. But the LLC was manager managed, so all they could get was charging orders, which means they take profits ahead of Members if the Manager ever chooses to distribute profits, which of course he never did. The LLC went bust, but not before all the coal plants and freon factories were built. Mission accomplished. Bottom line, a good corporate structure is the difference between success and failure. Be like the Lower Manhattan Beautification Committee, not like the Branch Davidians. 

Think about it in terms of pressure A 1-inch-square column of water weighs 0.433 pounds per vertical foot (at a cool 39 degrees F, somewhat less if warmer). So a 100-foot column of water weighs 43.3 pounds per square inch. You may know there's a unit of measure called "pounds per square inch". As it works out, size doesn't matter. If you have entrapped a column of water, of any size, that is 100 feet above you, that pressure will be 43.3 psi. If you want to push water up 100 feet, you will need 43.3 PSI to do it. Your car tires have about 30 PSI in them. How to do it Pumping 100 feet would be practical in the early Industrial Revolution. Look at the British canal system - every canal loses water to seepage and lock operation, and not every canal was below an abundant natural water supply. They made up the difference with pumping stations. If you are more medieval than that, then you do smaller steppes, pun intended. 1-9 intermediate pools with 10-50 feet of lift each. If you have to get crops to market, you may want to also make that a canal/lock system. A flight of multiple locks typically has a pond*** at each intermediate level. Lastly if you are in the electric age, pumping is easy obviously, but you may want to combine it with backpumping to store electricity. 

This is Vodyane in Ukraine. These are single-family homes on narrow lots with very deep backyards. Those are almost entirely filled with ... greenhouses. This is but a small part; it goes on for miles. And just to the east... what's that? A huge industrial complex containing six nuclear reactors and a bunch of coal-fired generating plants, all of which are about 35% thermally efficient and "waste" the other 65% of thermal energy Gee, I wonder where the greenhouses get heat? 

Hide it in plain sight If you look at any of those Pacific islands, you see a fairly sprawling Atoll that is readily visible. However, on closer inspection, at least 95% and often 100% of it is slightly underwater. If it is not entirely underwater, perhaps a hush-hush nuclear test removed the last of the above-water island, leaving a toxic radioactive wasteland no one would ever go to. Except that there was no nuclear test, this was a cover story, the work of the cabal. Or the tiny island is a wildlife refuge, under control of a nature organization again controlled by the cabal. It looks like the same old boring underwater reef So instead of making your island invisible to satellites, and aircraft, you only need to make it look slightly underwater. You excavate material from from the deeper ocean to raise your atoll out of the water, while installing the active camouflage to keep it looking like last year's overheads. Or in hard-mode, make it an actual known island, which gets occasional visitors... And conceal your section of the atoll from those visitors. Imagine if your base was in fact Midway, replete with functioning airfield. It's known to the world as an ETOPS diversion field. Your aircraft fly at max speed, snake in there when there are no satellites overhead, unload, replenish fuel, and continue onto their flightplan destination. Their late arrival is explained away as economy cruise. So in this case you subvert the LOST problem: the stricken airliner simply lands at the publicly known field, gets serviced, is flown out, and none's the wiser. And if any outsiders discover the secret part of the island, then you loose the black smoke and polar bears! 

Inside a Dam You build it inside the dam during construction. Earthen dams are the best, since your hollowing is displacing less strength, and it's easier to make up that strength with steel or concrete. It helps if one of your companies gets the contract to operate the dam. Pro tip though: Make sure you maintain the dam tip-top. If you get into a situation where the dam is having serious trouble... and that gets a lot of government attention... it makes concealment a lot harder. You know, like the main spillway getting undercut by your expansion work, and having to use the emergency spillway and evacuate Oroville. By the way, you're gonna wanna win the repair contract. Don't try to make a couple bucks highballing the deal and have Kiewit undercut you by a measly $1.4 million, and then have to spend most of your fortune to buy Kiewit. Ugh. Water is not a problem obviously. Electricity isn't either obviously, you can tap the main turbines. Or have a small backup turbine, they might notice your turbine output in the diversion tunnel, so just leak it into the subsurface of the dam. There'll be a green spot there, nobody will care. Also you have air access via floatplanes, make them submersible so you can use a submarine base concealed by the powerplant intake structure. Works great. 

2013. The saucer is 120 feet across. src more How long? Well for Burning Man official structures (you know, like the Man himself), a week or so. But for some attendees it is pretty much overnight, and if the bigger projects were pressed, they too could get it done in 12 hours. This is done by geek kids, for fun. Imagine what an advanced military could do. Fly the building there. This assumes your building's purpose can be accomplished in a reasonably large airplane or starship. It can look like a building; nobody needs to know the first few floors are nothing but elevator lobby and engines.You build the building at leisure. You only need to land once; consider The 100, where certain former spaceships landed roughly, but continued in service as a building/fortress. Or just drive it! Perhaps stretching your meaning... but we build the building, at our leisure, back at the staging area. The first 3 floors are this. 

Yes! The overwater explorers would need them! SCOBA gear is heavy: as Scotty says, "it's not just the whales, it's the water!" As they explore their planet's final frontier, they will need mechanization to carry fairly enormous life-support equipment. You can imagine they will extensively test this equipment on the seafloor ballasted to add the vehicle's displacement to its weight, to simulate its performance on the surface. Why plunge into the gasping void? Airflight. It's mind-blowingly faster than swimming. Your best subs can go 30 knots (and make a LOT of noise) - but an airplane can go 500 with no noise at all. At the very least, it's of great interest for the military. Space exploration. You will not be going to space without going through atmosphere first, even if there is scarcely a difference between the two. 

Ever hear of a tip-up building? It has walls made of concrete that are tipped up to vertical, like raising a barn. Well chosen sizes of concrete slab could be dug up and tipped up into walls of a structure. The ability to move large pieces and the height of the structure would be very dependent on the strength of the concrete, obviously, which is to say its reinforcing if any. I surely wouldn't want a roof made of found concrete. So you'll have to come up with something for that. 

The aircraft's goal would be to get as high as possible, but even more importantly as fast as possible, because in air launch, speed is worth more than altitude. (If altitude were so precious, we'd launch from the Wyoming steppe, not sea level). Right now we don't have reason to throw terabuck engineering into hypersonic aircraft, but they sure would. So this aircraft would be climbing up into the very upper limits of the atmosphere where it's thin enough to go hypersonic easily, and creating all the delta-vee it possibly can using the atmosphere as oxidizer, before detaching the first stage of rocket proper and sending it on its way. The rocket equation would be more or less inapplicable to this mothership launcher, since its oxidizer and reaction matter is borrowed. There are those working on this. However projects like Stratolaunch, Virgin LauncherOne, GO, Aldebaran, and MAKS are subsonic launch, IAR-111 is "mere" supersonic launch. I am proposing hypersonic launch, and the mothership doesn't need to survive separation. 

If you don't like the flow rate of a river (or water-transport canal), you build a parallel canal for navigation. The navigation canal has basically zero current, the only water movement is to replenish leakage and refill locks. Your main canal, you say, is 1m/km grade. If that is too steep for the navigation canal, you have locks. A medieval lock could handle 1-2 metres of lift, so every 1-2km. 

Kay Eye Double-Ell you The casino business has much mellowed, but let's face it - it's not run by pandas. It's never happened, so we don't know what would happen if someone demonstrated statistically impossible luck, and was seen by the wrong person. I think first it would be treated as cheating, that person would be detained in a more-or-less lawful fashion while the cheating was checked out. They would inevitably have to be released. However, if word got out about their paranormal luck, it's very likely less legal things would happen, possibly waiting for them as they walk out of the detention area. Less a matter of the impoverished casino wanting to kill them, and more a matter of others wanting to exploit that luck for themselves. They could find themselves in a mobile kidnapping, escorted by toughs from casino to casino. This could make a scene at a casino, so more likely they'd haul them to some nondescript sportsbook office. Our hero might try to "sour the milk", so for you OP, this raises a question of how the luck works exactly. Can they will to lose, or is the winning compulsory? Of course, criminal stupidity being what it is, this is all likely to end in a shallow grave. Alternately, he might meet a white-knight who bargains, and says "you bring the luck, I bring the capitalization" and allows our hero to make a lot more money than he could otherwise, and a bunch of orphanages get funded. But of course there's no drama in that. The upshot is for our hero to avoid having a sack over his head, he needs to be not detected. Avoiding detection As they say... Once is happenstance. Twice is coincidence. Three times is enemy action. For them, it's about the laws of large numbers. Don't give them a large enough sample size. Winning your first two hands in blackjack is commonplace, probably a 1 in 5 chance, so not anywhere near "enemy action". Winning your first two plays in roulette has a 1 in 1000ish chance - that's enemy action. So you have to contain your wins at each table to "happenstance" and your observable activity at the casino to "coincidence". Spreading your wins across a wide variety of games will remove accusations of cheating -- since cheating is always particular to one specific game. There's a perfectly good rationale: You say you walked away after your first-play win, because the game is now jinxed, and you've used up your luck. If they want more, you arm-wave the hard science of the laws of large numbers, and the widely-held corollary that after a win, another win is less likely. The casino is unlikely to argue with that, since it implies if you had lost, you'd have kept playing.