One example to answer for a single city as the last part wants: Nuclear threat - I am currently using this but I will likely never get published or finished. If 3rd party publicly announces that the city will be attacked by a nuclear warhead and it seem believable for some reason, said city will be agressively evacuated. Limited military forces will likely remain within the area. Those who know better, are unwilling to leave home in the required time frame so hide, or break through defenses would find a largely uninhabited city with plenty to loot. This fits better as a "no mans land" as few people would be there. 

Why not? I hate to say it but we are disgusting horrible violent creatures at times. We consider ourselves developed and cutured but there are still murders, we slaughter other living things for delicious meat, we go to wars, and are entertained by violence (fictional and semi-controlled as sports). If the society demands human sacrifices either due to: 

Nordic gold might serve your purposes. It is an alloy which was developed for the Swedish 10 kronors coin. 89% copper, 5% aluminium, 5% zinc, and 1% tin It clearly isn't gold but does look more like it than iron pyrite. It is clearly metallic while pyrite is too crystalline. You can adjust the percentages here to realistically say that you found something that is even closer in color. 

In the grander scheme of things, option A will leave nothing undestroyed. option B will leave the earth undestroyed. Clearly, option B is worth a planet more than option A. Even if humanity was in theory worth far more than the planet, it was lost in either of the two possible options. 

One thing missed by the other answers (assuming your apples magically have protien and whatnot to permit survival), it that you have poo. Poo probably has more utility than the apples. I am not an expert on drying and burning human poo but cow patties have been used as a fuel source. In a more wet consistency, mud brick-like walls can also be constructed with the fecal material. Dried apples will probably help by acting as a binding agent. I am unaware of how hard the poo will get when dried. There have been reports of making shanks out of poo but I think those are ususally frozen. I think the best way to discover if these will work is with experimentation... I don't want to do. 

If you want a magical answer, I love the idea of a magical natural disaster for something like this. This is the only way to have a "believable" core reaching massive chasm. Of course, this will stray from a science based answer. For such a chasm to remain standing, there must be some property at the walls or in the interior of the chasm to allow it to remain. I am assuming you want this to have formed suddenly and people must be able to enter the chasm. This could be: 

Crowdfunding really exists as a term due to the internet being used for fundraising. If crowdfunding existed in this medieval world, how is the money different from charity, fundraiser sales, donations, investors, or presales? (All of these would best refer to different types of crowdfunded projects). All your character needs to do is ask for money for a project, keep the money for himself, and escape from liability over the project. He can escape by lying (saying the money turned out to be insufficient), paying part of that money for a third party to do the work then blame failure on him, or run. 

I have included my best answer thus far but am not satisfied with how certain etherial magics (meta, mental, temporal, conveyance) fit into it. I am also uncomfortable with what type of magic should be purple (or how else to jump between the red and blue without going green). While that answer attempts to address it, I believe that one side of the map is very unbalenced. 

You could likely have some method of scarification work. If you forcibly remove healthy scales from the reptile and damage the cells which control their replacement. The resultant scar tissue may be perminant damage that looks different from the scales. I do not know if this would actually work on a real reptile but I would definitely believe it for a fictional reptilian humanoid. Depending on the nature of the scars, you may be able to stain/tattoo the scar tissue. I think it would be relatively easy to imagine an cool, intricate pattern of missing and present scales. 

Only because it is an alternative to Liath's good answer: You could make a game which looks more like basket ball by having the "ground" be covered in velcro like material as well as one's shoes. The walls and ceiling could be hard so as to not dampen bouncing off them if one does not want an "out of bounds". A basket ball can still bounce off velcro on a hard surface but it does dampen it a little (and current velcro would wear out). This is a good thing as you want the player to actively dribble it. The hoop would be alot harder to get the ball through from the ground. Either the players can jump to the wall and ceiling (but not stay there), the ball can bounce off the ceiling (and probably the walls), or you can score by putting the ball from another angle. While the space ball game with no "down" would be very fun (moreso than basketball or the game I am proposing) this would look more like basketball. 

Wheels would be an evolutionary advantage on any planet with a large flat expanse (even mars will do). The issue with the evolution of wheel is less to do with whether it would be useful as much as biological support and intermediate evolutionary steps. 1) You cannot easily provide blood flow to a wheel from the main body. Any vessels would be twisted and any complex mechanism to avoid this would be subject to shear or friction. This is highly unlikely to evolve. The wheel would have to either be a tool (such as one fashioned by the animal) or a non-living growth like hair or a nail. 2) Simple Darwinistic evolution does not make large jumps. Of course there are places where it looks like it has in earths history but, hey, sometimes reality is stranger (believable) fiction (wow 2 cliches in 2 sentences). A freely rotating wheel (whether it is a nail or tool) would have to have a similar useful structure that evolved first. If it is a tool, it is easy for it to be arms/hands holding onto a fashioned axle through the freely rotating wheel. The only reason I can imagine a nail growing that big is to be a bludgen. Such a weapon would not need to rotate. This means someone more creative than me would be needed to proceed with that direction. What I am left with, therefore, is simular to the strategy used in the Amber Spyglass (the third book in the "His Dark Materials" trilogy which starts with the more famous "Northern Lights" or "Golden Compass"). A species evolves with a tendral to crack into large rounds seed pods. They eventually find the they can place this evolved axle through the seed pod and use it to roll. They use these on the large expansive cooled lava flows with cover the large plains. This creature is used as an example that in an infinite number of parellel universes almost anything can evolve. It lampshades the fact that logically, this should never occur but explains how it does. If I were writing this, an artifical axle is far more likely as the tendral would be exposed to extreme amounts of friction whether lubricated or not. 

While it is horrible, your fictional society doesn't have to be much more inhumane (for this site) than our current one. You just need to have a minority would cling to it and a majority who are willing to ignore/allow it. 

This was explained in the novel "I am Legend". Googling found that this detail was explained in chapter 17. The reason stakes kill the vampires is that they allow air into the body. It also "keeps the flesh open so the body glue can't function". Normally any wound like a cut or bullet hole would be rapidly closed by that "body glue" explaining the vampires' durability. Penetrating the heart is unnecessary for this reason in that novel. Wooden stakes work better as they are more porous. Via this explanation, other things feasibly could work like an air compressor and pipe, but a metal spike would clearly work less well (as the glue would just seal around the wound). As you can tell, vampires in "I am Legend" are a little different than other media and are somewhat reminiscent of zombies. Nevertheless, it gives a scientific explanation (sometimes good) for many of the vampire myths. 

The best way to do this is to make a differential equation and look at the result. Some people have done this before and it really isn't that difficult math. This paper does definitelly leave room for improvement. If you are learning differential equations or want to remember, I highly recommend trying to make a model that works for practice. There is a probability of interaction between a zombie and human proportional to the number of zombies and humans in the close region. For each interaction between a human and zombie, there is a probability of 1 human leaving (Ph for human wins), 1 zombie leaving (Pz for zombie wins), or 2 zombies leaving (Pc for conversion). This is dependant on alot of factors but lets say it is constant. There is the potential for spontaneous birth and death but lets say that is negligible. $$\frac{\partial Z}{\partial t} = CHZ(P_C-P_H)$$ $$\frac{\partial H}{\partial t} = CHZ(-P_Z-P_C)$$ As the probability for humans is only negative, it means that in short periods of time with any number zombies and humans, non-zero probabilities for conversion, and some interactions: Human will die from zombies. If the value of $P_C-P_H$ is negative, however, the number of zombies will decrease too. In most cases, this means that a small group of romero zombies would die out very quickly. In order for a zombie appocalypse to happen, you need some way to manipulate this such that $P_C>>P_H$ but not high enough such that all human die too quickly. 28 days later does this by increasing $P_C$ to high levels with vomiting blood and decreasing $P_H$ by setting it in largely gunless London. Walking dead does this by making everyone turn into zombies at any death to create a probability of spontaneous zombie / human conversion without invocing the $CHZ$ zombie human interaction parameter. This also effectively bypasses $P_H$. If you look, i'm sure you can find a good way to do this too. The best way to do this seems to be to innoculate the system. A massive number of zombies upfront will collapse society increasing the chance for victory for the zombies in each interaction (group zombie attacks and sickly underarmed humans). This is best done by adding incubation times, invisible carriers who spread it without other's knowing, or an environmental source which kills most upfront. This means that you can have $P_H>P_Z+P_C$ but have it look like a traditional zombie apocalypse. You also realistically need to include the ability for sections of either group to isolate itself/group up as it increases the ability of the weaker to survive. Some implementation of birth/natural death/ human-human killings would improve it as well. I would also find it fun to include a cyclic "night time" in which zombies have the upperhand while humans do in the daytime. 

These would immediately kill all of the planet if large enough. If the material in the chasm disappears, atmosphere will fill it suffocating us. If the matter is moved, that matter has to go somewhere. 

Background For my own entertainment, I have been designing how I would hypothetically make a spiritual sequel to Arcanum: of Steamworks and Magic Obscura. It is hypothetical as the work needed to do it right is beyond my abilities and resources but not my imagination. THE major interesting feature of this game was the interplay between magic and technology which are largely mutually exclusive/antagonistic in this world. The flexibility of a mage compared to the difficulty to achieve mastery in any area for a scientist meant that the game was a lot easier for the first group but boring to play multiple times as a mage. I usually write Sci-Fi stories (and do nothing with them) which means I automatically wanted to find a systematic way to handle magic which is significantly different from the original but would solve these issues. Basic Plan All magic in this world by my current plan has a color and difficultly. Whether a mage can cast the spell is dependent on his color (no not race) and power. I wanted color to be described by 6 cardinal directions which in the simplest case is an octahedron. One of my main hopes was that the appearance and interface would change depending on the character's expertise in a given area. It would start and octahedron far any user. As magic developed would become a triakis octahedron. By end game, it would be a constellation, geometric design, flame like fractal, crystal, lightning branching structure, etc. depending on the mage's particular aptitude. This means for a powerful mage, the auras would become the major aesthetic difference from the increasingly detailed gritty, steampunk appearance of the world from the eyes of a scientist. For magic, the most obvious directions would be fire, earth, water, air, light, and darkness. The point is that a mage could cast pure fire or pure light spells but not pure light and dark spells. Any electric, lava, astral projection, life, or healing spells would be combinations of these. The issue is, I need have appropriate real colors which correlate with each of these. Unfortunately, the colors that first spring to mind are red, brown, blue, light blue, white, and black. These will not work well. What am I asking for? I want a (preferably) continuous map of magical abilities that has a superimposable color map. The idea is that from the level/size of the aura and the color of the aura, an experienced oberserver can know which spells (that the observer knows about) the mage can cast. It must be inherently designed such that no mage (no matter how powerful) can become a master of all areas of magic. Spells analogous to those from the original game's colleges (listed below) must have an intuitive place of the map. The map should attempt to distribute these over the map as uniformly as possible so one particular build is not overpowered. The designer is free to add additional (but logical) spells or colleges, break up colleges, or revise them to make this work out better/easier. Ideally colors should aethetically mesh with the type of spell in that area.