The site in-the-sky.org has a wide variety of functions and options. In Planetarium mode, I chose a random city at about 24N and in the middle, which helps to get the correct UTC + 05:30 India Time Zone, and then just put in the time and date and turned on alt/az grid. So it is likely to have been Jupiter, as you suspect. Below are two screen shots - 20:00 and 23:00 local time, with Jupiter climbing from 41 to about 73 degrees above the horizon. 

In order to obtain a very high resolution spectrum to resolve closely spaced lines, or to measure doppler shits, spectrographs are operated with very high dispersion. But photographic plates and CCDs usually have rectangular formats with aspect ratios not very far from square. Echelle spectrographs can put a highly dispersed spectrum into this format, but how? This article explains to some extent, but a concise discussion here would also be helpful. 

New York Times article Visualizing the Cosmic Streams That Spew Meteor Showers links to a solar system viewer that allows one to visualize aspects of meteor-shower-inducing comet orbits by Ian Webb. 

There are star survey telescopes in space, and on Earth. I don't really know how to begin to know where they will all be looking for the next few months. On the off-chance that someone does, or can suggest how to find out in a systematic way, I thought I would ask here. These is JPL's Horizons predictions for the Roadster spacecraft in its heliocentric orbit. They are based on both the last state vector readings from the spacecraft itself plus several optical sightings my medium sized telescopes. While the car is fairly small, it's still attached to the white, 2nd stage rocket body, so it continues to reflect a bit of light. You can read more and see some astronomical photos in this answer and read this answer for info. 

Pulsar, or X-ray navigation is being actively tested right now. Currently an X-ray telescope mounted on the International Space Station completed a test where a small navigation computer was able to solve for it's own position and orbit in space relying only timing information from X-rays produced by a group of pulsars. I've written more about it in the question Is NICER/SEXTANT the first civilian “spacecraft” to determine it's own position in space without GPS or uplinked data? Spoiler alert, hold your cursor over the box: 

The new paper in Nature A surge of light at the birth of a supernova (doi:10.1038/nature25151) describes the fortuitous capture of a supernova "Shock Breakout" - the earliest rise in brightness of a supernova only about 4 hours old. An open access epdf is linked in the Washington Post article if you click from inside it: A self-taught astronomer spotted something no scientist had ever seen which is a good read itself. 

The Gizmodo article A Visiting Star Jostled Our Solar System 70,000 Years Ago refers to the the three year old ApJ. paper The Closest Known Flyby of a Star to the Solar System (also ArXiv) which describes Scholz’s Star and it's pass close to our solar system about 70,000 years ago. The Gizmodo article then discusses the newly published paper in MNRAS Where the Solar system meets the solar neighbourhood: patterns in the distribution of radiants of observed hyperbolic minor bodies. However, while I can access the earlier paper, the new result is paywalled and I'm not able to access it (at least not soon). The second half of the abstract in particular is confusing me. 

I think this is a good question, not necessarily doubting the experimental results, but asking if a simple sanity check that one would do with other kinds of measurements could be done with CMB. It's really difficult. For light you could wave any convenient-sized blocker in front, even your hand for small apertures. But for this test you'd have to wave something colder than the CMB, which is only about 2.73 degrees above absolute zero. That particular test would be hard. You could cool something to 4K with boiling liquid helium at 1 atmosphere, then hold it in front and see a uniform temperature appear, and that probably was done during the testing phase before satellites were launched. However, the CMB has both coarse and fine structure, and so one can point the detector to different places and and see different patterns. On the rotating Earth, you'd have to keep moving the detector to see the same pattern. The pattern correlates only with the direction with respect to the celestial sphere, not with respect to the telescope or Earth. That's not the same test as blocking the aperture and seeing the signal going away, but it makes a strong case. note: current CMB imaging is done with imaging telescopes such as the South Pole Telescope for example (see @zephyr's answer), unlike the early measurements that were done by measuring a few points at a time (per wavelength band), for example COBE, WMAP and PLANCK. 

above: An spectrogram of the Sun from this NOAO website (N.A.Sharp, NOAO/NSO/Kitt Peak FTS/AURA/NSF) with the "A" line near 760nm appearing near the top, a little right of center. The original data is from the "Fourier Transform Spectrometer at the McMath-Pierce Solar Facility at the National Solar Observatory on Kitt Peak, near Tucson, Arizona" but seems to be formatted and colorized to look like an Echelle spectrogram. A video describing the use of the dark band for Earth science can be seen at $URL$ 

This answer links to one of Scott Manley's excellent asteroid videos Asteroid Discovery - 1970-2015 - 8K resolution. The animation highlights the positions of the meteors at the moment of their discovery, and by watching one can see the technology improve and notice patterns as instruments are pointed in different directions to avoid the light from the Sun and (at least sometimes) the Moon. (there is music, adjust volume accordingly) There are often fan-shaped patterns showing the directions that more sensitive telescopes with modest fields of view are pointed. However, I noticed that only during the year 2010, roughly between asteroid numbers and there are radial striations at certain distances from the Sun. I don't see this happen at any other time during the video. Is this just a rendering artifact, or is it real? If real, what would cause the periodic radial modulation of sensitivity, and only in 2010? note 1: YouTube allows for playback rates between 25% and 200%, and variable video resolutions. I found 25% and 1080p optimal for my current internet connection and screen. note 2: For those with GIFs disabled, one image is a GIF. note 3: 2nd image contains several cropped screenshots highlighting the "periodic radial modulation of sensitivity" in asteroid detection during 2010, for clarification purposes. 

above: plot of HST system throughputs f606w.UVIS2.tab (green, solid) and f814w.UVIS2.tab (red, dashed). 

If you have a date and time you can go to Flightradar24 and recreate all of the planes that flew over the area. An oncoming large body jet can look a lot like a yellow star if it has its "headlights" turned on, and if it is coming in your direction and descending, it can look surprisingly motionless. Since the light is focused forward, it can suddenly dim if the plane changes direction. The lovely NATS video A Day Over the UK shows a substantial amount of East/West air traffic in that area, including several flights off of the main corridor. However if you watched it for 20 minutes, this can obviously be ruled out. Venus and Mars were too close to the horizon at 21:00 GMT in the UK, but I recommend you play with in-the-sky.org a bit. Choose . It should know your approximate location based on your internet access so as long as the location is roughly correct the only think you need to do is choose a date and time to recreate, and enjoy! I hear the site works on phones nicely as well. 

You can get a position and velocity snapshot easily using the Python package Skyfield. It downloads a JPL Development Ephemeris and then interpolates the positions for whatever time you choose for your snapshot. You can also use JPL Horizons to produce one or thousands of positions of solar system bodies. This answer describes how to set up Horizons to save positions to your computer, and includes a script that can read the format of the saved tables. It also happens to be a simulator that does what you are talking about - statrs with a given position and propagates the orbits. 

The recent Phys.org article Milky Way's origins are not what they seem explains the recent MNRAS article Anglés-Alcázar et al. 2017; The cosmic baryon cycle and galaxy mass assembly in the FIRE simulations DOI:($URL$ also in ArXiv. 

That actually sums up my question nicely: How did single dish (or single receiver) radio telescopes originally generate images? - or at least 2D intensity maps or contour plots. Early radio telescopes were actually not much more than a Directional Antenna pointing up, connected to a sensitive receiver with various filters, maybe an IF stage or two, but no demodulation. You measured the "noise" signal strength as a function of time on a chart recorder - pen and ink. I think there were radio images generated and published well before there were high granularity interferometers and computational correlators. The early ones were contour plots, on 2D plotters - again pen and ink. How was this done? How did, say, a single dish antenna with a single feed generate radio maps? edit: It doesn't necessarily have to be a dish antenna - it's the single receiver part I'm interested in. 

In the excellent chemistry series of Periodic Videos' episode Amazing piece of metal (speculum) there is an interesting showing and discussion of Isaac Newton's first telescope. At there is a short cut to a view of a very large, modern telescope mirror. I'm confused by the image because it seems to show what looks like a small 45 degree elliptical, diagonal secondary mirror that you might see near the top end of a long focal length Newtonian telescope, except that it seems to be sitting in front of the primary, facing towards the stars. Can anyone identify this telescope, and help me understand the basics of how this particular optical system is configured? edit: I was so focused on the small mirror in the center that I neglected to read the caption. This "very large telescope" may in fact be THE Very Large Telescope, one of it's components at least. But because of all the shiny metal an reflections in mirrors, I still don't really understand what I'm looking at as far as the optical system is configured. 

Are $q$ and $Q$ really perihelion and aphelion respectively? The table says Aten asteroids have $Q>0.983$ but in the drawing for Aten asteroids it says $Aphelion<1.0167$. I noticed these values could be reciprocals, so there may be something more going on here. But at least on the surface there seems to be some contradiction. Could someone confirm these definitions with an external source - and help me understand the basis for these limits that deviate from 1 AU by only +/- 1.7%?