In the USA, the war is also known as "Second War of Independence". Hickey, Donald R. ed. The War of 1812: Writings from America's Second War of Independence (2013). 

Both Japan and China had more pressing issues than a civil war half the world away. Note that long distance travel was harder and more expensive then. China wiki: 

This was, of course, wishful thinking, repeated by FDR's dream of "4 policemen" during WW2 and GHWBush's "New World Order" at the end of Cold War. 

This was not an isolated incident, but rather a part (see, e.g., Thổ Chu Islands) of a "creeping aggression". Consider 

I think people set far too much store by the specific personalities in major industrial programs. This question basically rehashes the old Soviet canard that 

Basically, the problem was that the only remaining Soviet naval base was in a spot which was relatively easy to isolate with mines, and, critically, the Germans enjoyed air superiority which enabled them to set the minefields almost unmolested. If the Allies have placed all its Mediterranean naval forces in a "narrow gulf" and waited for the Axis to blockade them with minefields, they would have been in trouble too. However, the Allies had several bases (Gibraltar, Malta, Alexandria) which were relatively well protected from the air. 

The reason they informed Stalin officially about the bomb (despite being aware of his espionage) was to bring its shadow to the negotiating table (i.e., making sure that Stalin knew that they knew that he knew about the bomb). The problem the West was facing was that, as the war was winding down, Stalin paid less and less attention to the promises he made about non-intervention in the Polish politics et al since he needed the Lend-Lease less. Stalin pretended not to understand the importance of the news: he rightly judged that so soon after the war the Western public will not accept an open confrontation with the erstwhile ally, and, indeed, the Western leaders did not press him. 

Most kids of non-alcoholic parents in cities had bikes. Adults mostly did not. The problem was storage: apartments were cramped, thievery and vandalism were rampant, and convenient bike locks non-existent. The theft problem was smaller in rural areas where everyone knew everyone else, so adults used them more often. The storage was less of a problem there too. 

A prison is expensive: you have to build the installation with all the necessary security precautions (fixed costs), and then feed and cloth the inmates and guards (variable costs). This is completely unaffordable for a subsistence society (IOW, before feudal castles provides dungeons). The Biblical law provides for 3 kinds of penalties: death, flogging (at most 39 strikes), and fine ("[the cost of] an eye [as the compensation] for [the loss of] an eye"). When the convict is unable to pay the fine, the law provides for "slavery" (which should be more accurately translated as indentured servitude - because it ends after 7 years or at Jubilee, whichever comes first) as a way to recoup the fine (imposed as the punishment for economic - non-violent - crimes, such as theft or damages). Such a "slave" would work, earning his keep and paying off the court-imposed fine. So, one could consider "slavery" as the precursor to "labor prison camps". 

Note that 2 and 3 are mutually exclusive. To vote, one had to cross out(!) the answer they did not like. So, if you vote "yes", you have to cross out "no". So, it was basically "have you already stopped beating your wife every morning" situation. Second, many republics did not hold the vote. IOW, saying that "the response was positive" is like saying that "4 wolves and a sheep decided democratically what's for dinner": the Russians voted to preserve their empire while (some of) their colonies tried not to participate in the vote. NB: The apologists love to site the official statistics that every single republic voted "Yes". This might be true, because in most republics (Baltics, Transcaucasia, Ukraine) only a small fraction of population voted. To extend the analogy from the previous paragraph, "4 wolves and one sheep voted on dinner, while 6 more sheep ignored the vote". This is, of course, disputed by the apologists who site the official Soviet statistics - the same statistics which brought us 100% participation rates for decades, and reached 146% recently. Finally, Soviet Union did not break up (as in "disappear"). The Russian Empire lost some but not all colonies, but it is still there, and is now openly talking about gathering them back into the fold. 

Flu is caused by a virus. A virus is too small for an optical microscope. The 1918 flu pandemic was neither caused nor spread by humans intentionally (although some nations uses quarantine to good effect). Humans still have no effective flu treatment. Blaming the British for Iranian deaths from the pandemic is preposterous. The British did not quarantine any part of the Empire from the rest, so why would they be expected to do that in Persia? 

The simple fact that the witness has bothered to record an event proves that (s)he has an interest there, so the trustworthiness can be immediately questioned. The reliability of eyewitness testimony is, in general, dubious. 

Remember, that these helicopters should be considered a "proof of technological capability" more than "production deployment". 

58% of the 1917 Party Central Committee was eliminated by 1938. 63% of the first Bolshevik government was executed by that time. Out of 267 1917-1934 Central Committee members, 34 died before 1937, 36 survived the Purge, the rest (74%) were executed. 

USSR/Russian Empire fell because its government could no long contain the centrifugal forces that are present in any heterogeneous empire. The colonies (called in the USSR for propaganda reasons "republics" who even had a nominal right to secede) always wanted out (the more recent additions were more eager to separate, the more ancient less), and were held together by (the perception of) the iron fist of the Party/Czar. As soon as it became clear that the Center was unable to maintain it expansionism, the colonies rebelled and split off. This happened in 1917 and then again in 1989 (satellites) - 1991 (republics). Thus the "external pressure" decried by Kenan (mention by @Semaphore) was absolutely necessary to prevent USSR's "extended empire" of republics, satellites, "countries of socialist orientation" &c, from expanding, and as long as it was expanding in at least some sense, it was stable inside. So, the bottom line: USSR collapsed by internal pressure, which became insurmountable because the outside world stood firm in the face of the Soviet expansionism. 

A few points in addition to the excellent answer by Alex. While salaries have gradually risen, prices rose as well, so it is not obvious that the real wages rose in 1960-1980. The relative salary size was very different from what a Westerner would expect. E.g., workers made more than engineers (ostensibly, "because education is free and the state has to recover the expense"). The low salary of physicians drove medicine to be a largely "female profession". The "skill gradient" was huge: while junior researchers were paid less than workers, professors were paid twice that and Academy members twice again. The state tried to suppress private enterprise, but "personal services" were really expensive. 1:1 tutoring for college admission started at R5/hour. A visit to a Professor of Medicine, while officially free, would really cost you, and one was expected to "compensate" physicians with presents (joke: a note on a doctor's door: "I don't drink flowers and chocolates"). Privately sown dresses, fixing cars... Often alcohol was used a currency between individuals, especially when dealing with unskilled labor. 

While, as the other answer says Mesoamerican civilizations did not shed much more blood than European ones, they did it in a different way. Aztecs sacrificed random people, Europeans executed scoundrels. E.g., if you are a random law-abiding yeoman in England, chances are the Law will not come after you. However, a random guy in an Aztec-subjugated village can easily become a sacrificial tribute. IOW, people find it easier to associate themselves with the victims of the Aztec cults than with victims of the European justice system. PS. This is somewhat similar to my other answer. 

I think this question presumes far to much determinism on the part of the "Great Purge" process. An anonymous report from a subordinate, or from someone who coveted something which belonged to the victim (wife, daughter, apartment) was enough (unless there was a high-level protector willing to risk everything to save the victim). 

No, Anne Frank's story is completely exceptional - both in circumstances and the fact that she hid for so long (and her father survived). This is a typical case of Survivorship bias. Most Holocaust victims left no memoirs (and no surviving relatives either), and did not even have their names recorded as they were murdered. This is why just about everyone knows about Auschwitz which had a forced labor section and thus quite a few survivors, but few have heard of death factories like Sobibór, Treblinka, Bełżec, Chełmno, Maly Trostenets, Majdanek where survival rate was on the order 1:100,000. Even fewer are aware that only about 50% of murders happened in the camps. East of the Molotov-Ribbentrop line people were mostly shot at random places (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, &c &c), by Einsatzgruppen/Police Battalions/Wehrmacht/Local Collaborationists, not gassed in central facilities, and most of those places are still undiscovered. See "Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin" by Timothy D. Snyder. 

Let us first ask ourselves, what is the wealth that can be redistributed? Violent redistributing of consumer goods is called "looting" and it has always accompanied civil unrest; I don't think you are asking about that. Redistribution of capital, AKA, means of production, often, indeed, accompanies revolutions. When applied to industrial enterprise this redistribution usually takes form of nationalization (which rarely is accompanied by giving away shares to the poor), so, again, it does not fit your question. When applied to agricultural capital, this means Land reform, and it does usually mean that the poor peasants become land owners. So, to answer your question, you need to examine recent revolutions and find out which ones were followed by a land reform. E.g., the Romanian Revolution lead to a land reform, redistributing the land wealth from the government bureaucracy to the peasants. 

This, of course, creates a problem when the opponent claims to be "The Communist" too (the primary examples are Bolsheviks vs. Mensheviks and USSR vs. PRC). Not to worry - just call the opponent a revisionist and win the argument. Example E.g., the Marxist-Leninist idea of a "just war" is that 

Italy was an ally of Germany, not an occupied country (except for the North in 1943-1945, which was not, technically, occupied). They made, e.g., Fiat_G.55 in Turin which saw action against the allied air forces. In general, Germany had the full use of the whole of French, Czech &c industries (except for those which were destroyed by allied bombing and/or local sabotage, which was not much), although some individual designers escaped (some with designs). Specifically: Renault: 

I highly recommend a careful reading of the list of the "rights and restrictions". Note that the current enforcement of the treaty is limited by Edict of Gülhane and Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856. Between People and God Covenant of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob with God (~3,500 years ago). Still fully in force - see [judaism.se]. 

free (advertiser-paid) real time one-to-many not requiring any skills from the recipient (illiterates can listen) not requiring recipient to withdraw form menial tasks (one can work on a sewing machine while listening - TV actually does not have this feature!) 

We will not know it for sure until the KGB archives are open (and that will never happen). However, the Soviets were indiscriminately opportunistic in their ideological warfare (the motto being "We do not penny-pinch on ideology" - "На идеологии мы не экономим"), and it is hard to imagine that they would have passed an opportunity to discredit an adversary, especially since all the work was actually done by friends of "friends", not by actual operatives. On the other hand, this claim 

When on a month-long kayaking trip back in the USSR, we did not bring dish detergent with us, so I have a peculiar opportunity to tell the history of soap from personal experience ;-) You scrub dishes with sand to remove hard residue (e.g., the burned food strongly attached to the walls of the pot). You remove fat using ash (we cooked on open fire, so ash was plentiful). You might be surprised to learn that ash+fat=soap, so it worked perfectly. PS. Note that neither method is nice to your skin (sand is abrasive and soap is basic). 

Oil certainly was an important consideration for Hitler, but Stalin was already selling him all the oil he would ask for. 

This improved with T-34-85 (added observation cupola in the roof of the turret, tank commander relieved of gunnery duties). I would expect that the T-34 crew would not notice the "mines", but if they did, they would probably not ignore them. However, the correct tactical use of a tank requires infantry support which should both notice the fake mines and might even be able to identify them properly. Finally, war is war and anything can happen. Crew training, smoke, morale - there are so many factors. 

In addition to the other excellent answer, let me note that the Axis fought two very different and separate wars which required little coordination. E.g., German raiders operating around Australia were a minor thing: they could get logistical support without additional communication (yes, I know that Kormoran sunk before the Pearl Harbor attack). Wiki: 

Nope. Germany consumed 44MB/y in 1938 (peace time!) while it got at most 13MB/y from Romania during the war. 

I think it has always been done, e.g., 3,000 years ago Greeks justified a war by a kidnapping allegation. Justification of war is important for one's own troop and population morale, so the theoretical framework has been around for millennia. Paraphrasing @SPavel, "your people are unlikely to risk their lives just because you are bored, or greedy, or horny". Note that this does not mean that the justification has to be fake. If your group (tribe, city, state, nation, empire) is starving, waging a war for resources is likely to sound reasonable to your people. The bottom line is that the war pretext exists first and foremost for internal consumption. (Here internal may include allies). A secondary reason is actually getting more and more important with the development of civilization and diplomacy: avoid war in the future. A party which, first, clearly states the reasons for war, and, second, sticks to them (i.e., goes to war if and only if certain conditions are satisfied), may be less likely to find itself faced with war (depending on how reasonable the conditions sound to the neighbors and how reasonable those neighbors are themselves). 

(this is actually the correct description of the Soviet state's relationship with all its subjects, whether individual citizens or regions; moreover, it describes well the relationship of masters with their slaves throughout history) PPS. This is a very touchy issue for the resurgent Russian imperialism, so be careful about what you believe.