You can dangle it on the handlebars if you are in casual clothes and without a bag. If you get this jacket, expect people you know to want to permanently borrow it. Also expect to see other people on bikes with a jacket remarkably similar to yours. 

Depends on your standards for 'never being passed by another cyclist under any circumstances whatsoever'. This metric only matters to the competitive part of your ego and if your ego insists on being larger than the whole universe and is not fed by success in other areas of life then it matters quite a bit. If you are able to push your body ruthlessly hard and able to finesse traffic situations to always be ahead then there is kudos to doing so on a sub-optimal bike. However, there will be that guy on a carbon fibre road bike that will move out to pass you without even bothering to draft you for what you are worth. He (or sometimes a she) will then vanish into the distance seemingly effortlessly whilst you fall apart with a stitch, torn muscles, sweaty cotton clothing and jumping gears, obviously to curse your heavy mountain bike with its stupid tyres, total lack of really big gears and the world's most unaerodynamic riding position. Naturally it will be the bike that is at fault during this moment, not your hedonistic lifestyle. You won't even think beyond envy about the guy that passed you. If you ever did find out what he thought of leaving you for dust then he would not let on to noticing you any more than any of the motorists did. That will be because he saw you ahead, did the necessary to pass you and then put a bit of a sprint on so you would not draft him. In the pecking order of bikes, if you own a tricked out road bike then you have to pass everyone else that bothers to use the roads the pedal powered way. If you ride a heavy bike then you can let it go when someone that trains every day, carries not so much as a D-lock and rides a carbon bike passes you. And speed matters, that is why you ride instead of drive, right? So therefore, on balance, it is better to pass almost everything on a heavy MTB than to be on a posh road bike and not pass absolutely everything. So it sounds like you have the right bike. As a few contributors have noted, it's all about the tyres, innit. Perhaps more important than tyre choice is tyre pressure. If you get a track pump and keep them rock hard, e.g. 10% above the pressure recommended on the sidewall, you will thunder along, floating on air so much faster than everyone else (except the guy on the carbon fibre road bike that also relies on high pressure tyres for his speed). You might as well wear out the tyres that are on there, but, when you do change them, get the legendary Schwalbe Marathon Plus tyres. With these you can participate in the stupid game of deliberately going over broken glass, to obviously not have to worry about a puncture any more than a tank driver has to worry about hitting a traffic cone. Much like a tank, an MTB is a finely tuned, well oiled machine that can survive a lot of abuse. Take your friend's offer up on the bike, sort it out mechanically, get the fit 'n' comfort right for you and, as Neil says, enjoy it. As for this 'I only ride to commute' attitude, that is far too sensible and in no way all of it. Your ride has got to be the highlight of your day, the endorphin rush that your body is physically addicted to. If you are not getting lost trying out new routes and learning the intricacies of your neighbourhood then you are not trying hard enough. Learn and master the streets and alleyways in a way that the guy on the posh road bike never would or could. Ideally you want to be always able to get from A to B quick 'n' fast on the roads or the more stimulating way on the car-free routes that exist everywhere. For this the bike you have coming your way sounds ideal. 

There is something to know about thumb-shifters: ergonomics. The better thumbshifters placed the pivot forward of the handlebar, the more affordable ones did not have this. Here is a pair of Suntour classics from back in the day: 

I take it your wife has an Electra 'Townie' style bike with the easy reach to the ground, the high bars and the pedals a little further forward than normal. Sat down, in the saddle, these bikes do present you with a mechanical disadvantage going up hill as you have not got all of your weight over the pedals. Hence, when going up hill you need to be aware of that, to take a lower gear and inch your way up the hill much like how a recumbent cyclist has to... ...or get out the saddle and pedal with your weight on the pedals as if you were sprinting. Works the same as on a normal bike. There is also 'easier' handling that is less twitchy but with a bigger turning circle with pedal forward design. So I don't think it is simply a question of workout intensity that you are looking at - ultimately you can put in as much or as little as you wants to... Many of the 1950's design commuter bikes are effectively 'pedal forward', only when the drop-bar racing bikes with ten speed did the relaxed geometry of a classic 3 speed go out of fashion. You can refurbish an old 3-speed with some modern tyres to get the comfy riding style that the likes of 'Electra' offer. 

The Specialized shims are probably what you will end up using, however, before ordering them up, see if there is anything you can do by changing the location of the levers on your handlebar. Drop handlebars can be adjusted in a multitude of ways. You can adjust the overall angle and slide the levers forwards or back to compensate for a change of bar angle, to keep the hood position where you are used to it being. Sometimes you can push the levers mounting position forwards/down, to interact differently with the curve of the bar to give a shorter reach. How exactly this works with your bike depends on how 'anatomical' or 'track style' your bars are. This will involve a lot of adjustment of bars, levers, cables and tape, but it is something you may want to investigate. Alternatively go with the Specialized shims or simply rely on the fact that you can always reach your brakes if the threat is scary enough and slacken them off a bit so that, once you have got the lever, you are not working it with your fingertips to effect useful braking.