I agree with you Dvij, I can tell you are sincere in your search for truth and I myself came to a very similar point in my life. This is why I am going to try my best to give you the answer I have found for this problem. I agree with you that results from a moment of action/inaction are determined by the laws/rules governing nature. I also agree that this applies to every moment of action/inaction. We can call a moment of action/inaction by a different name, "the previous situation", because that was the state of the world that was changed into the resulting state of the world by that action/inaction. In other words, a "previous situation" is indeed what caused the resulting state of the world/reality, because it is made of two elements: the previous state of the world and the action/inaction that changed it. However, even if we didn't have a choice about what the previous state of the world was, we still definitely had free will when it comes to the action/inaction that we took and that resulted in the next state of the world (with the exception perhaps of some mental illnesses which might completely or partially dictate a person's actions, but I'll ignore those in this answer due to their low incidence/prevalence in the population). This free will is evidenced by the great sense of freedom we have right now about getting up from our chairs and jumping out of a window, laying on the floor shouting, going outside and jumping over the neighbor's fence, studying hard for an exam, or doing a cartwheel into the bathtub. We can decide to do any of those things right now, and every moment of our lives we have many things we can do. We decide, and that is free will. There are many things we can't do, like teleporting to a friend's house, traveling back in time 20 years, or turning rocks to gold; but the reason for that is not that we don't have free will, it's that it's impossible to us. Therefore free will is the ability to decide what to do between the things that are possible for us. Because of this, it is true that the events of the world are just the results of the application of the rules of nature on the previous situation of the world (which is comprised of the previous state of the world and what we decided to do/not do with our free will at the time). 

The reason some empiricists (most notably Popper) have denied that we can verify an empirical hypothesis is that they were thinking of universally quantified statements such as 

Inductive inference. All humans have died so far, therefore (in all likelihood) all humans die at some point. You are human, I take it, so there you go. 

Suppose that all names can be named. (Just like, for example, "Schiphol" is a name of my name.) If so, no name is enduring and unchanging. No paradox here either. On the other hand, maybe there is an enduring and unchanging name, and that name has no name. This is semantically implausible, but not paradoxical. Anyway, introducing the notation: Nxy: stands for the relation of x being a name of y We can say that a is a name iff there is an y such that Nay, and your second sentence can be rendered thus: 

It's not a logical fallacy. It's faulty inductive reasoning: as you rightly say, they infer a trend from a finite number of cases in an unwarranted manner. For that matter, there are many cases in which three fails do not warrant the inference that the person will always fail (consider learning to ride a bicycle). 

It is certainly possible to consciously hold contradictory beliefs, at least in the case in which one does not notice them to be contradictory. For example, many believe the truth of Goldbach's conjecture, but if the conjecture is false it is necessarily false, and contradicts the content of many other true beliefs about mathematics that those same people surely have. A more interesting question is whether one can consciously believe that p-and-not-p. Probably we should only care whether such an outright contradiction can be believed rationally: it is likely that all sorts of crazy stuff can be believed, if the believer is allowed to be irrational -- as you say, that question is best left to psychology. But, apparently, some outright contradictions can be believed rationally: dialetheists hold that some sentences are both true and false. For example, some of them claim that the liar sentence, 

Let's explore your teacher's irksome claim. 1) According to Plato, which is what your teacher is claiming, there are Forms of beauty, mountains, colors, courage, love, justice, goodness, etc. 2) Therefore, according to Plato, there are Forms of objects (like mountain) and attributes (like color). Also, there is a Form of love. Love is a feeling, a force, a relationship between a being and something else, and a bio-chemical mental state. We can then say that there is a Form of relationships like love and hate. 3) Force, as in F=ma, is a force, and therefore has a Form. There is also a Form for mass, and another one for acceleration. F=ma is a relationship describing things that already have Forms. Therefore, if we can find a Form of a relationship between things that already have a Forms, your teacher is right. 4) Justice is a relationship between an event/action, like a crime, and a particularly-satisfying result, such as a punishment. Beauty is a relationship between a set of characteristics/attributes, like big eyes, that when perceived as a whole produce pleasure in the observer. There is a Form for beauty, eye, punishment, and crime. Your professor is correct, “F = ma” is indeed a Platonic Form. What bothers you about it is the same thing that bothers me, and the same thing that bothered Aristotle, and the same thing that seems to have bothered Plato himself later on: there is a problem with Platonic Forms. However, your teacher did not claim that the forms are true. He claimed that “F = ma” is a Platonic Form, and he was right. PS: Whether he was right for the right reasons or it's purely coincidental, remains unknown. Also, whether one can be right without knowing it, is a different matter. Your teacher was right when he said it, as per the meaning of "right" you had in your mind when you posted this question. Hope this helps! 

It is not logically-impossible for a being to be all-knowing. The difficulty would be for any being to know for certain that they are all-knowing, since he cannot know whether there are still things he does not know. However, for such an all-knowing being to not know that he is in fact all-knowing would be a contradiction. Therefore, an all-knowing being would also have to be somehow certain that he knows everything (through means unimaginable to us who are dangerously close to the other end of the spectrum). In this case there would be two types of beings who consider themselves all-knowing: the ones who only think they are all-knowing but aren't, and the ones who think they are all-knowing and are. 

Yes: not everything is a bird is true if there are no birds at all; and some things are not birds is also true if there are no birds at all (and something exists). There is no incompatibility here. 

All of these views were challenged by a number of immensely influential papers and books during the 70s. The two most important ones are Kripke (1980) and Putnam (1975). 

The most immediate reply to your worry is that, for every relevant application of the notion of common knowledge, what counts is the potential beliefs of agents. There is an infinite hierarchy of potential beliefs of the kind you consider, but only a finite (indeed, small) number of them will ever need to be entertained by actual agents in actual situations in social life. For much more on this. 

Nothing paradoxical here, is there? Maybe the only enduring and unchanging Tao is one that people is prevented from trodding -- so as to avoid wear from all that trodding, and stay unchanged, say. Suppose we introduce the following notation: T: stands for the property of being a Tao EU: stands for the property of being enduring and unchanging R: stands for the property of being susceptible of being trodden then your sentence can be rendered thus: 

It comes from Popper's work on falsification. Popper's idea is supposed to apply to all inductive knowledge. For what it's worth, most philosophers of science (as opposed, maybe, to scientists with an interest in philosophy) take Popper's views on confirmation to be wrong. 

The conditional you are dealing with here is the material conditional. Its truth table is as follows 

is that such a statement is as hard to falsify as the original statement is to verify -- and, conversely, as easy (!) to verify as the original statement is to falsify. This point is not new, of course; it was already made by Hempel back in the day. 

The less natural cases in your examples are allowed, as is any case involving any sentences whatsoever as long as they have a truth value. This is a feature, not a bug: logic is supposed to be fully general. Having said that, typically, pragmatic (as opposed to semantic) considerations will guide our judgments about whatever a speaker means to say when they utter a sentence involving conjunctions or implications. 

The last comment by LordScree points to the heart of the original question and the appropriate philosophical answer. Geneic changes take place randomly and support the survival of individual ( families over time ), species in varying environments. This is the common association of evolution with genes. But Richard Dawkins broke this link with his idea of a meme. Certain ideas are more effective - reproducable - and therefore fitter and reproduce. Combining these concepts, like any good philosopher, and you can concieve of 'evolution' meaning change over time; survival of the fittest meaning 'things = genes, ideas, culture, spending habits, cleaning habits' leading to reproductive success. In other words, evolution has brought humans to the point of decoupling evolution from strictly genetic change and incorporated 'self created' environments into the 'random' changes that lead to reproductive success. 

Interestingly I don't think Kant & Darwin are incompatible. In fact, I am begining to think they are actually two components of a much larger model on the development of 'success.' Darwin's idea that attributes are random is not really relevant to Kant's point. I would submit there is a slight missreasing. Darwin posits that features are random in their development or that nature does not develop features purposefully. But in a sense nature does. Features develop in a particular environment and support the continuation of both a feature and creature. Evolution selects the features which lead to reproductive success. Evoltion is the process of nature. Therefore nature is not random it is experimental. And like in the concept of brainstorming it doesn't matter where 'ideas' about a problem come from, each is put on the table and reviewed. In a sense Darwin was stating features, like ideas, appear and there source is not important in the evaluation process. The feature's reproductive success is critical. And this leads to Kant. All 'organs' fill a specific purpose. Meaning the existence of the 'organ' implies, by its existence, that it has supported reproductive success and therefore is fullfilling some purpose. Of course this ideas maybe filled with extaneous blather that will be filtered out as it's reproductive success is refined.