Again, strength training can be broken down by what certain people have as their goal. The one thing that remains the same however is that they all obviously want to gain strength in some form. At one end of the spectrum, you have the worlds strongest men and heavyweight power lifters. (Žydrūnas Savickas, Konstantīns Konstantinovs) These people can be 200kg monsters with ridiculously strong cores to assist the massive and heavy lifts they perform. They do not care about their body fat or proportions and only have the goal of getting as strong as possible. Then you also have people who compete in other activities, one example could be MMA, where the person has to fall into a certain weight class but still wants to gain strength in order to have the edge over opponents of the same weight. (Georges St-Pierre, Jon Jones) There people keep their body fat to a minimum and while they still heavily train cardio, their lifting programs will mainly be aimed towards strength and conditioning rather than size. In summary, there are several differences in how people train with different goals in mind. If there wasn't everyone would be training the same way. These things have been scientifically proven and tested by numerous athletes over the years so it is a known fact that certain training styles help certain goals. 

I don't really think that my core is being worked enough when performing the compound lifts of strong lifts, as the rest of my body has caught up while my stomach and waist are still really flabby and have no real firmness comparatively. I'm not asking "what exercise do I do to reduce stomach fat", I'm asking if I can add in some cable crunches and another auxiliary exercise to strengthen and firm my core for other lifts and if so what would you suggest? As I understand exercises like sit ups and laying crunches and other variations(leg raises) are limited mostly by the inability to use weight above your body weight effectively so weighted exercises for abs/core are recommended. Thanks! 

I would like to alter the programming so I can get in and out but I'm not sure I'm at the "level" to be doing SL 3x5 yet? Or could I be wrong? If it's not necessary I'm willing to continue putting in the long hour at the gym. See, as far as rest times are concerned I typically don't need 5 minutes until my 4th or 5th squat, and the OHP has been incredibly hard. One day I'll pump out the sets easily and then when I go to increase the weight, the 5lb minimal increase will be extremely challenging in comparison. I'll try 2-3 minute rests but sometimes I feel that even that isn't enough. On a typical squat for me I'll do 

It is a very controversial subject - you will find people form very different opinions on the matter. I feel the main reason for this is due to the fact that everybody is different and sometimes people feel that their own way is the only way. One common misconception is that DOMS is a sign of a good workout. While it is true that DOMS shows that you have had a decent workout, it actually has little to do with how good a workout was - it is entirely possible to have a good workout without DOMS. If you are progressing, maintaining, and not losing strength in your lifts, your workouts are most likely good. DOMS is not always a reason to skip a workout, as I mentioned everyone is different, everyone produces different amounts of testosterone and people have different recovery times. You have to listen to your body – it will take time to correctly figure out how to listen to your body but it’s the only way to get an accurate answer for how many days rest you personally should take. As a general rule of thumb people say you should rest for about 1 week per body part but then others also say you only need about 48-72hrs for a major muscle to recover and be ready for a full blown attack on it again. Find out what works best for you and go with that. 

This Monday I squat a PR of 245lb for 3x5 and honestly felt great doing it. Today was a total disaster. This past weekend I loaded up on carbs from breads(and had other foods, hamburgers a couple of times, angus meat home cooked of course) and today I had a lot of chicken split between 2 meals before I went to lift at 5. I'm hoping that maybe if I give enough information about what happened between monday and today, someone might be able to point me in the direction of why I couldn't even squat 245lb without struggling insanely on the 2nd rep, and even going back down to 240 wasn't easy either. Here is one major thing that might be playing a part in this: Ever since I came back from a 2 week vacation my deadlift just sank. I deloaded and asked you guys for advice and adjusted my form to "squeeze" the bar against my body. This has greatly improved my form and kept everything tight but I also feel like it hit my hips HARD because this is probably the first time I'd done a deadlift and actually used my hips more to lock out instead of anything else. I deadlifted 195lb on this previous monday with my 245 squat using the squeeze method. Today when I went to squat my hips were feeling pretty sore and tight. I did my warm up sets of 45x2, 100x5, 150x3, and 200x2. I was also playing around with form a little today. I kept my stance width the same and pointed my feet in a little more and tried to open up my hips a bit. I also was going for a low bar squat. Other possible factor might include sleep on monday and tuesday. I had coffee around 6-7pm but had no issues getting to sleep. However, I understand that even if you can get to sleep while under the influence of caffeine that receptors in your brain are still haywire and this prevents you from getting GOOD sleep. Other than that my diet has been the same. Thank you. 

The positioning of the arms during body weight squats affects your center of gravity. Therefore the only difference in arm positioning is the stabilization muscles involved. This difference however is very minimal and won't have any noticeable affect. When I perform bodyweight squats, I prefer having my hands out in front of me. This is a personal preference since I find that when I'm using correct form, most of my weight is sitting on my heels and therefore I have the feeling of almost falling backwards. This feeling is typically cancelled out when I have weight added with the traditional weighted squat style seen with barbells. Due to this, some people like to practice or warm up for weighted squats with the hands behind the head position so that the have the correct feel. The hands near the neck position (when holding the barbell) is an important roll in weighted squats since it tenses the muscles in your back such as your traps which creates a groove for the bar to sit in nicely and stops it from shifting around. 

To answer your question specifically: it doesn't matter. Studies show that the average amount of protein taken in over a given period of time(days, weeks)is what matters far more than getting your whey in before or after. The body does not really become magically more efficient at using protein after a workout. As long as you're hitting your daily intake spread out amongst reasonable servings(instead of trying to consume 80g of protein all at once)each day you'll be fine. Remember the 80/20 rule. 80% of the results actually come from 20% of the things that matter. The 1 hour post workout window is actually a thinly substantiated myth. If you ACTUALLY want to focus on getting your protein in after a work out then just make sure you get it in at some point in the following 24 hours. I'm not kidding: $URL$ Another good reason dispelling some myths: $URL$ 

5 lbs lost could be 5 lbs lost all over your body. If you're pretty overweight it's going to take much longer than 2 months for you to start seeing SIGNIFICANT(keyword) differences in composition. As harsh as the reality is, I like to repeat the one thing that I read at one time that was also told to someone else: It took a long time for you to allow your body to become the way it is now(presumably overweight)and it's going to take as much time to reverse. And it won't be quick and easy. Well it might be easy depending on your point of view. But, it will never be quick. A general tip to overcome mental hurdles like this is to pick an activity, for example strength training, and to focus on making strength gains because this is something you can much more easily track and see progress in. It is a lot easier to let motivation dwindle when you're fixated on appearances which honestly don't change much even over 2 months unless you're already at the point where you're carb cycling and cutting drastically for competitions(and even that's just an extreme example for the average person). But if you follow a program like StrongLifts 5x5 for example, which advocates 5 sets of 5 reps involving compound movements, you'll make significant progress in many different ways. For example: 

People who train to look better are called body builders. You can't simply class all body builders together however, since they are also training towards different goals. Some things do remain the same in body building such as symmetry, low body fat/water during competition and higher muscle mass then the average person. At one end of the spectrum you have the Mr Olympia's (Ronnie Coleman, Arnold Schwarzenegger), these are people who are looking to put on a ridiculous amount of muscle while keeping everything symmetrical and 'proportional'. They can walk around on stage at around 135kg at 3% body fat. Then you have people who want to achieve an aesthetic look and train towards a physique category (Steve Cook, Lazar Angelo). There people want to put on a lot of muscle but keep it to a level where it's not overdone. Everything needs to keep to strict proportions such as a small waste with the V taper laterals. 

I will split my answer into two parts. Firstly answering your more specified question, and then secondly answering the question in the subject. 

Just doing the math shows that squatting 3 times a week and increasing the weight by 5lb each session shows you can increase your squat from 45lb(standard olympic barbell) to 225lb in theoretically 12 weeks or 3 months(hopefully I did that math right), and yes, it is possible. 225lb is a lot of weight to be moving especially if you've never squatted in your life. Focusing on stuff like this is an easy way to keep your progress moving forward instead of, as I said, being fixated on appearances. Let the strength and technique come first and the appearance will follow. I hope this helps you. 

Generally what's known scientifically is that before or after a workout, your body can't differentiate between such states where it somehow arbitrarily "needs" something and can utilize it better just because it's in this mythical state. e.g.1 your body thinks it can somehow better utilize the protein it gets right after a workout e.g.2 this guy just worked out and now his body "thinks" it's in a state where it "requires" a post workout shake to get gains. This is really just a myth and has no scientific grounding. What most modern studies have indicated is that the post/preworkout craze is really just that, a craze conceived from "bro-science", and, that it's actually the average protein intake over a given period of time that really has the most impact on things like recovery, strength gains, hypertrophy, etc. 

Unfortunately there's no quick fix to getting fit. When you say your shins are super tight - make sure this isn't shin splints, since it may put you out of the run altogether if you continue to train on it without proper care - you may want to google or youtube some videos to double check and be sure to stretch/rest them appropriately. In terms of calves, for me at least, the first time I blitz a muscle is always the worst in terms of burning sensation and recovery. If you are able to push your calves to their limit before the race day (while leaving enough recovery time before the big day!), I think it would be beneficial. This means you should be aiming the best you can produce already. The only thing you may possibly be able to 'rush' is your mental game since it will probably be the biggest factor for you on the 5k run. Always remember that your mind will be telling you that you can't go on or your body is too sore to continue. The best way to overcome this is with a positive training partner (thus the use for personal trainers) or if you can't find anyone suitable in time, try and set goals for yourself. Goals can be either time related or length related, but make sure they're actually challenging. Remember to tell yourself - pain is temporary. You'll probably have sore calves for a day or even a week after, but after that week you'll forget that the pain even happened. What you won't forget happening is your gained fitness since it will stay with you as long as you maintain it. Also, any time you begin to walk or stop moving when you could have actually run another kilometre is simply you cheating yourself, no one else. In terms of running every day - you need to listen to your body and see how it feels - but I would advise against training every day. You can stay active daily meaning you can still do other activities that keep your heart rate up but if you run one day, your muscle groups used need time to recover. If you attempt to run while these muscle groups haven't recovered you will start to fall into over training which will actually bring more bad than good. 

This is a similar issue concerning the whole simple vs complex carb myth. Typically foods that have a high glycemic index have a relatively low to zero fat content which causes your body to digest high GI foods faster. 

I'm 23 and god only knows how this could've happened. It could either be from the other day when I got trigger happy and evacuated my bowels quickly(I wasn't bearing down hard I just push it all out relatively quickly and with ease)or from squatting and deadlifting. I've been doing stronglifts 5x5 for a few months and had some trouble making gains until I really started to push myself. I'm afraid that the extra exertion I've been putting into my lifts has played a role in the formation of this. But should I continue to lift tomorrow? I want to say that I put a lot of pressure in my ass as I exert the force on the squat, because everyone always says to squeeze your glutes. Could that have been the cause? My lifting stats really aren't even that high: OHP: 100 Squat: 225 DL: 225 BP: 180 Rows: 100