Your best bet is to run Wireshark or tcpdump on either the client or the server when you are using FTP to try and discover what's actually going wrong. Something like the example below should be sufficient. 

Finally you should confirm that your Domain Controllers have the correct time source. See Ben Armstrong's excellent blog post for more details. 

I seem to recall running across a "formal" criteria or a standardized method for helping to define and talk about a network's size or complexity - A set of generalized standards that people use when talking about networks (e.g., "I'm currently working for a company with a 'Stage II NETWORK'"). In fact, I'm pretty sure it was in a SF user's profile, but my google-fu has failed me here. I'm aware of the different network topologies and the LAN, MAN, and WAN scale distinctions but I'm looking for something more specific. 

Nope! SCCM is complex and somewhat fidgety application. In order to install it you will need a whole bunch of prerequisites, not limited too IIS, Reporting Services, MS SQL, and WSUS. For such as small Site you would co-mingled these services and Site Rolls on a single server, your Domain Controller, which also happens to run a complex and somewhat fidgety application. I highly recommend you do not do this. Take a look at can domain controllers also serve other functions?. It used to be fairly common to deploy a single physical server that had ADDS, DNS, DHCP, File and Print Roles all co-mingled. However, with the prevalence and low cost of virtualization in the Microsoft ecosystem it is becoming more common to deploy your domain controllers in single-purpose virtual machines to avoid problems and isolate them if they occur. As an aside, note I said "domain controllers". You will want at least two Domain Controllers, one of which is a physical standalone machine if you plan on clustering your Hyper-V hosts. You should always have two domain controllers (see: Risks of having only one domain controller?). Furthermore you should pay particular attention to the caveats of running virtualized domain controllers, especially things like cloning and time synchronization. 

If my reading of MSDN is correct MSIs register the ProductCode in . A reasonable assumption is that the Application Detection checks that location, again you could confirm this with ProcMon. 

The workstation does not show a gateway, manually setting the gateway through to my server ip (192.168.1.21) must trick it into thinking there is internet as it says there is but I cannot ping anything. Your workstation can route fine to your server because they're on the same subnet. Your workstation needs to know the route out - this is presumably your router (which is different from your Windows 2008 R2 server, correct?). Unless you have specifically configured your server to route for your 192.168.1.0/XX network, telling your workstation that it is the default gateway will not accomplish what you want. What is the default gateway set to for your server? Set your workstation to use that as the default gateway instead of your server (192.168.1.21). If you specifically want your server to do the routing then you need to establish the appropriate static routes on you server (and possibly a whole mess of other things depending on how your outbound connection is setup). 

You will need to sniff the traffic as it leaves the OpenVPN TUN or TAP interface on your computer that is acting as the VPN endpoint. There's no magic here (or at least none than I can think of). An interface, is an interface, is an interface. OpenVPN does not provide native functionality for packet sniffing but there are plenty of purpose-built tools to perform that duty such as tcpdump or tshark/wireshark. 

I realize this does not directly answer your question but I can't help but feel this might be a better way to accomplish your goal. I'm assuming you are using this Task Sequence to either do a image build or capture or to deploy a previously capture image. I cannot think of a reason why you would have to install device drivers this way. We just import the device drivers into the Drivers Catalog, roll them up in Packages and then use the Apply Device Drivers action during the image to handle each particular workstation. Works just fine for us but maybe there is something in your scenario that I am missing. 

So what am I doing wrong here? Theoretically by setting the and values for WAN2 so high, that unless a packet is already part of an established flow started by inbound traffic on WAN1, nine times out of ten it should be sent out WAN2. In fact, this is the behavior we want out of the OptiQroute; if a packet's not already part of established inbound flow, send it out WAN2. WAN1 should essentially be used just for serving our /24 public network segment. How can I configure the OptiQroute to get this behavior? 

To enable or disable Enhanced Security Configuration In Control Panel, double-click Add or Remove Programs. Click Add/Remove Windows Components. Click Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration, and then click Details. Select the group for which you want to enable or disable Enhanced Security Configuration, and then click OK. 

About as future safe as anything in the networking world. The IEEE publishes open standards and ostensibly vendors and manufactures adhere to them but in reality you will find that backwards compatibility (and just good old standards adherence) is hard to guarantee in present let alone the future. A Good Vendor (TM) will ensure that their equipment is backwards compatible with existing standards. If it isn't they should offer you an upgrade of your network switch with some kind of discount (at least in my opinion). The upside of this is "in-place" standards will be around for along time so even after a newer version of that standard is released you can expect newer equipment to generally support it and the older version (i.e., don't expect to see 802.1af go anywhere anytime soon - there are far too many existing devices that use it). You should contact NetGear and ask what their plans are for the future support of 802.1at (PoE+) with this model of switch is. Since 802.1at (PoE+) is the newest implementation of PoE if you want to be the "safest" with regard to forward planning and have the most flexibility with which PoE-enabled devices you can choose in the future, pick a switch that supports both standards. 

Before we get going I want to make a pedantic point, more for the benefit of the general readership than yourself. 

Blocking File and Printer Sharing will break Active Directory Domain Services. If you review the Active Directory and Active Directory Domain Services Port Requirements you'll notice that following ports need to be open. The reason the rules get re-enabled is when you install Roles that require certain services and their ports to be open Windows will automatically enable those rules. 

I'm mostly a system administrator and I don't directly work with databases other than installing them, setting up accounts, granting privileges, and so on. I realized that if The Boss walked up to me and asked, "What is a relational database?" I probably couldn't give a satisfactory answer... I'd maybe mumble something about data being stored and organized by categories which you can query with a special programing language (i.e., SQL). So could someone give a good "Boss Answer" for what a relational database is? And maybe how its different than just storing data on a file server? Bonus points for clever but accessible analogies and explaining tables, columns, records and fields. I'd define a "Boss Answer" as a quick one (maybe two) paragraph explanation for non-technical folks... mostly your Boss, on those rare occasions they actually ask you what it is you do all day. 

At the beginning of the year we performed an upgrade of our vSphere environment from vSphere 5.0 to vSphere 5.1 U1 Build 1063329 compromised of about a dozen ESXi hosts and a vCenter instance hosted on Windows Server 2008 R2 SP1. One of the outstanding issues from this project is the upgrade of Virtual Hardware for Virtual Machines. I'm having trouble understanding why I should go to work and downtime to upgrade the Virtual Hardware version on all of our VMs. Our newly created Virtual Machines are using Virtual Hardware v. 9, the most recent supported version in vSphere 5.1 U1 which resolves issues we were having with Windows Server 2012 R2 and WinPE 4.0 on our older vSphere 5.0 instance. All of our older Virtual Machines are compatible Virtual Hardware versions (KB2007240) so we are not forced to upgrade their hardware version. Am I missing some technical reason for upgrading all our Virtual Machine's Virtual Hardware to the "newest" Version 9 since guest operating system and ESXi compatibility are not issues? Upgrading the Virtual Hardware is not necessarily trivial since I have to shutdown the VM, take a snapshot or backup of it and then upgrade it for a few hundred VMs. Other than avoiding having to do this in the future and getting warm fuzzies that all our VMs are running on the most recent Virtual Hardware version why should I bother doing a straight cutover instead of a rolling upgrade as we replace our Virtual Machines? 

The answer is sort of, but it's a bad idea. Iptables lives at Layer-3/Layer-4 and thus isn't really designed to deal with DNS names. If I recall correctly if you specify redirect or forwarding rules using DNS names instead of IP addresses or netblocks, iptables will accept that information and dutifully try to resolve those names appropriately. There are a couple of problems with this approach: 

This will immediately return all Error events from the System log that occurred this day. Want to look two days back? 

This is the best way to do what you're trying to accomplish. You should consider posting a detailed question including whatever errors you're seeing and try to get that resolved. 

HP's specification doesn't specify what version of SSL the management interface is using but Google Chrome disables SSL 2.0 by default. Try enabling all possible versions of SSL under Options - Under the Hood - Security - Manage Certificates and try again. Using wireshark could also verify if there is a SSL version mismatch. 

Your IIS server is the presentation tier and serves contact. The unwashed masses interact with your application here. Your application server sits in the logic tier and does what ever business logic your application requires. Your database server sits behind that protected and safe. From a security prospective the idea is that your web server can only talk to the application server and the application server can only talk to the database server. 

You didn't specify whether or not you are working in Windows networking environment or not so I will focus on general networking security suggestions. 

As Evan mentioned you don't want two DHCP servers on the same broadcast domain. Which DHCP server responds to a client's DHCPREQUEST/DHCPRENEW is whichever one gets the DHCPREQUEST first. Neither DHCP server is going to be aware of the other's lease database (which clients have which addresses) so you're almost guaranteed to get IP address conflicts and just like Highlander there can only be one! (Things won't work right if you have the same IP address assigned to more than one station). The exception to this is doing DHCP Split Scope. The idea is that half of your available addresses goes to one DHCP server and the other half to other. This way you can guarantee that you won't end up with a the same address assigned to multiple clients AND you get some redundancy in your DHCP services. Also, would it be possible (and advantageous) to have my wireless router service only the wireless requests, while having the Ubuntu Server Box service the Ethernet ones? If you had more than one broadcast domain this can be nice. You can subnet your addressing space and give one subnet to the wireless clients and another to your wired clients. This makes routing, filtering, and monitoring them easier. EDIT: I just looked at your other question. What you want is either a separate network (either physical or VLANed) for your FOG clients with one subnet and associated DHCP services and another network for your employee machines (with their own services). 

What operating system, web browser, JRE and firmware version are you using? We have dozens of 2600 series switches and we haven't seen any issues with the Java applets embedded in their web interface. For the records we're using R.11_72 firmware on our switches and the web interface works fine in Firefox 10.0.2 with Java 1.6.0_27. I would try upgrading to the most recent firmware available for your switches (probably R.11.72) and make sure your web browser and Java is updated and configured appropriately. Have you tried using different browsers? If all this fails, you should take advantage of ProCurve's free lifetime support and call HP. Lastly, unless you have specifically disabled it you should still be able to manage your switches via the console. 

The HP2600 series can only filter inbound traffic on interfaces. Should I change my filter to deny any to 192.0.2.0/24? 

Why would I want to use a converged networking design when I have traditional SAN storage and am limited to 1Gb? What advantages and disadvantages does it have over non-converged virtualization networks for the SME space? 

As for your issue where the executable installer of Adobe Reader breaks your Detection Logic I did a little testing in my "lab" (i.e., my workstation) and was able to reproduce your issue. I think all Adobe Reader executable does is unpack and run an MSI installer. 

I am trying to setup an additional VLAN on our Debian-based router/firewall (which exists as a virtual machine on Hyper-V), our core switch (an HP Procurve 5406) and a remote HP ProCurve 2610 that is connected via a WAN Transparent Lan Service (TLS) link. Let's work backwards from the network edge: The Debian server has an external connection attached to eth0. The internal interface is eth1, which is connected directly from our Hyper-V host to the 5406. The port that eth1 is attached to is setup as Trk12. The 2610 is attached to Trk9 (which trunks a whole slew of VLANs - Trk9 is our TLS head). I can successfully ping the management IP addresses for my VLAN from both switches but I cannot ping, from either switch, the virtual interface for my new VLAN on the Debian-base router and firewall. The existing VLAN works fine. What gives? The port eth1 is attached to is a trunk, the existing VLAN (ID 98) is untagged on the trunk, the new VLAN (ID 198) is tagged. VLAN 198 is tagged on Trk9 on the 5406 and on the 2610. I can ping the other switch's management IP (10.100.198.2 and 10.100.198.3) from the other respective switch. That leg of the VLAN works - however I cannot communicate with eth1.198's 10.100.198.1. I feel like I'm missing something elementary but what it is remains illusive to me. I suspect the issue is with the vconfig created eth1.198. It should pass the tagged VLAN 198 packets correct? But they cannot seem to get any further than the 5406. Communication on the existing VLAN 98 works fine. From the Debian box: eth1: 

I have a single HP ProCurve 2610 in a remote location that is connected in with the rest of the network via SHDSL. There are two Layer-3 networks on this segment. ACLs are setup to deny one subnet (192.0.2.0/24) from ever being able to leave the switch by virtue of being applied to port attached to the upstream connection. The other subnet should be permitted to freely leave the switch. Both subnets are on the same VLAN. Unfortunately SFlow very clearly show broadcast traffic from 192.0.2.0/24 on the upstream connection. ProCurve ACLs are not my strong suit but I feel like I'm missing something very simple here. 

As @hayalci mentioned you need to remove either the gateway or the up-route/down-route directives. It's likely that this did not fix your issue because the route had already been added. Check the output of and if you have multiple routes for that IP address manually remove them and restart networking. You should also confirm that you don't have any network auto configuration utilities like NetworkManager or WicD running.