I would say it depends entirely on the role. Coming as a westerner to a third world country, you'd often be hired for a higher level position than you would at home since you can bring new and different experience to a country that might lack it, from a western-orientated perspective. If you were doing a junior software engineering role either place? Not sure, it still counts, but what you can actually produce likely counts higher than the place you did it at. If you were in a position of f.e. developing a new market, new product or such(moving from a first world to third world) with a lot of responsibility - this would be a big plus I'd guess. 

Voice your concerns about the performance. If the performance could get worse as their dataset increases, ensure they know that. If they're going to expand to more offices and have a higher latency/slower pipe between them an the assets, make sure they know that. Document all of the obvious performance fixes. When they find out you were right, you'll probably be the first person they come to in order to fix it. Don't sell them more than they need At the end of the day, they're a business. Turning on some reasonable optimizations is probably going to cost a high double digit number of hours, and that's a sizable chunk of money to fix something that in all likelihood doesn't really impact their business right now. Once the program has been out there for a while, and has been proven to meet the functional requirements reliably and solve the business need, they might be more willing to start investing in making it faster. When there's no bugs with it, and the biggest complaint from the users is that "it's slow", and the managers are sick of hearing that, you should have a pretty easy time making it faster. 

Most definitely, yes. I mention my sport(I do martial arts and compete at highest amateur level) in interviews for two reasons: first, competing in any sport at elite, senior level shows you are committed to goals, you are efficient with your time and you are, well, a winner. Plus, soft skills - as mentioned in a comment here - would be a positive point at least in team sports. If you plan on competing during your potentially new job, it's also important to mention depending on the sport. I straight up asked if they had a problem with me turning up Monday morning with a black eye. Not that it'll happen every Monday morning, but as I compete on weekends, it is a possibility(albeit surprisingly small, compared to what people think about martial arts). This is to eliminate any surprises from either side. With basketball, the probability of getting hurt - i am guessing - is quite smaller, but still a higher risk than if they hired a couch potato whose physical activity is non-existent, right? IT/Software is in my mind 80% mentality: If you aren't persistent and keep going, you are not going to do well in the IT/Software industry. Having a competitive mindset from sports would be a plus if I were to hire someone. So TL;DR: It's good for two reasons. 1.) Showcasing your commitment and soft skills. And 2.) Managing expectations if you choose to do the sport while working. 

Its your choice to share medical information. Somehow the notion of continuous employment is still prevalent as well as the "job for life". There are many circumstances that take people out of the employment market. Travelling is a legitimate reason for taking time out of work (some people are fortunate enough to turn it into means of income - travel writers for example). Having children, long term illness, return to education even being in prison are all reasons why people are in and out of the labour market. Resumes are presented to employers as a linear timeline to explain how you got your skills and experience. Your references don't necessarily have to be from former employers, but common convention dictates that there should be a continuous timeline and reference from current employer. It also makes it easier to slot someone into a new or existing role if they are currently doing that role somewhere else. For example if an employer has a vacancy for high altitude, deep sea welding its easier for them to take someone if they are currently employed as a mountain top underwater welder. If you choose to be fraudulent on your resume to cover the gap because a friend has recommended you do it because they have a common convention view of traditional resumes, then you may get caught out and have to take the consequences of your choice. Alternatively, embrace the lifestyle choices that occurred and see that it nothing to be ashamed of. The only issue I could see from presenting a gappy resume is that it may take longer for you to find an employer who is prepared to see past it. 

Ideally, knowing the answer to the problem shouldn't be an issue. Use the fact that you know the answer as a compass to help you walk though a possible 'solution', but don't simply blurt out '42' as the answer without showing your work. Really break down the problem solving process into basic steps, and work towards the solution you already know exists. If you don't understand the steps that were taken to arrive at the solution that you've already seen, then you really haven't already seen a solution...You've seen a hypothesized solution, and that hypothesis must be confirmed. Often times, reinforcing something you already know by laying out how you learned it is just as difficult/insightful as solving a problem you haven't seen, so that should be no trouble. If you do understand how the solution was reached, try to walk through the problem in an 'explain-it-like-I'm-5' manner, making your entire thought process obvious. To help communicate this point a little better, let's assume we're talking about a programming domain. Lets take a really really basic programming example. You may be asked to write a program that takes in a string and reverses it without using the 'pre-existing' / facilities. Maybe you've seen approaches with the string as an array of characters, and looping from the last index back to zero. You know that this is where you want to end up. But instead of just writing that down and saying 'look how smart I am, I already know this', humor them and work through the problem. Setup a test harness or a REPL and start writing test cases. First write tests for the trivial cases, like and . Then test and implement cases where you have two character strings like . Then test and implement cases where you have there character strings like . Show them where the pattern emerges, and derive a universal solution from that pattern. Explain your reasoning each step of the way, which should be easy to do, because you already know exactly where you are going. This need not be exclusive to programming either. The main idea here is to reflect on the solution you're already aware of, and work towards it in small steps, each time making sure it's very clear why you're making those steps. Even if you admit to the interviewer afterwards that you've already seen a similar problem before, they will likely be impressed with any sort of 'methodical' approach that explains the reasoning 'like I'm 5'. 

Context: the technical development staff stands at 31 individuals, of which I am the ScrumMaster/Development manager responsible 3 cross functional teams of 5 people in each team. Over the last year the business has been turning over (averaged out) 4-5 developers per month, of which I am now one of them as I have given my weeks notice. From my understanding it is attributable to a mid level manager who joined just over a year ago. I've given notice because this individual is too difficult to work with. Staff prior to his arrival say that the company was different. No one post his arrival has stayed longer than six months. Some of the turnover is down to individuals resigning, like my self. Other situations are down to sackings because the developers didn't "deliver" the user stories acceptably. SideBar 1: User stories often are in the from of; New Product Database, 2 days work. What that actually translates to; Re-factoring the existing database, creating new relational structures and ETL-ing from old to new. Re-factor all sprocs and sql statements for applications and place into production. I sat in the meeting where it was decided to dismiss him (the DBA) for being obstructionist, argumentative, not capable of delivering (my first warning signal something was wrong - given I was defending his (the DBA's) position). SideBar 2: The Mid Level Manager is on the business side rather than technical. He has shown some very unsavoury behaviour sexist, racist, Anti-Semitic, physically manhandling people out of meetings: generally obnoxious. What amazes me is that this individual has a huge list of "reputations" on linkedin, gushing about his marvellous skills and great to work with. I would like to exit the company gracefully, but I face with an "ethical" conundrum on two levels. A competency based one as I view his managements skills to be exceptionally poor and then the one about his disgraceful behaviour in the modern workplace towards colleagues (peers and direct reports). I do not, in my last week, want to raise a grievance, but as this company is a highly respected British organisation, who prides itself on it even-handedness to its consumers. I feel that this is a very toxic environment and it should be brought to light. So given I have five working days to go (as of 8 April 13), How do I; 

Report the loss immediately. In a big company, there are standard procedures for such things, some of which assume that the employee who lost the ID badge reports so immediately - for security reasons. Yeah it looks bad, but it looks worse to wait it out. 

This is fairly common in a lot of Asian countries - this is due to the fact that some places, your Firstname might actually be your 'last name' so to say.. I wouldn't really put anything into it if I were you. Mr. "Firstname" is quite common and I doubt there's an ulterior motive behind it. On the contrary, I'd say it would be inappropriate, you and him being at the same level, correcting him and asking him to call you Mr. "Lastname".. 

Actually I've realised the only way to deal with this is be blunt. State my circumstances, two young children with dead mother, if I have to explain further then, there is more serious issues with the job than worrying about having to stay late 

You cannot help future employees. It's their choice to take the employment and their choice to stay or leave. You state that your former employer is litigious ("super sue-happy"), any criticism in a public (and even private) setting could lead you to being litigated against. Put it behind you as a lesson learnt and stop enquiring into the fates and fortunes of any of his employees as all it appears to do is to make you want to do is continue some form of involvement, which by the sounds of what you've said, won't do you any good. 

If this person is behaving in the manner you're describing, then this is in fact a problem that needs to be dealt with by management. It is however key that you, as a non-manager, approach this strictly from the angle of an impediment to you doing your job. Do not go to management with any statements about 'James' putting job security interests ahead of the company's interests. Instead, the place to start is by talking to whatever 'project manager' is in charge of the project you're working on. Tell them you're blocked on because you don't have the information you need. Ask if there's a knowledge base on this system. Make sure they're aware that you don't have the information you need, but don't try to blame 'James' as the cause. It's very likely that they'll tell you at some point to 'try reaching out to James, he works on that system'. At that point, you'll continue to reach out him as you've been doing, but you'll CC this manager on all of your requests of help from James. For a lot of people, just having that CC on the email will suddenly change both the turnaround time and the tune of their correspondences with you. But if it doesn't, just keep making sure the manager has visibility into what's going on. If your project does daily standups, your standup report should include something along the lines of "I am still having trouble finding the information I need on . I couldn't find anything in the knowledge base. I have tried reaching out to and James. I am still waiting on a followup.". If not, try to make frequent status reports to the manager saying "I am not able to get these questions answered. It takes a long turnaround time when I have to bug the developers frequently. I think a knowledge base for this system would be very valuable. Any suggestions?". Try to always make sure you're not coming off as 'blaming James'. Eventually, if 'James' is indeed the problem, it will be obvious to them, and they will take the actions necessary. Or, if management fails to act after extended visibility to this issue, perhaps 'James' is just a symptom of a much deeper management problem, and this company may not be the right environment for you. 

Ask their HR. Depends entirely on the company and their processes. They might have it tagged as "US" because they are only able(or willing?) to handle the finance aspect of someone in the US, because things, without a doubt, get more complicated when you're adding someone abroad to the payroll - I could imagine! 

In Europe, the only "group interviews" I have ever seen has been for recent college graduates, i.e. you are in groups of 5-6, "compete" against other teams with presentations, problem solving etc. - but these are positions where many people(perhaps up to 15-20) are hired from a larger pool. For solo positions, I have never heard of such thing. As for the personal questions, this is very normal in Europe in contrary to the US. It's really difficult to fire people in many European countries, and in many cases, you'd rather have someone who fits in, but perhaps has a skill-gap you need to cover through training, than someone who doesn't have anything in common or work well with your current staff, but is perhaps very qualified for the position. 

In the US at least, it isn't safe to assume who should or shouldn't know about your particular compensation situation. It is very situational, but I would recommend avoiding asking about compensation unless either asked or offered a position. It's very common that the people you're interviewing with will not be your direct supervisor, and while it's great to be in a culture where 'take home pay' is something your equals are comfortable discussing with you, those are discussions best had 'off site' over a beer with people you are on very good working terms with. On the other hand, it's perfectly acceptable to communicate your salary expectations to the right people (something the recruiter should absolutely be able to assist you with). At a minimum, the recruiter should be able to tell you whether or not your salary expectations are within the range of the company they're recruiting for. If they can't, that's probably a red flag right there, but you should be able to ask the recruiter to communicate your salary expectations to the hiring manager to ensure you're not wasting your time or the company's time. If they aren't willing to discuss this or 'confirm' that your expectations are reasonable, then they shouldn't be surprised when you flat out reject your offer for being to low.