There is no self in all phenomena (including the five aggregates). The five aggregates and the rest of nature and the world is always changing and not permanent (anicca). Emptiness refers to the emptiness of everything (including Nirvana) - the self, the five aggregates, the world, nature etc. According to the Heart Sutra, "There is No Truth of Suffering, Of the Cause of Suffering,Of the Cessation of Suffering, Nor of the Path." According to the Heart Sutra, "There is No Wisdom, and There is No Attainment Whatsoever." 

In the Maha-Saccaka Sutta (MN36), we have rebirth supported using the Śabda pramana, based on the Buddha's testimony to Saccaka, the Jain: 

The knowledge of kamma, impermanence (anicca) and suffering leads to equanimity (with regards to how we face challenges) and also compassion (with regards to how we view others facing challenges). From Bhikkhu Bodhi's essay "A Remedy for Despair": 

So, the "self" in the Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra refers to the tathagatha-garbha or Buddha-nature. It must be noted that tathagatha-garbha or Buddha-nature is not the same as the concept of Atman in Hinduism, as can be seen by the following excerpt from the same text Mahayana Mahaparinirvana Sutra: 

In my opinion, saying "May God bless you" is a very Buddhist thing to do. According to the Buddha in Mettanisamsa Sutta, there are 11 benefits that would be experienced by one who practises loving kindness or metta, as follows: 

If I'm not mistaken, Samatha alone leads to attainment of Jhanas. With perfection in certain levels of Jhanas, one could get reborn in certain Brahma worlds, which by itself is a good thing, but as per Lanka's answer, it doesn't lead to enlightenment. From here: 

From "Kamma: A Study Guide" by Ven. Thanissaro you can find the summary below. Please read the full study guide for the justification. 

This question is addressed in the Abhaya Sutta from the Buddha himself, on the topic of Right Speech. Your question should fall under "In the case of words that the Tathagata knows to be factual, true, beneficial, but unendearing & disagreeable to others, he has a sense of the proper time for saying them." (Abhaya Sutta). From your same link on the Mahatanhasankhaya Sutta, you can read the commentary by Thanissaro Bhikkhu: 

You may also find Ven. Thanissaro's essay "The Truth of Rebirth And Why it Matters for Buddhist Practice" useful. He wrote: 

Hence the recommendation here is to remove unskillful thoughts, but not stop thinking altogether. Of course, if one is meditating and trying to achieve the state of jhana, then in that situation, he has to concentrate his mind and cease thinking. Even this is only for the second jhana and beyond. In the first jhana, there is still directed thought and evaluation. From the Maha-satipatthana Sutta: 

With regards to the human realm ... Psychic influence of worldly phenomena and the thoughts of others is possible only by those who have acquired such powers from certain spiritual practices, and they are not conducive to enlightenment. The Buddha could do a psychic transmission of messages to some of his disciples, according to the suttas. I don't think the thoughts of ordinary people have a lot of psychic influence on the world around us, just as if one person or even all persons jump simultaneously, they would not cause the Earth to change its rotation. Similarly, your unexpressed thoughts are not going cause someone else to get influenced. However, through the ordinary medium of transmitting thoughts to others via speech and other ordinary communication, societies can evolve a collective mind. This forms the basis for the development of culture in societies and nations. In other realms, it may be possible that beings there have psychic communication. 

Did the self that the monk used to have before Nibbana suddenly not exist any more after Parinibbana? That's the wrong view. Instead of looking at it from this way, the Buddha prefers to look at it from the perspective of dependent origination. There is another good exposition of this in the Acela Sutta (SN12.17). Please see this answer for a discussion on this. There are also the six wrong views of the self in Sabbasava Sutta (MN2): 

The answer for this comes in the Acela Sutta (although this quote comes from here). Of course, the question was phrased differently by Kassapa, but the essence of the question is the same. 

Firstly, there is no punishment or "cosmic justice" system in Buddhism. Rather, it's cause and effect. If you knock your head on the wall, you will feel physical pain. That's cause and effect. Not punishment. Even in your current lifetime, you can experience cause and effect according to the Sigalovada Sutta: 

Here's an answer from the Theravada tradition by Ven. Narada Mahathera (which appears to come from his book "The Buddha and His Teachings"): 

Some Buddhists like to say Sadhu! Sadhu! Sadhu!, usually 3 times. There is some info here and here on this. How did this practice originate? Are there any references to the Pali Canon or other texts for this? Is it specific to a particular tradition? Why is it necessary or useful to say this? 

If you see this answer, bad karma or not, is related to the intentions of the individual. The story of the blind monk Ven. Chakkhupala in Dhammapada 1 and the story of the hunter's wife in Dhammapada 124 would serve as good examples from the scriptures. If the individual has intentions that is insulting, disparaging or malicious towards the Buddha or arahant, then that would be generating bad karma. However, if someone respectfully disagrees with the Buddha or arahant because he does not have the same view or understanding, then this should not be bad karma. If someone talks to a Buddha or Arahant, he should not incur bad karma, if he does so based on the principles of Right Speech (samma vaca), even if he disagrees with the opinion of the Buddha or the Arahant. As said in the famous Kalama Sutta by the Buddha, just because a certain person is your teacher, it does not mean that you should simply accept what he or she says. Rather, it is preferable that you should accept the teachings only after you have known for yourself that it is good. 

Meditation teacher Gil Fronsdal comments here on why this hindrance is focused on sensual desires rather than other desires: 

The Buddhist version of karma may not be the same as the version of karma in other Indian religions. It's not a system of cosmic justice. If you invented something to help millions of people, you would not get more rewards compared to someone who helped just 10 people. In Buddhism, karma is about cause and effect, due to intention and volition (see this page). It's about one's state of mind and its expressions in actions and words. It's not about the impact made on the world or on others. This means that one who has unintentionally helped others, but out of originally evil intentions in mind, he would experience negative karmic results. On the other hand, if one had good intentions, but his actions inadvertently harmed others, he would still experience positive karmic results. It's all about intentions. From the Dhammapada: 

You may have heard of "sabbe dhamma anatta", the Buddhist teaching that "all phenomena is not-self". A complete discussion on the topic can be found in this answer. Basically, there is a self, but it is not standalone or independent. Rather, it is changing, arising and ceasing, dependent on other conditions. There is no permanent eternal self. Buddhism can be considered theist, if you take into account the teachings on the existence of beings called devas and brahmas in the higher realms. Also see this question. However, Buddhism can be considered atheist, if this refers to the non-existence of a permanent eternal God, because that would imply an unchanging permanent eternal self. Also, Buddhism can be considered agnostic, if you are looking for an explanation on the origin of the universe and samsara. Was the universe and samsara created by someone or did it appear on its own or was it always there eternally? This is not commented on in Buddhism (see the Acintita Sutta and the Parable of the Poisoned Arrow). 

The following story comes in Udana 1.8. It is about a monk by the name of Sanghamaji, who, when seated under a tree, was visited by his former wife, carrying their infant son. She tried several times to get his attention, and having failed, left the son at his feet and went a short distance away, to observe his reaction. The monk neither reacted, nor said anything to the woman or her child. She then took back the child and left the scene, while lamenting about her former husband's lack of feelings for them, saying "the monk doesn't even care about his son." The Buddha, who witnessed this supernaturally, praised the monk, saying (I paraphrase here) that he showed equanimity and is free from attachment, and is therefore a brahman. We can say that the monk displayed equanimity (upekkha), but then seemed to lack compassion (karuna). In the essay entitled "Toward a Threshold of Understanding", Bhikkhu Bodhi discusses this: 

So, there's obviously two camps out there. On one side, those who promote tranquility first like Ven. Henepola Gunaratana and Ajahn Brahm. But on the other side, you have those who promote insight alone or insight first like Ven. Yuttadhammo or S.N. Goenka. And then there's the interesting opinion in this answer by Dhammadhatu and this answer by Andrei Volkov, which imply that attainment of Jhana through meditation is not for lay people, which is echoed by Ven. Yuttadhammo's statement that samatha meditation is "probably best suited for someone living in the forest". 

Despite this, I can still find some example of a monk trying to get light exercise, in the Meghiya Sutta (below). This leads me to think that light exercise without "intoxication of health" might still be considered acceptable to monks. 

For example, in this answer, we find Buddhists insisting that the mind is not a "byproduct" of the brain, i.e. the mind does not arise neurologically in the brain. By neurology, I mean that according to that view, the mind arises by the electrical and chemical interactions happening in neuron cells of the physical brain. I have also seen Ajahn Brahm stating in a video that even a person with dementia would have a moment of clarity of mind, just before death, proving that the mind is not neurologically originated. My understanding is that Buddhists have this view, because without it, it does not seem sensible that the mind stream can be reborn into another life. Is this right? That's my first question. This answer is interesting: 

However, the enlightened ones don't suffer, even when they feel pain or are deprived of pleasure (from DN16): 

He is probably an anagarika. Anagarika, literally "homeless one", is a stage of practice between lay followers (upasaka) and novice monks (samanera). They usually wear white and act as part time or full time volunteers at monasteries or temples. They observe the Eight Precepts and are able to handle money unlike novice monks and fully ordained monks (bhikkhu). 

Let me narrow down "engaged Buddhism" to "applying the Dharma to social and political injustices". In the Kathavatthu Sutta, the Buddha did not prefer monks to engage in discussions concerning mundane things: 

Firstly, if you look at this answer, even one Arahant cannot recognize another Arahant, so no one can confirm the attainments of another definitively. Secondly, monks are not allowed by the Vinaya to tell their true attainments to the lay people, but they can tell it to other monks. Monks are not allowed to claim to attain something that they did not (that is, to speak the untruth about attainment), to anybody. Thirdly, you are not forced to attempt to become enlightened or to try to leave suffering (as defined by the Buddha). You can continue as you were. If you're having a good time in samsara and you're quite satisfied with it, you don't have to feel coerced to let go of it. Fourthly, there are some Secular Buddhists who say that there is no rebirth. This question of your's is best redirected to them: "What if rebirth truly doesnt exist? The whole point in striving for enlightement is then pointless." 

Adding to Ahmed's answer. The Buddha had the 32 physical characteristics. They are too detailed to be listed here. Please see the link. As for mind, heart and character, he had all the Paramis. The Theravada paramis are listed here: 

There is a good analysis of this, with regards to negative states of mind, in the Uddesa-vibhanga Sutta (MN 138). Concerning the external scattering and diffusion of consciousness: 

Development of tranquility before development of insight Development of insight before development of tranquility Tranquility developed in tandem with insight Mind's restlessness concerning the Dhamma well under control (I guess this is "dry insight") 

Note from ChrisW: There's a more detailed commentary by Piya Tan on the Khemaka Sutta here on Dharmafarer. 

I am not an expert in meditation, and you may be more experienced than me. But I will quote from other sources. The Yuganaddha Sutta states that insight and tranquility can be developed in any order. So, you should not feel guilty about whichever method that you may choose to practise. 

Regarding the point that currency trading may be harmful to the economy - this is similar to the topic of meat-eating. Business in meat is wrong livelihood, but eating meat, that was bought dead and frozen from the supermarket, is not wrong for lay people according to the Theravada tradition. Please see this question for more details. Similarly, if an individual does not have any direct intention to harm others, but the action indirectly affects others, this is not wrong but may not be preferable. Also related, is the story of the hunter's wife from Dhammapada 124. Please read this answer for more details. 

You need to change your perspective of terrorists. Instead of seeing them as terrorists who are agents of evil, we need to see them as regular people like you and me, who, just like you and me, are afflicted with the defilements (kleshas) like hate, wrong views etc.