Here are two answers: No, because a person who asks this question clearly understands the risks. The fact that someone who understands the risks is asking the internet whether the person should assume those risks indicates that the person is not capable of judging (or is uncertain of his capacity to judge) the extent to which the risks weigh against him. Yes, because what is the worst than can happen? You bend an axle? (this is a rhetorical question) You may find this data visualization helpful. Since you are not a "hard rider" I think you might fit around a six. I don't think anyone higher than a four should ride 8 speed freewheel. 

Yeah it's great. It's the go-to solution for a lot of winter bikers around here. I'd say that you can only really know if it's right for you by trying it out, so my input is just that it's been tried and tested and works for a lot of people. 

The bike you seeks is probably not available off-the-shelf new from a bike shop. Your best bet is to find the bike you like with a coaster brake. Make sure that a) the rear rim is "hand-brake" compatible (chances are it will be rim brake compatible I have never seen a coaster brake hub with disc mounts!) and b) the frame and fork have mounts/posts for brakes (although you can also change the fork!). Have a shop add hand-brake (add a rear for sure and a front if you need one) which will likely be a V brake or cantilever brake. You could go the other direction and find the bike you like with the hand brakes you seek and change the rear wheel to one with a coaster brake. Of course this wheel needs to be compatible with the hand brake. If you explain what you want to a bike shop they will guide you through the above steps. If you are trying to do this without a shop's intervention then I suggest posting some models of bikes with coaster brakes and members of the Stack will tell you if they are hand brake compatible. EDIT: I think Sheldon Brown built a bike with a bunch of different brakes on it. I will look for it and post here if I find it. EDIT 2: The better answer includes a primer on the different kinds of hand brakes. 

Like you say, your feet get wettest from the rain running down your legs and into your shoes. The only way to stop this is a shoe cover system that seals at your ankle. I don't know of a commercially available system like this but if you are truly serious you could make something with bags and rubber bands. Suggestions about fenders are well and good but on more than one occasion I've had the wind just right that an entire fender-load of water poured into my shoe. You are fighting a losing battle. The better bet is to keep dry shoes at work or carry some with you. 

Get shorts and underwear that are made of polyester, spandex, rayon, etc. No cotton. Obviously the thinner the better. 

EDIT - removing old answer bc question changed. That conical spacer presses against the upper bearing assembly. If you take it out you'll need some way to pre-load the bearings. Unless you can find another part to replace the function of the conical spacer you cannot remove it. Why do you want to remove it? Are you trying to slam your stem? Here is an article about an appropriately named product that might get you where you want to go: Slam that Stem. 

$50 max. First, take some real photos of the bike. Fix the lighting and photo the drive side. I can't say that loudly enough, NDS photos baffle me. Fitbikeco has a fine reputation but that looks to be a pretty old model. (Do you know what year it is? That is obviously helpful.) Strikes against it just based on the photos: Not microdrive (correct me if I'm wrong). Cranks and bottom bracket are throwaway. Frame is probably hi-ten (to get $100 plus for a used bmx you're gonna need cro-mo). That front tire is some sort of bargain store replacement. The way the brake cable and straddle are sagging makes me question the maintenance history. That seat is at least three generations behind. You don't name any components which means that are all stock with no upgrades/replacements. You might get $50 if you're in a small market and someone has $50 max to spend on such a bike and they don't feel like negotiating or waiting (for you to drop the price when it doesn't sell). But good luck. Clean it up, lube it up, take some good pictures, and write a solid ad. 

Am I confusing the discussion of load with the forces that cause a spoke nipple to crack the rim at the hole? Or is it, as @Rider_X says, that the forces are different but the differences are negligible? 

Generally speaking there are two types of bikes for sale on Craigslist. The first type is one with a manufacturer name, model name, and date of manufacture. The second type is the bike that doesn't have those identifiable characteristics. These second-type bikes might be called custom. If you have a manufacturer, model, and year then you can use bicyclebluebook or just do some napkin math. My rule for bikes is that a used bike is worth half of what a person paid for it. That's a harsh rule but it runs true in my market. For these first type bikes you are going to have a general idea of the original value of the bike and then it is up to you to decide how much you want to pay for the bike you are looking for. My recent experience is that once I found out what I was looking for I started to see the same makes and models come up and similar price points. I would miss certain bikes at certain prices and I kept an informal idea of that those quality/value/price points were; aware that if I saw a similar combination anytime soon I would jump on the deal. The fact that you apparently haven't checked out any bikes on Craigslist seems to indicate that you haven't really started looking yet, that you are pre-looking. I propose that once you start looking, and look for a few weeks, things will start to click. You are not going to figure this out in a few days! As for the "custom" bikes it seems like you have a general understanding of at least the fact that there are differences among frames and among components. For pricing these things I tend to check ebay completed listings to figure out what things are selling for. You could literally add up all the used parts and you should be close to what a bike made of those parts should cost. I might get blasted for proposing this but the economics tend to work out for used bikes in the $500 - $1000 price range assuming discounts and premiums for condition and rarity. The range of components across manufacturers and types of bikes is HUGE. But as others have said, figure out the type of bike you want. That will narrow down the component options. Then figure out price range and you will get it even tighter. As an example, let's say I figure that I want a road bike. I decide that I want something steel with at least a Shimano Sora group. Figure out what that bikes sell for new. Cut that in half. Here is your target. Now look for steel bikes with that group on ebay and see what they are selling for. See if the "half price" target is accurate and adjust it up or down. Now see if you can find this steel Sora bike. You probably can't. You might find a bike with some Sora parts and some "other" parts. Figure out how those other parts compare to Sora and adjust your price up or down. Perhaps the group is a different manufacturer, figure out where those parts compare to your parts. It is literally going to be this tedious. At first. After a while, as I said, you will start to recognize things and you'll need to research less. As you go along, you are going to miss out on some great deals. Hopefully you also miss out on some things that would have been a mistake! Your judgment will sharpen. NEVER BUY A BIKE WITHOUT RIDING IT unless you are willing to deal with some potentially large problems that require things like new wheels or new bottom bracket/cranks or new shifters, etc. Sometimes sellers do not even know these problems exist because they ride on destroyed hardware completely oblivious to the problems. Oh yeah - keep in mind that quality tires could cost $100 so add or subtract accordingly. 

If you are going to be messing with 1/8" chains get a chain tool and forget those master links. Add chain tool or chain breaker to your repertoire and power up your google fu. 

No one can accurately guess what your training program is asking you to do, but since we can only guess I'll offer mine. An aero position, as typically considered, is uncomfortable for the unacquainted. An hour on a bike does not translate to an hour in aero position. In the aero position your hips will be compressed, your lungs restricted by increased tension as a result of the extreme position, your neck will be holding your head at a more severe angle, and you'll be stuck here, no moving in and out of the drops or onto bar extensions or whatever hand positions are otherwise available. I suggest that a training program that requires an aero position is telling you to prepare your body for a rougher time. As for the specific question about getting aero on a MTB - grab the bars as close to the stem as you can, drop the elbows as low as you can, keep your back as straight as you can, and slide forward or back on the saddle to accommodate the adjustment. Oh, and aero is naturally further forward so make sure you are ready for how this impacts bike handling. 

Slap some JB Weld on that stub and shove it in the post. Let it sit for one day. Smack it around a little and if it doesn't pop off you'll be good to go. 

I'm replacing the bearings in a standard single speed wheel. I've got 6000-series bearings and I can't find info on whether there is an inside/outside. 

Take a hacksaw blade, just the blade, and stick it into the seatpost hole and start cutting the seat post. These are long vertical cuts that run the length of the seatpost. You are basically cutting the round seatpost into pieces of pie. This is extremely tedious work and you will second guess yourself, thinking that you are sawing into the frame but eventually you will get a complete cut and you will realize that cutting the aluminum seatpost is very different than cutting steel. Now you are making the vertical slices when you have time, and then plugging everything and using lye over the course of days and in between cutting sessions. The more mangled things get the more difficult it will be to keep the lye in the tube. Eventually pieces of the seatpost will come loose and you can pull them out with pliers. Keep going until everything is either corroded away or yanked out. What is left will be very rough. I recommend some files and then something attached to a drill, like a cylinder hone or perhaps a barrel hone: You use that to clean up the inside of the seatpost. When you are done give your frame a good shake to make sure that all of the bits are out, then rinse again with water. You might take this opportunity to apply framesaver. You are ready to put everything back on, using grease liberally. 

No, there aren't statistics on this; "crashes" are not generally reported. Even if we we had all equipment-crash* data we don't have all human-crash** data. *Crashes caused be equipment **Crashes caused by cyclist error EDIT to add for Frisby's sake: The statistics that some guy compiled based on observations he makes by looking out his front window absolutely defeats my statement that the statistics don't exist. But that's obviously absurd. The point is that the data is not collected, it's not compiled, and no conclusions can be drawn - ergo no statistics which can be used to calculate risk. 

If you've got the CJNX40 or CJ8S40 bracket then you'll need the piece. So yeah, order it. Frankly, if you just swapped the cog I don't understand why the cassette joint is different. But I'm assuming more happened than just the cog. Whatever the case, if the casing slot/area/thing on this bracket is bigger than the previous casing slot/area/thing then that holder unit makes up the difference. 

I don't have any science to back this up, just experience, but if I was in your situation I would pull the bearing cages out. You'll want to add an extra ball of course.