No such claim is made. All we know is that something must have happened back then. Our current physical models do not accurately represent the extremely early Universe. 

For one, the expansion of space allows objects to move away from us faster than light. Einstein said nothing can move faster than light through space; however, space itself can expand between objects faster than light. If it were actually a force pushing these objects away, they would not recede from us faster than light. Second, according to QFT, there does not seem to be a universally (always) repulsive force. Whether forces can be repulsive or not depends on the spin of their mediating field. A scalar (spin-0) force is universally attractive, as is a spin-2 force, while a spin-1 is attractive for different charges and repulsive for like charges. So the electromagnetic, the weak and the strong force can be repulsive, while gravity cannot. Because of this pattern we can assume that there are no universally repulsive forces that can be currently described by fields in QFT. 

Electrons and protons do not annihilate each other, since protons have a much greater mass than electrons. Only matter and antimatter does, since a particle and its antimatter counterpart have the exact same mass. However, under the right conditions, an electron and proton can combine. This forms a neutron, since the charges will cancel each other out. This process is called electron capture, and it's the reason why neutron stars form. I'm not an expert on black holes (I haven't studied GR), but I know that a lot of black holes form from neutron star collapses. 

Even though this part dismisses lithium burning as an important factor, since it's energy output doesn't compare to that of the accretion disk's, it still mentions that lithium burning can take place. Considering that these form from Population III stars, how is it that much lithium burning can happen in the first place? Although lithium is a relatively light atom, it is considered a metal and lithium burning depletes the amount of lithium in a star. Since Population III stars are supposed to be nearly metal-free, shouldn't only hydrogen or helium fusion be a factor here, even if they only have a small effect? 

As far as I know, the Big Rip occurs when the scale factor reaches infinity in a finite time. This will only happen in a universe dominated by phantom energy (i.e. a universe with an equation of state of $< -1$). However, according to Wikipedia, 

I think you're referring to quantum tunneling. Well, quantum tunneling is actually essential in nucleosynthesis in stars. Usually quantum tunneling is a very rare occurence — but in a body as large as the Sun (whose diameter is 4 light seconds long), it is bound to happen quite frequently. This is what mainly allows atomic nuclei to collide. 

On Wikipedia, there is a "[why]" tag, indicating that this wasn't explained very well. This raises two questions. In a universe dominated by phantom energy, why would the observable universe not continue growing and approaching the cosmic event horizon? After all, its comoving distance is just $\int_0^t \frac{\mathrm{d}t}{a(t)}$, so shouldn't it just monotonically increase? More confusingly, Wikipedia implied that the Big Rip occurs when the observable universe's radius becomes incredibly small and the fundamental forces can no longer hold any structure together, rather than when the scale factor reaches infinity. Am I right in assuming these are separate events, or do they occur at the same time? 

I would imagine that with lithium having more protons, it would have a stronger Coulomb repulsion and require higher temperatures to fuse with hydrogen. Now, this article is pretty sketchy since it cites no sources, and I would normally dismiss this. But according to here, lithium burning occurs in protostars, before hydrogen fusion even takes place. How could lithium fuse with hydrogen at temperatures that low? 

First, let's get a bit of background. "Absolute hot" is the concept that a maximum temperature exists. It describes your question exactly. For a long time, no one was able to figure out whether an absolute hot exists, but in the 20th century major revolutions in theoretical physics gave us answers. "Absolute hot" isn't the name of the hottest temperature, but it's the concept that one exists. So what is our answer — is there a highest possible temperature that fits the concept of an "absolute hot"? Well, yes. But first we must talk about heat and temperature. Photons act both like particles and waves. As we add more energy, the photon's wavelength decreases, and its frequency increases. Thus, the wavelength of the light emitted by hot objects generally depends on the temperature of the object. Hotter objects will emit more energetic photons with shorter wavelengths. According to modern physics, a Planck length is the smallest meaningful length in the Universe (the reason for that is an entirely different question). If we keep raising the temperature of our object, nonstop, the wavelength of the photons it emits will decrease until it reaches a Planck length. Our object would reach a temperature called Planck temperature. That's about $1.417×10^{32} \; \mathrm{K}$. Planck temperature is theoretically the hottest possible temperature. At that point, the object could not theoretically get any hotter, as the photon's wavelength cannot decrease beyond a Planck length. But what happens if we were to add more energy to the object? Would it go beyond Planck temperature? Well...God knows. At that point, we wouldn't even call it temperature anymore. Nobody knows what exactly would happen, but it certainly wouldn't match the definition of temperature. 

This would violate the second postulate of special relativity, which states the speed of light is always $c$. A massless particle cannot change its speed. 

Let's assume that every particle in the Sun quantum tunneled far away from us (there's a near 0% chance this will happen, but let's just assume). For the first eight minutes, nothing would change from our point of view. Gravitational waves propagate at lightspeed, so we would continue to orbit the Sun and see it there. After eight minutes, however, the lights would go out. The Moon will no longer shine upon us (it receives its light from the Sun), so our only source of light will be that of the celestial objects. Mercury and Venus will have seemingly disappeared from our optical telescopes — they will no longer be illuminated by the Sun. It would take another 30 minutes to an hour for the reflected light of Jupiter to shut off, and soon all the objects in the Solar System will no longer be visible to optical telescopes. According to Ahad (2004), the illumination by the rest of the Milky Way would be approximately 1/300 of that of a Full Moon. So we might be able to see around thanks to the night sky and our own man-made technologies. However, most plants will not be able to undergo photosynthesis and will die. At this point, we would be traveling tangentially to our orbit around the Sun, as you mention. We would just keep going into the abyss; it's very unlikely the gravity of any object will pull us in. However, things will get quite cold. The Earth would radiate heat away at a moderate rate, and temperatures would be unsustainable in most parts of the world after a year. Luckily, the Earth has a nice and toasty core that could provide life-sustaining heat in some places (like Yellowstone), so humans that migrate over there would likely be better off. 

Well, they're usually referring to the entire Universe. In my final paragraph, I explain what this implies for the observable universe. 

I won't bother answering how the Sun "burns" its fuel — that is already answered in this question. Your second question is whether the Sun is getting smaller; the answer depends on what you mean by "smaller". We'll analyze this in two ways: Radius If we define the radius of the Sun by distance between the core and photosphere, then the Sun is not getting smaller. In fact, it is growing over time, as demonstrated in this graph: 

The galactic coordinate system is usually used for galaxies. It is based on the galactic plane — approximately where the galactic disc is. It uses galactic latitude (for the y-value of the objects) and galactic longitude (x and z values, based on the disc). There is also a supergalactic coordinate system used for superclusters. Its equator is an invisible line called the supergalactic plane, which is the preferred distribution of galaxies in a supercluster. 

The Wikipedia page for apparent horizon is pretty sketchy and requires some GR knowledge. Is there any simple definition? 

Well, having seen Neptune and identifying Neptune are two totally different things. Let's tackle this one step at a time. Your link says: 

We would see how it agrees with our modern theories. Relativity has matched our measurements with extreme accuracy, so let's just analyze why your hypotheses would go against its basic principles: 

Say we have a closed universe that follows the cosmological principle. As a result, mass is distributed equally and, if as far as I know, gravity should have no net effect on the movements of galaxies (as in, there are no peculiar velocities). However, in the Big Crunch, the Universe stops expanding and gravity causes the scale factor to decrease. How is this possible? Shouldn't gravity have no effect on a homogenous and isotropic universe? On that note, if gravity actually caused a collapse, would gravity cause the comoving coordinates of the galaxies to change? 

Yes, a star could technically start out as a planet, if it accreted enough mass. However, this is extremely unlikely, since the planet would need to be 80x the mass of Jupiter for it to undergo nucleosynthesis. 

This would explain how Phobos and Deimos could survive as moons. I could mention the other hypotheses, but Landis' would answer your question quite well. Right now, there isn't any clear consensus as to how Phobos and Deimos became moons. More research is still necessary, and we may need to modify our models for the evolution of Mars and the asteroid belt. 

The Big Bang did not happen at a single point, nor did the Universe begin at a single point. The Universe is, and has always been, infinite. The Big Bang was just when the Universe's expansion really began — that is, when objects started drifting away from each other. The Universe was still infinite, but there was less space between the matter. This density caused the Universe to get extremely hot and expand. So here, space itself was distorted and began to expand. More and more space was created between the matter, and still is now (although now it is mainly due to dark energy instead of heat). 

All planets in a planetary system should orbit in the same direction. However, this direction varies among different planetary systems. The direction that planets will orbit, for any planetary system, depends on the molecular cloud that formed them. The reason for this is conservation of angular momentum. Before a star and its planets exist, there’s just a cloud of disorganized gas and small molecules. The Solar System formed from such a cloud around 4.6 billion years ago. On that scale, there is some small amount of rotation within the cloud. It could be caused by the gravity of nearby stellar objects, local differences in mass as the cloud churns, or even the impact of a distant supernova. The point is, all molecular clouds have at least a little rotation. The direction depends on a number of factors, so some clouds will turn clockwise, and others will turn counterclockwise. In a large system like a molecular cloud, each particle has some angular momentum, and it all adds together across a very wide area. That’s a lot of momentum, and it is conserved as the cloud continues to collapse under its own gravity. That angular momentum also flattens the cloud, which is the reason why the Solar System is near-planar. 

After a Sun-sized protostar forms, its core will become denser over time due to radiation. The core eventually gets dense and hot enough for hydrogen fusion to take place. In the late phases of the star's life, the core will continue fusing hydrogen until it runs out and outer layers begin fusion hydrogen, while dumping helium into the core. The core will get massive enough that it will begin to contract, and it will eventually become electron degenerate due to the high densities. However, as the core became denser and denser, it reached temperatures at which fusion could take place, but it did not become dense enough for the matter to become electron degenerate, right? Only later in its life, when the star's hydrogen ran out, would it become dense enough for that. So then why would gas giant cores be electron degenerate, but not become hot enough for nuclear fusion? Shouldn't they start fusing before they can become electron degenerate, as stars do? Am I misunderstanding this concept entirely, or is there more to it than what I described? 

According to Geoffrey Landis, Deimos and Phobos could have each been moons of parent asteroids, and they were separated due to tidal forces: 

We don't know for sure, but it certainly fits into our theories. There is, of course, no way to actually test if the Universe is infinite, but right now we think it is likely. Also, if you read my updated answer on your other post, the Universe has always been infinite in size. I explain over there how it actually works: space is created in between everything, and thus one could say the Universe is expanding. These objects can actually drift away from each other faster than the speed of light. That is, light from them eventually won't make it to us, since they'll be drifting away too quickly. Now, this doesn't actually go against Einstein's theory that the speed of light is the fastest thing in the Universe. Einstein said that nothing can travel through space faster than light — but here, space itself is actually being created between the objects. Distances are increasing because space itself is dilating, and thus we can drift apart from other objects faster than light. Really, there is no limit (as far as I know) to how fast we can drift away. Farther objects will keep drifting faster and faster away, since our gravity has a much weaker effect on them. 

As the stars get farther and farther from Milkomeda, the gravity's pull on the stars will weaken and they will be accelerated by the expansion of space. This will really become noticeable once they are about 2.3 megaparsecs from the galaxy. Of course, these stars will not be easily found, but Loeb mentions that future astronomers will likely have advanced their tools and instruments by that time. Loeb explains that, once we observe their redshifts as their distances increase, we can confirm Hubble's law. After this, we just need to measure the necessary parameters, and finally we can calculate the age of the Universe using the Friedmann equation: $$t_0 = \frac{1}{H_0} F(\Omega_r,\Omega_m,\Omega_\Lambda,\dots)$$ That's the gist of it. The hypervelocity stars will be the only extragalactic objects detectable by then, and thus we will rely on them to confirm our measurements. Interestingly, Loeb mentions that observing and analyzing the expansion of the Universe at that time would answer some of the uncertainties we have today: