It boils down to a time traveler either sticking to his original ethics, or ceasing time travel altogether. 

With temperatures that cold, life will go extinct, or nearly so. No crop plants will survive; only a few ultra-hardy lichen will manage to live. A few tiny organisms will survive, but otherwise everything will die, if not from the cold then from starvation. Finally, without plants, animals, fish, birds, or even insects to eat, humans will go extinct as well. The extinction process will roughly follow the temperature decline; if the temperature falls over the course of a thousand years, animals and people will slowly move towards the equator, altering migration habits enough to survive, at least for a while. If it takes place over a century, most creatures will not be able to adapt quickly enough to escape the cold. If it takes place in less time than that, even humans won't have time to prepare. It will be a mass extinction. If there is some time to prepare, humans will have to build huge underground structures, stocked with a diverse animal and plant population. These habitats will have to be enormous to hold even a fraction of the food, water, and other supplies the population of the world will need. And even with a well-stocked bunker, impervious to outside temperatures, life will only be about surviving. Unless the Earth re-heats quickly, humanity will still be doomed... and even then, life will be permanently altered. 

Space Generation ships are huge, but they aren't designed for experiments; they're built to move from point A to point B. Just like airlines don't have a dedicated science lab, your ships may not have a research facility. Only minor advances that could be made in a cramped personal apartment would even be possible. Need Necessity is the mother of invention. If your ships are built well, easily maintained, and provide free and clean air, water, and food, the citizens may well need very little. Inventions may be no more than entertainment at best; like the Eloi of HG Wells' The Time Machine, or the humans aboard the Axion in Wall-E, the humans aboard the ships spend their days playing games and relaxing, instead of thinking. Time On the other hand, these ships may require constant maintenance. There is no such thing as a passenger; children go to school, and upon graduation are immediately brought into the workforce. Few have time for hobbies, let alone science, and those that do are derided for not "pulling their weight." With relentless schedules and little time for anything but menial labor, few decide to try inventing anything more than a reason to sleep in. Stasis Of course, it may be that people aren't awake to do much inventing; if the ships place people into some kind of temporary stasis, the centuries will fly by. There may need to be a few people awake to keep things running, and perhaps the requirements of stasis need people to be awake for some amount of time, but otherwise, all slumber on through the darkness, dreaming, but not inventing. Management Sometimes, all it takes to stagnate technology is the wrong guy in charge. With rules specifically in place to keep anyone from having enough time to run experiments, or rules prohibiting tools required for the same, advancing technology is impossible - but it doesn't have to be that obvious. In fact, it may not be a man at all; safety rules implemented on the ship(s) may limit technological advances, rules unable to be changed without completely rewriting the entire ship operating system. Those rules may have seemed harmless, or even beneficial, when the ship was built: "no power draw over 1 kW" is a great rule for stopping shorts and faults, for instance... but it also means nothing more powerful than a microwave could ever be used. 

On the one hand, poor Mr. Doe is pretty much useless. He'll be able to survive, though; there will always be a few people who flunk the Beginner trial, and they survive. If no one fails the Beginner trial, then what's the point of having it at all, right? He'll function roughly as a high-school drop-out; not a glamorous life, but at least he won't starve. They do have minimum wage, right? On the other hand, depending on how magic works, John Doe may well be one of the most powerful people in the world. If he is truly devoid of magic, it may be that magic simply doesn't work on him; a fireball just whooshes right by, and even a Master-level windstorm doesn't muss his hair. He can walk through any magical trap, go completely undetected, and walk up to the highest level wizard in town and punch him in the nose without a worry of reprisal. High level magic users may not even see or hear him, as they might use magical sight or hearing; he could walk into the most secure facilities in the world without worrying about even being seen, let alone caught. 

Snakes for Hair This is pretty easy, actually. In fact, you could even have "realistic" hair-snakes, that move independently, without direct control of the medusa. Each "snake" is, in reality, a scaled tentacle, with some form of motion, heat, or light sensitivity. When something wanders too close, the "hair" will writhe towards the movement. Like the opening and closing of your eye's iris, the tentacles can't be directly controlled. Instead, they act as an early-warning system, allowing the medusa to sense those nearby. Many creatures have similar organs; as it turns out, there exists a snake with tentacles, though less impressive than medusa's. In this case, the impressive head-tentacles are deliberate, designed to attract attention and cause fear. Speaking of... Stone Sight From legend, it is not medusa looking at you that turns you to stone, but you looking at her. Of course, legends are hard to believe; rather than a careful scientific documentation process, legends tend to be not only based on hearsay, but single events. The way the medusa turns humans to stone is by saturating the air with a chemical mist. The mist covers and is breathed in by anyone entering a medusa lair, coating skin, mouth, and lungs, and from there entering the bloodstream. The chemical reacts quickly with one of the hormones released during fear-based stress. Probably not adrenaline, as when Perseus slayed her, he was surely pumped full of adrenaline; however, he did not fear the creature, so various other hormones were not released. Others without his confidence were overcome by fear upon seeing the creature, and so met their doom. When the chemical mist comes in contact with enough of the fear-released hormone, it begins a chain reaction by bonding with carbon, turning flesh to a hard, grey, stone-like substance. It reacts quickly, turning flesh, arteries, and internal organs to stone within seconds; since the outer skin has been exposed to the most mist, it hardens faster and more fully than the internal organs. Once the process is complete, the victim has been petrified. The internal organs, over time, will liquefy, allowing the medusa to feed on the remains; the exterior chemical will remain hard, forming both a handy container and a gruesome statue. 

Just because this space station isn't super-high-tech, doesn't meant super-high-tech doesn't exist; it's just that the station is as old and clunky. In fact, it's really, really old; it's been there for a century at least. It used to be a bustling mining station, before the last minerals were eked out of the system, and everyone left. Function The station is a passive way-point beacon, originally built as a mining platform. The station was paid for a thousand times over by the mined material, but once it was gone, there was no need for the station any longer. It was converted into a passive beacon, a low-power radio that only activates when other radio signals approach, to tell travelers that the nearby area (probably asteroids) is very dangerous to travel through. As a mining station, it was built to be tough, so it can survive asteroid showers and solar flares; it can also hold a large number of human miners. As a converted beacon, most of the station was stripped of mining equipment, or at least the most expensive and easiest to transport, leaving a nearly empty hulk. But not a dead hulk - the systems keep running, to keep the beacon lit. Supplies As a station holding hundreds if not thousands of miners, the station is extremely overstocked for a single person. Water and atmosphere are provided through automated systems; there is plenty of canned food, and probably room for a hydroponic garden or twenty. The station is built to be durable, withstanding both drunken miners and drunken engineers, so the supply systems are redundant and unlikely to fail, outside of a cataclysmic event, and plenty of parts are laying around. Communication A beacon doesn't need much in the way of communication; it doesn't even have a long-range radio (well, "long range" on a solar system scale), just its "short range" warning broadcast. If the plot needs it, an unmanned drone can transfer new firmware and receive any error messages from the station on a recurring basis; that allows the astronaut to leave a "message in a bottle" (or rather, an error log) for others to find - and perhaps long-term contact with a mysterious person, somewhere on the other end of that drone. Arrival How did this station come to be manned by a single astronaut? Our hero has the (highly illegal) job of collecting leftovers. He travels from one abandoned mining rig to another, finding the last grains of mined minerals, left behind when they were cheap, but in high demand today. He makes a good living, but he's not in it for the money; he's just a loner. At the station in question, his ship malfunctions. Through careful engineering, he manages to arrive at the station, finding breathable atmosphere and warm, if somewhat sparse, living conditions. Now, he's alone; in orbit around a breathtaking (but lifeless) planet, with nothing but a huge space station to explore and maintain. According to the logs, he's the only ship that's come close enough to need a warning in decades, so he's unlikely to be picked up by another ship. And the dated station doesn't have the parts he needs to fix his own ship... or does it? 

Direct-drive wheels These are actually pretty easy to imagine; a slug-like creature finds (or builds) a large hollow cylinder. It then climbs inside and "walks", pushing the wheels forward. The wheel not only protects it against predators, it also allows it to achieve very high speeds going down hills! 

Regardless of method, whatever avenue of dispersal must be entirely government controlled. Allowing regular citizens access may cause information about the drug to be leaked, and steps must be taken to hide its true effect. Air dispersal is a very useful method, but releasing clouds of drugs into the air could be risky, and it may be difficult to cover the entire city evenly without permanent installations, which could be security risks. Instead, the drug should be added to fuel; when the fuel is consumed, the drug is released into the atmosphere with the exhaust. This has many benefits: 

Before I address the social implications, I need to address some of the biological implications - specifically, how the drug works. Aging Aging is, essentially, a three part process: 

First, build traps. Traps are cheap, easy to install, and most importantly don't eat, sleep, or take breaks. Start with some of the following: 

The first question is what your werewolf looks like. The traditional werewolf is a huge, powerful figure, covered in shaggy fur, with a distinctly canine facial structure: pointy teeth, long jaw, nose at the end of a snout, pointy ears, and so on. They might even have a tail, paw-like hands, or reversed dog-like 'knees'. Almost all of that would be impossible, unless the soon-to-be-werewolf were to undergo substantial plastic surgery, which surely wouldn't be an overnight change. So, we'll have to make our werewolf a little differently. That isn't actually going to be hard; normal humans in little more than face paint can look so very different that people will attribute all sorts of terrible things to their features. Thus, the long face, pointy ears, tail, paws and reversed knees can be done away with. Hair The most obvious difference is going to be body hair. Our werewolf is going to need some serious hair growth. Two things will affect that: hair color, and hair length. Dark hair will show up much better than light; the darker the better. Second, hair length. For a furry coat, our werewolf will need at least an inch of hair on his arms and face. Other locations, like back, chest, legs, etc. would be helpful, but not absolutely required, especially in climates where clothing covers most of the body. Some people claim hair growth of over 3 inches in a month; pushing the human body to its limit could result in inch-long hair in a matter of hours, especially if supplementing existing hair. Even if it isn't an inch long, hair grown so quickly will be very unhealthy, twisted and matted, and will give the appearance of long hair. Muscles Werewolves are tremendously powerful; they fight with their claws and teeth, even against powerful weapons like guns. They can take a lot of damage without going down. This is actually the easiest part to build. When fueled by adrenaline, normal humans can do superhuman feats, like lifting cars or smashing through concrete walls. Drugs exist that can raise the strength of humans, and many more drugs exist that simply turn off limiting switches in our brains, letting humans use strength even when it does incredible damage. The right concoction of pain reduction and adrenaline could make even a couch potato into a world-class athlete for a day. After that, of course, they would be bed-ridden for weeks, trying to heal the torn muscles and ligaments, but for a day, they would be monsters. And speaking of monsters... Bloodlust Werewolves aren't known for their thinking ability. When they "turn", they go on murder-filled rampages, killing and maiming. This, too, is easy to replicate; just search for "bath salts zombie" and you'll have real-life examples of mind-altering drugs turning regular people into horrifying monsters. Teeth & Claws It's not that hard to get pointy teeth, but reverting after a night of murder will certainly be difficult. For this, we'll have to stick with the imagination of the masses, rather than real pointy teeth. Swollen jaw muscles can cause the jaw to hang open; in that case, some drooling can be expected. Blood from either an internal mouth injury, or from an outside source, can make the most pristine set of teeth look wildly nightmarish. Claws, on the other hand, can be grown fairly quickly, especially if the body isn't growing them as it ought. The data I could find on fingernail growth suggests something like 3.5 mm per month, which is hardly claws; however, a rush of growth could turn otherwise normal fingernails into yellowed claws in a matter of hours. The fingernails would be weak, jagged, and horribly ugly, but sharp and nasty nonetheless. Putting it all together A bacteria invades a host's body. Over the course of a month, the bacteria causes the host's hair to grow darker and more quickly. Finally, after almost exactly 29 days, the bacteria causes pockets of chemicals in the body to rupture. The chemicals have several effects. The first chemicals cause rapid hair and fingernail growth. The hair and nails are unhealthy, twisted, and ugly because of its rapid growth. Next, the bacteria floods the body with a concoction of chemicals that reduce pain, increase adrenaline to borderline deadly levels, and cause swelling throughout the body. The infected person flies into a homicidal rage; blinded by drugs and pain, the host attacks anyone who comes near, unable to comminucate in anything beyond growls. The infected's arms and face are covered with coarse hair; their fingernails are jagged claws. They feel the extreme urge to bite and scratch, because that causes the sharp pain in their mouth and fingers to numb. After their episode (usually only a few hours), the concoction of chemicals causes the excess hair to fall off. They will be weak, fevered, and tired; additionally, any injury they sustained will remain. They likely have no memory of the previous events. Those that the scratch will become infected; since the disease takes roughly 29 days to mature, the exact time of maturation is roughly the time between full moons, leading to the myth that werewolves only come out at the full moon.