If I was in charge of formulating Earth's response, I'd be highly suspicious why an alien species seemingly more advanced than us would need our resources and personnel. For resources, they ought to be able to get most inorganic stuff from asteroids and gas giants. Organic stuff one would expect them to be able to synthesize. As for staff, what kind of military work would not be more reliably automated than handed off to a comparably primitive client species like us, involving not just time-intensive training, but particularly the risk that eventually those primitives might use the weapons against their masters. Thus, I would suspect that they have serious issues with logistics and their supply chain - considering they came from another galaxy, this might not be surprising, depending on what abilities of travel and transport they have. So I would ask them for demonstrations of their military might, arguing that understandably we would not want to become entangled in a war on the losing side. As we are talking space war, supposably the demonstration would involve at least one of their ships. I would try to aim for a very specific demonstration. Perhaps have them destroy Pluto in the presence of human observers (obviously scientists and military people amongst them). The purpose of this exercise would be to first check whether they are really quite as powerful as it seems, but also to give us a chance to get more data about their technology before committing to a decision. Even just from watching their ship approach, pick up our team of observers, getting them to Pluto, we could infer quite a bit about their transport system, their source of energy, material science etc. From watching them destroy Pluto something about their military technology. Only after would I decide, and even then I'd try to stall. I'd also make it a condition right from the start for them to have a permanent delegation on Earth, in a location of our choosing. Again, this would give us opportunity to watch them and learn - even if they have some sort of fantastic energy shield completely opaque to our instruments around their embassy, the mere existence of this shield would teach us something. Besides, I would insist on personal meetings for any sort of negotiation, quoting cultural bias as a reason. That way, they'd be forced to either leave their compound or let humans enter regularly - in either case, at least for small windows of time that fantastic shield/screen would open a hole, allowing us to once more try to gain more data. In all of this, I would constantly act like a car salesman who knows their customer really needs a car really urgent and also knows that the customer knows that he knows. Because in essence, we are in just such a situation - they obviously need us and they obviously cannot get what they want by force (if they could, they'd just do it, considering they are obviously not against violence on principle). 

Specifically, a futuristic/scifi-like society where only the colors are on a Black and White spectrum (White does yellow with age, so white tinted yellow is tolerated to a degree). The members of this society live in a large dome like structure that takes up most of a continent (perhaps North America or Asia) and know no other colors than black and white. There are members of all races here, little to no discrimination, the only societal judgement would be that the lighter/whiter your skin is, the better. Those born with Albinism are celebrity like and are showered with gifts, power and respect. The government is strict and keeps a tally of the members of the community and documents their behavior, actions, etc through surveillance and constant monitoring. Each citizen has a contraption/band around their wrists that monitors their health, warns against breaking the rules,and allows the government to keep tabs on them. The justice system is as just as possible without being biased and therefore crime is low. I've been struggling to come up with a conflict for this. I want the colorless society to eventually crumble, to be wrong in some way that justifies ripping it apart from it's foundation, but I cannot figure out how. P.S. Please don't take/steal this idea, I've been working on it for a while now. 

The coming of age in a group of werewolves is the first transformation. Some will transform properly and some will die in the process. However there are some who get stuck in between their human and wolf form and are unable to change back. This can also occur if they attempt to reverse their lycanthropy with tainted wolfsbane. Those stuck in between are usually banished from the pack to fend for themselves, as they will bring unnecessary danger of discovery. However, I've come to doubt that those stuck in between could even survive. I have reason to believe that they'd simply drop dead after a few hours in such an extreme condition, if not killed off by predators. Would it be possible for them to live, even if they are severely disabled? Or are the differences between the biology of wolves and humans so different that they would die? 

One thing to consider here is the eagle's carrying capacity vs its weight. A 12lb (very large) bald eagle can carry ~4-5lbs (source). Let's pretend that this carrying capacity of 1:3 scales up with size. You are pretty much forced to suspend the cargo under the eagle at this point, because you are asking it to carry nearly a third of its weight. Even with a cargo representing a much smaller fraction of the eagle's weight, placing the weight anywhere above the center of gravity will make the bird extremely unstable, no matter how carefully you balance the cargo because the eagle is not stable in one dimension like ground-based beasts of burden. That also happens to be how real eagles carry the prey they capture in their talons. While contradicting the way eagle riders are often portrayed, being suspended under the eagle would actually have a huge advantages over riding on top for recreational applications: 

You could see where you are going. You could observe the panorama below. You could hunt with ranged weapons from an eagle without much risk of killing it. Archery would almost certainly be fine in terms of not knocking your own bird from the sky. You'd have to do a bit more research to figure out if firearms would work. I certainly wouldn't recommend using a bazooka or rocket launcher, regardless of how fireproof these eagles are. You could jump off with little risk to yourself or the mount. If people could ride eagles, that someone would try parachuting off an eagle is pretty much a given. You could have eagle-based UFC with strictly the riders fighting each other. This would probably be much more acceptable from an animal rights perspective, as well as safer. You would not want the platform and the combatant to be one and the same when you are very high up. 

If it works, the chances of immediate death are reduced greatly since you are not likely to drift off or be battered by the flow. There will still be a danger of the plug collapsing, as well as being buried too long, but over all it would significantly increase the chances of survival.