I would expect you to get a whole lot of looking at the floor on this round. Ask them one more question: 

Then you can start the conversation with the "executive summary" that includes what you want, and the bare minimum information needed to make a decision: 

Imagine I invited you to my house for a backyard bar be que and you arrived and, while we were in the kitchen, said 

First, you make a plan based on the current scope. You observe your progress against the plan. If you won't finish on time, you talk to your supervisor about reducing the scope. In theory, you could increase your workload, but for some reason you've done this right from the beginning, leaving yourself no room for future expansion. Now your supervisor has rejected attempts to reduce the scope early on, when they were based on no information at all. But if you say to your supervisor 

I always recommend updating your resume the day you start a new job. You may never give anyone that resume before it is next updated, but on your first day you know the dates, the company name, your job title and so on, and what better time to capture them than now? (It's also the perfect time to adjust the description of the job you just left - putting things into the past tense if they were present tense, for example, and making sure your job title and duties are complete.) A year or two from now you may not remember if you started in September or October, or other details that are easy now. Your resume is a living document - put what you can on it now, and adjust it regularly as your job duties shift. That way there's never a big ugly update my resume task that's blocking you from looking for a new job should you want to. For the specific resume you send to apply for a job that will start 8 months from now, include the job with start and end dates, the end date being in the future, and use the future tense along with verbs like "expect" or "plan". For example: 

Have you tried asking him how to make code reviews more tolerable for him? Using the examples you listed above, what if they went more like this? 

I think the wording of your resignation letter is important. After you've told them in person that you are leaving, and why, you might just write: 

This is a dilemma. On the one hand, you don't want gossip and rumours to squash someone's career before it even starts. On the other, you don't want there to be trouble, and to know you were in a position to prevent a problem, yet you stayed quiet. And you're not able, by training or authority, to investigate the truth of the matter. Luckily, you have people for that: HR. The furthest I would go with this is to tell HR: 

On going back and forth you may be able to negotiate something like starting part time in October and switching to fulltime in December. If they won't budge from September, you will have a hard choice to make. I know it's not fair, by the way, but the reason for the delay matters. If you are going to be a new father, if you wife is going to another country and you'd like to go with her, if you have a chance to be in a reality show, whatever, the actual reason will affect the flexibility the company shows. If it's more like "we are going to sit around our apartment and watch TV and read for a few months" you are less likely to find them amenable to it. So work on your one sentence pitch to explain the delay. 

First, you need to realize that when your boss asks you this, you already have a problem. You are in a hole now and it's important to do the right thing to get out of it. Back when things started to slip from your plan and your schedule, you needed to inform your boss, things like "I still don't have xyz from abc so we are now going to be late with def" or "the reports have taken a lot longer than I expected, so I'm two weeks behind, and I don't think I'll be able to make that up while I do the rest of the project, so it will finish two weeks late." Or perhaps when your boss asked you to take on an extra task, you could have replied "I can do that, but it will delay my work on ghi by at least a week." Bosses don't always keep track of all the moving parts, and may assume that you accepting work means that you have time for it in your current workload. I hope you took good notes and know what the issues were. As your boss, I would be interested in knowing what we need to do to prevent this next time. Is it that you took more work hours to complete the task than I thought it would take? Is it that you were blocked or delayed by other people so it took more elapsed time? Is it that you have a lot of things to do so you weren't able to put time in on this project? Is it that you just plain don't work hard enough? Without whining or making excuses, you need to clearly demonstrate what happened. Pay attention to measurable facts like: 

Many of the reporters I follow on Twitter are very good at figuring out the secret plans of large tech companies by seeing what their employees describe as their duties on LinkedIn. Really. (They also do quite well perusing the Experience Required sections of those companies job ads.) If you say you're building a distributed whotsit system with integrated drone capabilities, basically you just publicly announced your company's planned distributed whotsit system with integrated drone capabilities. If you just say you're programming in C# drawing on your strong whotsit background, and you've joined LinkedIn groups about distributed systems design and drone APIs, you've also made the same announcement. Some managers ask you to think before you show off on LinkedIn, and some give you simple blanket rules like "don't explain the details of your role." Right in the part you quote they say they're worried about strategic business information. (Of course, if you're not working on anything you consider strategic, or important to the company, then that's a shame, and perhaps your manager is just a puffed-up self-important rulesbody who wants to keep you from getting the attention you deserve. In that case you know what to do.) Can they do this? Employers can ask you I anything they want to, including not to wear yellow shirts on Wednesdays. Can they enforce it? Maybe, maybe not - I don't think your desire to accurately describe your current job in public is a protected right under any country's labour laws. Is this a battle you want to pick? I hope that understanding the reason for management's concern will give you a way to go along with it, at least to some extent. I feel calling it unreasonable comes from a lack of understanding of the motivation. 

And after that I'm fairly certain your boss will never think about it again. Don't make it a "thing" and it won't be a thing. Most importantly, don't start your request with the big long story about Pat and the coughing and the meetings and the headphones. Just ask. A brief reference to it being quieter is likely all your boss needs to get all the rest of it anyway. 

IS it feasible to work from home? If they are happy to pay you to answer people's issues as they come up, then this sounds like it could be great remote work. When you're not there, people can't see you "not working", they just see the tickets getting solved and the happy emails about how everything is taken care of. You could maybe be home every other day, or 3 days a week or something, so you still have a presence and are probably much busier on the days you are in. 

It is most definitely true that some people get jobs that are never posted, and do so because of contacts within a company. In fact, I experienced that myself as a student. I was completing a second work term (4 month internship) and the person I was developing software for asked me what I wanted to do when I graduated and what my dream job would be. I thought we were just chatting, and I told him. Shortly after that he gave me an offer letter for just what I wanted. I hadn't even realized what was happening. Now, can you make this happen? Probably not. I was extremely good at what I did (not saying you're not, but saying this is an avenue for extremely good, not for ok or even very good) and my contact was an HR manager. He looked over the plan for the next few months and years and offered me a position that they promoted someone else out of to make it available. If your contact is with someone who's building a piece of hardware or software, or developing a marketing plan, or organizing logistics, they won't be able to do that sort of thing singlehandledly. If you're amazing, the person who works with you can get a lot of brownie points in the company by landing you. They will want to alert someone to their discovery. If you're good, and you explicitly ask them to help you work there, they might. But if you start talking to managers above this person trying to get them excited and claiming your contact thinks you're good, the manager will almost certainly be thinking "if you're so good, why didn't that person come and tell me about you?" Do apply to any jobs you see at the company. Do tell your contacts "I would love to work here after I graduate" and ask them what you need to do about that. Do pick up on any conversations about future work, offer to send resumes, apply online, whatever people want. Luck is a marvelous thing and can't be forced, but neither will it do everything for you every time. 

These aren't questions to save for the performance review, they are questions to gently demur and decline to answer. If you think something about the communication on your team needs to change, I assure you that you're right. Perhaps starting to communicate with your supervisor about your work environment would be a great place to start solving those problems. 

In both these cases, since the conversation is about appearance and modesty, the person might feel harassed due to their sex or sexuality and file a complaint. This could go very badly for you indeed, especially if your modesty rules are founded in your personal religious beliefs and someone decides you're trying to impose those in a workplace. If you are not a peer to this coworker you especially want to avoid this route. If you go to a mutual superior of this coworker, it's sort of a cross between HR and talking directly. The boss has some of the anonymity aspects that HR has to offer, but without the skills at discussing delicate subjects. It's better than going to the coworker directly, and if you have no HR it may be your only choice. The final option is finding some sort of same-niche coworker who meets your standards. Say the not-work-appropriate person is a 20-something woman, and there's another 20-something woman in the office whose dress habits meet your rules. You might approach that person and ask her to intervene for you. You're hoping she'll preserve your anonymity and keep the whole thing discreet, without risking any punishment for the not-work-appropriate person since you're not getting the boss or HR involved. This could work great, but choose your same-niche coworker carefully, since "You'll never guess what happened today! Old stick-in-the-mud three desks down complained to me about your shoes and asked me to have a discreet word with you about being more work-appropriate. Can you believe it?" is as likely as the delicate words of advice you were hoping for. And DO NOT find a different-niche coworker, like someone of the same gender but 30 years older, or someone of the same ethnic background but a different gender, to have your discreet word for you. That's not going to work at all. If you find this same-niche person, 

As a manager, and in general in my personal life, I respond to ultimatums by immediately agreeing to the consequence. "If you don't X I will have to resign," someone says. "I'm very sorry to hear that, we'll miss you," is my immediate reply. "When will your last day be?" This is regardless of whether I think X is a good idea or not. It is simply how I react to ultimatums. "I won't come to your party if Y is invited," someone says. "I'm sorry you feel that way. We'll have to get together another time." (I once said that to BOTH HALVES of a feud, neither of whom came to the party.) I think you know that many people react like this, because you want a polite ultimatum. So, step 1 - do not phrase it as an ultimatum and do not say "yes" if asked "are you giving me an ultimatum?" Step 2 then, how to phrase it. You already have. Go to your boss and say: 

Each answer describes your reasons by describing you and what you need. If the interviewer has something to offer that's a good fit for you, these answers will help you get the job. If the interviewer has a position that's a lot like your old one, you won't get the job, which is good. You already know you don't want a job like that. Notice also that these answers never describe your own feelings and behaviour negatively (paralysis, afraid, low quality work, etc.) The awareness and self-knowledge to use these words in your own thinking is good. But do not say them to an employer. Focus on the kinds of workplace you are looking for (friendly, predictable, fair, open, ...) and not on the effects a bad workplace has on you. 

Applying for a job is easy. Click the button, maybe a few more clicks to upload the resume, done. It's not unusual to get hundreds of applications for every position. If it takes only one minute to reply to each of them saying "actually our position for senior software developer requires someone who has already been employed as a software developer at least once" then that could be hours of work. Plus, about 90% of those resumes are so far off the job description that it's easy to think "these applicants didn't put any thought into spamming me with their resumes, I'm just deleting them." Once you've had an interview, that's a different story. I'm committed to replying to everyone who interviews. But don't assume that reply will come within days of the interview. I am not really deciding yes/no on you at the interview. I am putting you in a ranked list, or no. When I'm done (which might be weeks) I will make an offer to #1. Only after #1 accepts will I send out "no thanks" to the rest. #1 might say "no thanks" so I will offer to #2 and only after #2 accepts can I send out the letters, and so on. Depending on how long you've been waiting for an answer, it could still be on its way. Generally, the person trying to hire another team member is overworked and stressed. Some of them may get lazy and not bother replying to unsuccessful candidates. That is a flaw in them, not you. There is really no such thing as an interview so badly blown that you don't even get a rejection email. The only conclusions available to you when you haven't heard are