Presuming you're planning on eating at/near your vehicle you're not really limited by the weight or bulk of the food. So, anything you can easily cook in 1 or 2 pots is a good bet. Generally, I have some version of pasta/rice/couscous and sauce. You can make your own sauce if you can get fresh ingredients or get reasonably cheap jars or dried packets. I like adding some chorizo or similar spiced sausage to my sauces, particularly various red sauces. It keeps well and you can add it separately if people are vegetarian. Most places in Europe, definitely Germany and Italy, have there own varieties. They are also quite good for snacking, although some varieties may need cooking. For breakfast, fried breakfasts are always good. Otherwise, if you can get fresh milk cereal is an option or bring powdered milk. I also like porridge, although it is a pain to clean. For porridge, I'd recommend a mix of half porridge oats and half ready brek/instant porridge, with powder milk that can be prepared in advance. 

I'd climb the fence at a post. First, place /throw you backpack over the fence as climbing with it on is significantly more difficult, especially if heavy. Climb the fence, with at least one hand on the fence post and your feet one the wires, in between the barbs, as close to the post as reasonable. Being close to the fencepost minimizes the chance of you breaking the fence and is more stable. With your other hand either hold the wire, being careful not to grab a barb, or put both hands on the fencepost. When you are sufficiently high swing one leg over being careful not to catch yourself on the top barbs and place your foot in the fence on the other side. Either twist your foot around or put your heel in on the wire if you are less flexible. Carefully get your other leg over and climb or jump down. This method is easiest for lowish fences where you can just take one step on the fence and get your leg over. I wouldn't do it for anything over about 4 1/2 ft as the top of the fence may get quite unstable when you put your weight on it at that height. The disadvantages of this approach is that it is quite easy to catch your leg/crotch on the top wire and rip your trousers as you don't want to climb higher than necessary (climbing higher is less stable). Also if you feel you are losing balance don't grab the barbed wire, jump off. It may sound obvious but your natural reaction is to steady yourself and the wire is generally the most obvious thing to grab. 

What you are left with is a small assortment of dove, pheasant, quail, etc. However even with legal game, there are often strict limits on when, where, and what you can kill. In most of the southeast for instance, killing a female turkey is a VERY expensive mistake. This information is based on my experience in the United States. 

There is a difference between just soaking up water and "wicking". Cotton is hydrophilic, which means it likes to attract and hang on to water molecules. Unlike a good wicking fabric (which relies on capillary action), cotton will not transfer that water up through your layers to the air as quickly. Here are some reasons why a wet base layer is bad: 

The answer to "is it too much" is extremely subjective. Is this strictly too much? No. Are there some things you can trim back if you want? Yes. I like to hike light, but not ultralight and this would be far too much weight for me to consider now but is almost exactly where I started out. Over time my base weight (without food and water) has drastically decreased. There are two ways to reduce weight. The first is to remove items you don't really need and the second is to get lighter weight items. Before you start you will need two scales. A fish scale for heavy items and a precise kitchen scale for light items. Weigh everything you are currently taking and write those down (or make a spreadsheet). These decisions come down to weight vs. comfort/experience vs. money. For a given item you have to decide: Is this item really worth carrying around ?kg for the next three days? Once you get rid of the things you don't really want, you may still want some luxury items. For me this is a .5kg tripod stool. My comments on your gear are in italics. 

As far as I can tell dog life jackets do not have different ratings as for human life jackets. All the models I have seen in a brief search seem designed for the situation where your dog is conscious, can keep themselves afloat, relatively to land and therefore assistance if needed. Additionally, I suspect due to dog life jackets being a relatively niche product no standards will have been made and standards from human life jackets won't easily carry over. It seems the main concern of manufacturers is the size of the dog. As dogs come in a wide variety of shapes and weights this seems reasonable and just as for humans a poorly fit life jacket could cause lots of problems for dogs. 

In the UK one of the more dangerous sea creatures is the weever fish. They are often found in shallow, sandy water, particularly around Cornwall and the south west, and have venomous spines on their backs. Being stung is very painful and can result in severe swelling. Stings are generally caused by standing on them unawares while barefoot, so can easily be avoided by wearing footwear. Various types of jellyfish may wash ashore in the UK. In particular the Lion's mane jellyfish is common on the coast of Scotland and has a painful sting. Other than that larger crabs can be painful if you try and pick them up and get bitten. Another minor risk are barnacles which can cause very nasty scratches if you fall on them, but if you fall on rocks it will probably hurt anyway. 

How do you do it safely? It is safe. Just do it. Those six deaths were over 100 years. Recently there are as many as 50,000 people doing that route per year. Even if those six deaths were all in the last year, that's only a 0.012% death rate. But those weren't all in one year. The real risk is between one and two orders of magnitude less than that. You are more likely to be struck by lightning. Realize that all activities carry a risk. Accept that and move on. 

When camping in more remote areas with young kids, how can you make sure they don't take a stroll and get lost in the middle of the night? We won't be near lights, established "bathrooms", etc. The adults will be asleep as well, and I'm hoping for a solution that does not involve sleeping in shifts. 

When backpacking we often carry raw beef which we have salted and frozen, usually cut into strips that can be easily cooked through. I'm confident that this is good for 24 hours, and I know that meat actually keeps for a lot longer than we think after growing up with refrigeration. How long is it safe to keep raw meat on a hike? (assume temperate conditions, not jungle, not dessert). 

What are the important differences between a gas and electric trolling motor for fishing in a small jon boat? I'm primarily concerned on the impact the the actual fishing (as opposed to any discussion on the environmental impact of fuels). 

50N refers to 50 newtons. This is the buoyancy force that the buoyancy aid provides (10N ~= 1kg). This site has some useful information on buoyancy aids and ratings. 50N is the pretty much the standard rating for things like kayaking or dinghy sailing, with the occasional higher rating (60/70N). However, note that they are not designed to self right and so won't stop you drowning if unconscious. Therefore they are advised for use only when help is readily available. 100N buoyancy aids basically foam life-jackets and are primarily designed for weak/non-swimmers and to protect against drowning if unconscious. However, there is still a risk of drowning as not may not self right and does not protect well against heavy seas. 150N is generally inflatable life-jackets. These provide better protection against drowning but are obviously not suitable for kayaking, dinghy sailing or anything where you are likely to go in the water. 

These boots seem perfectly reasonable to me. If they are comfortable and not about to fall apart I can't see why they should be a problem. I suspect what they mean is that the are not familiar/do not stock that brand of boot so can't recommend it. It would seem crazy to me if they said you can't use perfectly good boots because they aren't on some list. If you are mainly on good paths then the comfort of your boots is probably the biggest concern. Also, if you've had the boots for a while make sure they are in good condition and will not fall apart half way through, as that is bad! 

Yes, if you are camping in rocks and snow, you will want a footprint. Since there don't appear to be any specifically made for this tent, I suggest making one out of Tyvek. It is readily available at most home supply stores here in the states (not sure on your location). Making the Tyvek match your tent dimensions perfectly is a touch of work. You'll have to set up your tent, trace out the pattern, cut, and grommet. What I am doing is to set up my tent on a large rectangle of Tyvek. I then mark a pole and set a grommet. I put the tent pole through the tent grommet and the Tyvek grommet. Then I do the grommets to the left and right of the first. Next I do the grommet opposite. Each time I make sure the Tyvek is taught before marking and setting the grommets. Lastly, with the tent up, and the poles fully set through my Tyvek, I mark where to cut for my footprint. If you are concerned with strength, reinforced grommet areas with a strip of Tyvek tape. 

I kept a spare in my trunk for two years in the southeastern US and I never had a problem (YMMV). This, like most things in life, is not perfectly safe. So you should decide if you really need to store this in your car. If you do, things you should consider: 

It depends in part on how you got the blisters, but from the question I think we can take it to mean that they're from friction. In order of what you can expect 

Another alternative would be to use bungee You would need 2 pieces of thinnish bungee per leg, probably no more than 20-30cm for your thickness of pole. Tie each bungee into a loop using a large knot such as a figure of eight, although a simple overhand knot would probably do. Then wrap the loop several times around the two poles until it is extended and reasonably tight. To tie it off just loop the remaining end of bungee through the knot in the other end. To make this more secure you can wrap knot under all the wrapping of bungee. You can also get hooks you can hook onto rather than looping through the knot which can be a bot unsecure if you're not careful. This is a very fast and easy way to attach the poles but is not the most secure and can slip a bit if left for a long time. Its also better suited to slightly thicker poles you may have difficulty getting the elastic tight enough on these poles. 

A few others I could think of: Foxes Foxes are generally not aggressive are easily scared away by humans. However, there have been cases of fox attacks of on small children. It should be noted these incidents are very rare. Interestingly this appears to be more of an urban problem possibly caused by the close proximity between humans and foxes and the apparent trend of people feeding foxes in their gardens. Dogs Dog attacks are probably one of the larger 'wildlife' risks in the UK. According to this article there have been 5 deaths from dog bites since 2005, estimated >200,000 incidents per year resulting in approximately 6,000 hospital admissions. Recent legislation has increased the maximum sentence for dog attacks which cause injury from two to five years. Anecdotally I'll also add that dogs often try and run in front of my bike while cycling which could be another hazard. Birds of Prey There are many species of birds of prey in the UK some of which have been relatively recently re-introduced after becoming extinct due to hunting. Some are quite large (Sea eagles are the largest with a 2.5m wingspan. There are various reports of birds of prey attacking lambs. This has caused some unpopularity with farmers with reports of some birds being illegally poisoned on killed. There have also been fears that eagles may attack small children although there have been no reported cases and the RSPB calls these claims 'alarmist'.