French slave trading practices were more abusive than comparable American practices for several reasons. 

The Austro-Hungarian Empire was a polyglot nation of Germans (Oesterreich or "Austria" is German for Eastern Reich), Hungarians, Czechs, Slavs, etc. To Hitler and some other German Austrians, the only part of the country worth mentioning was "Austria," the German part. In his own mind, Hitler was "German" first, and only "Austrian" second. As the German Chancellor, he was glad to first annex the relatively "pure" Austria to Germany, then gobble up the non-German parts separately as "colonies" or satellite states, rather than part of "Greater Germany." An American might imagine that if Canada broke up into numerous English and French speaking provinces, that at least some of the English-speaking provinces (and people) would rather be part of the United States than either "independent" or aligned with the French speaking part. 

Algeria was considered a "back door" to France, from the south. In the hands of a hostile country, England, Germany, or even Libya/Egypt, it was seen as a potential invasion route to France. On the other hand, if France retained a foothold in Africa through Algeria, it could continue to influence its former colonies in "French West Africa" (which it does to a small degree, to this day). France looked at Algeria that way an American might see Latin America through the Monroe Doctrine: a "no fly" zone for hostile foreign countries. Algeria is the part of Africa that is closest to France. 

This relates to the "discovery" of Asian, and other non-European cultures by Americans. As of the middle of the 20th century, American society was pretty homogeneous, and "Eurocentric." An expression used is that American culture of about 1950 came in three flavors "chocolate, vanilla, and strawberry," like ice-cream. We all know what happened to ice-cream tastes; they went from the above three flavors to the 31 of Baskin Robbins. A similar thing happened in the rest of American culture, and Indian and Bhuddist were included in the "31 flavors." 

Fellow travelers on the Camino Del Santiago include Italy's Dante and Spanish warrior El Cid. Burgos, the former capital of Castile lies on the road, and some Castilian kings, including possibly Isabella walked on it. Modern "walkers" would include author James Michener, and I believe, Ernest Hemingway. 

Genghis Khan's "noble cause" was his fight for the "underdog." That is, he waged war on large, proud empires such as Jurchen (Manchurian) China, Persia, and others, on behalf of (initially) weak and poor Mongolian (and other) tribes. In doing so, he brought down some major tyrannies (although often, "the cure was worst than the disease"). After the smoke of battle had cleared, he brought religious and cultural tolerance to the whole Mongolian empire, and trade and educational opportunities to poor (even to this day) people of central Asia. This was, however, at the expense of richer nations like Persia, Russia, and China. Genghis Khan created a system of advancement based on merit, rather than birth. This was most apparent in the appointment of his army commanders at all levels. He also took the best artisans, scholars etc. of his conquered countries to his capital at Karakorum to work for his "government." Basically, Genghis Khan ruled better than he conquered; the reverse was true for many others. 

Ironically, even though tanks were introduced in 1916 (at the battle of the Somme), they had little impact on World War I. They did not break up the trench warfare of the time (even though they were designed to do that). It was during the period BETWEEN the two world wars, that generals thought about tanks. The British expert was Basil Lidell-Hart, and the Germans produced great theorists like Guderian and Rommel. In the U.S. the foremost tank specialist was Patton. The idea arose that tanks could be used independently of (rather than as an adjunct to), foot soldiers. By turning tanks "loose," they could be a highly "disruptive" force (in today's terminology), with mainly MOTORIZED infantry support.. The result was a new form of warfare known as the "Blitzkrieg" that was the antithesis of World War I tactics. But that arose only after 20+ years of thinking during an "interwar" period. 

Unlike the Army, where a disproportionate number of officers came from the South, the U.S. navy was pretty much dominated by the North. One evidence of this was the fact that the fleet in Norfolk, Virginia, was scuttled by its sailors to prevent in from falling into the hands of the South. $URL$ A major reason that the Union blockade was successful was that nearly all the ships (with the notable exception of the iron Merrimac, renamed the Virginia), stayed with the Union. 

If the Commonwealth "surrendered prematurely at Crete," it was in the fighting around the Maleme airfield. On the first day of the battle, the German paratroopers were decimated as they tried to land in Crete. A number of survivors were concentrated west of the Maleme airfield, defended by, among others, the 22nd New Zealand battalion. In the battlefield confusion, this battalion was split into two groups, call them the west wing, facing the main German concentration to the west of the airfield, and the east wing around the airfield itself. Fearing that he had "lost" almost half his force, the battalion commander asked for reinforcements, which were denied. Then he asked for permission to pull back his exposed (east wing) half-battalion, which was given. When the west wing found itself totally exposed by the pullback of the east wing, it also withdrew. These two actions enabled the Germans to capture the airfield, basically by a strategy of "divide and conquer." The Germans had lost about half of a "reinforced" paratroop division in the initial assault, but it was able to fly in a mountain division after capturing the airfield. These two divisions, which had more heavy equipment and air support, overwhelmed the defenders (one "mainline" New Zealand division, one reserve Commonwealth division, one second-line Greek division, and assorted other units). Without the "premature" loss of the Maleme airport, Crete might not have been conquered. 

Other nations were formed as a result of major wars, some would say civil wars. Arguably the first nation-state was that of France, after the end of the Hundred Years' War in 1453. If you've been at war for over 100 years, it really defines your loyalties. Spain was defined by the war that united Andulusia with Castile, ending in 1492, then an 1640 war that led to the (permanent) independence of Portugal, and a war ending later in 1652 that resulted in Catalonia staying with Castile. Britain was shaped by the War of the Roses of the 1450s, the English Civil War of the 1640s, and the Glorious Revolution of 1689. It was arguably after this, that England reached its modern form. The first ("civil") war of modern Germany was the Thirty Years' War, 1618-48. The war of Austrian Succession (1740-45) and Seven Years' War (1756-63) were basically civil wars. The last one took place in 1866, when Austria was excluded from the rest of "Germany." This led to German unification in 1871 after the Franco-Prussian war. Meanwhile, Prussia's successes in these wars prevented other nations from gobbling up German -speaking territory (other than Austria, which remained separate).