[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

Sure Eggman. No joy, no progress an the path. To seek for joy doing merits, raw or fine are suggested. Merits can be made all time and everywhere: 

I one would try to kill all his enemies, even having the best weapons, he would probably not finish his undertaking before dying himself. But if one whould kill ones own anger, the world whould suddenly be void of them. So what of both seems to be easier and more realistic be achived? Maybe worthy to consider so to become not just ugly and what whould matter to one at least, run it's or one own ways. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

So it's general good to be more positive "selfish" and think about ones own duties and good states of mind. The kamma of the receiver is at least his/her and you, especially as householder, are not obligated to take on the rule of police or judge, yet it is at the same moment good and importand to judge of who is a worthy receiver of special gifts and reverence, and that is maybe an importand point, since every being is worthy of the share and giving of the four requisites (food, shelter, cloth, medicine) in need an there are proper times for such. On the matter of the importand judgement one may find an extended discussion after some basic and importand teachings on giving here: Dana (Generosity, Charity) "Abhidhamma in daily life " 

This Sutta might be useful for understanding: Gilana Sutta: Ill and This was said by the Blessed One, said by the Arahant, so I have heard: A Gradual Training Today there are many householder and also monastics, making materialist a favor running around on Dhamma-places, in forums... and dispraise the doing of merits and come up with wired "no-rebirth" and "no-doer no deed" approaches. With their "householder-equanimity" (see here) they fall from this heaven and that is why the normally tolerant Buddha was very resolved in rebuking their approches, because it is for the suffering of many. And why do this "Devas" fall into hell later on? Because they teach to be unvirtouse, even to kill not seeing the impureness in their ways, having not understood the basics, yet believing that they are beyond... [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains.] 

Ian, Meditation does not necessary increase sensitivity. If it is merely a "switch off" or "ignoring" infuences training then, because of becoming used of a certain as pleasant recognised state of "defusing" it seems to have reasonable influence of the non-defusing parts of time with it's dislike. Generally sensitifity should be trained from gross to fine and the steps are traditionally generosity, virtur and reflecting the Dhamma (dana, sila, bhavana). Then, having got valid sensibility (not in a sense of dislike), it might be proper to go into Samatha (tranquillity) meditation. In this way, by being really more sensible, it will also be easier to come and go into Vipassana later on, or even before. If doing just a "ignoring-training", used often as well-ness tool, it naturally has it's good and it's bad, but does not really work on the cause. Like doing fitness training for compensation. A possible useful talk on the first steps might be: Sensitivity through generosity. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Anton A. Zabirko, You are giving, paying tax, as an agreement, even with joy, as a contribution for your community. Such does not require unskilful thoughts, ordering and approving possible unskillful deeds. As for what somebody else, later in charge of it, might do with it, that does not really lies in the givers sphere. In regard of suffering of certain partners of relations. That falls somehow into the sphere of breaking promises, which is generally "ok" if it is really for a more skilful way and of course one needs to bear the effects. If thinking on renouncing the live as a householder, if wishing to become a full ordained disciple, it's required to have no debts and one needs the permission of ones parents to leave the live of a householder. Losing wealth, relations, honor... is of course no match for as if you lose wisdom, conncentation, virtue and goodness: Kalyāṇamittādivaggo: Good companionship and others [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commerzial purpose or other low wordily gains by trade and exchange.] 

That means that one goes after, associate with virtuose people and compares ones own deeds, and this is importand, with people seemingly having such virtues. But like when one seeks for orientation for material skills, one tries not to do it in a battle way, but by reducing to regard individuals. One compares action and tendencies. When ever there is much notion of "I" and "you", it gives much rise to envy, issa. That is the result of conceit, and conceit (mānā) ends only for an Arahat totally. A big amout of this notion of comparing in the three conceit-full ways "better I am", "lower I am" but also "equal I am", falls with the reach of the Stream and the lose of personal-views (sat/k kaya ditthi). Todays popullar notion "equal are we" is in fact most dangerous, because it forms even bigger groups (kayas) as if as individual for identification. For the daily live with material items to trade, one of course needs to compare certain gains of others, but if wise one puts also the factor "in what way was this gained", in therms of virtues, into it, gives that more and more value for orientation. "How does he find so much peace while merely poor", for example. How ever, envy, jealousy, does not end at the point when going even a total spirital way and the best description of what is really and most worthy to compare with, is given in the Cula Saropama Sutta: The Shorter Heartwood-simile Discours So again, it's not bad at all, but foolish if one puts it more or lesser into such as a lasting person and it's qualities, when knowing that the 8 Wordily-Dhammas are not for sure and change sometimes very quick. So it's good the seek after the possession of the seven treasures, with what one does not only have a good and legitime source for ones healthy selfestimate but also would not be easy excelt by material things. At least, who ever had not found the real heart-wood, will not be perfect and secure, aside of all needs for comparisons, beyond. One compares oneself not to put others down, but to possible learn from them, become equal, seeing that this also does not lead to lasting ease and searches again for better, till on possible sees and recognice Noble ones, listen to their Dhamma and by understanding loses the gross problems of comparisons of the world, able to even be an island for oneself. Aside the "Self" and the Devas and gods, admirable friends are always good for comparing oneself, and should be ones govering principles all the time. And to add a short note on "watching the aggregats", if not having accomplished the treasures, is not really possible to do such, so it is good to compare oneself in regard of generousity, moral and their virtues first, become as good as possible equal with that of the Noble Ones. There then is the place to enter the stream. May this brief talk about a big issue, as well as the advices to a "youngster" in this manner be of understanding it and with it a help for those able to take. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains.] 

No, if speaking of "can one deed make another undone" (MN 101), Breath, but by the deed of traing the mind, one can reach the ability to bear results of fruits from deeds easier. See the The Salt Crystal. Since it has much impact of general ways of thinking, living mostly in a world of believe that unrightouseness could be corrected, the Essay Wisdom over Justice might give certain inspiration, dealing at least with this issue outwardly. For Suttas (teachings) on kamma (actions) look up here: Kamma In detail, of what certain sects see as skillful (here Niyamas), there are certainly deeds which are not benefical at all for even lighten effects of old kamma, not to speak of going beyound. But such would need the discussiin of each of this practices. Some of this classical are benefical, kusala-kamma. To get rid of the effects of ones previous deeds eternally, there is just one refuge: Nibbana. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purposes or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

It's a very modern view, actually a very materialistic view at least, coming in camouflages of emptiness (e.g. householder equanimity, that like to deny effect of deeds) It falls mostly even into one of the three 'evil views': 

Which is not/only right in regard of the 1. Noble Truth (e.g. Samasara, 5 khandhās) In the secound Noble truth the Buddha explains the root cause: avijja (not-knowing, delusion) and the third Noble Truth (Nibbana), shows the cessation of phassa and it's effect. It's because avijja is touched (avijjāsamphasso), that suffering arises, not because of eye, ear,... intelect faculty on it's own. It's because there is avijja AND the certain sense, that depending co-arising goes on it's way. That means, it would not help if one would "cut" of the possibility of touch of the sense in another way then the cessation of avijja A good work on the topic has been written by Ven. Ariyavamsa here: "Phassa*. How ever, keep in mind, that there is much intelectualisation over there as well, an approach that aside of actually practicing, would only increase ones suffering if not just taken as a means to increase faith (Saddha) and then do the job. 

(Just finished the translation of a talk on respect, confidence and patient, for today, my person came accross this question here) To those seeing the danger in the world, and those who might possible develop deep regard for them, going to strive to get beyond that: Such as to find understandig, that one prefers to be just a alms-beggar, at least, is not easy to understand, especially if coming from a fortunate seeming sociaty, but it's not different in traditional countries, when it goes to really leaving home, and not just from home to a certain known monastery. One, if serious, must be clear, that he might no more have any relative support but needs at least relay totally on his actions and cause and effect, trust the existence of goodness and a still present supportive reputation of the three juwels. It's merely seldom that even friends, relatives incl. parents will easily have understanding or tolerance in regard of going forth, since one/you is/are regarded as a part of their own, a source of "food" for the sense, an object for identification for them, which gets of it's nature lost by 'changing' the family, or inspire such. My person guesses, that the most proper comparison, for others to understand, might be with a warrior, going out into battle for a good for himself and all his kind. The case that in this case the battle is not fought outwardly, without weapons, and the death rate in battle is merely very small, might be a picture for reasoning for others who possible would understand why someone becomes a soldier, for example. It's how ever not really possible to make others understand clear and it's a bliss to be possible surounded by people who actually understand a strive for deathlessness, it is a bliss if one even grows up in a family where the three juwels are regarded and the going forth and renouncing the world is praised. In circumstances of even slight appearence of the luck and fortune of avaliable condition for such, outwardly like inwardly, it is wise to take upon this seldom appearence, which will be faster gone as the most think, even generally in this world. Is worthy to point out again, that it is not a matter of ones relatives or parents birth, culture, raw believe and it's totally independend of geography but a matter of faith, not only in such a way, but also in you as person or better your tendency, to make and follow aspirations serious and eager, while not losing an eye on virtue and harmlessness for those around you. So if not having developed and shown certain attidutes of a warrier, even a noble one, in your sphere till today, such to start on, would be possible the best way to gain the, or more fearless leave from those your are related for now. To progress it lesser in a merely argumental way can never be that effective like a presenting by deeds. In this way, those words might be not only an encouragement for those with merely open doors for now, but also for does, not having the conditions yet, not to search for the enemy of ones aspirations outwardly and in the cultur and sociaty, but in ones own qualities and the need to cause ones supportive gained effects by oneself and work on it. Once leaded a soon heading discussion about the matter of condition (Nissaya), strong condition (upanissaya) and strong condition cause (upanissayapaccaya), it maybe gives additional food for wise thought: Why it is important to value our Conditions? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purposes or other low wordily gains in trade or exchange.] 

If coming across such saying like that of the Batchelors: "You know if a person is really enlightened, when he/she has at midnight a car problem, strong raining and the cell-phone does not work...", than one can be sure that he/she gained the wrong guidance... [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose and other low wordily gains by trade and exchange] 

Genuine spiritual teachings May all who are able to rejoice with the merits done here, access highest fruits, and may the Devas inform those who did not heard or seen it yet. Anumodana! [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains.] 

See also: How to address wrong view? Usually they deny mundane right view and excuse their action by transcendent right views means. How ever, it does not mean that everybody who does not firm believe in rebirth is destinated to low reals! If one holds on a liberal perspective while being vituose in a mood "what ever may came" or "for now, I do not know but also can not exclude" like suggested to the Kalamas: