What the later tradition is emphasising with the term 'emptiness' is that what is perceived should not be personified, there is no thing there that is the self, neither the perceived nor the perceiver. It is not the car that is necessarily an illusion or unreal, but your sense of self and ownership. Yourself, your neighbour, your admiration of a car; these are the conditioned, own-created, identified concepts that are inherently unreal, that are impermanent and lead to pain. 

Is Buddhism a philosophy (love of wisdom), a systematic approach to analysing experience (subjective science), an ethical and logical framework, a theory and conclusion that can be tested? Yes it is. Does Buddhism challenge fragile beliefs held without empirical evidence such as notions of a vengeful creator god, a sense of self or soul? Yes it does. Is Buddhism a religion as undefined by Wikipedia, "an organized collection of belief systems, cultural systems, and world views that relate humanity to spirituality" Probably. respect for what is sacred, Yes. reverence for the gods, Not particularly. obligation, the bond between man and the gods Absolutely not. Latin religiō, ... *le-ligarean ... lego "read", "choose", "go over again" or "consider carefully" Yes. ligare "bind, connect", ... prefixed re-ligare, ... "to reconnect," Yes as far as a community. No as far as the ultimate goal is nibbana (nirvana) which means 'unbinding', release, detachment, blowing out. Are you likely to find Buddhists argue with you even if you do not engage them in debates of theological speculation? No, I do not think so. 

The sangha, the community of beggars or monks, is an ideal environment for pursuing the Buddhist path. The parisa (parisā) or Buddhist community, necessarily includes the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen. The sangha is entirely dependent upon the lay-community, the householders, the money makers, for material requirements, just as the layity depend on the monks for spiritual inspiration. A society is weaker without these four supports of the entire parisa. Suppose one is not prepared to abandon the householder life or has family to care for. He or she must do what they can, no more nor less. That realistic middle way is taking Buddhism seriously. The Buddha offers much advice for the laity. Beyond moral precepts (do not kill, lie, steal, sexual misconduct, intoxicants), the closest thing to a requirement that impacts economy is probably right livelihood. 

Is it really? Well, of course the technique doesn't scale. It can't be repeated very often; not often enough to check, whether an equal distribution is reached. And you could tell, that the rules prohibit any material as tool. Ok. Then I'm nearly to the end of my wisdom. For a random result, I need some unpredictable input, and of course, my brain isn't a good source for such an input. I could name a measurement, which would work for a small amount of small random numbers (1-10), and it works similar to the hair example: I think about a song I know, and the first song which comes to my mind, I count the characters. I can't predict from the first song - "I am the walrus" how many characters it has. The number is pretty big, compared to the number range (1-10), and I take the modulo, and have a random result. So this is a proof of concept, and the next time, I would, of course, have to choose a different song, and so the number of experiments is limited to the number of songs or poems I know, and it is a time consuming procedure. If the rules say 'name a number spontaneusly - in 2 seconds', I'm pretty sure nobody can produce repeatedly random numbers. But given enough time, you can. 

Is it? Ok - we then need to see how to sharpen the rules, I guess? No tools allowed, like paper and bag, RNG and dices? Ok - I pull a lot of hairs out of my head - much more than 100, let's say 500 to 1000 hairs, and then I count them, and take the modulo. :) 

Here we see a 5:6 relation, which is of course no proof, but the proof is more a case for Mathematics.SE or Statistics.SE. It's only to show how it works. Now: If you know the bias of any random distribution, you can transform it into an equal distribution, which means, that an equal distribution isn't such a magical thing. You could for example measure red and non-red cars which appear on the other side. If you counted a lot of them, and know the distribution, you can correct the unequalness by calculation. People with a deterministic viewpoint might argue, that, given enough data and big machines, and knowing all natural laws in greatest detail would make it possible, to calculate every minor event in the far future, but we know that there are far too many atoms in the universe, where we don't know where they are, and what their movement is. By all practible means it is impossible to predict the future, but that's what random is about: Can we predict it or not. It's not about "Could it be predicted, if ...". So the statement, that our future isn't predictable doesn't need a proof - it is a fact. A deterministic viewpoint is, what would have needed a proof, but from quantum mechanics we know, that there is uncertainty on the subatomic level (Heisenberg). 

Even if an individual took the Buddhist teachings as seriously as if his pants were on fire, he would still have to create a moral and material environment that is conducive to the path. Abandoning a starving dependant family is not conducive the path. Going into the forest with insufficient clothing, shelter or means to obtain food will abort the path in short time. Many householders wealthy, poor, and in between followed the Buddhist path to the goal. The serious Buddhist path is seriously practical. It would likely look much like our present society, but without war, more equality, cleaner nature. If all members of society took Buddhism seriously, we would all be vegetarian not because the consumption of meat is forbidden, but because the slaughter is. This world you imagine is of course an ideal world. There would be no need for police, people would probably work less or on projects that most interested them or which had the most benefit as they saw fit. Material productivity might go down but happiness would certainly go up. And what should be the ultimate goal of any economic system? (my hyperlink references were denied due to my newbie-nature) 

All translation is interpretation of some sort; What is a good practical method(s) for seeing through the bias of translators and teachers to arrive at the best understanding of the original meaning and presumably lead toward truth? 

Wikipedia does a good job of summarizing the four stages of enlightenment, which are stream-enterer, once-returner, non-returner, and arahant. They are distinguished by their remaining attachments such as clinging to rituals, self-view and doubt to an arahant who is fully released. There are no objective standards for determining the stage of another individual but there are certainly clues. For example, any expression of self-view is undeniable falsification: Insult their mother and see how they react. However, the stages along the path are subjectively but entirely testable and in minute granularity. All schools of Buddhism recognise the authority of the nikayas/agamas, in which the Buddha describes the dhamma and practice in detail. While many factors are enumerated, in whole the path and attainments are not linear. For example the four material jhanas are sequential but the eight-fold path is better described as cyclical such that the development of each characteristic reinforces the other characteristics of the path. Wisdom, virtue, and concentration are developed in parallel. Some traditions emphasise an instantaneous enlightenment (chan, zen), some hold a view of a prior enlightened Bodhi nature that must be revealed, while traditionally it was presented as a methodical process. But I don't think it would correct to say that different traditions have different notions of enlightenment. I hesitate here on certain teachers, particularly in Tibetan/bon traditions, who assert the rebirth of arahants. The rebirth of enlightened worthy ones contradicts the Buddha's own definition of nibbana/nirvana, which literally means unbinding, fading out, the end of rebirth, not entering any womb. But rebirth is difficult to objectively test without some fancy super-mundane instruments. 

¹) very often, it isn't an equal distribution, but a normal distribution, when most cases are grouped around an average. Think: body size of persons of same age and culture: Most are around 1.8m, fewer 1.7m or 1.9m, far fewer 1.6 or 2.m. But rarely two childs from the same parents are of exactly the same length. If you enter a casino, you will hardly find anybody who can predict the next card from the deck, or the next roulette number. Some might believe they know a way to predict it, but they can't. Some people here might think, that if they knew enough parameters, they could predict the next roulette number, but think of it! The microscopic shape of the billiard ball will change with the temperature, and you can't shield a Casino from the outside world, to prevent any influence. The air is moved by the breathing of the visitors, and you can't calculate when whom of them will breath - it's not a problem which will be solved in 100 years with more computer power. It is systematic: The finer conditions of roulette are uncontrolled. So the outcome is random. My first impulse was, to write "true random", but as serious adults, we always tell the truth, of course, so if we say random, we mean random. You might construct a roulette canon in a laboratory, which generates predictable results, but you will not get a license for that. That much is predictable too. :) Now to the second, related questions. Some people believe that only equal distributions, like from throwing a dice, are random. But that's not the case. Consider a bowl with two black and one white ball, and you pull blindly from the bowl and put it back each time. You will pull a black ball with 2/3 chance and a white one with 1/3 chance. It is not predictable which color you will get, but the probability is not equal - it is 2:1. But knowing that, you could transform it into an equal distribution: If you pull a white, it is white, but if you pull a black, you have to pull a second black one. Generated by a PRNG: 

Among the enlightened, there is a semantic distinction between buddhas, arahants, with residue and without. A buddha is self-realised while an arahant followed the path of a buddha. An enlightened one with residue is still supported by the khandas (he has a body and is alive) while after death (paranibbana) an enlightened one is not supported by the khandas, not supported by a body, is dead and will not return to any womb. Perhaps a more useful question, if I may: "How does one choose a worthy teacher?" 

The goal of the Buddha's doctrine is said to be the eradication of 'dukkha' variously translated as anguish, stress, unsatisfactoriness, pain... what is the definition of this term as given in the suttas? What is the intended scope of this term? 

The word you are most likely translating as 'desire' is tanha (taṇhā), literally thirst. A better translation might be 'craving'. Without desire how could one follow the Buddhist teachings? ("I might like to study the suttas, practice meditation, cultivate loving-kindness, but frankly, I don't desire it." -- is inconsistent with the Buddha's teaching). While the Buddha discourages superficial spending sprees on oneself, he encourages all to give generously. If a society took this teaching seriously, there would be no shortage of consumption. It might interest you to know that certainly not bad karma, but neither is good karma the ultimate Buddhist goal. The goal is the elimination of all karma (pali kamma) or intentional action. But until that is possible one should accumulate good karma to calm the mind. In a similar vain, neither abject poverty nor opulent wealth is a Buddhist goal. The Buddha taught a middle way. 

What does the Buddha mean by 'the all' (sabba) as found in the suttas? How is this perspective categorized philosophically and how does this perspective compare with other modern philosophies? I have a good understanding of the early Buddhist perspective but am clueless as to the academic philosophical context. Is it for example both a rational and empirical way of seeing the world, is it one among other similar perspectives, is it defensible?