Some homework assignments could be seen as a red flag, others not. It all depends on the type of assignment and how it is framed. I give a homework assignment to all developer candidates who pass through the phone screen (the phone screen is with me, after carefully scrutinizing your resume and anything else I can find about you, and it's 30-40 minutes of 3 - 5 general questions about methodology, preferences, and general development practices), and that homework assignment was written by the entire development team to represent what they want to test in a candidate. Because the homework assignment will take a person a few hours to perform, and takes each member of our team an hour or so to assess, we only give the assignment to candidates who we think have the opportunity to do well on it. We don't want to waste anyone's time, ours included. If the homework problem you are given is one that you think will take you 10 hours to complete, you can ask the company how long they think it will take to complete. If they say "10 hours" then pat yourself on the back for estimating correctly, but then wonder why they're giving you a 10 hour test -- is it work they want done and are using homework problems to get work for free? Are they just really rigorous, and this homework assignment is much like the 8 hour/all-day interviews higher level candidates in management, architecture, etc perform (I've done these a lot, for many different senior roles)? In other words, some companies will use the homework assignment poorly, some not. It's a judgement call on whether it raises a red flag for you, but remember that it is quite common to put in some amount of time to prepare for and then execute on an interview process. In companies where I have been a hiring manager, a developer candidate could expect probably 5 hours of total interview time in three stages over a couple weeks, and a homework problem that might take another 2 to 3 hours. That's 8 hours of effort for a $100K/year job, which seems pretty reasonable to me (which is why I continue to do it). For me and my teams, how you perform on the homework problem leads directly to what the team will talk about in their couple hours of interview -- why did you select the gems or libraries you did, what was your testing approach, what did you or did you not document in your work and why, and so on. You could always ask the company who gives the assignment to you how they plan to use it, so you can better understand the context. If they don't give you a good answer, like "we'll use this as an evaluation of basic skills in xyz, and use it as the foundation of discussion in your second round of interviews," then that could be a red flag. 

In general, classified vs unclassified in terms of employment opportunities -- typically with US Federal or State agencies, and a state university is such a thing -- loosely maps to the definitions of nonexempt and exempt classifications set forth in the Fair Labor Standards Act. Every organization I've come across that makes the distinction between classified and unclassified staff does it in their own slightly different way, and HR typically makes the distinction clear in their documentation. In your specific example, University of Madison-Wisconsin describes classified staff this way: "Classified staff positions focus primarily on supporting education, research, and the campus infrastructure. If a position entails performing functions that are similar in nature to other positions in Wisconsin state government, the position is classified." The differences from an employee's perspective tend to be in terms of salary, raises, leave policies, and so on, and these differences will differ slightly from organization to organization. Position classification is definitely something to clarify with HR reps at each organization. 

Often, that's not precisely what the ads are saying. In my experience, it's not that they "don't really care" if they hire entry or senior level folks, it's that they're going to look at the whole candidate pool and see what shakes out, and move the budget around accordingly. It might very well be that the company is hiring for multiple positions to fit a range of experience, and they have a certain budget to do so. They might find they can hire 5 solid mid-level people from the responses to that ad, or they might find one gem of a senior person and 1 or 2 entry level people, or some other combination. 

I'm a hiring manager, and I would not expect to see it on a resume. I would expect to see it in a cover letter if you proactively mention why you left your most recent position (e.g. "After my division laid off 80% of its workforce, I find myself looking for new opportunities making widgets!"). After all, I'm going to ask that question anyway! Layoffs are really common. As an explanation for a gap in employment, it almost needs no further explanation -- typically it's completely out of your control and I always give people the benefit of the doubt when it comes to layoffs (that is, I don't naturally assume the company was just trying to find a way to fire that particular person...I take it on face value that business was just business). Whether or not someone was laid off is neither a positive or a negative to me. It really is neutral. It's a truthful answer to "why did you leave X position", but doesn't provide any path toward further conversation, so I would just move on to the next question (as opposed to talking about some specific reason you left a position or were let go). 

Contact whomever told you that they will be terminating your employment in October, who I assume is someone in Human Resources. If it is not someone in Human Resources, then contact the person and cc your Human Resources contact. A simple email such as the following would get the ball rolling. 

When I interview people when I'm working for a startup (such as I am now), I expect to hear some question along these lines even though I'm not a founder. It doesn't exclude a person from candidacy if they don't ask, but when they do ask it tells me that they have some experience working for a startup or at least understand that financial situations can sometimes be tenuous. It adds a point for me to their "environmental awareness" score. 

I've seen this phrasing on more than a few ocassions, and typically in postings specifically for release managers, but it doesn't strike me as crazy ... just a little awkward. By qualifying it with "release" the company probably means "we push our releases at night, and when we do, we expect developers to be available in case something goes wrong." "Occasionally" probably means "everyone has a scheduled weekend rotation". I wouldn't jump straight to the conclusion that "we expect tons of overtime out of you that we're not going to pay you for because you're on salary" -- it is certainly a possibility, but you can clarify that in your phone screen or interview if there's no way to ask an HR or other contact directly before submitting your application. 

The answer to your core question "How realistically can I expect an employer to visit an online and extended version of my resume?" depends on the type of position and level at which the employee is being hired. In your case, you fall into the student/recent grad/entry level bucket, and in most situations the hiring manager will not take extra time to look for extended information about your work history (or yourself). This is not to say that you (and students/recent grads/entry level candidates) are not wonderful people with great skills, but rather that there are a lot of you, and in general that extended information elsewhere is not going to dramatically alter my perception of you and where you're coming from. If that information is so incredibly amazing as to tip the scales dramatically in your favor, it'll either be clear to me based on your cover letter that I really should go look because if I don't I'm really missing out, or I'll have heard of you in some other way (personal reference, internet fame, whatever). Not to be harsh, but students/recent grads/entry level candidates are a dime a dozen. When do I, as an employer, begin to spend more time with a person's resume, and follow links to read extended information and investigate more? When the position is one of greater responsibility, creativity, management of others, and so on -- when I'm evaluating a seasoned professional, for example, or when someone's cover letter is just so amazing that I can't not look. (Not all hiring managers care about cover letters. I am one who does.) 

Your instincts are correct in that titles are only really meaningful within the context that they're applied (regardless of industry -- "Accountant II" in Company A might mean something completely different in Company B), and that in your specific case your own title of "Senior Software Engineer" applied to your experience would probably not match up in other places. However, the standard approach (and expectation, from a hiring manager's perspective) as to profiles that are meant for consumption by recruiters and other external users (e.g. LinkedIn, Careers 2.0, your "paper" resume, etc) is that these profiles and resumes reflect the reality of your situation. In other words, if your title is "Senior Software Engineer" then that's what you say if for no other reason then those that you described: that's how you're identified officially by the company, and when the HR firm of another company calls to verify employment, they're going to ask if you're employed with the company as whatever your title indicates. If the hiring manager is actually doing his or her job, they'll question your title when stacked up against your experience and try to figure out (by asking you) to describe the duties and responsibilities that go along with your title and try to slot that in to what fits in our own pay bands, what we need, etc. It would be pretty clear pretty quickly if you were a person who just moved through the ranks quickly, or is in a position that inflates position titles, or is just outright lying about their skills, which are some of the different things I would be trying to suss out (the first one is a good sign, the second is a sad reality that doesn't help anyone, and the third one is a bad sign). For less professional profiles, you're right -- the specificity of your title is not as important, unless it is, to you, in how you want to present yourself to the world. 

From what you describe, your team has some issues with three of these things: someone is not competent in some aspect of the job, attempts to collaborate and solve this problem are not going well, and because of that the trust and respect is probably suffering as well. This does not make for a happy and productive team, as you well know...and this is precisely what the manager of the team (or team lead, or whatever you call the person to whom the members of the team officially report) has to step in and manage the person who is having difficulty with some aspect of the process because of something that he or she lacks. In this case, the lack of ability to adequately judge the tasks at hand, the lack of ability to ask for help and productively collaborate, etc. These are not things that are on the rest of the team to solve, even if you are a self-organizing team; there's still a functional manager whose job it should be to solve these issues. Now, all of that being said, you (all?) should be commended for picking a bunch of things that are completely reasonable and usually work in these situations. Remove the ability to "choose" for a bit and tell the person directly what to do? Great idea, and also one that the manager should be responsible for, not members of the team, unless it isn't onerous for you all (but it will be). Push someone toward the right path that they don't see? Super -- that's a form of collaboration. But if they don't get there? Then they're still not there and you're in the same position plus further behind. Pair programming? Brilliant -- works for a lot of people, is a great form of direct collaboration, and that he was hesitant to do it or do it well shows that there is a people-problem there to be solved by someone not you (e.g. the manager). The team lead who reports to me had this exact situation recently, and together we worked through each of the steps above, 1:1 between this manager and his not-quite-up-to-par employee who was messing up the rest of the team, and the outcome was that the team member was let go -- not for lack of trying on everyone's part, but for lack of fit and to some extent competency. So, the solution for you all to enact is that you can't enact a solution. Please get your manager involved and frame the issues as clearly as you have here, both in terms of what you've tried, where it's gone awry, and where you and your team need help. 

The reasoning behind adding the span of years while in school is to explain time away from working (outside of school) or to show that you're still in school -- not to show how long it took you to get your degree. If you were, say, 25 years old and wanted to explain the 7 years after high school and some of that was work and some of that was school, and that time didn't overlap, then sure - go ahead and list it all broken out so that a hiring manager could piece together your timeline -- but it's only the graduation date that matters (and to be perfectly honest, hiring managers aren't going to try to piece together a school and work timeline for an entry-level job unless they have a lot of time on their hands. For instance, I wouldn't bother.) Since you're looking for entry-level jobs, the baseline expectations are that you are a recent graduate -- it doesn't much matter how long it took you to get there, because people have gaps in education for all sorts of reasons -- just taking a break, wanting to gain work experience, needing to pay bills, military service, domestic reasons, and so on. What matters is that you clearly outline the skills you can use starting the day you get hired, either because you learned them in school or you have practical knowledge. Saying all the things you said would be fine if you were asked, because it would be the truth (although I'd be careful not to overshare just like I would be careful not to overshare with any stranger -- it's awkward). Lying shows a lack of integrity, not explaining the truth when asked. Just relax and send your resume around. Don't worry about the past -- there's no reason any of that should haunt you.