This question is wholly determined by your answer to the question "Is it ethical to download copyright music/software without paying?"; the specific circumstances surrounding a particular example merely disguise the general question that's being asked. Choice of specifics If you think it's ethical to download without paying, you can find a set of circumstances involving no knowledge and negligible harm for the company and both dire need and lack of resources for the downloader. Conversely if you think it's unethical, you can find a set of circumstances involving harm for the author and little benefit to the downloader. Similarly you can come up with analogies that lean one way or the other - for: libraries promoting reading fostering more book purchases, against: joyriding (when returned to owner's house with a full tank of petrol and keys posted through door). Analogies that seem parallel to me: using a cracked hence free subscription card to access satellite television for a week to decide whether you want to pay for a subscription. I think looking to the consequences of a single event is perhaps misleading when determining the ethics, particularly since ethics is intended as a guide to future behaviour rather than a justification of a single event. Thus again, the question "is it ethically OK this time" should really just be "is it OK ethically". Does the trial basis change the ethics? I'm not convinced that calling it a demo changes whether it's ethical or unethical - a temporary injustice is unjust, but temporarily, and a temporary justice is just, but temporarily. They differ in degree but not fundamentals here, since there is no physical item to keep or return. You might want to argue that in the event that the software/music is purchased, the copyright holder has obtained payment, so that this is fine, but unless you can conclude that it's ethical when payment is never made, the answer becomes "only if you pay", which sounds like a "no" to generally downloading without paying! Thus as I said, this really boils down to whether it's ethical to download without paying full stop. Can you weigh potential benefits against harm? Of course, if it's ethical generally, it's ethical to do on a trial basis, but if it's unethical generally, it's unethical to do temporarily, since it's not it's not generally true that a potential future benefit outweighs a harm. As a deliberately extreme example, consider a man having a one-night stand without his partner ever finding out. He might argue that she benefited from all the extra attention he lavished on her because of his secret guilt and from some improved sexual technique he developed from this event, so that she has no idea it happened and has benefited. This argument doesn't really address the question of whether his behaviour was ethical. To be clear, I'm not saying that downloading copyright material is morally equivalent or even comparable to having an affair, I'm showing how the reasoning "they may well benefit, and will never know, so it's ethical" is flawed. (Notice that if the couple agree they're free to sleep with other people at any point, the example becomes rather different.) Thus we must come again to the conclusion that the ethics of trial downloading match the ethics of downloading generally. Two philosophical perspectives you might want to try out on the problem Kant would argue that if everyone failed to pay for music or software, harm would result (job losses, less money spent in making popular music), so since the behaviour is not generalisable, it cannot be a moral rule to allow it. At the opposite (anarchist) end of the argument, Proudhon would argue that property is inherently theft, that the copyright holder had no right to charge for the download, that this wrong was exacerbated by its costlessness, so it is ethical to peacefully circumvent this unethical charge. 

We're aware of a delay in perceptions due the the brains processing speed, but if thoughts and actions are a subconscious process and our conscious mind only becomes aware of the thoughts, the same way it becomes aware of perceptions, is it possible that what we perceive is actually a much more delayed perception of reality? As in, more than ten seconds? 

Let's use a current dilemma I'm facing. Is visible light, visible? Replace (God) with (visible light) and (The bible) with (insert a dictionary of your choice), and it's the exact same situation. Most of the answers I'm getting are along the lines of: (It's called visible light. Visible implies that we can see it. Therefore we can see light.) It's hard to argue with such logic. But my argument is not, about the definition of visible. My argument is whether light itself is actually visible. What are the factors which determine whether an object is visible or not. Why is this particular type of light, called visible light. I'm in no way saying that a visible object is not visible. It's this circular reasoning which prevents people from seeing the question I'm actually asking. Your question is open to interpretation. You need to explain your argument to specifically exclude irrelevant interpretations. 

You are thinking of some mechanism that plays video images from outside the eyes and this is incorrect. The brain in the jar has no eyes. The information is fed into the optic nerve as electrical impulses. Have you ever played Call of duty? You can go anywhere in the game and the graphics are incredible. Imagine what virtual places will look like in another thousand years! Images don't have to exist, they can be created by expectations of what you think you should see. Remember that all expectations are built on memories. Eg, pictures of the places you intend to visit. Well even those memories could be implanted. 

Is it possible that consciousness arose because of the conflict between 'self interest' and 'pack interest'? Does the 'level of consciousness' depend on the 'size of the pack'? Humans are social creatures. That's just a nice way of saying that we're pack animals. But packs don't work if each individual only looks after his own best interest. This is why we evolved emotions such as guilt and pride. 

Blame and accountable are two different things. I can blame the destruction caused by a tornado on the tornado, but I can't hold the tornado accountable. The key is intention. Likewise, if a person does something, they are to blame. That's just factual. A man speeding down a road and hitting someone is not charged with murder unless it can be proved he intentionally hit the person. 

It's not actually a mental process, it's physiological. Each cone is linked to the visual cortex via it's own optic nerve. A cone on the bottom of your retina is linked to a spot on the top of the visual cortex. Cones on the left of the retina are linked to the right of the visual cortex. It's a mechanical inversion of the image, not a mental process. 

Here's an attempt at a rationalisation of voting for the individual: 1 If you choose not to vote once, you are significantly more likely to choose not to vote again. After all, you're unusual if you're in a western democracy and you are not at all disillusioned with politics and have nothing more enjoyable to do on polling day with your time. Summary: Not voting leads to greater not voting in the future. 2 People tend to rationalise and defend their behaviour, so if you choose to not vote regularly, you are likely over time to come to believe that this is a good decision and become an advocate of not voting. Summary: Habitual non-voting leads to advocating non-voting. 3 People are social creatures and much more heavily influenced by the norms of their peers and neighbours than they like to think. If you don't vote and advocate non-voting you are likely to strongly influence those you interact with, and most strongly affect those who normally share your opinions. Summary: Your non-voting actions and views spread to people, and most strongly to people like you. 4 Politicians publicly advocate policies that are likely to garner large numbers of votes. If a group (eg people under 30 in the UK) vote significantly less often, parties use the money available to favour groups that vote in larger numbers (retired people vote in much greater numbers in the UK). There is thus a genuine but small risk that if your non-voting ideas spread amongst like-minded people, government policies will eventually disfavour people like you. The risk of non-minor future harm can be weighed against present inconvenience of voting. If the like-minded group we're discussing is thoughtful people, that could be quite devastating. Summary: It's not worth risking disenfranchising the people with whom you have the most in common. Overall summary Humans are social and you don't act in isolation - you will influence people like you not to vote, and as a group you will become more disenfranchised. As an individual you can work towards or against group disenfranchisement, but are very unlikely to be neutral. Group disenfranchisement could lead to significant negative consequences for you as an individual. Critique That's not at all watertight, and the effects may be too slow to affect you in your lifetime. This sort of reasoning is much stronger to argue that you should attempt to befriend newspaper editors. Rationality explains very little of human behaviour anyway. (I vote regularly, but not for any of these reasons.) Nevertheless, this was an interesting question and a good challenge. 

That's quite a simple one: Let's use Hume's definition of "a violation of the laws of nature". The "laws of nature" are simply descriptions of the best experimental data we have. Our best empirical predictions are under controlled circumstances and predict accurately under those conditions only. For example, my friend Steffan may catch an apple before it collides with the earth in violation of our previous experimental data, but this does not contradict empiricism, even if in all experiments so far Steffan has not chosen to catch the apple. Steffan's externality to experimental data means he is not included in the law of gravity. If Steffan ever caught an experimental apple, it would be experimental error. (Of course this example is an analogy; I'm not asserting Steffan is divine.) You may or may not believe I have a friend called Steffan, but you have to accept that if he exists, he may be able to disrupt science's prediction about what will happen to the apple with a to-him trivial intervention. There's no need for anyone to reject science just because they believe Steffan exists and sometimes catches apples, especially if he's taken no interest in any apple experiments so far. Your beliefs about science and about Steffan are neither mutually contradictory nor mutually supportive. 

Every habit we have is learnt. During our early developmental years we learn by copying adult behaviour. This is before we learn what is right and wrong. These behaviour patterns reside in our subconscious memory and most people do not even know why they do what they do. The right brain tries to rationalize the behaviour but generally when they say they don't know why they do things they are speaking the truth. To someone who has learnt a different behaviour pattern this would not make sense as their left and right brain patterns correspond. 

You are making a very common philosophical mistake. You're confusing determinism with fatalism. Fatalism claims that the universe is predetermined and this includes human behaviour. Determinism makes no claim about the future. It only claims that events and our actions are determined, not predetermined. You are a determinist. 

To see, means to consciously perceive, unlike detect, which is a mechanical process, which requires no consciousness. A infrared camera can detect light, but it sees nothing. We, humans, see a representation of reality. As answered by my question, "Do we really see objects?", we perceive our brains representation of objects, not the objects themselves. But what of light? Do we see actual electromagnetic radiation, or do we perceive brightness, because of light? 

Some light is detectable, but no light is visible. Visible is a term used to describe the conscious perception of visual representations within our brains visual cortex. Trees, people, words on a page, are all visible. Air is invisible. We see trees, people and words on a page, but we can't see air. Light is the reason we see things. When our eyes detect light, our brain creates visual representations of the objects from which the light originates. We see these representations. It's illogical to say we see light as light exists outside of our subjective reality. There is contention amongst physicists as to whether we perceive an object or only see the light (electromagnetic radiation) which the object emits. I propose that we see neither. Visual perception occurs in the visual cortex. What we see is neither the actual object, nor light, but a visual representation of the object. Visual perception is a process, of which, detecting electromagnetic radiation is but a part. The actual perception occurs at the end of the process. 

Moral values are learnt and unique to each individual therefore they can never be objective but a person's moral values can be determined objectively if we know all the factors which result in moral values. 

There seems to be much confusion around this topic. Our eyes detect light, but do they see? Detecting light is part of the visual process. The end result is that objects become visible. This occurs in the brains visual centres. No perception occurs in the actual eye itself. Your thoughts? 

I would have to say no. The way I see it, the purpose of consciousness is to resolve conflicting desires. Without input from reality, such conflict wouldn't arise. 

Surely an omnipotent being could travel back in time and create the circumstances leading to His creation. This would solve the problem of endless regression. Is it really altogether impossible that the eventual conclusion of evolution is the creation of an omnipotent, eternal, all-knowing being?