I saw a similar question to this from someone about how to determine their job title, and I felt that my question was different enough to be justified. So here it is: I have worked as a developer for a small company for several years. Before that I also did development (though fairly shoddy, as I was very inexperienced) at another company for a couple years. At my current company I am mostly given assignments with very little oversight, and expected to bring them to completion. I'd say I have a decent amount of knowledge of correct architecture, I can code pretty well, and I've written plenty of stuff on the side too. Viscerally, I feel like I can justify the title "Senior Engineer" or "Senior Developer", but my company doesn't have formal job titles. I've been updating my resume recently and thinking of looking for a new position, and I'm not sure if I should put developer or senior developer on my resume. How is this normally determined in a situation like this? Is there any real criteria? I know that HR departments typically have SEII and SEIII for people at about my skill level. How do I translate this into a title on a resume? Note: I only do software development and architecture. EDIT: Also I am self taught - I do not have a CS degree (though I do have a degree, though I doubt that's in anyway relevant). EDIT 2: Would the question better be titled, "Should I call myself a senior developer or just a developer on my resume" 

When there was a decent chance that I had cancer (false alarm, thankfully - pre-cancerous), I just wanted to be treated like a normal person. If I told a friend, I told them to just treat me like normal. If they're not telling you, then they don't want you to know, and you should just treat them as you would before - crack jokes with them, make fun of them, etc. Nobody likes being treated like they're one foot into the grave and everyone is desperately sorry - that's depressing. 

I actually have a service created specifically for this purpose. It is currently free, and I'd be happy to have you as one of my first beta testers. $URL$ If you want or need any help, please feel free to contact me about it. 

I have a side business with a website in a particular space (known to be a very competitive space as well). My company has taken on a client in that space. Should I disclose that I have a small website in this space? It shouldn't conflict with the goals of the company, or the client, and currently my boss doesn't really know about my extracurriculars. The question is - how do you determine a conflict of interest, and decide when to disclose it, when disclosing it might hurt you? 

I'm wondering how you should go about killing imposter syndrome. For background - I grew up poor and graduated during the beginning of the recession from college (so the idea of higher sums of money seems unfathomable to me). I've got several years (4ish) dev experience and I'm pretty decent at the job. A lot of brand new (software) devs are making 60-80k in my area, and I'm currently working a job where I make less than 50k a year. I'm at about the 13th percentile or less for my position. How do you convince yourself you're worth more than you're currently paid? I've even gotten tentative offers where the minimum was almost a doubling of my current salary, and yet I still feel like I don't deserve it or I couldn't handle that job even though I'm more than qualified. How can this be overcome? 

I have been under a lot of stress at my job - hundreds of hours of overtime in the past year, vacation and sick time tacitly discouraged. It's not that I can't take a day or a few hours of time off, but I know if I do I'll have to make it up in overtime later with almost absolute certainty. There was recently a (customary - not legally mandated) national holiday, which I got off, and then was asked to make that up on another day. I'm tired, I'm getting stress-related nervous tics (chewing my mouth), which I never had before, and now insomnia. I have no predictability on when I'll be assigned overtime. I am exempt, so I get nothing extra for it. I have been trying to conduct a job search like this, but I'm always exhausted on the little time I have off, and I don't have any predictability on when I'll be available for a call or meeting with a new potential employer. I have been thinking of quitting my job - I have a decent amount of savings and could sustain myself through a job loss, and even most reasonable emergencies if one happened for probably 6 months without trouble. The unemployment rate in my country is less than 5% right now and I am in a very high demand profession (I am also underpaid relative to the mean, so if I got a job I would get a raise). I'm asking mostly if it is ever acceptable or smart to leave a job to look for another one? I don't feel I can give my job search the attention it needs at this point - especially because for the positions I want at companies, all day interviews are likely required and pretty standard across the industry - at least for top quality employers. I hate to take this step, but I see little other recourse. I don't really have the time to reasonably look otherwise, and I am incredibly burnt out besides. Are there any negatives? Any positives? 

I would recommend talking to your boss about it, and also seeing what else you can automate as well. These sorts of conversations often go very well, because there's almost always more work that can be done in a business. One of my first jobs (and the job that ultimately pushed me to become a programmer), I had a lot of repetitive, time-consuming tasks assigned to me. I developed a fairly simple application that would save me and other employees several hours a day. I didn't even initially mention it to my boss. About a day or so later, he calls me over. He says, "What is this? Did you make this?" when looking at the application I developed that another staff member was using. Note, at this point, I had been teaching myself to program in the evenings and hadn't mentioned it to him. I said, "Yeah I did." "I didn't know you could do that!" "I've been teaching myself at night." "How long did it take you?" "This specific program? A few days." "You're going to be a superstar! I'm giving you a raise." It was a pretty significant raise from my memory too - I think like $8,000 extra a year. I suspect that most bosses would have a very similar reaction in most businesses. You're making their lives, and staffing easier. 

I work in a small company in the US - myself, my boss, and a marketing intern. I have worked at the company for four years, marketing intern for 8 months. It is an independent software dev shop. We make software for other companies. About 3 months ago, I mentioned to my boss that I was leaning towards leaving, because I had been there for a while and I didn't see much potential for future growth (and that it might limit my future career) and I also wanted a change of scenery. I had been thinking about this change for quite a while (about a year). My boss offered me a decent raise which for the time being I have accepted, though I expressed my reservations about the job at the time. He seems to feel this has made everything fine and even discussed how we'd be working together years later. However I still feel that there's not much growth potential, and I honestly think (based on different salary websites, recruiters, and job listings) I could probably get a higher offer than I was given. Considering it is a small business and this feels as much like a personal matter as a business matter - how do I amicably cut ties? It doesn't help that I do the majority (I would say 90ish %) of the coding for the company so I feel like if I move on, he won't have anyone to pick up the burden (he can code, but he's always busy with business stuff) at least in the short term. Do I just come out and tell him I want to leave and give him some time in advance (say a few months), despite the raise? Obviously I wouldn't leave until I actually have a job in hand, but considering my field and the demand, I don't feel that will be very difficult. 

There was a decently big conference in town recently, and my boss is very involved - knows the organizer, went himself, but absolutely didn't mention it to me and didn't invite me. I found out via third parties who also knew the organizer and did invite me. I opted not to go due to this situation with my boss, even though I wanted to. Now the thing is, this conference is specifically for a technology stack I work in virtually every day, and I work in a very small company - I deal directly with this boss every day, and he is also the owner. I don't want to say I feel slighted, but I'm not quite sure why I wouldn't be at the very least invited to an event like this. It is a good networking and cross pollination opportunity. Should I bring this up? The only reasons I can think of that my boss wouldn't invite me are if he feels I'm incompetent (unlikely but possible) or if he is fearful I will meet other people, compare notes and decide to leave ship. I feel slighted, but I'm not sure if this is a wise idea to bring up, or if I should just assume my boss does not have my career interests at heart. 

I work at a company in software development and I am having a big problem with workflow. There have been a lot of issues lately with making sure the product is bug free. I always feel rushed and like I don't have time to properly QA issues. Even when they are QAed locally, I don't always have the latest development environment (or access to it) and I'm not always aware changes have been made. There are two or three teams working on one of the projects, and versioning is a mess. I feel a lot of the time I am being blamed for these failures, and I don't necessarily feel like they're my fault. I feel like I am being told to rush and hurry as fast as possible (as we are almost constantly overbudget, and if we don't get a certain amount done, I will be asked to work extra hours to make sure they get done) and then also getting blamed when I do rush and there are bugs. I am getting asked to work very frequent overtime (I usually work between 5-20 hours of overtime a month, minimum). I have tried to talk to my boss about this, and I don't feel she really listened to me. She acted like she did, but nothing has changed, and I find myself blamed for rushing again when a ton of things were put on my plate. This is tiring me out. It also leads to no work-life balance. I feel like my life is all work, and no balance. How do I convince my boss to clarify the workflow, set deadlines and projections, and make updates as needed? How do I make sure that I can minimize overtime? 

So I've been working for a company a bit over 2 years. The company has always been small. We lost a guy 6 months ago to a new job, and I expected that we were going to hire a replacement for him, but this hasn't happened. Lately, say the past two months, there has been a ton of extra work and I've been asked to work overtime almost constantly. I've had to work (several) entire days of overtime (like 9+ hours), several hours overtime multiple times a week, etc. At first I was ok with it - I mean, overtime happens, and sometimes things can be so crazy that even an entire day of it has to happen. I get that. But at this point I've now worked probably 50-60 hours of overtime in the past couple months (if not more), without any corresponding pay raise or mention that I should take a vacation (while vacation time is part of my compensation package, it is tacitly discouraged). My question is - how do you figure out if you're on a "Death March"? Basically a time when the company has seriously misjudged or promised something that is essentially unsustainable. I don't want to just immediately jump ship at the first sign of hardship, but I feel that at my current pace this is unsustainable - especially since management hasn't really recommended taking any vacation time, and I've received no raise for all the extra time I'm putting in. It just feels like I am being taken advantage of.