which goes right up the logical/relational alley but doesn't hit the physicalist side as hard. He does ultimately link what he's saying back to panpsychism, amongst other things, but his approach seems a little less analytical than what you might be looking for. Would love to see if anyone here can dig up anything more current/directly related to the problem of mind-body physicalism and empiricism. 

Exactly how bad is attribute A? Is it the case that these people are petty theives, serial rapists, or merely snobby or judgmental? We all agree that qualities like these are bad, but in different levels: while I might complain but ultimately cave to my friend's request to attend a dinner with a bunch of people who are snobby and judgmental, I surely would not cave to a request to go to dinner with a group of serial rapists. There ought to be some notion of how bad A actually is for society (i.e. its consequences) in order for Utilitarianism to effectively solve this problem. Assuming A has highly negative consequences for other people, then we're left at a crossroads. Say we're looking at a group of people who are awful and dangerous drivers - something that is decidedly worse than snobbishness. Lets say that in the source country, thousands of people die each year because of poor driving combined with no safety features in automobiles and poor policing that allows bad drivers to continue running people over. Utilitarianism would say that if we took these people out of this environment, let them harm a few people in our country, which is more well-policed and safety-oriented, and then locked them up for being bad drivers, we'd actually be doing the world a favor. This seems to clash with our intuition about what the "right" thing to do is: many would say that we have no obligation to import these people if many of them will kill our own citizens with automobiles upon coming here. Assuming A has few negative consequences (snobby people don't kill people) then, if coming to the host country will benefit them greatly (say they were starving in their home country), we ought to suck it up and import them. Our discomfort about them being snobby is surely less than what they stand to benefit from coming here. This seems more reasonable than the above but might still rub us the wrong way - are you obligated to help a materially poor yet incredibly rude and obnoxious person? A lot of people would say that you're justified in walking away from a visibly intoxicated homeless person that shouts slurs at you despite the fact that your discomfort about his bad breath and lack of social etiquette is much less uncomfortable than his alcoholism and lack of reliable food and shelter. 

Ftn. In Sartre's novel Reprieve, there are several outstanding pages towards the end of the book describing Mathieu's opening to himself that he is free and is an everlasting immortal moment, which is, like light skimming the beach, could never be buried by this sand and stones and is always to be an exile from them all. 

Stoicism is a form of attaining self authenticity through the rejection of own dreams and impossible plans, for the sake of acceptance of and reconciliation with painful conditions, whereby one exercises controls over only what he has power to control. Stoic is free when he is busy with controlling own passions while the world out there is beyond his control. Sartre was distressed when he was mobilized on war in September 39. He was anxious with the perspective to be killed without having done anything great in his life. Under the impression produced by reading Heidegger he was all in the search of an "authentic position" in front of the face of danger. He first inclined towards becoming a stoicist (read "Notebooks from a Phoney War"). For Sartre that meant to quit his self-identification as a man meant to become great with his writings one day, and to put on sincerely the role of a soldier without love and future, meant to die. While being in the army in 1939, and later in a camp for prisoners of war in 1940, he felt increasingly dissatisfied with the ostrich head-in-sand, "passive" (albeit of endurance) self-positioning. He began to strenghthen in his concept according to which everything we experience (including negative feelings) has been pre-processed and taken on by our (pre-reflective) consciousness, that everything can affect us not otherwise than only through us and via our "stamp". Therefore, if I feel e.g. helpless it is due to myself, my choice to be so. Thus, a man is responsible for everything which happens with him. Sartre specially stipulates that the responsibility is not obvious to the first person perspective - not only because the choice is unreflective but also because it is not based on anything: consciousness is the basis of its possibilities and choices while consciousness itself exists by no ground; he labels this paradoxic yet fundamental human condition "unbearable" - since a man looks sentenced to be responsible for what happens with him in a way like he's just a receiver. But as long as own reaction has been self-selected and the one is responsible for it the one ought to consciously charge himself with it as if it was voluntary chosen on purpose and as if for some progress to make about oneself. ("Notebooks from...", Mon., Dec. 4.) There cannot be a world apriori/knowingly beyond control, because we can find ourselves only in such a world where our finger is in the pie already. This existentialistic stance made Sartre a soldier/captive more active than he was initially under his stoicism. A stoicist will restrict himself with doing things he feels to be in control of; a Sartrian will expand himself doing things as if his circumstances are the condition of the whole world and are what he had brought in willingly, whatever is his control radius (the control and power will then get corrected via practical acts). 

All I can conclude here is that Utilitarianism does a "just ok" job of solving this problem. Basically, the conclusion is that from this perspective, we can't just concern ourselves with how our host country will fare - we must also consider how our actions affect those in the source country as well. In some cases, it may be that despite A being very prevalent and very bad, we're actually helping the world by importing them to a society that will hold them responsible for their evil actions. It's possible that another ethical framework provides a more satisfactory answer (I'd expect deontologists to have an interesting response). I'm not sure if this is the example you were looking for, but it does provide an ethics-based reasoning as to what the best thing to do is. Part of my problem with this question is in handling all the variables - maybe my treatment of some of the variables leads me to this conclusion. Maybe we ought to consider what percent of the migrants would make of the host country upon moving as well? 

It might help to think of it like this: A: I am a qualified chef B: I have great knife skills I pick this example because it's absolutely impossible to be a decent chef, much less a qualified one, if you can't properly use a knife. You'll chop ingredients too slowly, cut yourself (or others) and not know when your knife is dull. I don't like your example because cooking well & being a qualified chef are less distinct from each other than knife skills and how good a chef one is. Lets say , as you did. In the absence of , it still may be true that . It's not hard to imagine an assassin or samurai who is an awful chef yet still has amazing knife skills (i.e. ). We also know that (there's a technical name for this that escapes me). In my case, where I exhibit both (i.e. I'm both awful with knives and a poor chef) it is still true that - it's just that in this case the operator is picking out instead of either one being a possible option. Since is still true, the material conditional itself is also true because of this equality. Hopefully this clears things up for you. 

In Critique of Dialectical Reason, vol. 1, Sartre wrote (translation from the Russian translation into English is mine) 

Consciousness (or "for-itself") cannot support contact with Being (or "in-itself") with its (the Being) characteristics of "determined", "inevitable", "contingent", "random". Consciousness flights away from these towards own possibilities. (To escape the fear of falling from the rock I change it to angst of getting in consent with my falling or even jumping from the rock.) So there can never be inevitable outcomes for consciousness to match with. Inevitable (as well as objectivistically probable) things can be for science. But science is our "thoughts", i.e. it is a collection of objects of the world - real or modeled - which can appear only in front of (or for) consciousness and not inside it. But to be an object for a consciousness (i.e. to be positioned by it) means the flight of the consciousness away from being that object towards own possibility about (concerning) the object. Thus, the citation above appears an inadequate merging of not mergeable matters. An important notion should be that Consciousness and Being (transcendent reality) are two abstractions that do not preexist their fundamental relation (the "flight"); rather, the relation preexists as primordial synthesis. There is Being (pure facticity out of meaning, causations, time) and there is ceaseless accident of dispersion or cracking of it whereby it is negated (the result of what is the constitution of world), the accident we call "consciousness". 

In addition to fallibilism, which skepticism and anti-realism both provide stances on "facts" and what we can be certain of. Both of these traditions have a rich history and are worth looking into. While these positions are certainly worthy of debate, it's not particularly philosophical to say "Well since I'm a skeptic/anti-realist there's no point in having discussions about anything because no one can ever know for certain". It's also important to distinguish the concept of "truth" from "fact": if you're committed to logic (which is a main tool of philosophy), you must accept distinction between and , even if you believe that we can never know which category a statement belongs to. To say "it is true that there are no truths" is a contradiction in terms - to say "it is true that there are no known facts" is another matter entirely. 

The Bolshevik revolution was due to the public's dissatisfaction with emperor Donald Trump's controversial one-child-per-family rule. The Bolshevik revolution was due to the public's dissatisfaction with Tsarism and the government's inability to adequately handle rebellion. 

Seems like a reasonable assessment - the justified component means that you have to believe something for a reason, not just because you believe it from birth. I'm not sure of any major philosophical theories that put much stock in the value of innate knowledge, however. 

is because Pierre currently is in the project of eating that specific meal (and ultimately, because the meal and eating of it is the outline [of qualia] of Being for Pierre), and so any sensation he gets from bites will be interpreted as good, - until he suddenly "stumbles" in this his world stream and falls out from the project to some other one freely chosen by his consciousness among several emerged possibilities. 

According to Sartre (see "The Transcendence of Ego") cartesian cogito ergo sum is a performative fallacy: who thinks this thought (active, pre-reflective consiousness, me) is not whom the thought is ascribed to (I, an inert reflective object). From this particular point of view, having "first-person perspective" designates not the consciousness but one of objects of the world, and it could be removed from the phrase as redundant. Then you are left with "I am a conscious being" which sounds similar to "cogito ergo sum". And that will suffice. When you are writing down that phrase you actually don't have the first person perspective because your consciousness is busy with writing a sentence. But you remain conscious (and free). You're keeping a dim purpose what you are writing for, and your movements and auxiliary thoughts serve that goal. Consciousness understands itself and what it is doing, even though there isn't any Ego currenlty here or Ego is seen in the past as if remembered other man. Because positional consciousness of an object or one's activity is at the same time non-positional consciousness of the self. That primordial self-consciousness (which is difficult to catch) - without being an object to oneself - is a primary evidence and needs not be proven, especially by subconscious "spooks" or neurons as "spooks". 

I'll give the Utilitarian response, out of my own interest. I'm tempted to say it won't end with a lot of great conclusions but lets see where it goes! Lets assume that P is much higher than in the host country, just for the sake of the argument. If we want a host country (and source country, for that matter) with the greatest net happiness, there are several questions that ought to be answered: 

As for your thought experiment, I don't find it particularly motivating. By asking me to "assume that math cannot be fully understood without external input", you're assuming the conclusion to your argument that mathematical knowledge is not necessarily a prior. Once you've sat down with a pencil and paper and actually proved the theorem yourself there's nothing else that can "deepen" your understanding: you already know it through and through. Maybe your understanding can be "broadened" by interpretation or visualization, but even then, these graphs are just visual representations of the logic contained in the math, not akin to how experiments relate to science. 

Real world situations usually display an amazing degree of complexity, unlike basic statements of arithmetic. Unfortunately, most attempts to extend Gödel's theorems outside of math end up mired in these types of problems. Because these theorems were developed particular to say something about number theory (more broadly, formal systems), it's often difficult for theorists to explain how ethics or other fields might constitute a formal system analogous to mathematics. Not saying it's impossible but it is unlikely that these kinds of theories work out, mainly because of how specific Gödel's work is to the philosophy of mathematics. 

A good question. The defining property of free will, i.e. freedom in choices, is the "feeling" or consciousness of the own authorship of the choice being made. Even if/when I'm forced to comply I cannot escape the glimpse, at the moment, that nothing actually is selecting the way for me, except that "foolish" me (who is, actually, nobody/anonymous this minute) who agrees with the offered. Thus, every human choice is a free choice, and responsibility is implied automatically. That would be Sartre's account. Moreover, even when I stumble and fall down, I immediately and promptly react and interpret the occasion (e.g. by the fear to break an arm and not be able to paint anymore through that). By application of a free interpretation/meaning I emerge responsible for my incident though I didn't choose to stumble. I selected to be thus fallen, instead. Freedom is spontaneous choice (of meaning and action) accompanied by the awareness of own authorship / resposibility. Or to put it differently, the apprehension that there is nobody/nothing specific is to blame except myself. The key point here, @HWalters, is that ownership belongs to (is felt by) faceless me, the Nothing, and not to I, the Something. If nothing is the decision maker, the decision is, logically, not motivated by any preexisting structure, i.e. it is not determined (subjectively) by any cause. It is motivated by no cause, a pure gap in causational chain. (It is but later that we can attribute a cause to our decision, to "excuse" it.) Thus, freedom is human (i.e. conscious) randomness (conditioned upon given circumstances). Within the scope of possible alternatives the circumstance can support, it is non-determined. A man is an entity whereby randomness becomes own while determinism gets broken. Whenever consciousness comes to play, whenever something comes to being through consciousness, determinism is canceled. Even conceived/planned decision without instant action is not your "will", it is spontaneous. It was spontaneous when it first occured to you, and it is again spontaneous when you start to act according to it: you re-invent it one more time, using your knowledge of the plan as the circumstance, and act. So, free will is freedom. Specifically "will" is a redundant word, and people do not do things by "will" as some tension or effort. It is when I reflect back on the thing done or on the difficulty to overcome to do it, I might see that "labour" of my Ego involved and start to think of (free) "will" as my instrument. "Will" is always an artefact of reflection ("I decided and did it myself", "I must decide to do it"). No "will" is actually used in real, here-and-now decision makings. Also to say: curiously, non-human (out there, universal) randomness is close, in eyes of a human, to determinism (or doom) and not to indeterminism. Both random and predetermined appear to us as contingency which is a characteristic of facticity to where we are "abandoned". Marooned for making free choices in the flight from facticity towards meaningful world.