In most jurisdictions, 16 years is old enough to work part time. You were paid above minimum wage which means the employer is 100% within their rights and responsibilities. If you can prove that you were paid less than an equivalent employee at the same time/ location/ shift for clearly discriminatory reasons (female, black etc.) then you may have a legitimate complaint. Being paid less than other employees that have 10 years experience and a relevant college degree doesn't count, they are not "equivalent" to your position. You mentioned that you compared your pay to "other professionals". At 16 you are not a professional - you are barely qualified to answer the phone. Employers have no obligation to pay any "going wage" - they have a legal requirement to pay the minimum wage. Employees have the right to not work for that employer. You appear to have exercised that right by quitting. 

There are two possibilities here: a) this is how the office works on a daily basis b) it's a subtle test to see how well you handle interruptions Either way, if you want the job your only option is take it in stride. If you don't work well that way maybe now is a good time to withdraw your application. When I first read the question I thought it was the interviewER not liking the interruptions. If you make it to the HR department your options can then extend to a sign on the door and "GTFO" to anyone who doesn't read it. Pointing weapons at the intruder is, unfortunately, usually discouraged in today's workplace. 

There can't be much reasonable expectation that you might be able to hide that forever, they are going to find out anyway, and the later they do the more they might feel uncomfortable with you hiding that, so there can't be much doubt about what to do. Just tell them upfront and do that while exhibiting an "I know I'd be good for this or other companies so I'm not particularly concerned about my professional future" demeanor, and then enjoy the added bonus of the karma points that will result from doing so, no matter you get hired or not. Mind the point made in the last sentence of @cdkMoose answer: A company that will not hire you if you are up front about this is probably not a company that will react well if they find out on their own. You're better off knowing how they react right from the beginning. You want to be known as the guy who does a good job dyslexia or not; you don't want to be known as the guy who tries to hide his dyslexia when looking for jobs. Also, some dyslexia symptoms are going to show up at some point, and you don't want your colleagues to start wondering about the reason for those symptoms and coming up with guesses, you want them to know that's just because of your dyslexia. If you choose not to tell, I would also thoroughly research the legal side of hiding your condition from your employer. 

So we have a situation where the customer wants an update but the vendor doesn't want to do it, and asking politely hasn't worked. Yelling at tier 1 won't accomplish anything. You need to convince the company that they want to do it. How you do that depends on how much contract muscle you have with them. If your service contract entitles you to this kind of service, then wave it at them. Begin with "This call is being recorded." Yes, they are likely recording their end but this puts the agent on notice that you have a copy too. Get someone to formally decline to make the change, then tell them your company's lawyers will be in touch and they might want to get the going-to-court suit cleaned. I once made a government agency go away, permanently, with this technique. Send recordings of the calls to your boss. If you do not have any contract leverage, you have to make them want to push out an update. Since your boss said "any means necessary", get everyone else in the company to call the vendor's support desk and complain about the bug. Then call again. This will involve a lot of waiting on hold but that's what speaker phones are for. And don't worry about putting their agent on hold while you take your own calls. Remember who's paying whom here, and remind the vendor of that as well. Frequently, as they have apparently forgotten. The winner here will be the one with the greater phone resources and/or patience. Make sure everyone tracks their time and send a frequent report to your boss. I have generally found that being rather firm with T1 support, followed by "I would be happy to take this up with your supervisor / T2" results in a quick transfer to the next level up, but I do not accept voicemail. Their boss is paid more to handle these things, so they can handle it. If the vendor's office is in the same city, pay them a visit (remember, Boss said "any means necessary"). The next step, open warfare, depends heavily on which country you and the vendor are in. Get your boss to approve a budget and schedule in advance. 

As a software developer, I have found myself defending the code I wrote many times. But I think that this is a more generic question as it's not "should I have defended my code" it is 

And my answer is It depends. Did you offend them? Were you rude? Were you arrogant? Even if not, when the interviewer was arguing with you, did the tone of your voice give off a "what's this B/S you are telling me now" attitude? Then yes apologize. But not for having the courage of your own opinion. Apologize for your attitude. Apologizing or not is (IMHO) not a question for workplace specifically, it is for interpersonal skills in general. Try to apologize (again IMHO) only when you've hurt someone, not if you did what you thought was right and they simply didn't like it. Otherwise, you will not only find yourself apologizing way too often, but you will also give the impression that whenever someone tries to put the blame on you, even wrongfully, you will gladly accept it and apologize. Lessons - Notes for the future Now it seems a bit obvious to me that you are in the process of finding a new (or perhaps your first job). In my opinion, every interview should be a good lesson for the future, regardless of its outcome. You can do the same for this one. Have in mind that you are not yet in their payslip, so you don't have any obligation to agree with anything they tell you specifically for the code, because they don't pay you yet to write their software. If you have cultural differences, now it's the time to unveil them without forgetting your manners. The trap here is that if you both insist, you will end up in a non-technical argument, and then it's a whole other situation. It's better to stop the argument in a polite "let's agree to disagree" manner, and move on. One way to exit that situation is in ray's comment who he actually suggests to throw the ball in their court, and let them elaborate what the problem with your solution was. There are multiple benefits from that: first, this is an exit strategy. Your question was should I apologize, the answer is not to get yourself in that position at first. By asking them to elaborate rather than defending your solution minimizes the risk. Then you have them explain to you their disagreement. If it's for the sake of disagreement, you've exposed them. If there is a real reason behind that, then you can see how can you resolve these in the future, should you work with that person in the future. Finally, always remember that the interviews work both ways: they interview you and you interview them as well. And there is no way to improve your skills other than practice (as sad as it might be). So ask yourself these: Do you want to work with them? Do you want to work with someone who argues for simple things and makes big issues out of nothing? Do you want to work for a company that promotes this culture? Even if this is a test as others have mentioned, it emits a message like . I'm exaggerating of course, but if they want to prepare you and test you for these situations, then this means that this is the norm. Or that they have lost/fired employees for that reason and it's been such a major issue to cover it in the interview. Disclaimer: How much you stick to the above, heavily depends on how badly you want the job. If it's your first one, then you might want to apologize even if it's somebody else's fault. But then just be careful not to become a "yes-man" by habit down the road. 

Given the situation you described, in my opinion no matter how you react on the outside (smile, answer them back, ignore them, talk to them, complain with managers, anything), the only thing that can affect their behavior for real is: how you actually feel in the inside. Don't ask me how can they perceive that, I don't know, but they do. I don't know why in certain environments those dynamics get triggered and in other environments they don't, either. But when humans act as a group they can end up behaving not that differently from other animals. As long as you keep feeling that bad for the pranks they play on you, nothing can change the situation, not even their superiors ordering them to stop (this would actually make the situation worse). By taking their pranks that seriously and feeling that bad you are just signaling to them "it's working", thus calling for more. And this doesn't mean they do it on purpose in order to hurt you; not at all; this is subconscious stuff, probably linked with our animal instincts of domination or something like that. You say my Colleagues play funny pranks on each other . Do they feel as bad as you do when other colleagues play pranks on them ? It doesn't sound so. Then why would you ? Why do you take it that differently from how they take it when it's done to them ? Consider going with the flow. If you can't, start looking for another job or into changing team. Unless you are in an environment which as a whole is unbelievably unusual for a civilized society, chances are you are just taking it in the wrong way.