So while it was once an important Roman, and historic early Christian city. It really stopped being a "city" due to plague and an Earth Quake. Then it was abandoned for hundreds of years. 

( I was living in Alabama in the mid 1980's when George Wallace won his last term as Governor. He did it with overwhelming support from the African American Community. He was a populist at heart I guess, and he used those skills to worm his way into a new political base and revive his political career, when the State of Alabama's political landscape had changed significantly. ) 

I would not say "in ancient battles, being encircled meant defeat". Because that's not true. I would say, "in all battles, being encircled means defeat, unless you have good leadership which is prepared. Thus not so much in "ancient battles" does encirclement means defeat, just in the Battle of Cannae(216 BC). Encirclement alone wasn't the deciding factor in the Battle of Cannae. It's not like the Romans thew down their arms and surrendered after they were encircled. Encirclement is cited because it was seen as an achievement by a master tactician in general Hannibal of Carthage. Taking 40,000 and encircle the much larger 80,000 Roman army. It is why even to this day we consider Hannibal one of the greatest military tacticians ever. Hannibal did this because he believed the well disciplined Roman legions were both vulnerable to their rear and would panic if encircled. The Romans at Cannae used specific formations to wage war and those formations did not operate well with enemies in their rear. Which wasn't a problem because nobody could image a commander being able to encircle 80,000 Romans. The subsequent slaughter enabled by Hannibal's tactics both proved Hannibal right, and decided the battle. Contrast this with the Roman battle of Alesia (52 BC). The Romans under Julius Cesar laid siege to the Gallic fortress of Alesia. Alesia's allies arrived and surrounded the Romans who were still surrounding Alesia. (think of a giant donut) Cesar planned for this and had built fortifications in an outer ring to his fortifications besieging Alesia. At one point the Romans were outnumbered by 4 to 1 and surrounded. Yet in the end the Romans won, because they had the superior leader, and had planned well. 

The "truth" behind Socrates forced suicide though is not in the proceedings. The far reaching meaning is what Plato ascribes. Average People cannot be trusted with self governance. Democracies fail to protect minority's from the tyranny of the majority. It's why the founding fathers of the United States did not trust Democracies, and never intended to create one. That is why most countries today are Republics and not true Democracies. It's why in the United States we have an electoral college which has overturned 2 or our last 5 Presidential elections. Hell it's why in the original Constitutions people didn't even get to vote for their president or senators directly. Longer more PC Answer 

Yes, it was discussed at the highest levels of government. From Israeli classified papers released May of 2017, we know it was mentioned and discussed at a cabinet meeting. Sources 

Short Answer: The New York Times had endorsed FDR in 1932 and in 1936 but did not in 1940 and the stated reason was over his Breaking with George Washington's moratorium on a third Term. 

In 1957, Johnson hoped that he would both be given credit for passing the bill by the bills northern supporters, and would be given credit for weakening the bill from southerners opposed to the legislature. Legislatively Johnson was successful, politically it was a failure. The weakened bill passed. However, Johnson lost the Democratic nomination for the Presidency in 1960 to the junior Senator from Massachusetts, John F. Kennedy who had a much bolder agenda on civil rights. As @congusbongus stated above in his answer...Lyndon Johnson was first an ambitious politician who long craved to become President. As a Freshman congressman in the 1930's he told his staffers to refer to him as LBJ because it sounded like FDR. "FDR-LBJ, LBJ-FDR "get it?". Johnson had arrived in Washington planning on becoming president. (From Master of the Senate, page 100) In preparation for the 1964 election Johnson would prove to be one of the boldest and most effective desegregationists when it was politically in his interest to be so. On November 22 1963, President Kennedy was shot and killed in Dallas Texas; leaving Johnson President. The fallen President who had tried and failed to pass what would become the 1964 civil rights bill. Now with the entire nation mourning, it was in Johnson't political interest to do what many thought was impossible. Pass this landmark legislation and broaden his own political base by showing he was a man of vision capable of leading the agenda which Kennedy had presented and sold to the nation. Johnson would resurrect and pass the most comprehensive civil rights bill in the nations history. **Robert Caro Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer and historian on Lyndon Baines Johnson ** 

James Madison (1788) At the Constitutional Convention, a proposal was made and rejected to allow the Federal Government to suppress a seceding state “A Union of the States containing such an ingredient seemed to provide for its own destruction. The use of force against a State, would look more like a declaration of war, than an infliction of punishment, and would probably be considered by the party attacked as a dissolution of all previous compacts by which it might be bound.” On the other side of the Argument you have George Washington 

Interview Bias and intimidation. The "federal interviews" were often local white citizens, not journalists, and not unbiased in the life stories they were documenting. Just as the former slaves in question were alive, so were direct relations of former slave owners. The interviewers were almost universally white folks. Interviewers themselves could be direct relations of former slave holders. These people brought their own bias and intimidation with them to the interviews. Whether conscious intimidation or not. I've had the experience of listening to taped interviews of these meetings and you can hear the interviewers leading and correcting the folks being interviewed. I listened to one interview with a young woman who was very familiar with the man being interviewed, calling him by first name in a familiar tense and referring to her grandfather his old owner. That young woman had clearly know this older man all her life and lived in the same community with him. The Jim Crow segregated south. It's quite an experience to listen too a young woman tell an older former slave about how much he liked his slave experience. Historians believe that the combination of control over who was interviewed, the bias of the interviewers, and the trepidation of these former slaves sometimes had the effect you are observing in asking this question. I did hear another tape of a former slave who was not at all intimidated by the interviewer and openly resisted attempts to change his answers, so this explanation is not a universal one. Here is a list of some of the taped interviews you can listen too from the Library of Congress. So you can hear the interviews yourself. I think we can also observe that the Federal Government at the time was run by the Democratic Party, as was the Southern State governments throughout this period. These people were in power along with Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the new deal. The Democratic Party was the party at the time of Southern Conservatives who's representatives would be in a position to dictate WPA processes and programs. At the federal level this effort was run for 5 years along with the WPA. When it was defunded in 1939 it would be run by the local state governments in the South in some states for another 3 years. 

This is also the subject of the Needham question. My own sense is that China's best and brightest were long motivated to target administrative careers as their first choice. The famous imperial civil service examinations required candidates to compete in the interpreting the classics, not preparing for new innovations (or "engines", for that matter). Bureaucrats had higher standing in traditional Chinese society than (Western-type) entrepreneurs. (This relative positions applied also to many other societies: the fate of some characters in Naguib Mahfouz' Cairo Trilogy e.g. come to mind too.) The imperial examination system was abolished only in 1905. PRC universities that do best by our contemporary (Western, post-industrial-age) metrics, such as Peking University, Tsinghua University, and Fudan University were established only in 1898, 1911, and 1905 respectively, which makes them relatively young among their international peers: Various differences in "performance" are perhaps a direct result of that. Any explanation for why China (or another ancient society) has "missed out" must perhaps consider where that society placed or places its main incentives. If we measure Chinese society (in late imperial age, say) against metrics derived from Western post-industrial-age developments (lately, publication statistics in an "information-driven" age, etc.), they are bound to appear as having "missed out", at least initially, or so it would seem IMHO. Relative performances do change, but (and this may be more relevant with respect to possible limits of growth, etc.) so do the metrics that we consider. 

It appears in the context of narrating that Abraham Lincoln and his intimate friend Joshua Fry Speed for some time even shared a bed, and whether this may indicate that Lincoln may have had a homosexual relationship. (The author thinks that the question admits no definite proof in either direction.) 

Antony Beevor's Stalingrad contains some supporting material on perceived weaknesses of the Red Army esp. following Stalin's domestic purges: 

As a beginning student of Chinese I am also learning a bit more about Chinese history. As such I am more-and-more impressed by the quality of thought that has been left behind by Chinese philosophers from the Hundred Schools of Thought period (770 to 221 BC) during the Era of Warring States , i.e. Confucius (551–479 BC), Laozi (6th century BCE), Zhuangzi (369–286 BC), etc. So many main lines of concemporary philosophic thought seemed to be alive and mature already at that remote time. Pre-Socratic and later Hellenistic Philosophy began in Ancient Greece also in 6th century with Plato (428-347 BC), Socrates (469-399 BC), Aristotle (384-322 BC), Epicurus (341-270 BC), Zeno (c. 334 BC – c. 262 BC), etc. What do we know about possible historic influences from China on developments in Greece (or the other way around). I am aware of one book (Thomas C. McEvilley: The Shape of Ancient Thought: Comparative Studies in Greek and Indian Philosophies) whose title and table of contents seem relevant to influences from India, but have not read it yet. I would also be interested in historic influences for religious thought (from Buddhism, say). 

Why did Churchill include Vienna (capital of Austria) in that list? Was it perhaps because the exact fate of Austria (which became fully independent only in 1955) was yet unknown also to him? In 1946 the country was divided into four zones of Allied occupation with the Soviet zone surrounding Vienna but comprising only about a quarter of the city (similar to Berlin). Or was it perhaps because Churchill considered a future neutral state (and that was Austria's designation from 1955) along the Iron Curtain to be de-facto in the Soviet sphere? I remember from Conrad Black's Franklin Delano Roosevelt: Champion of Freedom that at the Yalta conference in 1945 Churchill had floated the idea of reconstituting the western and southern German-speaking parts of defeated Nazi Germany as a state based on Vienna (both Roosevelt and Stalin disapproved, because of the relation to imperial Hapsburg history), so Churchill certainly was not ignorant about or uninterested in the history or fate of Vienna. 

Just yesterday I came across a textbook citation on the Thirty Years War. Here is what I (think I can) remember about the book in question: the author was professor at Charles University in Prague, his book was published in 1972 by Cambridge University Press, its cover blurb said that he analyzed new original sources that had surfaced from former noble estates, etc., to shine new light on the 17th-century period (presumably from a Marxist angle). The prof's name perhaps started with a 'P' and ended with an 'y' (almost but not quite as e.g. in Pokorny). Needless to say, I am today no longer able to trace that book and find it e.g. on amazon. Do you perhaps know the right full citation, or can you describe further leads? I have read e.g. Golo Mann on Wallenstein, and I plan to read C.V. Wedgwood for (presumably) a British view on these monumental events on the continent, so why not add another (again, presumably and from some angle) unconventional source as well. 

I have always been impressed by the elegance, symmetry (and relative modesty) of the tetrarchy founded by Roman emperor Diocletian (245 - 316). Is it something that was invented at the time or does the system draw directly on earlier precedent? 

IMO the phenomenon is clearly not restricted to Jews and to followers of the Abrahamic religions alone (as suggested in another answer): To some extent it e.g. also applies to Chinese minorities in countries such as Indonesia (as I know from a friend's family history), to Indians in Africa (V.S. Naipaul's novel A Bend in the River conveys a bit of that), and to Asian-American students excelling in top graduate schools today (let's not forget that their forefathers once were also confined to "persecuted minorities"). 

This would suggest that there effectively was at least element of atheism (or deism) in Epicureanism.