Could you see it with the naked eye, assuming 1 molecule by 1 meter by 2 cm, made of a typically visible solid element or compound? What could you make it from, assuming our current non-theoretical knowledge of elements and alloys, in order to last the longest? 

This weapon could consist of a medium that gets really cold on contact with air, thus freezing itself and super-cooling what it hits. 

Absolutely! See @IStanley's ideas for why, but note that you don't need anything vaguely rock-like. Basically, you're making fireworks. Convenient thing about these particular fireworks is that you already have the setting on fire part happening at a precise time, the part where it hits. 

So I want to start off by asking how well you considered the idea of underwater creatures using electricity. I don't think that it is actually possible to generate and use electricity underwater unless you previously developed insulation techniques. The extreme conductivity of the water makes any early experimentation almost 100% lethal. But now that I have that off my chest, I will continue by answering as much as I can. The big stumbling block in the development of a civilization is probably the creation of manufactured metal goods. After that, everything is easier. Thing is, octopi don't have bones. And bones are preferable for using human-style tools. So The octopi will probably need to make small tools with multiple purposes. As I said, though, processing metals for tools is very important, so they will need forges. Now, you can't easily build a fire underwater, so I suggest making a forge, which would be a centrepiece for this kind of civilization, on top of a volcanic vent. This kind of thing would certainly be anchored. Another highly important building is a place for octopi to sleep. I imagine that with the harder life the octopi are doomed to have, materials and food are generally shared, so living spaces can be confined to a place to sleep. But since octopi are invertebrates, all you need is a large object with lots of little holes, some bigger to house families or mating couples. I think a basic chunk of coral would do just fine. A reef would also provide food, so we have that problem solved as well. Having very little waste and with pooping in the ocean being no problem, no sanitation department is needed. Neither is transportation for distances of under a few miles, as swimming outdistances most vehicles quite efficiently. Cultivation and farming underwater looks a lot like it does above water. Scared away predators to the farm fish, cage or otherwise enclose said fish, let kelp grow and then harvest it. As for distribution, rotting is slower in saltwater, so a hollowed out boulder or some such should do, plus you can supplement your diet with passerby fishes. Transportation long distance seems somewhat important. Since buoys are moved by both current and wind they could make excellent vehicles when properly piloted. As for building materials, I would say to just use coral and rock. "The elements" are a lot less harsh on your stuff down here, so specifically manufactured building materials or cement are unnecessary. Another thing going for our octopus friends is their squishiness. Doors can be only centimeters across , rooms incredibly small as the octopi don't really need much as they are, and of course safety measures are almost irrelevant, considering how easy it is to rebuild and how hardy octopi happen to be. So while I know this isn't the question, I don't think that without fire, wood, or electricity, octopi could actually reach human levels of technology. But the nice thing is that their infrastructure would be pretty simple, as they are already a wonderful evolutionary model. 

Give it a differed language! Living separately means living with things that need new or different names, and words that have little meaning, (Ocean, snow, mushroom, things that aren't in deserts,) not sticking around. They have a totally different set of things that 'matter,' and thus, things to be talked about. 

Advanced civilization wants stuff! 0 gravity is nice No fuel required to float around in orbit. Only to move between bits. Less spread The bits are easy to identify and decide upon, being only meters apart in some places. We need rocks Advanced civilizations need more materials, and presuming they're in the area... Water Guess how much ice there is. Lots. Guess who wants it. People in space. It won't really run out There's a lot of the stuff. Verdict: Do it! 

For starters, the answer to the question as put is that yes, there will be crime. As many others have already said, there will always be crimes of passion because, well, in those cases, you aren't thinking about the consequences of your actions. That being said, there's a really strong temporary insanity defense in this case: "Your Honor, of course I was temporarily insane when I killed my wife! I'd have to be! If I weren't, I'd know that I'd get caught!" (though that's only relevant if there's a court system which cares about such distinctions). Now, as to premeditated crime, there are a few variables which are currently left open which influence the possible answers. Most significant are the number of hindsight seers and the difficulty curve in looking further into the past. The number of seers is needed in a per-capita or per-crime basis. In your question, you state that it is harder to look further into the past, but it is unclear how the difficulty ramps up: can the average seer see one minute, one hour, one day, one week or one month into the past? Looking at these two variables, we have four possible scenarios: 

Though they are different creatures entirely, they could have a shared cultural view of war similar to that of the pre-Shaka Zulu. They meet at predetermined places at predetermined times, do some light fighting, throwing spears or whatnot, and eventually just get bored and leave. Whoever "won" takes a prize of some sort, but that's mostly it. This happens because both sides have low populations and don't have independent military structures: the soldiers are also farmers or doctors, etc. Taking battles too seriously risks losing essential personnel, personnel seen as more important than whatever they're fighting for at that moment. 

A common myth about snakes is that they have a physiological need to kill their prey in order to properly trigger their digestive system (or something of the sort). This is in fact not the case, with captive-bred snakes accepting pre-killed prey without a second thought (wild-caught snakes may need to be trained to accept pre-killed prey). However, the same concept could be applied for your fantastic beast. As an evolutionary traits acquired long ago, and which may or may not be useful nowadays, the beast's digestive system is usually in a hibernating state until a specific hormonal flood triggers it. However, the beast's telekinetic powers are merely the effect of neurons firing, with no physiological effect on the beast itself (because... yeah, that's evolution for ya). However, the act of using its teeth and claws, and the significant struggle the prey is sure to offer in its attempt to escape, all release the hormones which serve to "inform" the digestive system that it should boot up and get ready for lunch. 

Obviously, the hindsight times given above are merely representative: seers can look reasonably far into the past, or not really. Let's go through these scenarios briefly: Many Seers / Average can look > 1 day, week, month into the past In this case, there probably won't be much premeditated crime. The reason for this is that if the seers can look that far back into the past, then I disagree with the vast majority of problems raised by other answers. Seers don't need to identify the perpetrator (whether or not they are wearing a mask), since they can just follow the perpetrator back in time to their home or forwards in time to their current position (if hindsight is fixed to the seer's current position, the seer can just go "ok, the perpetrator went around that corner", walk to the corner, activate hindsight once again, and repeat the process until they're at the criminal's doorstep). Kidnappings are also not an issue: start at the victim's last known location and trace their steps to the kidnapping and all the way to their present location. The only such crimes would be committed either by untouchables (judge's son, as others have mentioned) or people who have really dedicated themselves to pull it off: moved out of their house into a hotel with a fake name and lived there for 2 days/weeks/months in order to avoid being identified by seers hindsight-walking to their homes, committed the crime, and then made a hasty getaway out of the country, where the seers can't follow them to their current location. Sometime later, they can come back home. There is another possibility when dealing with not-so-long-ago hindsight (a day, for example): poison. If the criminal has access to slow-acting poison, they can use it without fear of the seers, since the seers won't be able to see who poisoned the victim. Few Seers / Average can look > 1 day, week, month into the past In this case, the seers will be stretched thin and won't be able to investigate every crime. They will probably be put in a taskforce of sorts, focusing on high profile or otherwise important crimes. Therefore, lower level crime will still exist for the most part, while high profile crimes will probably be very few and far between, or have to be aided with magic to shield the perpetrators from hindsight. The exceptions are mostly the same as in the previous section. Indeed, in this case, poison becomes especially handy: you can use a relatively short-acting poison so long as its symptoms can be confused with accidental or natural deaths (causes a heart attack, for instance). With few hindsight seers, the police will have a good chance of simply assuming it was a natural/accidental death and move on. Meanwhile, if there were many seers, the police might have seers do a cursory look into the victim's past just to check for such foul-play. Many Seers / Average can look < 1 hour into the past There probably won't be much petty crime, especially in areas near police stations. However, high profile crime probably won't be much affected, since these tend to be at least a bit thought through. If all you need to do is get an hour's head start on the police, anyone with even a modicum of discipline can probably do it. Kidnappings will probably not be affected either, since you probably can't follow the victim's footsteps in time. Few Seers / Average can look < 1 hour into the past In this case, the seers probably won't have much of an impact. They won't be able to stop serious crime and there aren't enough of them to make a dent on petty crime either.