Also, try putting a knot or twist in the straps instead of tightening the !@#$! out of them. It'll look sloppy, but vibrate much less than a perfectly flat strap. 

Liam hinted at the method that was popular in the US while back, and probably still is: follow an experienced climber and clean their gear. You'll get to see actual placements & find out how hard or easily a piece of pro should come out. Aid climbing (with bounce testing) is a great way to learn too. And a great way to kill six hours going only 100 feet... If you have access to multi-pitch crags, you can try leading when you're far enough up a route with a bomber anchor and not too many ledges. Being close to the ground may be comforting, but remember that the ground is what often makes falls lethal. 

Another benefit of a close knot is less rope movement at the tie in. This is the rare case of nylon-to-nylon contact in the safety chain, abrasion will happen with heavy use. Also, +1 for getting hit with the back up knot. 

Short answer: stay near the edges of a big concave slope, near trees or rocks that could stabilized the snow pack, or at least on a convex ridge where the snow should be less deep. Long answer: the trail that fractured is probably incidental. The sunlight was probably compacting & lubricating the snow all day, and if that guy hadn't triggered the avalanche, the next skier would have or it would have gone later by itself. That being said, the guy in is hanging out in a bad place, as avalanches from above are more likely to funnel into his location. He's not there intentionally, he's trying to recover his ski. I'll say that going straight up the middle of slope is bad for these reasons: 

I'm pretty sure bears can distinguish fresh food from year old residues. Otherwise nothing you own could ever go into bear country. Our clothes, cell phones, wallets etc have all been to so many more restaurants than your average bear, yet bears almost never take this stuff. Additional evidence: finding old old french fries under the seat of my car after many trips to Yosemite. Also, last time I checked, bears there still haven't realized they should break into RVs. So it seems they are a little picky about where they steal food. 

It might be overkill, but welding shops sell (at least) up to #5 shades as lightweight plastic glasses. Kinda ugly and very green, but the way darker than sun glasses. And you can still see the ground in front of you on a sunny day. 

Climbers have traditionally used redundancy for metal objects rather than ropes/slings/etc. because a piece of metal can fail completely, and instantly, from one crack. This is the same reason that we don't use gear that has been dropped, or has an unknown history: a microscopic crack might be there just waiting for a load to open it up. The same concerns are why cams and other pro are (used to be?) never welded, only brazed or soldered at the factory: welding introduces internal stress and microscopic cracks. A sling or rope OTOH, is made of many flexible strands so cracks don't happen to them. Multiple strands mean they have built in redundancy. And when they get damaged from abrasion, cuts and UV exposure, we can see the damage. Multiple ropes and slings are really only used to protect against external threats - rock falls, sharp edges and bad pro. 

For AT/Randonee on mountains, you'll need to go up steep (~30°) slopes on skins. You'll need a skin will cover nearly the whole ski base, and that won't slide easily at all (I think my skins require more than 10° of slope to go downhill). Because of that friction, you will not experience much that resembles cross country skiing, except for maybe some skating type action. Without skins the skis will give you no grip, you'll have to use poles & skating to go anywhere. Ideally your route will not have any long flat sections. A skill you might work on is going uphill with all that weight on your feet. You won't need to lift your foot for every step, as long as the skis tips stay on top of the snow, so that's just a matter of exercise. You will probably have to change direction on steep slopes, meaning lift one ski out, turn it ~180° then transfer your weight onto it, while your poles are sinking into that bottomless powder. This can get quite awkward and a little frustrating, so I'd practice that before committing to a long day in the back country. For the downhill part, you'll get conditions similar to groomed snow during the spring, which is easy enough. Depending on where you are you might get deep powder, very chunky sun cups, avalanche debris that's like rubble, or inch-thick ice. You can practice skiing those while in-bounds, if your local ski resort isn't too obsessive about grooming. As ab2 said, get some avalanche training, and find out about your local avalanche forecast. Get a beacon and practice using it, some ski areas will offer clinics on beacon use. Find out about the weather and don't get caught on a big icy mountain; many people have died from uncontrolled slides. Best of all go with somebody with experience. 

Take the batteries out and use them to start fires. You won't even need to encode your lat/lon in smoke signals, that feature is built in. 

I think I've gone straight up 30° on good snow, maybe steeper for short bits. This would be on old Diamir bindings and fairly stiff alpine boots. As Dakatine mentioned, not all snow is equal, powder tends to let the tails drop even further than the actual slope. So loose snow, presence of hard ice are a problem, and of course you'll also want full length skins cut for maximum grip (minimum glide). But for an upper limit on what your gear can do, I think it's a matter of comfort & balance: your heel elevators, ankles & boot flex will determine the steepest angle where you can stand up straight. 

Propylene glycol is allowed in alcoholic beverages up to 5%, and this would get you to about 29°F. You could probably throw in a little sugar, salt and good old ethanol to kick it down further. Really, nearly any solute will push down the freezing point. Maybe some salty chicken bullion, plus alcohol just to keep it from rotting. This is starting to sound like a bad idea. 

a path through a concave area is more likely to be hit by avalanches triggered elsewhere skiing across the trail may have contributed to his fall walking up a nice slope like that wastes good powder, angering the snow gods 

Leather is awesome for standing up to sparks. Just ask a welder. And some people think it's good for going outdoors too.* *But not me. 

Most ski gloves will have a waterproof/breathable layer (Gore-Tex or something similar, they should be labelled to say what it is). In my experience new gloves also seem to have a water repellant on the fabric to help water drops fall off before they get to the Gore-Tex. This surface water repellant will wear away and could be refreshed with various spray-on products (products I've used). Ideally you should be able to put your gloves (or any hard shell clothing) under a running faucet and have all the water run off. Gore-Tex is great stuff, but still better when it's dry on the outside. 

If you've missed by only a little bit, then you should be able to rap down anyway. Removing the knots, plus the rope stretch, will add a some length. But it would be best to have a plan B in case you don't reach the ground: swing to a nearby boulder, free solo the last bit, have some tall strong friends. 

The problem probably won't happen again, assuming you tighten down the kayak with reasonable force. The glass in most cars is (was originally) installed with some flexible material around the edges (rubber or urethane sealant in my experience). That stuff probably hardened on your junky old station wagon, allowing more stress to get to the glass. Also, many years of heat cycles doesn't make glass any stronger. Then when you put the kayak up there, it was the straw that broke the camels back. Hopefully your new windshield was installed with new rubber/sealant/whatever, and is now isolated from the flexing of the roof. 

I haven't been to Nepal but I currently live in Sichuan, near another edge of the Tibetan plateau. So here's my answer: Nepal, and everything near it, is in the monsoon climate- rainy in the summer, dry in the winter. Around here, December is a great time to be in the mountains. Clear skies and little chance of bad weather. Some websites about Manaslu back this up: "Best views with crystal clear air". Yes it will be cold, but daytime temperatures should be quite comfy, and at night cold & dry is far better than cold & wet. Go for it! Some websites suggest that things start to shut down in mid December. From my perspective, there is no good reason for that. I'll leave you to do further reading. 

The bigger carabiners will work better for a double rope rappel or for belaying two ropes if you're into that kind of thing. Bigger is easier to attach to your harness if you don't have belay loop (or you prefer not to use it). Also, I think that belay devices are meant to interface to a larger biner when locked off, for smoother action ... but I could just be imagining that. 

Without some kind of ground anchor, you'll have to adapt your belay setup. First of all, the belayer doesn't have much choice about where to stand. Stand as close as you can to the first clipped draw, or you'll experience the dreaded smacked-into-the-wall-got-knocked-out-and-dropped-my-partner-effect. Second, a 50% difference isn't huge - lot's of male-female climbing couples handle this. I have hoisted my belayer off the ground before, but we didn't smash into each other violently, just a gentle bump. Lastly, friction is your friend here. A little bit of a zig-zag in the rope near the bottom should prevent too much rope movement when the leader falls. If the belayer is careful, he/she should be able to keep the rope loose enough to slide through the zig-zag when unweighted. Avoid this up high, of course, as the weight of the rope will create lots of drag.