There is no quantifiable answer as the concept is illusory. Banks operate by mismatching short term debt with long term assets. This has no benefit to the economy as a whole and in fact creates inflation, risk and volitionality. Banks operate maturity mismatching because they can and it serves their own interest. There is no natural demand for banks which is why they are in need of constant artificial support from central banks (much of which happens on a daily basis). Without central bank support, banks would be accountable for mismatching short term debt with long term assets and they would quickly and rightly so burn up in a liquidity fire. Perhaps a better premise to start before mathematically quantifying the demand for banks is to ask conceptually the role banks play in an economy first. Without conceptual and contextual understanding, math is meaningless number juggling designed to impress and confuse those that don't know better. Now...it can be said it said there is a demand for money of which banks create. Imagine if we were to switch to the gold standard all of sudden. Only gold could be exchanged for services. Because gold is limited, the price for it (to acquire as a means of exchange) would shoot up astronomically. This profiting (from gold sellers to gold buyers) represents economic loss for the buyers. If they could acquire another means of exchange (say gold deposits that were not tied 100% to gold) they would not have to pay as much for the gold. So in a way banks can create competition for money. But in doing so they create either their own inflation or profiteering. Then there is of course the matter of fiat currencies competing which never ends well... Personally, that is why I'm in favor of a national depository that would negate the need for deposit banking. 

I haven't posted here in a while, but I saw this question and thought I ought to respond. No. That is the short answer to your question. After having been living and working in China for a year, I realized that nothing about its economy can be viewed separately from politics and social psychology of mainland Chinese population. Simply put, everything is different. People's Bank of China is defacto a part of executive branch of government. It sets monetary policy decisions in accordance with the government's social and economic policies, which are ultimately curated by the Chairman of the Communist Party (a.k.a the President). This makes it very predictable. If the growth target is set to 6.5%, the PBOC will provide enough liquidity to hit the target, pretty much at all costs. In China's political culture collective debates are ubiquitous, but when something is being discussed, everyone tends to converge on the leader's opinion very quickly. However, one can only speculate how PBoC board makes their decisions. It is not very transparent, like most of the political culture in the country. Everyone seems to be happy though that it is, at least, predictable. 

In analysing the correlations between money and inflation, it is important to differentiate between narrow money (like MB) and broad money (like M3). In 2008, the US monetary base did a "hockey-stick" (it grew very rapidly). But M3 (broad money) grew very gradually. This was because a lot of broad money was being destroyed by the financial crisis. In certain economic circles this has left many confused...they saw rapid growth in base money but not a correlating rate of inflation. It did not make sense and the "exporting inflation" argument became popular to explain this by inflation hawks (it is not a bad theory but doesn't tell the whole story). On the other hand, some economists and journalists argued that this was proof that monetary considerations were not important for inflation. Both are incorrect, as monetary considerations are still very important in determining inflation...you just have to properly define money. Much of the money that flows through the economy is not paper dollars...but bank deposits. So it is apt to consider bank deposits (broad money) when trying to correlate inflation to the money supply. This is why the US did not need to export dollars to see inflation rise minimally while base money spiked up sharply. 

Leveraging is done with debt. Most high net worth individuals are debt free and even if they take out loans, it is to reduce taxes. However, high net worth individuals normally have their wealth in a form of equities or stocks. For example Bill Gates' wealth is mostly in Microsoft stock, Warren Buffet's is in Berkshire Hathaway's, etc. The corporations that these rich people own can take on a lot of debt and therefore become leveraged. Debt to equity ratio of corporations like Microsoft and Berkshire Hathaway is not very high though, in fact it is below 50% for those two. You can say that Microsoft's use of debt, or leverage, amplifies its impact on the economy by 1.4x, which is not a bad thing. A hedge fund or some investment institution, on the other hand, can easily have several times more debt on their balance sheet than equity. On top of that, hedge funds can buy/sell leveraged derivatives like futures, for examples, which have a 10x leverage of their own. As a result, owners of such investment institutions CAN have a considerably impact on the economy as a result of the use of leverage. 

The cardinalities of instances $T_X$ of every subset type $X$ can be different, but there's a very obvious and rather trivial rule that if $X \subset Y$ then $T_X \geq T_Y$. For example, $(A, C, E) \subset (A, B, C, D, E)$ thus $T_{ACE} \geq T_{ABCDE}$. That's because any instance of subset (A, B, C, D, E) is at the same time an instance of (A, C, E), but for narrower (A, C, E) we can have more instances. In this description I use six instances for each subset type just bacause of limited space for pictures and those six instances are intended to reflect the overall proportion between instances having and lacking the feature. Among all these $2^5 - 1$ types, some of them are more likeli to have the feature (for this particular subset/type, there're more instances with the feature than without it), whereas other types are more prone to lack it. Please look at two figures below and the following numbers: 

For my research, I need a measure of the quality of education that I could apply to multiple countries. It must include quality of tertiary education. Standard measures like HDI Education Index are not precise enough. For example in HDI Education Index, Kazakhstan is ranked along Hong Kong, Belarus above Singapore, etc. Such absurd discrepancies destroy any hope for good results for my model. Please, if you have an idea (no matter how wild it is) what I can use as a proxy for quality of education, please share it. 

When people find jobs, they start receiving salaries and their consumption increases. Increased demand for goods and services leads to increase in prices, or inflation. Fed is expected to respond with a rate hike to keep inflation in check. 

Yes, to the extent that a component of the competitive market is unexpandable. This could be scare minerals, patents, or even just the economies of scale. Given that such scarcity exists in virtually all production, elements of a monopoly market will exist in any so-called "competitive" market. Why is this so? Because where production is limited by capacity and capacity is scarce, then price wars can not exist. Acme sells widgets for 50 dollars. As does XYZ. Acme wants more business...so they lower their price to 30 dollars. But then they have more business than they can service. They then have a shortage...and people end up buying XYZ widgets even if they are more expensive, so Acme raises their price for rationing and we're back to where we started. If Acme raises their price to 70 dollars, XYZ can't stay the same at 50 dollar, else they will sell out. So in this strange way, many "competitive" markets (like say oil) behave as one monopolistic entity. Say Acme and XYZ merge...their behavior will be the same. They will not lower prices because of fixed capacity but can and will raise prices to monopolistic levels. To the extent that factors of production can not be duplicated this will be a factor (we can't "make more oil", we can't ignore patents, and economies of scale can not be duplicated). On the last point, what I'm saying if production cost per unit have an inverse relationship with sales volume, than bigger companies will have an advantage that smaller do not. Or put another way, we can't have 50 mass makers of computer processors with the same scale benefits AMD and Intel enjoy now. 

Whether rising housing prices are a good or a bad thing depends on the stage of business cycle. If the economy is coming out of recession or economic growth is slow (below average), as it is now in 2017, then rising housing prices are generally a good thing. Housing reflects the broader state of the economy. People have more money to pay for houses, homeowners and companies benefit from real estate appreciation, lenders/borrowers are more optimistic, construction and related industries are hiring to build more houses, etc. If the economy is going strong and prices are rising rapidly, that is the sign of overheating. Lenders are lending recklessly and buyers become speculative (buying only because the prices are going up). It is not good because it causes a real estate bubble. Eventually it bursts and a lot of people lose a lot of money, like back in 2008. Or even like in 1990's in Japan: 

It depends on how competitive the taxed product is and its cost of production. In some cases, the seller can not pass the entire tax onto the consumer and the seller have to swallow some of the tax by lowering prices. This would be common in monopolistic industries with low variable costs as their prices tend to be already maxed and can not go higher (such that the volume lost would not offset the higher markups). Take oil for example. Say gas sells for 10 dollars a gallon in state A and state B which are next to each other. State B adds a gas tax of 1 dollar per gallon. If stations in state B charge 11 dollars a gallon than customers will go to State A to fill up. This forces state B stations to lower the price and eat the cost of the tax. In such a scenario this has not really affected the demand curve.