Adding more information here; according to a football stats blog more than 1 red per game is actually very rare (1% or less) in the top leagues. Here's an interesting excerpt, with a title contender 4-red game reference: 

The ideal scenario is that the ball is either cleared to a neutral zone by a defender or for instance by a goal kick. It's of course not always the case, and based on circumstances the ref could blow the final whistle at a less than optimal situation. 

Finally here's an article from the Guardian link explaining the historical aspect of wingers playing on the "wrong" side. Hope it's more clear now 

While the official page for the amendment does not have any information as to why this change was made, the wikipedia article on scrum claims that the change was to speed up the scrum: 

I cannot really comment on whether or not it's common to play for money, however I presume it would happen occasionally as with pretty much all other pub environment games. Relating the success of players from the UK and Ireland to gambling however, is rather inaccurate, in my opinion. I think it's more of a culture and audience thing; as in the more people who know, follow and play the game the more "experts" will emerge. Allow me to illustrate this with an example from football. I believe the early dominance of Latin American nations in football is essentially a direct consequence of the central value football has in these countries. The recent shift in dominance towards the European nations came after the establishment of youth academies and years of extensive outreach programs (especially in Germany :)). Similarly the over-representation of African Americans in NBA or NFL, or Caucasian Americans in NHL (ice hockey) can be similarly attributed to the culture of these sports being deeply rooted in the respective communities. Long story short, think like this: how many kids grow up dreaming to become a snooker champion in Germany vs in the UK. ;) As for a history of snooker here's a useful link. 

More money implies more success: This is actually not quite true, not all teams with rich owners get titles. More money usually means more/better players as the club would be able to attract players beyond their stature, given financial incentives. There are numerous examples of clubs giving astronomical salaries to attract players but fail to capitalise on their squad. AC Monaco is a good example. Similarly there are a series of russian clubs that have had their streak of foreign talent coming in for the $$$ but none of these clubs have made success on the international arena. Owners injecting money into clubs is the only way to "cheat" financially: This is also not quite true. There is a very thin line between what counts as injecting money, and getting a supreme sponsorship deal though business partners. 

According to FIBA rules this is clearly not OK; in summary, the rules state it in simple terms that until the ball has left the hands of the thrower it is still out of play and it's the defenders responsibility to stay out of contact with the ball or the thrower. Below is an excerpt from FIBA Official Basketball Rules 2012 (Article 17) 

I am not sure but if I remember correctly the NFL teams play 15-16 games during regular season and a couple more in the play-offs if they can make it the whole way. Why such a short season, in comparison to other leagues such as NBA where teams play 82 games in regular season and playoffs are usually a few games each round (best of 5-7-7-7)? 

It's a spectacle to get the fans fired up for the upcoming season. You typically want 2 big teams to battle it out. If they happen to be rival teams even better. Super Cup, while being an additional silverware for the winner is much lesser achievement than league or domestic cup championship (also analogous for Champions League and Europa League). Part of it is due to the fact that Super Cup is a single game, where not a whole ton of money is at stake, unlike a longer championship where the TV-rights, advertisements etc are distributed to the teams based on their performance. In other words, you win the league you get a ton of money. Another aspect is that the super cup winner gets nothing besides a trophy. League winner gets a ticket to CL, even Cup winner sometimes go to CL/EL, CL winner get qualified into CL group stage etc. Super cup winner (no matter the type of super cup) gets no additional honour or advantage, so there is actually quite little at stake. 

Addition to @rajat's answer: it usually happens in the case where the attacker actually doesn't even run to the ball, or the ball going too fast/high for the attacker to get to. It is however unusual that there is much of an "advantage" in that, as it's rare that the defending team suddenly gets into an attacking position which would justify playing an "advantage". Normally referee blows the whistle as soon as he sees the linesman's raised flag, as late offside calls are tricky for both attackers and defenders. If the flag is slightly delayed and the defending team is not being threatened by the attack anymore, the ref may choose to not stop the game for the sake of flow. 

You might realize that I have left some very obvious names out of my list, for instance Michael Jordan, or Kobe Bryant... or Tim Duncan. The reason behind this is that these players (and many other famous players of today) transcend the original roles. Both MJ and Kobe are originally SGs but I would go on to say that both have played like a point guard, both have played like a small forward. It's perhaps their flexibility that allowed them to penetrate the defense in a way they did. No matter how you look at it, Tim Duncan has one of the most remarkable careers amongst the league's big boys. He started playing with David "Admiral" Robinson who was, as @DSeita put it, an established C at the time. Which led him to play a role that can co-exist with another player of his size and caliber. Long story short, Tim Duncan is neither a typical PF nor a typical C. He's both. I think the 5-position categorization is dying out in its essence. As the game develops the players use their strengths to their advantages and the roles change. For instance, you have 7-foot Dirk Nowitzki that is essentially a SG, or at least made a career out of sinking shots, instead of dunking/blocking. I think we shouldn't try and put labels to players, but instead understand and appreciate what they have to give to the game. 

If we continue with Germany, more recent players were L. Podolski and M. Klose, who have played against Poland. The duo scored a goal in Euro 2008 and chose not to celebrate it (Podi actually scored both goals, Klose assisted one of them). 

I know what a group being open means in the later parts of a group draw, normally teams of the same country cannot play in the same group. But I find it very peculiar on the first pot, in other words the first teams to be placed to groups some groups are not "open" to a club. Does that have anything to do with the game schedule Tue/Wed and TV viewership? So that for instance Real Madrid and Barcelona do not play the same day? Or is it a completely different story? 

I would like to add a bit to @DSeita's answer; in many cases the old PG-SG-SF-PF-C categorization of players is a bit outdated. Historically the roles would be defined something like this (simplified of course): 

It seems to me that modern football is suffering from the kind of unsportsmanly behavior of diving which became all the more common, perhaps with the recent success of southern European teams/nations. For those who might not be familiar with the concept, diving is the act of fooling the referee into a wrong call, either by pretending as if the tackle is much harder than it really was (in which case the opponent might be punished with a card) or to get a free kick/penalty kick where there is no apparent foul. Not only does it result in unfair calls, but also in many cases it slows the game down due to all the unnecessary free kick calls. In many cases it is normal to see players rolling on the grass seemingly screaming in agony for a second, and up on their feet arguing with an opponent in the next... With more and more efforts going into campaigns against factors that spoil the game (such as racism) I would like to know if any steps are taken against this type of behavior aimed to interfere with the objective call of the referee? As far as I know, the referee can punish a player with a yellow card if the player is attempting to cheat the referee into giving a penalty but more often than not unnecessary cards and fouls are given as seen by instant replays from different angles. Are there any active measures to decrease this type of behavior or the pitch? 

What I can say from my personal experience is that the referee will consider two factors just before blowing the final whistle: 

Yes they can, and this happens rather often to young talents who are eligible for more than one national team. Until the player shows up at the senior team, he can still change his mind and play for another national side. So in order to "snatch" a rising star, a national team manager might call him up on the senior squad typically for a friendly match. 

The mental composure: This bit could be easier than improving your technique, since it's entirely in your head and have almost nothing to do with your body. First off, as I said the more you play the more comfortable you will be with the ball. Most important thing you need to learn/figure out is to not be afraid of the ball. I cannot stress this enough. Even professionals end up being afraid of the ball at times, avoiding the ball and responsibility that comes with it. Avoiding the ball is a terrible thing in two ways; 1) it will seriously hinder your improvement 2) it will leave your teammates in tough spots at times. There is no such thing as keeping a low profile in this type of team sports (especially in 5-a-side), you should always be available to take a pass from a teammate. Once you have established that getting the ball is not a thing to be scared off, you should concentrate on reminding yourself that making a mistake is not the end of the world. This is very crucial to understand that mistakes are part of the game, and as it happens there is only one thing you should focus on, making amends. You lost the ball by a bad pass/unnecessary dribble? Win it back! Cleared the ball towards an attacker? Cover the shot! Team sports are all about taking responsibility, once you take responsibility for your mistakes your self-confidence will improve as well as your teammates opinion of you. All that said, here are a couple of tips to reduce your stress while playing defense: 

Law 20 of the International Rugby Board states the laws regarding the scrum, and 20.1 specifies the forming of the scrum. Amendment 21 to this section states the following: 

Football is more global than ever and clubs are constantly out on the hunt for talent all over the world. Biggest clubs not only have the money to buy best players regardless of origin, many clubs have youth academies that reach out to talents pretty much all over the world. Now in the midst of Gareth Bale's potential (and according to some, imminent) transfer to a larger club (Real Madrid has stated interest in multiple occasions), I came to realise that few British stars play outside England. In comparison to South American and French, Dutch, German etc players that are all over the football scene, how come British players don't get headhunted nearly as often as players of other nationalities? Is it used to be like this in the past (70s-80s)?emphasized text I did some mental exercise to try and recall British stars going to major clubs; and I can only recall Beckham (from Man Utd to Real Madrid), McManaman (from Liverpool to Real Madrid) and Woodgate (from Newcastle Utd to... well you know it, Real Madrid). Am I missing some notable examples? I would also argue that none of these players really excelled in Spain. Looking at the stats on Wikipedia: