The yo-yo is mentioned often in Thomas Pynchon's V., including in a few chapter names. What does it symbolize? 

I have never thought of this line in reference to the Parthenon, and to me that makes no sense. Here's my interpretation: The way I've always viewed this line is as saying "every high point in hardships that I must face." The poem goes on to say: 

Quote from: here He hates all her characters because of a specific reason: they don't feel believable. Twain also criticized other classic authors, such as James Fenimore Cooper, saying he committed 

I think he truly, actually, thought that Jane Austen's characters were one-sided and not believable enough to be good. 

So the entire thing is an allegory for post-war Japan. The kangaroos, therefore, represents Americans and the Whos are the Japanese. The slogan "a person's a person, no matter how small" is really what Seuss is trying to get at. On the other hand, he also said this on the same site: 

There are no recurring characters, except in the sequels and spin-offs. For example, as you noted with "except for the sequels", there are recurring villains such as Slappy the dummy. However, in the spin-off series of Goosebumps HorrorLand, there are recurring places/enemies (such as the park itself). But in the plain Goosebumps series, no. 

It's well known that Silverberg wrote novels based on some of Asimov's stories. For example, The Child of Time was based off of The Ugly Little Boy, and Nightfall was based off the Asimov story of the same name. How many other (if any) novels/books/other works did Silverberg base off of Asimov stories? 

(I don't remember the main character's name) The book opened with the main character (an old man) living on a mostly abandoned world. I don't remember the exact setting, but it was barren of sapient life. There were animals that were like a cross between a racoon, komodo dragon, and velociraptor. They were sentient and hostile to humans, but the main character had somehow tamed them so they didn't attack him. A woman visits the man, asking for his help with something. I'm fairly certain it's not explicitly stated in the story yet, but the man understands what she wants. He refuses. It turns out there are two rival factions warring for control of pretty much everything, and he doesn't want to participate in the war. Furthermore, he doesn't trust the woman to be who she claims to be (she says she's from faction A, but she might be from B) At some point in here another man appears, heavily injured and unconscious. I don't remember much about this, except I'm fairly certain the woman kills the unconscious man. The story culminates with the reveal of the a piece of technology. This is some sort of wristband that allows the wearer to warp between parallel Earths. The old man's version of the device was older and in the form of a belt. There was an asteroid. In different versions of the Earths, the asteroid went from overshooting it on the right, to hitting the edge, to full-on collision, then hitting the left edge, to missing, etc. The old man was living on a planet where the asteroid had come close enough to obliterate life, but not actually hit and destroy the planet. The woman turned out to be evil (shocker amirite) and stole something (I think) from the old man. He chased her, and she kept running and warping from world to world. At some point they even warped to a place where the asteroid had completely destroyed the planet and there wasn't even an atmosphere. At the end, it turns out the old man was the creator of this technology. He couldn't live in a world with that tech being constantly used, so he left to live like a hermit on an Earth far away. He had created the device, and another person had refined it into a lightweight wrist device. He spared the woman and told her to leave, but she still tried to kill him. She failed, and I'm fairly certain the old man just left her for the komodo-racoon-raptor beasts to kill. He packed up camp and left for a more distant world, possibly using up the rest of his device's battery. At the end, the leader of the pack of the komodoraptors was implied to have gained human-like intelligence, implying that it would start a dog-eat-dog style civilization. Lastly, I'm fairly certain the reason the old man didn't like the technology was because he thought it would lead (spoiler: it did) to humanity exterminating other versions of humanity and pretty much any other animals they came across, cutting off their future and preventing them from evolving further. The ending possibly implied that he realized what the komodo lizards would become, but maybe not. I'm fairly certain I read this story in a collection of short stories from assorted authors, again in the US about 6 months to a year ago. 

In computer work, there's a type of system called a sandbox. It's a model, a toy, a place to try things that could cripple or destroy a working system. You create a sandbox to let a student make mistakes or conduct experiments. A sandbox isn't connected to other systems and can be reset any number of times. In this interview Le Guin uses the same general idea to describe science fiction. You can create a world to any specification and try out new ideas. If the world is destroyed, well, it was only make-believe, no harm done. That's a common strategy in SF: extrapolate a current trend to an absurd degree to show the danger. Another strategy is to create a culture with one exaggerated trait. What happens when a species gives up emotion and devotes itself to logical behavior? You won't find a large group of people willing to try the experiment over a long period of time. In SF, though, you can present such a culture as a fait accompli and explore the ramifications. Other genres (except fantasy) assume that your story takes place in a more-or-less real world. That limits the leeway you have in stretching the boundaries of what is possible. That limits the questions you can ask about the preconceptions we have about the nature of humanity. Good fiction can make you re-examine your place in society. Good SF can make you re-examine your place in the universe. 

There isn't a direct relationship, but here's a map drawn by Bertam Windle based on his correspondence with Hardy: 

The poem appears to glorify war with its talk of bravery and talk of honouring the light brigade. However, the second to last stanza appears to contradict this: 

The only occurrence of "church" in the book is in the preface, "From the Publisher to the Reader". This is also fictional but not really part of the events of the book. 

It's unknown, but it appears that although The Epic of Gilgamesh was written first, the Pentateuch (part of the Bible containing the creation stories) has the first description of the flood story. From the Idaho University page on The Epic of Gilgamesh: 

Rose doesn't recognize him, and when questioned about how to leave (to get to the Keep of Time), he abruptly tells them to try the trump again, and walks away. However, before they leave, he tells Rose: 

It's entirely possible that Thomas Nashe wrote this passage, which would account for its dated references. Hunting deer was a sport for the upper class in Shakespeare's England, with its own terminology. A one-year-old deer was a buck, at two a pricket, at three a sorrell, at four a soare. The passage has a little fun by confusing sore and soare, then soare and sorrell. In the second line, then, only the third "sore" should be "sore," the others are "soare." In the third line, he adds the letter L to soare to get sorrell (in some versions it's ell, not L, playing on yell). In the fifth line, the letter ell becomes the number L. The difference between soare and sorrell becomes fifty, so Holofernes (naturally) multiplies. Thus sorrell = soare * 50. Some versions use O instead of one. The last line extends the previous "calculation" by adding another L to get 50 + 50, or 100. There could be a play here on the soft S, which looked like f (or 1), but I doubt it. 

The site also notes that there has never been a consensus on what the poem meant, and that Williams never mentioned the meaning of the poem. Another site says: 

Vashet does at one point call sex "Loveplay," in WMF chap. 113. Additionally, one of the previous owners of Kvothe's sword is cited as "Finol of the clear and shining eye, much beloved of Dulcen." (WMF chap. 125). The Adem do have a concept of love, and maybe a concept of people in love being "partners," though not necessarily sexual partners. They may not have the specific rituals that define "marriage," but they probably have something close to is. 

The reason he wrote it is very interesting. He thought of the "person's a person, no matter how small"from his experiences in post-war Japan. He had drawn anti-Japanese cartoons during the war, and he realizes this: [from an interview here] 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter II As time passes, the letter changes in meaning. Some people "refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification". The A comes to mean "able" in their minds. (Chapter XII) Eventually, the letter becomes somewhat sacred: 

I was re-reading The Silver Chair recently, the 6th book in the Narnia series. Towards the end of the novel, 

Yes. The poem was written in response to seeing his cousin, Lady Wilmot Horton, at a ball. She is his cousin by marriage, through a man named John Wilmot, governor of Ceylon.. 

Not really private islands, and they don't really retire either. When a star is old enough and has lost enough power, it can go to one of the islands on the Eastern Ocean. While there, it recovers its strength and becomes young again by eating "fire-berries". 

When you want to read something, how do you make your choice? When you go into a library, where do you go first? When you go to the movies, what do you want to see? When we read for recreation, we choose what to read based on the mood we're in. For sentiment, we choose romance. For stimulation, we choose adventure. For fun, we choose humor. For puzzling, we choose mystery. Every story has a theme, and we want to feel it. Yes, there are subgenres and shades of emotion. Some adventure stories turn into horror. Some humor turns into romance. In the end, though, we get what we came for. If we don't get that satisfaction, that catharsis, we feel cheated. At its most basic, genre boils down to tragedy and comedy. Will things turn out well for the characters, or do some of them have to die? Will we feel happy or sad when the curtain goes down? Genre is about evoking an emotion. An abandoned house, for instance, triggers dread and not joy, while a brightly lit garden triggers joy and not dread. Writers use certain tropes to condition the reader, to influence the reader's emotions. Twisting or inverting tropes doesn't invalidate them, it only changes the perspective on them. Tropes have power. That's what makes them tropes. When we read for criticism, we analyze. We look at themes (among other things). In a short story, there may be only one emotion. In longer works, the emotion may shift or alternate. As a basic story element, theme is as much a part of literature as plot or character. Genre helps to establish the theme, so it is important to analysis, albeit in a secondary role. 

The poem both honors their bravery, but notes that their bravery got them killed. To quote this article, "Tennyson's soldiers are bold, heroic, glorious, honourable, noble and dead." 

He also wrote more stories after LOTR, in addition to a couple (non-fiction) research papers before that. So he wasn't entirely new to writing in general. 

So it's not really a retirement, it's more of a temporary break. And the last quote implies that stars prefer to be in the sky versus on the ground, because Coriakin was punished with coming down. For those who don't remember, the duffers were the (for a time) invisible and one-legged creatures. Coriakin was supposed to be guiding them. Finally, it's also unknown what punishment merits a star coming down. 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter XIII In short, the letter started as a badge of sin, but due to Hester's actions later it became something, if not to be proud of, not to be ashamed of. 

There is a town named Vardaman in Mississippi, about 40 miles southeast of Oxford. Faulkner could have borrowed the name because he liked the sound of it. What's more likely, however, is that he used the name of James K. Vardaman (1861-1930), who was governor of Mississippi from 1904 to 1908. They called him "Great White Chief," because like other Southern politicians of the time, he validated the racism of the white citizenry. By using that name for a child of questionable intelligence, Faulkner is also questioning the intelligence of the governor. 

Funerals are for the living. Deathbed promises, on the other hand, are for the dying. The story (as you note) is autobiographical, so this issue must have weighed heavily on Poe. His wife was sick, but far from dead, when he wrote this story. The loss of his mother at an early age could also have influenced his predilection for doomed ladies. The narrator claims to be insane. This is Romantic shorthand for "I'm different from everyone else, nobody understands me, I experience things intensely." Poe takes it a step further because his narrators really are insane, thanks to some horrible experience. He mirrors it by claiming he was sane before but no longer is, while presenting the "sane" part as a dream world. When his beloved dies, the narrator's outward world changes to reflect his inward world. This is more mirroring, another Romantic trope ("It was a dark and story night"), having the environment respond to the character rather than vice versa. This is when he claims to go insane. He hears murmuring in the wind. The narrator leaves the valley. This is a sort of rebirth, because mirroring. He may have broken his vow by leaving, and he certainly signals his intention to break it. This he now does. It's worth asking, though, if the vow still binds him, and if not, when it stopped. The narrator meets and marries another woman. In a horror story, the dead Eleonora would appear and wreak vengeance (a story Poe would eventually write). For now, a disembodied murmuring offers forgiveness and, once he's in heaven, an explanation. The voice mentions Eleonora in the third person and uses a "familiar and sweet voice," which could be the wind's. Of course, he's crazy, so you can't be sure. There is no way to know what Poe meant to say. There is no way to know what Eleonora herself would have said about the narrator's new love. The only thing you can truly know is how grief and redemption affect you. The real insanity would be to let grief ruin the rest of your life.