I can sympathise with your situation. A lot of advice on resumes is written for experienced programmers looking for a better job. In that case, you really need to target your resume, as senior engineers earn a lot, and companies are very picky about who they hire. So while targeting your resume maybe good advice in the general case, it may not work in your specific case. The reason being that for new graduates / people with little experience, companies know that they will have no experience, and will have to be trained/mentored anyway. So they just look at rough details on your resume. It has been a long time since my first job, but I remember the fact that since I was going to be paid a lot less than experienced programmers, my resume didn't matter that much. The interviewer looked at it, but spent most of the time talking about what subjects I took, and asking me questions on those. So in your case, just sending a generic resume maybe good enough. My advice is: For jobs you really want, like the Googles/Facebooks of the world, make sure you target your resume. For all other jobs, just send a bland resume. The sad truth of the matter is, it is a probability game. Even excellent programmers get rejected for minor things, and all you can do is keep applying. 

As a non native english speaker, yes, please do. Its not rude, and he probably doesn't know he is making mistakes. If you are so inclined, please take the time to correct him. The vast majority of people will really appreciate that. 

Thats entirely dependant on your HR department. In most cases, this won't be an issue. But they absolutely have the right to refuse (if they so wish) to grant leave during probation (at least that goes for all countries I know the stance on this of, your mileage may vary). But honestly, just talk to your HR department. Lay out to them why you want the leave, and barring any serious business reasons, it shouldn't be a problem. The earlier you do this, the better. Companies usually prefer plenty of notice on when an employee is taking time off. 

Right. Go for it, then. You have to look out for yourself, and employees quitting, while unfortunate, is a known business risk. Your current employer will be fine. (They may not like you anymore and refuse to provide a reference, but ah well) Do whats best for your career first. 

They're not hiring interns because they're looking for cheap labor, and not out of the kindness of their hearts either. These kinds of summer internships have one primary purpose: Find good candidates to earmark for after they graduate so you can identify and encourage good candidates to apply early. If you're not pursuing a degree thats required for any of the jobs the company wants to fill that way, you're not the target audience for these internships. 

The problem is that these genius types have poor social skills. People are hired for how much they add to the bottom line, not how "smart" they are. Now answering your direct question: How do you cope with it? First thing is, stop worrying about it too much. I have worked in a place I absolutely hated for a long time. It is possible if you are willing to use it as an excuse to build your skills and become a much better programmer. You need to be sure you are strong, so that you are confident you will find another job easily. Some time ago I wrote about this: 

I'm sure an explanation is given to the people fired. And each company has a rumour mill that usually knows what's going on. Rather than being worried, you need to find out the rumour mill. 

My second advice is to keep a low profile. Do your work well and go home. Keep building your skills in the background, and keep your resume up to date. That way, even if you are fired, you can be confident you will find another job soon. And the third is, don't think about it so much. You say you enjoy the work. So why not enjoy the time as well? Nothing lasts forever. Start saving money regularly, so that even if you are fired, you won't struggle financially. Edited to add: After reading JeffO's answer and his point about the 15% figure not being accurate, another point came to mind. Your company might have a macho attitude (let me guess: Its a video games company?) In these macho companies, you are expected to just get on with it, with none of this sissy 2-way communication. So the company is taking decisions, but doesn't feel it necessary to communicate why to the engineers. Which makes me think people like you are assuming the worst and having panic attacks. If so, the best thing is to quietly keep working. It's a problem of communication, not random firings. 

I don't think there's a problem. Most employers would really appreciate you working even after suffering such a loss - and they can understand that sometimes you just need a purpose to take your mind off things. Nobody reasonable expects someone who just lost 2 family members to perform at peak efficiency. If that doesn't give you peace yet, you can set up a 1 on 1 with your direct superior and explain your concerns. In all likeliness, they'll tell you its fine and that you're still appreciated in the team. 

There aren't easy answers here. You need to decide what level of acuity you can sacrifice for making your research understandable. So for instance if you know your hiring manager will be the head of research at a company, you can afford to go into more (otherwise prohibitively detailed) explainations as to what it was. In essence, you have to tailor your resume based on who will be reading it. In general, you can do some things to make it more readable for non-tech people though: 

Generally speaking, you charge for what you spend money on. So if you take a taxi, you bill the amount the taxi cost. Travel time and prep time is generally handled on an employer-by-employer basis, that means how you get compensated for it is dependant on your employer. Depending on where you live, there are additional regulations and even legal things. The only thing we can really tell you is go talk to your Boss or HR Department, because only they will know exactly what applies. If you suspect malice on their part (e.G skirting laws to pay you less) then first of all you should find a new job, and second of all consult a lawyer. Beyond that, we can't know. 

You are underestimating your time in the Air Force. You probably learnt a lot of skills that are directly relevant to engineering: Solving technical problems caused by everything from bad hardware to bad configuration. You learned how to work under extreme pressure and still deliver good results (I assume you did, or else the planes would have fallen!) You learned how to deal with politics, and still do your job (this is based purely on reading books my ex-servicemen, but it seems the armed forces are not immune to politics). Now you don't experience writing software, but that shouldn't matter. The biggest problem with CVs is the "Meh" effect. The recruiter looks at your CV and goes "Meh." Most CVs look alike, and there is nothing to separate them. Now if a recruiter sees your CV, with your 13 years experience, and next to it is some pimply kid who worked at McD, who do you think will be called in for an interview? You still need to have good technical knowledge to get the job, so make sure you are strong there too. As to what to write: Write about technical challenges you solved. Something that showed how, when faced with external pressures, like broken equipment, politics and time pressures, new technology, you still managed to complete a project on time. Give examples, so the interviewer has something to talk about. If you want more specific advice, feel free to contact me privately. 

As you can see, there is a lot of nuance for it, and you really need a native german speaker to decipher it properly for you. 

Then you should clarify as quickly and early as possible, best directly at the interview (remember, try to be nice, they have no way of knowing they misgender you). If you tell them only after signing the contract, you run serious risk of having just signed a contract working for someone who now hates you. I know, it's not supposed to be like that but in reality there are many people left who harbor resentment and disgust against transgender individuals. So if you spring it on them after signing a contract, there's a real chance you'll be stuck for a while being mistreated at a job where people now hate you. 

I think you're overthinking this. They wanted to dissolve the department. That means they're getting rid of it. Instead of laying you all off, they gave you another chance to try and see if you could contribute in a different position. That may not be working out, and they may have to get rid of you then. It doesn't strike me as particularly retaliatory. Now, it may very well be. It may even be a combination of both. Maybe they though: "Let's give these people who no longer have a place in our company in their former roles a shot at another position, see if they're good at it. If not, we even get to avoid severance/unemployment." In any case, whether or not what they're doing is legal can only be determined by a lawyer. So if you want to explore that avenue, you'll have to get one. Otherwise, the writing is on the wall for you. You know what's likely happening, so prepare for it and find another job.