Give him this picture. (The White dot is under the "i" in "him" - it’s Actually visible!) This is 1000x1000 all black pixel image with a single white pixel. 

The only correct answer to this question is "I'm looking for better opportunities, to better utilize my skills and with more opportunities for growth" Just stick with that.. it vague enough to mean anything, says you have talents and expresses the desire for long term employment with growth (Ie promotion) Yes you are not really answering the question but that's not the point, ALL answers to interview questions should server your purpose/agenda. Even if the answer of "bordom" is not held against you, it's still not a good answer because it does nothing to help you. 

The company is simply telling the Agency "We already knew about Ave65, so you don't get a finders fee." The Agency only gets paid for "unknown applicants", regardless of the position. Usually agencies first ask the applicant have you already applied to the company before submitting for this reason. I'm not a lawyer, but I don't see any reason why this would be illegal, unless you had some agreement such as an NDA. 

1) Walk over to his desk and show him how to open the code on his computer. (If you are not in the same location call him then suggest a screen share). 2) Be patient and answer all his questions. 3) Once he has none left, ask if there is anything else he would like\need, point out that there is a week left!. 4) Once done, tell him nicely but firmly "If you have question about my work, just ask, I will be more than happy to explain, there are no need for threats" 5) Followup up 2 days later asking if everything is OK. Lastly he may be asking for the SSIS Solution rather than the SSIS Package, Who knows,regardless, you need to remind him that you are on the same team and expect him to act like it. 

I can think of my 2 college friends, who were always together, even when they go for interviews for jobs. They were categorised as couples by our other friends. At last, they broke their friendship. I also have somewhat same scenario as did you, but not this much sever(I am not always with the female friends, even prefer to hang out with my male friends most of the time). I would like to mention few things as said by you, We frequently have chats Now, I would like to mention my scenario. I do have female friends, even I do have daily chats with some of my female friends. I cant remember a single day when we havnt talked. Also with one of my friends, I do have late night conversations. We are best friends and we think its normal among the friends to have frequent chats. We are always together Now about your second point. Whenever, we are together, we are not always alone. and I dont think a purpose of always being alone all the time. We are always in a group. We often go for lunch Now, about the third point. We do go for outings and watch movies. but here also we are in a group 

If this behaviour from that girl had happened before, then you should raise issue in front of higher management. They can handle it very well. As you said There were no witnesses to support my story or security cameras in that area of the building.. I dont think they will completetly deny your statement. because it is really an issue of someone's self respect and no one could raise such kind of issue without any problem(as it is against a girl, who not so usually show these kind of abnormal behaviour, atleast not in workplaces). But take in mind that dont leave this issue unheard. It it happened yesterday, it could happen tomorrow. Dont put your self respect to get hurt. If you will not care about your self respect, then no one else will 

The phrase you are looking for is forms of address, and there is a huge amount of information on the subject. The sheer amount of information points to the fact that the correct form varies from honorific to honorific, country to country and setting to setting. The best I can do is point you at some references: 

Openly, honestly, and in a culture that emphasises learning from mistakes instead of punishing failure. Without that, it's very very hard. 

There's a huge amount of research into how office layouts affect employee happiness and productivity, with some areas that have a consensus view, and others that don't. Some of the things that have a consensus view are that poor lighting, uncomfortable furniture and high noise levels have highly detrimental impacts on productivity (see 1 and 2 below and this very good TED Talk). However, one of the things that has more varying conclusions is that of office layout - specifically open-plan vs private offices. The general principle seems to be thus: 

However, most of the studies that support open plan offices tend to have "softer" definitions and measures of productivity, while studies with firmer definitions and more scientific measurement practices tend to favour private offices. The biggest negative factor against open plan offices is almost always noise, and quieter open plan offices score better than loud ones. Headphones or ear plugs are also shown to help. As such, the prevailing, though not consensus view, seems to be that private offices are better (see 3 below). References: 

The best way is simply to be open and honest about why you don't want to go - this makes it clear that you are not making up excuses to hide something else. Nobody worth knowing is going to think less of you for not wanting to spend money on food you don't like. As long as they don't feel that you're trying to avoid the team, then they've no reason to take offence. 

You just mentioned that, my boss feels very strongly that I am just a perfect fit for the job and am exceeding expectations. If you are regular enough, completing assignments on time and your boss is extremely satisfied with the outputs you are providing, then there's nothing wrong that your boss stood beside you in case of any job related issue of yours. In my case, we have to report to our team leader and we dont have direct interaction with the HR folks. We are upto the expectations of our TL. We mostly have some salary and incentives related issues every month. In every case, our TL speaks for us with the HR people. So its fair enough for your boss to stand beside in your problem. However, if your problem was severe enough, that it could put fingers on the boss's potential, then you could ask for what you can do to make up for the damage that is done. 

Thanx to all users, who had given their valuable suggestions. what i had concluded that to boost up my enthusiasm during work, as suggested by @karl beilefeldt 

I was in the same situation in the college days, but in my case, F was really a close frnd, thus it doesnt mattered that F worked or not as much as we did, but F gave the project presentation for us, in that F was really good. In my case, A always try to be a perfectionist, thus he doesnt likes any of the work done by F. Every time, F tries to mark his presence, A always denies F's work, by saying almost the same words that you said The work F did in 4 weeks, i could have probably done in 2 hours. So you better find out the best part of F(Asking a friend to leave the group is quite rude). Even if you want to do that, do it before its too late for F to get in some other project. Have an honest talk with F or even with the project guide. 

I don't think you have top ask management to come back early unless they hired a Temp or it's shift work. I would just show up on Jan 3rd. If someone asks just say "I had enough vacation, it's good to be back" 

Thank your boss for trusting you with the new responsibility and gladly accept. Then tell him to please go to the board as “this should now be an easy case to make.” If board comes back with a No, ask your boss : ”What do I need to do to get this promotion?”. Start doing those things. Then begin to quietly look for another job – Do not accept a lateral move, get the raise and promotion you deserve – either internally or externally. If your boss refuses to go to the board, ask him why – then respectfully express your disappointment in him and ask him where he sees your future with the company. Then begin to quietly look for another job – Do not accept a lateral move, get the raise and promotion you deserve – either internally or externally. 

Just to add to the other here because there is some misinformation. (Assuming you are in the US) Everyone here is wrong about getting your own - just because. If your parents are already buying a family plan, and you new employer does not cover 100% of the cost (Meaning you will have to contribute a few $100 a month) THERE IS NO REASON TO WASTE THAT MONEY. If you parents have to drop you for any reason you can signup up with your employer immediately as this is considered a Life changing event If you have such Life changing event and your employer offers health benefits they are not legally allowed to turn you down, Regardless of what you negotiated - cutting your salary may be viewed as illegally. The law is the a company cannot selectively offer some employees health and not others. Personally I believe negotiation on this is futile, because it's illegal agreement. You are better off just saying "I am worth more" 

The best way to answer this question is to think about it slightly differently: how do you best sell the idea to your colleague that you being his boss is a good thing? The easiest way to do that is to give him the recognition that he feels your mutual boss denies him, and to promote him to your mutual boss in front of him (and others). This way, you become an asset to him, and not a barrier. As for the interruptions, well, that may be a bit trickier. Depending on your relationship, it may be possible to bring this up in a direct manner, but remember to sell it to him in terms of how it hurts him (which he ultimately cares about), not in terms of how it affects you (which he ultimately doesn't). It all comes back to Jerry Maguire: 

There is much more to be learned from being in office beyond simply how to fit in well with the team, etc, etc. The primary thing that I would be looking for from any internship, in any field, is the opportunity to observe people who are skilled and successful at their job at work. With specific reference to programming, in most cases this goes beyond a simple ability to write code or design frameworks - these things can be learned from books. They are typically much "softer" skills, like communication or teamwork. It includes things like the manner in which they interact with people around them, the way the choose to lead or follow, the way they give feedback to people, etc. These are the things that are most valuable to an intern, and none of them can be learned remotely. 

The correct is to not answer the question. This way your employer is worried about you leaving but can't sure when or if you will start looking. So you answer like this : 

Lowering your Salary ask will open more positions to you. As you have more options to choose from as you can apply to lower level jobs as well as more Sr ones. But once you get the interview and they know your salary ask, I don't think it matters. So by all mean apply to lower level Jobs as well as the more Sr ones. -But when asked about salary only mention the lower rate for the lower level jobs. 

Yes, I personally would put that under an education section rather than a certification\Skills section. In that section you can list the course name and Completion date. 

Just to add because it was not mentioned. This employee may be a flight risk Very likely she is saying I don't see any future here, so there is no need to plan for it - or do extra to work towards it. 

They interviewed you, ask for your feedback then, took your feedback and used it adjust the Job Spec. Basically they are interviewing people to help then figure out what they need - once they know that, they will start seriously interviewing people, maybe. I know this sound malicious, but they just trying to find their way, and simply don't know how to hire for this specific position. In there mind if you are a good fit they will hire you - even if the likelihood of that happening is small, so there is nothing wrong with it. This is very common, though the blatantly asking for feedback before giving you there decision is clearly (at least somewhat) abusive and less common. There's nothing you can do about it, just move on and don't let it upset you.