It is possible. For 250W motor, without any limit, I can go 20 kph on a 8% grade hill. But that will burn your battery and motor, so please be careful about the discharging current limit if you are planning to DIY deep into the software/hardware. Most Chinese brand can be reprogrammed easily with a usb cable to the controller. On flat, I can go 36kph, which is 8 kph less than the rated speed of the unloaded motor. Most 250W motor can withstand 350W for a short time, but mind you, while going uphill in warm weather (~24oC), it can burn your motor easily if you do not assist the motor and let it run at ridiculously low RPM (less than 10 kph is bad for motor). Battery: DO NOT go backwards to Lead-Acid Battery. It has ridiculously long charging time, shorter cycle life, and 4xheavier than LiPO4 (2.5 kg as opposed to 10kg, and you do not want 10kg of Lead and Acid with you around). So again, NEVER think about using LeadAcid battery for your sake. The money you save does not worth the hassle you have to go through, even if you are broke and homeless... Motor: consider gear Hub motor, as they are lighter. You have cantilever brake and that's another reason to get your bike as light as possible. You can get a good Geared hub motor for £250 which weighs 2.1-2.4 kg. Controller and Wiring: get some waterproof wiring/plugs and controller so that you do not have to worry about cycling in the rain P.S In all honesty, I would sell the carbon fork to get better components for e-bike, then buy a cheap alloy fork (maybe 300g heavier, but with better e-bike components, you can save 2-3 kg of weight in the end) 

Short answer: Yes it is safe to ride on it for another thousands of miles. That is the tyre rubbing mark. This happens when the clearance is too little to allow any error in assembling the rear wheel. I have repaired a few carbon frame and happy to tell you that it is very likely that the damage is superficial. It appears to be a smooth surface, which means the worn out part is still at the epoxy/laminating epoxy resin. Just make sure that the wheel is true, and assembled correctly to prevent further damage. 

I am confident that no, bicycling has not packed so much muscle onto your legs that they are now too heavy to walk normally and comfortably. 

You will need a crown race reducer. 1-1/2" -> 1-1/8" is a pretty common size. The 1-1/4" -> 1-1/8" that you are looking for is rarer but it probably exists. Maybe the de-evolution from Chris King. If you can find that part, the existing bearing can stay. Also do some research on the Problem Solvers headtube reducer; you would just use the bottom piece. If you use this, you can use the existing crown race (and bearing obviously). 

This is throwing me off. First - using an old tire to line a new tire. This works in the "boot" situation that you mentioned but should not be generally used. Tubes are sensitive to small variations - pinches, folds, stretches - which weaken the rubber and lead to a hole. You need to make absolutely sure that you are not pinching the tube in the wire bead when mounting the tire.* You should totally be able to run the tires at the recommended pressure and you should run them at the recommended pressure. *edit - it occurs to me that you might need help with this? 

I know that the physics of disc brakes are different than rim brakes, but the differences are not intuitive to me so I want to double-check this. I understand that one fail point of single walled rims is the spoke hole; that they are prone to cracking. Will this tendency be exacerbated by a disc brake (compared to a rim brake)? FWIW, this is the front wheel I am thinking of. EDIT: if the answer to the question is no, what do I do with the various yes answers that I find? For example from Park Tool's website: 

Your bike looks like a hybrid, which gives out that you mostly ride in urban area. Adjusting handlebar height is thus beneficial because you are likely to hit 20 mph+. 

24mm refers to the diameter of your spindle (the rod connecting the two cranks) You can look for more details on this chart: $URL$ Hope this works for you :-) 

What's the advantages of bigger wheel? I feel that it's more forgiving on rough road, giving that the tyre width and pressure are the same. Is it just my imagination? Since population height is improving, why don't we have even bigger wheel by now? 

Microshift is a brand. They are Taiwan base. Most of the twist shifter operates in similar manner as you described. They are for trimming as Batman said. But in fact it is made from the same machine and parts to keep the cost down. It is all about how to set up the front derailleur in your system, and find a spot for each appropriate gearing. i.e. avoid chain rubbing on the front derailleur There is one thing that I like about twist shifter, is that when you shift up, you can go slightly higher than where it suppose to be on the front chainring. This helps your chain to shift up easier and faster. 

Would it be likely for me to break the axle, or the hub, under power pedalling? Have anyone broke their hub or axle using freewheel with inappropriate speed? (Please do not discuss in theory, I would like to see reference or your own experience) 

Upstairs: as Criggie has suggested, carrying on your left (non-drive side to your body) would be cleaner (although my pants are usually black and my bike has a chain guard so I have no problem). I would like to note that if you choose this option, take care not to dirty your sleeve. Holding the seat tube is a little bit awkward, you could try to hold the crank and see if it fits your style. You can also use the other hand, holding the chainstay, to guide/stabilize the bike 

I ride several different types of bikes for recreation. among them are a trusty 700c raleigh tri lite, a Trustier pink Giant Acapulco with front and back big steel pannier baskets (heavy), a 16" dual suspension mongoose tiny mountain bike with 20 inch tires and 5 inch cranks (legendary leg workouts to be had here) so those are my three bikes. The hills around here are tough but there are also a lot of flats in town. so heres what i will say! when it comes to hills the lighter you and your bike are the faster you will go. Ice cream is your Enemy, Steaks, Deviled eggs, Pie. After an hour or so of hard riding without any food i usually start to 'plane out' some. it is a tired leg burning feeling. but accompanying it is a lighter feeling and keeping momentum seems to get easier. this is probably the fat cells in my body resorting to the 'Beta phase' glycogen release mode. where bust strentch is exhausted and the flow begins to trickle out what glycogen is left... snacking while riding is HARD! (well. maybe not so hard on flat ground) all these little energy shot edible goo packages i see littering the roadside are supposed to get you back into burst mode, give them a try if you want but please dont litter! Trail mix works great too. Working off all the excess poundage and then supplying yourself with a steady stream of lightweight nutritious food ONLY AS NEEDED will make you go faster. IT can be done a lot faster than you think! i think i remember losing 12 or 14 pounds of bodyweight in one day a couple of times. and will routinely drop 5 or 7 pounds if i go 25 or 35 miles on either of my slower wide tire bikes. just get out biking and tell yourself ! i am not going to stop riding till this feels easier! when it starts to feel easier your body has 'planed out' and you have begun the long long road to good health and vitality. ignore your rumbling stomach and ride on. you may not quite be 'In the zone' just yet but you are getting there. herein is the key to really getting faster! and it really is good for your body as well. when it comes to the Wind and flats the heavier you are, the better. now this sounds conterintuitive but it is sort of true.... sort of. by sort of i mean that moving that heavy bike and your heavy self is obviously up to you!!! but if you are in good shape and can tackle hills on a steel bike, pie ice cream and all then wind is not going to stop you, and momentum does come into play against it. EG a leaf blows away in the wind but not a rock. flat ground is good ground on a bike. wind plus hills = tough We are Living creatures, constantly growing and such, doing things the hard way sometimes is an effective shortcut to get to the point where you will eventually break down, have to learn new things, change, and re emerge hopefully better stronger faster harder. provided you did things 'right'. otherwise trying things the hard way will most likely result in giving up right off the batt or stubbornly injuring yourself faster than your body can cope with. so back to bikes. a quality steel bike is more stable in the wind, the more weight you have under you the lower your Center of mass will be. any road bike is trickier to handle than a mountain bike due to more precise tracking, tallness and smaller footprint. the lighter and taller your bike is the less stable it becomes. not to mention less crashworthy in both cases. the Tiny bike i ride is LOW, the pedals clear the ground by and inch or two. it is not geared for fastness but it is low and compact and aerodynamically 'not that bad' screaming down steep hills at 38 mph it feels actually really safe. the incredible lowness and strong bmx handlebars, the short top tube all lend themselves to being able to put your body over the back wheel and lock the brakes down without losing control. i once T stopped this bike from about 28 mph to a stop after coming down a really steep road in the sprinkling rain. aside from eating through a good rear tire in 2 seconds, i learned that this tiny hard to pedal 7 speed really was my best bike. It is Safe and it is slow, and it is suprisingly comfortable. It has 4 bike pegs on it and it can be ridden like a jetski or a street luge. anyway , thought id give you bikers another perspective on things. Be the slow guy! he goes home tireder and wakes up stronger. LOL and if you really ride on flats mostly and want the answer to your question from left field HERE IT IS! get out your electric drill, or borrow your friends if you dont have one. take that classic steel bike that feels so fat and unloved in this modern era. AND START DRILLING HOLES IN IT! leave the rear triangle alone it is probably too skinny. drill holes through the sides of Everything else, even multiple rows if you want. id leave the tops and bottoms of the tubes alone and the corresponding front and back of the fork, because i think the bottom of each tube bears the most weight, then the top, then the sides, that is just a guess. Drill lots of holes everywhere so that they are horizontal to the ground and cross the bike right to left, same with your handlebars through the sides. Space em out at least a centimeter and make sure when youre done to Spray paint the whole thing real good (rustOleum) and check to make sure the frame is not overweakened on some grass. add drain holes if there are not any for water. a friend of mine just took an old shwinn world sport 700c bike to the scrap metal dealer and now that i think about it i really should have done this to it! all those little steel circles would really add up. Line the frame with saran wrap if the holes causing drag seems an issue! Really folks it is just that simple! i am so suprised that no one actually answered this guys question except with 'spend money on this' or 'spend money on that' when you can just drill holes in the bike and make it lighter. I do NOT reccommend this for anywhere where there are hills, or for anyone who is of a heavy build! stay safe out there. i hope i have covered the many facets that make up of bicycle speeed, offered multiple ways to creatively and inexpensively Speed up your bike and yourself (while ignoring the obvoius answer of out with the old in with the new), and also offered a counterpoint of the drawbacks of having an overfast bike and its effects on safety, workout quality, and durability. The End sincerely -Carl Langner 

I assume your question is 'How is it possible that I can still riding upright, even though the headwind is greater than my maximum riding speed?' The answer is: 

I use this product: $URL$ Since this is a tail light, it is less suspicious as a GPS tracker. You can simply charge and remove the USB cable as well. (One thing to notice since this product is not inexpensive, I epoxied the screw just to be on the safe side :D ) 

Aiming to build a shaft driven bicycle for efficiency is the wrong direction. Efficiency improvements of shaft over chain driven in bicycle is negligible. Not to mention, shaft driven is overshadowed by an (un)established market regarding gearing on bicycle. Advantages of shaft driven: 

I suspect that the abrasion from road/chainring/cogs is negligible, especially when comparing with other causes. The silica grains (SiO2, present almost everywhere) would be more of a worrying issue than the aluminium oxide, regarding chain wear. The grains are often visible (in sub millimetre size) and easily stick on the chain after a ride on any road surface. These grains create grindings (between chain and cogs/chainrings) and accelerate chain wear. The applied force also plays important roles in chain wear. An incorrect gear would create a large force between chain pins and cog/chainring. A worn chain would create a large (localized) force between (certain) chain pins and cog/chainring. A chain would wear much faster if the applied force to its pins increase. In short, aluminium+stainless combination is almost identical to stainless+stainless combination in gearing (i.e. creating the same amount of debris) . I used to make electric motor with high RPM and the best combination is nylon+metal. The clearance/applied force does have great importance over many other causes of wear. 

From my experience, the answer is no. I have been cycling across the Great Glen and have no problem with mechanical disc brake. My bike was moderately loaded with camping equipment. So the load (including me 70 kg) was around 110 kg or 242 lbs. There were continuous downhill sections but the brake works fine, thankfully. 

Well you won't believe this, but it was the seatpost in the seat tube. I replaced everything in the bike. Until the only thing left was the seatpost. And it makes total sense. The seatpost was totally dry. I figure it settled into one spot after a lot of years and the crash busted it loose, so the slight wiggling was creating a clunking that resonated through the bike. The reason it was really hard to diagnose is that the bike is a fixed-gear so I can't coast. If I could coast I would have been able to realize that the noise didn't happen when my butt wasn't moving. But since my legs are always moving, I was always making the seatpost make the noise. I lubed the seatpost and the noise went away. 

Yes, definitely, when cycling in the country in wooded or otherwise open areas you should watch out for wildlife. Not only wildlife that might get in your way but wildlife that might attack you. This applies in the In the city too. 

It is hard to spell this out but you basically hold the outer cable in your hand and with your thumb and forefinger to keep tension on the inner cable. If the outer cable (or cables, depending on the routing) is flush up against all stops the inner cable will stay tight in the lever by pulling it tight out of the other end of the outer cable. By "hook it onto the caliper cable" I am assuming you mean the straddle cable. Try this - the straddle cable has a "nut" (as you call it) attached to one end which quickly attaches/detaches from the brake arm. Detach the straddle cable. With the straddle cable detached from one brake arm, hook the straddle cable through the yoke and hold it there. Now you can make sure the other end of the cable is seating correctly in the lever. If it is still seated hook the loose end of the straddle cable to the brake arm. You might need one hand to squeeze the brakes shut while you do this.