A neutron star always results from the collapse of massive stars (from eight solar masses upwards). Massive stars have very short lifespans in the main sequence. An estimation I've found is that the time in the main sequence for a star is about $10^{10} {M^{-2.5}}$ years (where $M$ = star mass in solar masses) which for an 8-solar-mass star means about 55 million years. At this point an Earth-like planet orbiting the other star would have probably not even cooled enough to have a solid surface or liquid water on it, let alone life. So if the stars were born together, the more massive one will be already a neutron star long before the least massive one has a mature planetary system. 

Since this planet takes so much longer than Earth does to go around its star, I'm assuming the star will be brighter than the Sun, since the planet will have to be farther away. So it won't be a star like our Sun: it will be either a larger, brighter main-sequence star or a star originally like our Sun that has turned into a red giant. Having such long nights and days means that the planet is almost as good as tide-locked. The planet will need a dense atmosphere to act as a buffer, preventing temperature extremes. An atmosphere can shield the planet from the sun's heat during the day and keep the heat when the sun goes down. Water is also a very efficient temperature moderator. Oceans and lakes can absorb heat slowly during the day and then radiate it again during the night. Water also evaporates forming clouds that reflect sunlight back to space. I remember reading of a science fiction story in which most animals coped with a situation like this by migrating continuously, following the sun. The worst place to do this would be the equator, since that's where the planet rotates the fastest. If your planet is a bit larger than Earth (say, with an equatorial circumpherence of 50000 km) and it rotates once every 500 Earth days, then an animal that wanted to stay all the time under the sun would have to move at a rate of 100 km per day along the equator. Even that is not too much, actually (some large Earth animals often travel that distance in a day looking for food). As for plants and slower animals, maybe they could do what many Earth organisms do: lie low and hibernate during the night, wake up and reproduce during the day. As for humans, maybe we could develop a mixture of these strategies. We could be engineered to be able to "shut down" and hibernate, or develop a nomadic civilization. 

I'd like to avoid retreading some very good points made earlier, but will enumerate the ones that jumped out at me as being very valid before going into what I feel is the biggest issue. In no particular order, humans have experience in the following: Technology usage and maintenance Communication and coordination of large scale endeavors Logistical networks to support military operations Air power Now, what I feel is really the most significant factor in the whole "Humans vs. Apes" scenario put forth is the simple fact that humans have been waging war for thousands of years and no other species on earth has even come close to the level of conflict that we engage in. Humans are amazing at fighting. We are an apex predator like no other. We are incredibly adaptable, and have all the most terrifyingly dangerous elements of both predators and prey. We have developed and employed weapons and tactics for every conceivable scenario throughout our history. We are able to plan for and carry out very sophisticated operations, and cooperate to accomplish them in ways that apes would need years if not generations to begin to recognize, even assuming they were intellectually capable of doing so. In my in-expert opinion, apes simply lack the military instinct that seems to distinguish humanity. Apes may fight and quarrel, but that is the equivalent of schoolyard fistfights compared to the level of military sophistication that has been demonstrated by human armies since antiquity. 

Awesome! I can talk about what I think is one of the coolest inventions of all time: the analog computer. An analog (more properly, a mechanical) computer was actually the world's first "computer" - the Antikythera Mechanism. It was an ancient Greek device that predicted the motions of the planets and other astronomical objects. Only parts of it have been found, but we can figure out a few of its basic properties. It made its "computations" using an elaborate system of gears. Fast forward a couple millennia. Let's go to England, and meet a man by the name of Charles Babbage. I'm guessing you've heard of him. He shows up in a lot of books on alternative history, because he's hailed as one of the first computer pioneers. Babbage's first "computer" was the Difference Engine, a glorified calculator that could work with polynomials. It used a lot of gears to work with polynomials and do advanced calculations. Babbage got some funding from the government, but not a lot. Later, he worked on his more advanced Analytical Engine, a machine that never got off the drawing board. It would have used punchcards and a more advanced gear system to perform "general purpose" calculations. Unfortunately, funding dried up, and Babbage never built it. Parts of it have been built, but it has never appeared in full form. An underwater civilization could certainly create one of these machines. The one issue would be ocean currents, which could disturb the mechanisms. Perhaps they could shield it with something, or else put it in an area of still water. They could build it out of metal - assuming they could make tools, as per your other question. 

1. Written records are extremely holy, reserved for the holy texts alone Learning to read is restricted to scholars of the holy texts, and is seen as blasphemy if used for other uses. This will heavily gimp any attempts to conduct experiments or gather research. Libraries are straight out. Oral recitation/memorization is the only way to pass information along. Note that this will hamper pretty much all forms of research, not just mechanical technology. Think legal, civic, philosophical, pretty much every area of possible human knowledge will be limited to that which can be learned and remembered in a human lifespan. Apprenticeships will become the pinnacle of human education, and mastering skills beyond a single craft-related area is going to be quite uncommon. Comments pointed out that it also has the neat effect of restricting accounting/trade to basically what you can count in your head and remember, which means that capitalism (and thus corporations that might invest in research) also never happens. 2. To question the natural order is blasphemy Asking questions about the world around you is a sure sign of heresy, and punishable by death. Essentially, forbid attempts to experiment with or alter things in general. This could be enforced by a general culture that frowns on any sort of curiosity, and quickly punishes people who change or question established norms. Fear of the unknown, the opposite of scientific curiosity that leads to discovery, would come to dominate people's thinking and curtail technological advances. 3. Strive always to match the labors of thy father/mother Rather than forbidding people from seeking new experiences, promote the continual pursuit of some ancestral standard of excellence (in a twisted sort of Greco-Roman ideal). Perhaps this is the path to salvation, to continually strive towards the simple and fulfilling life that was practiced for generations before you. The idea here is to have commandments which do not explicitly forbid the things that they are trying to prevent (i.e. scientific experimentation) but instead to shape a general culture that is unwilling to try new things or to step too far away from the familiar comforts of the lifestyle of their parents. If something is specifically forbidden, it is basically an invitation for heretics to engage in that behavior, which could almost have the opposite of the desired effect (i.e. mixing metals, forming educational institutions might give them those ideas immediately). Whereas, if the behaviors forbidden don't really seem that enticing (who wants to have to sit in class and learn to write? You don't want to be a priest do you?) or the behaviors are discouraged in an indirect manner, this system will have much greater overall longevity. Look to the world of Dune for some inspiration on how despite a ban on mechanical computation devices, or AI of any kind, spacefaring society still managed to make certain developments and work around imposed religious limitations. 

On a certain planet, there is a large population of falcon-like birds. They dominate the avian ecosystem. However, a population of nearly-identical birds soon finds its way in. The only difference between the two species is that members of the new population have four wings instead of two. What advantages (if any) would the four-winged falcons have over the two-winged falcons? Would they be faster? Quieter? Better at maneuvering? 

This isn't how stars are born. But yes, your premise works. Here's how you make a star, in a nutshell: 

A binary star system forms After billions - perhaps only millions, in larger stars - of years, one of the stars becomes a giant. The giant grows and grows until its outer layers reach its Roche Lobe. One of two things can happen: If the other star, too, is large, the stars may quickly form a contact binary. If the other star is small, matter transfer from the larger star to the smaller star may take place and then a contact binary may form. 

Something which wasn't addressed in other answers with regard to the ammunition is that over time it has a tendency to "settle". The propellant will slowly compress on the bottom, so properly stored ammunition is rotated every so often (1-3 times annually) to prevent this. Storing ammunition reliably for a long period of time is quite tricky, and generally requires monitoring and effort. It's possible that storing it vertically (i.e. base down and bullet up) would mitigate this effect, although I have no knowledge or experience of how that would affect the viability of the round WRT the propellant. 

The scale of the model in your image is not very realistic. At that size, it is more efficient to have two rotors, like the V-22 Osprey. In order for four rotors to be feasible, you would need a much larger body of aircraft, so that the four rotors are required for stabilization. I am not an aeronatical engineer, but I suspect that the reason drones use quad rotors is that they are more concerned with stability and ease of piloting than efficient weight:thrust ratios. A heavy cargo plane with four rotors would be pretty cool, if there was a sensible in-universe justification for wanting a VTO/L version of the C-5 Galaxy.