You pretty much have free range here. The speed a planet rotate depends on the angular momentum it has after forming. This is influenced by a host of factors, from the composition of the planet, to its distance from the star and the gravity it experiences as well as any impacts it experiences such as comets hitting it. See this post on the naked scientist Since these factors happened in the distant past, you can make up pretty much day length without affecting your current world. However, I would be conscious of the effect of the increased day length. If the day lasts two weeks of earth time then a point on the planets surface would be light for a week then dark for a week. The temperature swing would be enormous. During the day portion, constant sunlight drive the temperature ridiculously high, and it would be difficult for any creatures to sleep or force them to go a long time without sleep if they have any sort of day/night cycle. During the night, constant darkness would send the temperature plummiting. It would be very difficult to survive these wild swings. Plants especially could suffer from prolonged absence from the sun. Just something you need to consider after you choose your day length. 

Radition kills cells and mutates the cells it doesn't kill outright. Assuming these powerful beings do just enough to keep you alive without reversing all affects of the radiation then you could expect quite a lot of nasty symptons. Hair loss. Weakness and constant lethargy from dead cells and your bodies constant need to repair itself. Nausea, skin burns and even premature aging could occur. Check out this epa link for even more info. 

I am going to try to answer this question generally. I think the first requirement for a major world or cultural transition is dissasisfaction. You need a large group of unsatisfied people to drvie the need for change. I think of the barbarians in Rome, the peasants in the French and Russian Revolutions. These people are the energy that drive the change. The larger the relative size of the group the closer the change, the more dissatisfied/gap between this population and the rest of society the greater the chance of violence. Dissasisfaction is not enough. For anything to change the dissasisfaction must be channeled into a cause or solution. There can be multiple solutions to chose from but over time there is typically one idea that most people rally behind. This gives people a necessary vision to work towards. The powerful and affluent who benefit from the current situation will typically resist this cause until a triggering event. Eventually, a triggering event will occur that force the society to react. It is typically a dramatic event like Martin Luther nailing the 95 thesis that comes after a long period of buildup. It forces society to either adapt or attempt to crush the change. The result of societies choices will create a new status que that will eventually lead to a new source of dissatisfaction. I believe it is a sign of a cultures maturity if it can resolve sources of dissatisfaciton without resorting to violence. This cycle of dissatisfaction -> solution -> triggering event -> new status quo -> new source of dissatisfaction, while oversimplified, is useful for understanding historical events, and especially for generating your own cultural shifts in your worlds. 

The easist substitute to sound is light. We already have photoluminestic organisms such as fire flies and can create their own light source, and many others, that can reflect light. Any organism that lives in space could change how it generates or reflects light to sound an alarm or communicate among its kind. However, on a planet there is usually a den or different terrain that prey can flee to escape. In the vast reaches of space, there likely isn't a similiar benifit to an early alarm, instead a warning would be a signal to congregate and prepare to defend the herd. There are some additional options to light as well. Neutrinos are very low energy so it wouldn't be impossible to send out a signal using them. The creatures would have to posses a way of reading neutrinos far better than anything we currently have since neutrinos react so rarely with normal matter. Neutrinos travel through almost any object allowing the animals to signal each other through obstacles, as long as they can consistantly detect the particles. A final idea would be a magnetic field or a way to manipulate gravity. Gravity propegates in all directions. If your creatures could manipulate it, everyone with a sensitave enough detector would read the change, regardless of what structures where in the way. Magnetic fields are similiar. Any change could be sensed and acted upon nearly instantaneously. 

Bonus question: my elves also don't like fire. Bioluminescence can replace light from fire, but what process could generate enough heat for the elves to survive the cold that doesn't threaten to consume whole forests? (Another bad experience in a previous war.) 

Yes. A large enough metor could raise a massive dust cloud over the earth and cause a large shift in geography. The dust cloud could prevent crops from growing well killing civilization by reseting the population that the earth's agriculture could support. The temperature would also plumet, killing more people unprepared for the cold. Earthquakes and other geological shifts could kill more people and turn cities and buildings into toppled ruins. Eventually, once the dust cloud cleared civilization could begin to produce more food again and temperatures would reset, allowing life to go on. 

In my setting, I have reasonably traditional Dwarves and Elves. The Dwarves magic allows them to control metals, earth, and other non living constructs. The Elves can control non sentient living things like plants and animals. In the past, during a Dwarf-Elf war the dwarves turned the elves metal armor and weapons against them. Now the elves refuse to use any metals at all. What options do they have for armor and weapons that can rival dwarven steel? I would like answers for each of the following criteria based on the elven beliefs and magical abilities to get the most useful armor and weapons: 

This would have major impacts across society. First, pornography and prostitution, gone. However, any concept of father hood? Also gone. Since sex is so common, without any DNA testing it would be impossible to tell who the father is. Over time, that would lead to a system of female inheritance. Since you don't know who your father is, all family ties would be through females and so property would follow that line. Additionally, there would only be single mothers. Perhaps the government would set up a program where all men pay a child tax, to help care for and support the children in the clan, but women would basically be on there own as far as kids go. Too keep society functioning, I would imagine getting rid of weekends for females and just have all females off while in heat so everyone else could continue working. There would also be major thoughts about the change in society. Some would embrace it and set up areas to go to while in heat. Others could try to keep up marriage and isolate themselves from anyone else of the opposite sex to stay faithful. Depending on how predictable the schedule is, humans could either continue working together and have females in heat remove themselves, or be forced to split into two separate groups to keep men from being in constant conflict with each other over the latest women. While most ancient societies valued children highly, it would likely be even harder to practice any sort of birth control or controlled population growth. If our world suddenly had the same issue, the most amusing change would be advertising. Since sex isn't constantly appealing, an advertisers main hook would be gone for most of the month. Everything else would be chaos. Any type of coed organization from schools to sports would collapse. Family ties would break down as men and women felt betrayed. Births would skyrocket as women want to be pregnant. 

In several magical system, energy is pulled from other resources. Common resources are fire, live force, a magical power source, the energy of your body, or energy from the surrounding world. In these cases a magician can easily sling a fireball with out any obvious power source. It really depends on how you design your magical system. The main limiting factor on a magicians strength and how over powered your mages are, depends on where they draw their power. There is no need for any of the things you listed to happen. Giving us more information on your magic could help us nail things down, but currently lighting a fire doesn't leave a frost trail and there is no requirement that magic do so. You could have a system whereby magicians can transfer heat, and concentrate heat into a single area. That would leave a large frosty area, and a fireball in the center, but nothing about the conservation of energy says a hypothetical magician couldn't get the energy from the fire in another way. 

This primarily depends on how human your civilization is. You might be able to customize an alien race or planet to the point where they don't really develop advanced weaponry. You could have a hive mind that doesn't fight among itself, a race with such poor eyesight that they can't use ranged weaponry, a race that uses ecolocation like a bat so any weaponry that makes noise is totally unworkable, or even just make them alergic to gunpowder. You planet could have low gravity, some exotic anti gravity material. Baring any really specific tweaks like this, I don't see a way that a human civilization would avoid inventing such weaponry. Spaceships require so much power to hurl them into orbit that any civilization that ever goes into war is pretty much guarenteed to use that energy in some aggresive way. Not only that, but space flight also requires advanced metalurgy to stand up to the strain of liftoff. Those same advances in metal would be used in armor and even armored vehicles, meaing bows and spears traveling at such low power would do nothing. Some advances in offensive weaponry would be required to offset the defensive advantage of advanced metals. 

The simplest answer would be if it attracted bugs. Many flowers have bright colors or attractive smells to get bees and other insects to pollinate them. Maybe in another world bioluminescents helps the plants get fertilized. Along the same lines, bioluminescents could repel predators, either they are light sensitive or the bioluminescent chemical reaction is poisonus or destructive to them. 

Use only natural, living components with no modifications but magic to keep the plants or trees alive. Use animal components such as horns, tusks, teeth, spider silk, or skin in addition to the plants above. Use basic magical manipulation to change the chemical and physical structure of plant and animal based substances to produce a new one, such as carbon fiber. 

In my setting, I have reasonably traditional Dwarves and Elves. The Dwarves magic allows them to control metals, earth, and other non living constructs. The Elves can control non sentient living things like plants and animals. They have more control over currently living things, then substances that were part of a living being and necessary for its surival (like leather), then nonessitial substances (fur and wool), finally orgainic substances that where just made by non sentient living things (silk). The dwarves principally wear metal armor. However, metal armor is heavy and uncomfortable for day to day use, and downright chilly in the neather regions if worn naked. Since the elves can magically control plant and animal matter, the dwarves are wary of wearing cotton and wool and having dwarven soldiers strangled by their own clothing. Dwarven Leadership is looking to you for new options that keep soldiers both comfortable and alive. Are there any options for clothing that could be comfortably worn under metal armor that never were part of a living creature? Is there any comfortable way to create metal armor so that it can be worn without anything underneath? With no better options, the dwarves will consider substances made by living creatures with a metalic base, hopeing to have an equal magic footing there. They are also open to additional potential solutions. 

Depending on how your magic system works, there are more than enough potential energy sources to start a fire. In the Inheritance Cycle, magicians can pull energy from their own bodies or the world around them. In the Kingkiller Chronicles a magician can create a link between a heat source and the magic they want to perform(very simplified). This typically uses fire but can also pull heat and energy directly from the body. Either way, a magician needs a source of energy to perform any magic. Something like this is plausible explanation for the energy source. There is tons of energy in the world, in our cells, the chemical make up of the world, gravity, light, and on and on. Give a magician any means of harnessing this energy, and starting a fire will be simple. In fact, since a fire generates more energy than it takes to start, if a magician can draw energy from the fire started, you can snowball in available power quite quickly. As long as you give magic the necessary tools to channel existing sources of power, there is plenty of energy to go around. 

In every science fiction story, the author seems to use a different color of laser for his ships, usually to distinguish sides in a fight. X-Wings are red. Tie fighters green. The Enterprise has orange phasers, the Borg green. Leaving aside the fact that you shouldn't be able to see lasers in space, I want to know if there is any technological reason to prefer one laser color to another in space combat, or even to use a laser color not in the visible spectrum, (for that ultra sneaky affect). We know from physics that different wavelengths of light hold different amounts of energy. The smaller the wavelength and the further along you are in the blue spectrum, the more energy an individual photon has. If you shot a laser with the same total energy in red or violet light, would one burn through the hull of an enemy ship first or have any other advantage? Other factors that could make one laser wavelength superior to another are: Would changing the laser's light wavelength make it quicker to fire or be able to fire more frequently because of the energy requirements? Would the metal of the enemy hull change what wavelenght of light could melt it quicker? In the end, I want to know what is the optimum laser color for destroying an enemy spacecraft or what factors I can use to figure this out for my own world. 

Light the forest on fire and watch the world burn. Other option would be to suicide/die then come back and attack the mage as a spirt. If he is so strong and uses so much magic, he has have made himself vulnerable to attack. 

Assuming that a magic user is constantly drawing power and can't turn it off, there are several ways to deal with it. Permanant storage is one I have heard of. Amulets of power, gemstones, or some other magical artifact can store power for future use. Grounding is another option. Feed the magic into the earth or back into the magical source. Finally, you could consiously dispell it. Magicians could be forced into frequent casting or burn up. They could have a pet project or personal habbit they work on with excess magic or be required to perform community service magic, like strengthing crops or improving the weather. Also, hopefully magic wouldn't effect a person until puberty or you could passivly bleed off magic from children before they are old enough to do it themselves. 

I think false histories are both unethical and unlikely to work. Generational ships are going to want to communicate with earth and it would be hard for everyone to stay true to the story. I also don't think that would be necessary. These people on the ship left earth for a reason. Whether it was personal, or paid, a desire for adventure or a need based on population growth. The same reason would likely hold for any child were born. These children would be raised in an environment where everyone chose to go and would be raised to value the same choice. They would also have no experience of earth and everyone they know would be on the ship. Why would they return? Finally, I don't think Earth would take kindly on anyone paying back the massive investment on the ship by just coming home. I am sure the ship would be run by a captain and turning back would not be an option. As long as this isn't a prison ship or forced relocation, everyone agreed to get on this ship and I think they and their descendants have to live with it. Now for your particular points: Keeping (very long time delayed) communication channels open to Earth for as long as possible. I think this would encourage people to carry on. It would remind them why they are going, keep them connected with earth, and remind them they are no alone. I think this would be both ethical and the most likely to keep people going. Imposing a false history so that the first few generations believe there have been hundreds before them, and Earth is not even theoretically reachable. I think any form of lying would be ethically wrong and hard to carry on. How do you carry on a deception of this scale so that everyone sticks to their story. By the time the original crew all dies and their influence is lost, it probably is impossible to return to earth anyway. A false history where Earth is uninhabitable and only generation ships survived. Not only does this have the same issue with lying as the second point, but this would cause long term harm. The ship would have no way to communicate with earth if something happened or they discovered an alien race. In the future, if the ship comes across any other ships or even future ships from earth they would be shocked, cut off and betrayed. I will believe in this case the truth is both ethically and practically the right choice.