This question has been bothering me since I attempted an answer to Dmitry Ornatsky’s question about God’s omniscience: How does Plantinga's defense of free will align with omniscience I think Plantinga would say that God does not know precisely what a human being will choose to do since human beings have free will. What a free agent will precisely choose to do is not something that is knowable although one might be able to guess. My evidence for that comes from his “Free Will Defense” in God, Freedom and Evil, but that mainly concerns God’s omnipotence or his omniscient knowledge of evil states. It doesn't explicitly restrict God from knowing what a human agent will do. But now I am not sure. I am looking for a reference of some article, book or video by Plantinga discussing the idea of God knowing what a human agent will choose to do, not just God's knowledge of evil states. 

My reading of Justin Barrett’s “Born Believers: the science of children’s religious belief” suggest that a propensity for religious belief is beyond culture, intelligence or rationality. It is innate. This does not mean that a particular religion’s dogmas are innate. A particular religion attempts to mold culturally this propensity to believe which is already in the child. Also consider Jonathan Haidt’s “The Righteous Mind”. He discusses his, also innate, moral foundations one of which deals with the sacred. Haidt’s intuitionism may resolve the “rational vs irrational” part of the question by saying it is neither since most of us aggressively rationalize our snap decisions. Sometimes these prior decisions are modified by our motivated attempts to justify them, but the main job of our reasoning ability is to justify, not falsify, those commitments. See his lecture, “The Rationalist Delusion in Moral Psychology” , for a quick summary of his ideas. I don’t see this situation as “paradoxical”. It is just the way things are given those two theories and the evidence collected to justify them, but I can see it might be unintelligible or meaningless to some other perspectives. 

Assuming determinism is true these emotions of pride, guilt and remorse give us completely false information about our moral responsibility. However, these emotions are real states of mind. We actually have them. They are facts, but completely unreliable facts. But if they are not reliable, what purpose do they serve? Why do we experience them at all? This situation forces a choice upon us between two conflicting ideas. Either the empirical evidence of our emotions is completely unreliable and must be rejected or the idea of determinism, which is after all only an abstraction, is false. The very existence of this choice is a defeator for determinism which has no use for choices and so determinism should be rejected. This goes beyond emotions. Under determinism all of our cognitive faculties are unreliable as well. There is no point having them. Our very discussion here is pointless. We can’t change anyone’s mind not even our own. Because of this, it seems that the only choice that preserves rationality is again to reject determinism. If we accept determinism we are admitting that our cognitive faculties are unreliable and we are irrational. Here is the question: “If determinism is true, are emotions like pride, guilt, and remorse illusory?” Given determinism, these emotions are completely unreliable. We have them, but they give us false information. That we have these emotions, however, is problematic in a deterministic universe. They serve no purpose. This raises a doubt whether our emotions really are completely unreliable. If they are even partially reliable, which is how we experience them, then determinism is false. Based on this empirical evidence we can reject determinism. 

'R' is the proposition that our cognitive faculties are reliable. ‘E’ refers to evolution without either the theistic add-on of guided or the naturalist add-on of unguided. 'N' is the proposition that naturalism, as Plantinga will describe it, is true. What Plantinga needs to clarify is how naturalism explains the content of our cognitive processes using evolution. In the first version, he describes the relationship between beliefs and behavior. There are four ways of splitting the possibilities given naturalism. Either beliefs have no effect upon behavior or they do have an effect upon behavior. If they have an effect upon behavior those effects may be maladaptive or adaptive. If they do not have an effect it is either because of epiphenomenalism or semantic epiphenomenalism. In this version he is not specific about what causes behavior. Behavior is “caused by something or other--perhaps neural impulses--which would be caused by other organic conditions including sensory stimulation” (ND, 7). In the second version, he claims “nearly all naturalists are also materialists with respect to human beings; they hold that human beings are material objects” (WTCRL, 318) What he will refer to as “naturalism” will also contain this “materialism”. This allows him to be specific: “a belief will be a neuronal event or structure” (WTCRL, 321). It is by specifying the “something or other” left vague in the previous version as “neurophysiological properties” that allows him to simplify the argument to consider only two cases: reductive and non-reductive materialism. 

God is omniscient (all-knowing) God is omnipotent (all-powerful) God is omnibenevolent (morally perfect) There is evil in the world 

Should one get a position that validity of substantive arguments in all fields can “be translated into a formal mathematical proof”, that is, that all substantive arguments can be written as analytic arguments with entailment justifying validity then one should test that position against what Toulimin offers to counter it. 

Although Craig traced in detail al-Kindi’s argument when it came to the universe having a beginning and not being self-caused, he felt al-Kindi’s view of the True One involved a “rigorous determinism” (*The Kalam Cosmological Argument, page 35). Based on his reference to al-Ghazali in Theism, Atheism, and Big Bang Cosmology, page 66) he apparently preferred a view of God as a personal agent: 

Having agent causation allows what we are trying to explain to have a final cause or purpose or intention. It conflicts with causal determinism, but this would allow something to have meaning. $URL$ The final cause is one of Aristotle’s four causes in his theory of explanation. It attempts to answer what something is for rather that what something is made out of (material cause), what kind of thing something is (formal cause) or how did it get here (efficient cause). Science generally restricts its theory of explanation to avoid agency. If one ignores agent causation this simplification allows one to focus on the objective. For a quick view of how Aristotle fits into modern philosophy of science and agent causation, see Jack Sander’s Philosophy of Science Lecture #8 Scientific Explanation: $URL$ Let’s consider the question: In such cases, can any meaning be attributed to such events without also assuming some agent? If one sees meaning or purpose as the final cause of something, one way to view a final cause is through agent causation, however, that is not the only way. One can also view meaning, or what something is for, as something’s “function in a larger system”. This does not involve agent causation. See the Sanders video starting around 16:25 for a presentation of this. 

That someone asserts something as meaningless or as a non-question does not stop someone else later on from asserting the opposite and hence reviving the question. If one could “ultimately render” a philosophical question into a non-question, one would need a secure frame of reference from which to remove all contrary assertions going forward. One might hope rationality is such a frame of reference, but given Jonathan Haidt’s argument (see “The Righteous Mind” or his lecture, “The Rationalist Delusion in Moral Psychology”) that our reasoning is rationalization of gut convictions this may not be reliable. Someone with different gut convictions, not in accord with the current orthodoxy, may appear at any time and upset things. One might be able to politically arrange that such opponents do not appear, but one should not expect it to be a permanent solution. Political frames of reference, given the history of social change, are also not reliable. So it is unlikely there will be a way to "ultimately render" a philosophical question into a non-question. To get even more confidence that this is not likely possible, consider how non-question arguments are formed. There are at least two ways one can try to reduce a question to a non-question. One could claim the concepts in the original question can be reduced to something else suggesting that one stops focusing on the original question and concentrates rather on those other things. Or, one could try to eliminate the concepts in the original question by saying they do not exist and don’t even need to be reduced to something else. Even if one tries doing one of these two things, someone so inclined can always assert that the concepts in the original question are primitively real regardless of the reductionist or eliminativist arguments. That is, they can argue that those concepts cannot actually be reduced to something else and they need to be taken seriously. When that happens the philosophical question becomes valuable once again. For an example of failed attempts to turn questions containing the concept of causation into "ultimately rendered" non-questions, see Stephen Mumford and Rani Lill Anjum’s “Causation”. Hume attempted to reduce the idea of causation to sense experience. Russell attempted to eliminate causation. Regardless, some dispositionalists bring back causation through real causal powers taking the concept of causation as a primitive.