This is a somewhat lame answer, but I am often hunting off-trail and get spiderwebs in the face all the time. One day I just decided to decorate my face with any spiderwebs where I couldn't see a spider. Once you get one or two on your face, they stop bothering you, and the big webs with a spider in them are usually easy enough to spot and avoid. Trying doing one hike where you intentionally gather them with your face, and you might be able to happily hike along without caring afterwards. 

If chambering a round deforms or otherwise mars the bullet, it may have a decrease in accuracy. Even a damaged case can change the point of impact for very long range shots. Also, accuracy is a relative term. Anything that varies the variables from those present when you shoot from your benchrest conditions will change the point of impact and therefore "accuracy". If you are looking at "Minute of Elk" accuracy out too 300-400 yards (meaning good enough for shooting an elk at that distance under hunting conditions and keeping the bullet in the vitals), then it is unlikely that rechambering a round will have any significant impact. If you are shooting 1,000 yard elk from a prone position or other similar high-accuracy styles of hunting, then you are in a different definition of accuracy and I wouldn't do anything that might change any variable from my benchrest shooting, and that includes cycling a bullet through the gun multiple times. Another important factor is bolt versus semi-auto (ignoring lever, pump, and other actions as they are much less common). Bolt guns are gentler on the rounds and often the round is guided into the chamber with very little contact with the throat of the barrel. On magazine fed semi-autos, the bullet feed ramps can mar the bullet a little, especially because releasing the bolt into the bullet is a much more forceful action and the feed ramps are designed for ensuring cycling under a wide variety of conditions. Here, multiple chamberings can have an effect on the bullet quickly. I use a .300 Win Mag Nemo Omen like this one, and have to cycle the rounds in when I am out hunting. 

My practice is to keep that same one round rechambering each time I go out, but the other rounds in the magazine I leave pristine. If I take a quick snap shot with the round in the magazine, it is because the elk are close (<300 yards) and the round's problems are probably not going to drive me out of that 18 inch circle of vitals. If it is farther out to where I have time and need to make a more precise shot, I will eject that top round. This has the added advantage of chambering the round just like I do in benchrest conditions. I let the charging handle fly free to seat the round, then I am going to immediately fire it. It hasn't been bumping along all day where minute changes of pressure on the bolt might change how the round sits in the throat of the barrel. One thing I do to help preserve the surface of the bullet as it enters the throat of the barrel is to hand-load the round rather than let it be stripped from the magazine. The round can also be damaged when the ejector throws it out, especially if you are shooting plastic tipped (ballistic tipped) bullets as the plastic is really easy to damage. This makes the top round loaded in a way that doesn't duplicate my benchrest technique, but that top round is for shorter shots anyway. 

Trigger mechanics (finger placement, follow through, finding reset) Proper eye focus on the front sight Target identification Shot placement Safe and effective draw mechanics Reloading Basic malfunction drills (Needs to be combined with time on a real gun) Safe movement with a pistol 

Mechanical broadheads can be nice in windier conditions because they have less profile in flight to catch the cross breeze and destroy the arrow alignment. Fixed, machined, broadheads like a G5 Montec, maintain more structural integrity as they bounce off bone and rip through an animal. I can control for decreased accuracy by passing up a shot or moving closer, but I can't control too much for hitting bone, so I opt for the most stable construction possible, the one-piece machined broadhead. On bigger game, I would opt for a heavier, beefier broadhead. 

There are many variables that would influence how you transport your dog. The breed, size, temperament, and training will make certain choices better than others. I often take my dog, a black lab who weights about 70 lbs, with me in my kayak, my canoe, and small boat. She is enthusiastic, but also very well trained. This means I can ask her to sit up in the bow of the boat, the first seat in our two-seater kayak, or down on the floor of the canoe and she will stay there, mostly. She doesn't need a PFD because she swims much better in current without one than with one. On cold days, I sometimes give her a neoprene jacket that helps a little with buoyancy, but also keeps her warm. I sometimes take her just because the boat rides better with her on the bow, so I definitely encourage you to give it a try. Because she is exciteable, I have to be ready for unexpected shifts. Usually this is no problem, but I never place anything on the deck that can slide off, and I always have the gear ready for a cold-water experience (I am most often out in the winter, as we are usually duck hunting together on a river). A more stable kayak with pontoons is my favorite, but the advantage of a canoe is that when she lays down, she can't see quite as much to get excited about and will ride a little better. If you have a small dog, your lap may be better with a PFD, or if you have a large dog who is less likely to listen, you might want to skip it all together. With small dogs, get the PFD with the handle on the back so you can pluck them out. And remember, dogs can usually swim, don't wear clothes or shoes, and are generally bad-assed. A friend of mine drown while trying to rescue his two dogs who went overboard, leaving his young son adrift in the boat. The dogs swam to shore just fine, and other fishermen found his son. Stay in the boat and let the dog find her way to safety if there is an emergency. If your larger dog goes in the water, one important trick to know is how to load the dog back into the boat. The technique is specific and non-intuitive. As your dog approaches the boat, you scoot to the other side to counterbalance. Now, as your dog's paws start scrabbling at the side of the boat, reach around behind her head and cup the back of her head. Pull her head towards you. This will allow her paws to get a purchase on the gunwale or side of the kayak and pull herself into the boat. You can't usually lift very well without tipping yourself, and the dog has plenty of strength to climb in if they can get a purchase, so concentrate on giving them traction rather than lifting. Once the dog's head pops up, reach with your other hand to grab her collar and pull/lift her towards you to take a little more weight off. I practiced this technique on warm days when I didn't have anything other than me and the dog in the boat, and now I do it all the time when she goes in the water for a retrieve. With a little practice, it becomes second nature to you and the dog. 

I have what I think is a well-tuned 70# compound bow. I use a release and carbon fiber arrows. IBO is 313 fps. Real-world chrony is around 250 fps. Arrows are GT XT 5575 with QuickFletch vanes. I get good groups with my 125 grain field points at all ranges and I don't see much difference in the arrow strikes at different ranges. When I switch to using 125 grain broadheads, my group still stays relatively good, but it moves considerably up a bit and too the right. I can move my sights to accommodate the broadheads, but I want to know what is going on. I am shooting outdoors, but in completely windless conditions. Is the change in group location indicative of a problem in my overall tuning? I see lots of opinions about tuning for your broadheads on the interwebs, but I am just not sure how to make peace with the fact that my broadheads hit a different place than my fieldpoints. I would appreciate any insights. 

There are a number of aspects you need to train for shooting a gun. The specific scenario you are training for will change your choice of gear and approach. I have trained a number of people for defensive style shooting, such as that found in IDPA or IPSC competitions, or for concealed carry purposes. For indoor training, I use SIRT pistols from Next Level Training ($URL$ With the SIRT pistol, you can practice almost all aspects of pistol craft except recoil management. All of the recoil simulators I have seen have not done an adequate job of simulating any real recoil, so I have stopped considering recoil as something I need to train with. I use the SIRTs and various targets to train things like: 

Yes, it compromises your hunt. Urine is one of the most important smells that game animals use to communicate with each other, so it is a smell they are most attuned to. During mating season, urine tells the males when females are in estrus, and also the relative health of the animals. When I am hunting and I find a fresh urination spot, I smell it and I can tell quite a bit about what happened, including whether it was deer or elk, sex of the elk, and how old it is, so if a lowly human can do it, you know a deer or elk can definitely do it. You can seek another solution, like using a bottle, but I am paranoid enough about the odor that I am afraid of any leakage. I do everything I can to avoid any sort of urine smell on me while I hunt including peeing well before I get to my spot and not drinking too much water in the stand. 

Get a shotgun and just go somewhere. Look on forums or on maps for public hunting areas in your neck of the woods and just get out there with a legal setup. All you need is some open water that ducks like and a shotgun and you can probably eek out some shots. Camo is much less important than not moving at all while ducks are in the air. Bring a fishing pole with a treble hook for retrieves if the water is too deep (buy a Pocket Fisherman if you can). If you see another newbie walking around, invite them to join you. Two is always better, safer, and more fun than one. But don't tolerate unethical or unsafe behavior. Go trap/skeet shooting during the off season. This will make you a better shot, but also guess where all us experienced duck hunters go during the off season? To the trap range! While you are doing this, make friends, don't be a jerk, and don't ask to go hunting. Just demonstrate safe behavior and a pleasant manner, plus your interest in starting to hunt this fall, and you might get an invite. I have invited many people to my place for their first duck hunt this way. Join Ducks Unlimited or other conservation organization. You will meet people there too. Don't go looking for an invite or you won't get one, but be available and grateful if people invite you. Bring coffee/snacks/other tokens of appreciation. Watch duck hunting videos on Youtube. It can get you a little more dialed in on what to expect when the ducks come in. But know that you are watching the 3 minutes paired down from days of freezing and being bored. Don't get discouraged when you don't have the epic hunts that end up on youtube. Go with a guide. This can be expensive, but usually you don't need any gear and you can decide how much you like it. It can also teach you a lot about what gear works. Buy good ammo when you are starting out. If you aren't seeing huge flocks coming in all day, you want to make those few shots you get count. So assuming you have been to the trap range to make sure you can hit what comes in, buy top-shelf ammo. It will be insanely expensive per round ($3/shot), but if you aren't shooting a lot, it won't change the overall cost of your trip that much. When I can't take my dog, I shoot Kent Tungsten Matrix because I get many fewer wounded birds that I have to chase down or lose. It also makes me really sure I am not shooting birds that are too high or too far, because if every time you pull the trigger, you are sending a Happy Meal's worth of dollars after the duck, you get judicious. Buy an experienced duck hunter coffee, offer to help paint dekes or set up blinds, or do other off-season maintenance, and ask for a bit of mentoring. I did this when I was starting out and got a few choice hints about public land to hunt. If you get these tips, don't share them with others. They are a gift for you and you don't want to repay the kindness by overrunning the location with other hunters. Get out there. You don't need a lot of gear, and you will see your needs more clearly in the field than when you are sitting around pontificating about it. I have seen guys absolutely rule the ducks with a mutt of a dog missing a few limbs, one gnarly duck decoy that the dog already chewed up, and one RichNTone call from the 1950s. Mindset and tactics always overrule gear. Work on your mindset and tactics first, and then get the gear that supports how you want to hunt.