As you novel is set in near future, I would guess they would refrain from controversial physical isolation, as modern drugs could achieve the goal of controlling unpredictable behaviour so much better. This would be promoted as "treatment", and, if potential for damaging behaviour considered high, he would have become ward of the state, and be assigned visiting "caregiver" whose responsibility includes ensuring he takes drugs and does periodic visits to psychiatrist for regular assessment and providing authorities with observations and recommendation as to further actions. So to achieve his goal of staying free your protagonist would have to use his deducing abilities to play cat-and-mouse with both caregiver and doctor. Or, if by some miracle his condition was not discovered yet, he might want to play this game with AIs of facebook-like social networks that in your society likely will be tasked to identify "risky" behaviours and flag at-risk individuals. I would not worry too much about handling suspicious neighbours, as today you can avoid in-person contacts almost completely. 

Actually, it is more likely that you will see chaotic scenes if transport is being used. There would be one (or few?) Transports available, and some crew/passengers would be stationed quite far away from it, and now they have to navigate spaceship with systems shutting down to the boarding gates. While escape pods locations would be, presumably, chosen to minimize the distance each member of the crew has to cover your get into it. 

I'd also use postmodernism in presenting the conflict. The Trojan war is generally held to be a result of the "abduction" of Helen by Paris. The reality is that Troy held an incredibly powerful strategic position, and dominated trade between the Euxine (Black) Sea and the Aegean. If the Trojan war actually occurred, it was almost certainly about economic control of the region. Even the pretext of Helen is illuminating. WWI has been cast by respected historians as a war fought for no real reason, other than Europe has become a power keg in the wake of the success of Fredrick of Prussia's regimental system. (Critiques of Keegan rely on a romanticized view of warfare as an "extension of politics by other means", but should more properly be cast as an "extension of economic and political hegemony by other means.") WWI can be viewed as an unfortunate outcome of inciting event in which actors in the war were obligated by treaty to take part. 

You're asking about "unknown unknowns" (threats they wouldn't be aware of until months after building.) Game Theory tells us that in a condition of uncertainty, always assume the worst, and make decisions accordingly. In this conception, building the colony in a bunker, deep in the planet's surface is probably the safest course of action. But there is also the concept of acceptable risk, and the idea that you don't necessarily make decisions based on highly improbably circumstances. What is the net benefit vs. the risk of building on the surface? Really, it's going to depend on all of the known factors comprising the rest of your world/scenario. 

Learn a long piece of poetry or a passage of Shakespeare. You must learn it perfectly and be able to recite it without stumbles. Practice it many times getting faster and faster. Keep a graph of your progress. When your speed of recitation has peaked, measure the overall time that it takes. Fine tune the length of the text to last a time period you choose, for example an hour. You don't have to do this but it just makes later calculations easier. You now have a constant that depends only on the physical constraints of your vocal apparatus. Maintain speed by practicing every day at full speed and time yourself. Work out the mean error. People who go for world record speaking contests get down to a remarkably constant rate so the error is likely to be 'small'. (Note: I say this from memory from an interview I heard a few years back. It would need research to back it up but I'm pretty certain it's true. The same applies for athletes, they tend to peak at a fairly constant level.) 

The biggest problem will be chromosomes. Do the two species have the same number/size chromosomes? How are the genes distributed across those chromosomes? It is going to be impossible to select for this. It would require monumental strokes of luck at regular intervals. Rather like the balls coming out of the pockets of a snooker table and forming themselves into a perfect triangle. Probably the only way to do this would be to evolve them both backwards until you reached a common ancestor. This would require you to know the entire genome of the ancestor and evolve backwards to it one step at a time. Very expensive, very time consuming and completely pointless. 

I'd strongly urge you to look to Game Theory, minimax, and the rational strategy as opposed to the superrational strategy. Nash proves that cooperative behavior is mathematically optimal by analyzing minimax equilibria. In normal Prisoner's Dilemma, the rational strategy is to defect, to guarantee minimal downside, but the result, if the other agent also rationally defects, is less benefit for both participants. The superrational strategy, where both players cooperate, leads to the maximum benefit. (This is problematic in un-iterated Dilemma, but it's easy to prove that persistent defection in iterated Dilemma with a superrational agent is irrational.) Financialists don't like Nash and his ideas because it undermines the license they have to wreak havoc on the economy by pursuing self-interested goals with no concern for the fallout. Financialists, which is to say people who make their money by speculating, have more incentive to exploit Pareto Efficiency, which is gain that requires making someone else worse off, because the markets are filled with optimists (otherwise known as "marks") with less information and resources than the financialists, who can often drive the market. Pareto Improvement, under which a party or parties may benefit without making someone else worse off, is the ideal for for a society that values humanity, and produces maximum benefit for that society. The best part is, this position is not subjective, but arises out of the mathematical analysis of equilibria in the framework of Game Theory. 

My guess is One - It's bad enough with racism and even football supporters today. Species-ism would kill off all but one of the species before there was any modern concept of liberalism. This would happen as soon as they came across each other. Either they would be competing for food (both hunter gatherers) and would go to war, or they would be different - one hunter-gatherer the other prey. In the latter case, the intelligent hunters would wipe out the intelligent prey or at best farm them. Maybe they would keep some as pets - probably bred not to be too intelligent. 

There are many gods. They are all immortal and cannot harm each other directly. They rarely interact with each other except for occasional chat. A god's purpose is to get as many powers and "god-badges" as possible. Humans can choose freely which god to worship and vote on their miracles etc. There is an important difference from SE however. All gods' ultimate ambition is to become the One-and-Only deity. They must amass as many worshippers as possible with the idea of attracting the entire population of the world whilst maximising their reputation and powers. Unpopular gods can only perform small miracles. Popular gods get increasing powers according to rules similar to those of Stack Exchange. To stop things getting out of hand there are impartial Goderators. Their purpose is to make the rules for god behaviour and enforce them. Questions Given that the Goderators are utterly fair and don't want humanity to suffer too much as a result of the gods fighting amongst themselves, what rules should they draw up to keep the gods in order? What is the best strategy for a god to become the one and only god? What strategy would a god with zero followers (and therefore very limited powers) need to employ in order to attract a following. Additional facts and differences from Stack Exchange Goderators draw up a list of rules for the gods. They cannot stop them from acting but anyone who breaks the rules can have some of their powers or god badges taken away. A god cannot be banned - the worst that can be done is to remove all their reputation and badges so they must start again. Goderators can observe the human world but not affect it at all. Gods are aware of each other but cannot prevent anyone else's miracles or actions. They can form alliances but ultimately they will have to betray these if they are to become the One-and-Only. Humanity know about the gods and who did which miracle or act of destruction. They vote them up or down in their local temple. The vote is done anonymously in a god-proof cubicle so the gods cannot punish or reward for votes. Humanity does not know about the goderators. 

Weaponized nanobots from last global war, designed to set off powder and explosives spread world-wide and are self-perpetuating, but no technology exists in post-apocalyptic world to neutralize them. You also could add nanobots preventing electricity generation and/or semiconductor electronics, if so required by your story. Granted, nanobots are a somewhat handwavium device, but, on the other hand, at this point we don't know what they are truly capable of. 

As we are talking Medieval level of technology, I assume you need time for keeping calendars, as timekeeping on the scale of hours/minutes could be easily done using clepsydrae. Also, I understand you mean "solar day" lasts ~9 years, not "rotation period", i.e. time planet rotates around its axis (See wikipedia article on Venus for the example of extreme difference between two). Now, because of this peculiar geography I assume you have a need to know the time of "rotational day" for calendars and historical records. Achieving this would be relatively easy if planet has magnetic field with magnetic poles not coinciding with geographical poles, as the angle between magnetic north and true north will depend on geographical location. As your people move with solar day, the year for them will end when magnetic pole will point to true north. 

On Earth? A few zipposeconds (I haven't done the calculations) plus 8 minutes. When you see someone in the daytime, the light comes from the sun, bounces off them and then into your eye. You would trace the light beam back to the person. In other words, you would 'see' them. You could then trace the light back to the sun but you knew it came from there anyway. The same with anything else that you can see. You can only go back to the source of illumination. There aren't many perfectly reflective surfaces in the universe so usually this is two steps - one to the object being observed and two to the original light source. Photons are created when they leave the light source. They don't have any history before that. Nothing would be different. We already do see back in time. 

Although you exclude intervention by humans, I don't think it is realistic. For example, if one of the machines is constantly being blocked, its humans will notice and take action. They will find where the problem originates and then complain to the the owners of the other machine. There is no simple way to keep humans out of the equation. What the machines must do is to keep their battle private while manipulating the humans to unwittingly do their bidding. Machine A wants to shut down machine B without alerting machine B's owners to its own activities. It has to be much cleverer than simple denial-of-service and other heavy-duty tactics. The humans on both sides will notice the extra traffic. I think that the computers must use humans without the humans realising it. One way to do this is by intercepting, deleting and forging emails. 

In this case, the heavier blade is a bonus because it can have sufficient momentum to incapacitate the opponent. This is similar to the type of advantage long blades such as the Claymore confer--the arc of the swing requires defenders to stay out of it's path and forestall closing quickly, even when the great sword wielder is temporarily oriented in a different direction, although it probably works best in conjunction with plate armor. 

It's actually not an issue because "history is written by the victors", who often use their dominance to codify the evil of the vanquished. The vanquished may have been evil, but evil is a relative concept based on social mores, (despite what deolators would assert), and so, even engaging in acts that would be considered evil, it's a safe bet that most of the actors did not consider such actions evil. But the depiction of the vanquished as evil is in no way universal. Certainly this was not the case in the Iliad of Homer. In the Iliad, the Trojans are not presented as evil. Conversely, they are depicted as noble adversaries, with the subversive element that their dignity is greater than that of the Greeks, certainly Agamemnon, Menelaus and Odysseus. It's not insignificant that the epic ends with the line "And thus was the funeral of Hector, breaker of horses." Hector unquestionably possessed the greatest dignity of all of the heroes of the epic, Greek or Trojan. He neither instigated the war nor desired it, but must fight in it regardless. He is blameless and esteemed, and makes the greatest sacrifice for his country. I'd say that books where the bad guys are evil is a type of shorthand, a technique that allows the author not to have fully explicate their point of view in simplistic narrative. Another way to contextualize this is per the advice of skilled actors in portraying villains, and may be condensed into: