There is not a single "philosophical angle" on this topic. There is a branch of philosophy called Political Philosophy that deals with this subject, and many philosophers with greatly dissenting views who have written on it. Some views that may be of particular interest: 

Regarding your question, "Is there any other axiom of logic?", I would like to recommend an article by Lewis Carroll entitled What the Tortoise Said to Achilles. I had the same question, and when we read this in my theory of knowledge class, it cleared up a lot of things. In short, it is generally accepted in the field of analytic philosophy that any attempts to find an underlying axiom of logic will result in an infinite regress. However, I have found that some areas of continental philosophy, (specifically phenomenology/intentionality and in some of Nietzsche's works). These works are considerably more difficult to read and to comprehend than most analytic philosophy, but if you put in the effort you will encounter interesting alternative paradigms for logic and philosophy. 

I'm not sure how nobody has mentioned this yet, but the most discussed philosophical work on the topic you have presented is Rene Descartes's Meditations on First Philosophy. The most relevant part of this work to your question is Meditation I, however, to be properly understood, it should be read in context of the complete work. Several full-text translations of Meditations on First Philosophy are available online at: 

I have no way of knowing for sure, but I've studied philosophy pretty extensively and two different works came to mind in reading your question. I think there's a good chance your professor may have been alluding to Hume On Miracles from Enquiry into Human Understanding. You can read about it here: $URL$ . The basic idea is that miracles can't exist because we redefine our understanding of the laws of nature to accommodate any "miraculous" event when new empirical evidence proves that a miracle is possible. Its not difficult to see how this could be extrapolated to humans and perfection. (If a person did it, then we have evidence that an imperfect being did it, so it can't be as perfect as if a perfect being did it, etc.) The other work is Sartre's Being and Nothingness. He describes the human condition as trying to be God and necessarily failing. Understanding this requires delving into Sartre's existential ontology, but I found a resource that gives a decent overview of how this might relate to your question (based on his Existentialism as a Humanism lecture). Link: $URL$ Once again, this answer is speculative, but I hope these references help you gain insight to something that's probably been nagging you for a while 

In addition, the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article on Descartes' epistemology has a particular section that corresponds directly to your question. It is available online at: 

Consequentialist Libertarianism John Stuart Mill's 1859, On Liberty made the case that "over himself, over his own body and mind, the individual is sovereign". Here is a helpful excerpt from the Wikipedia page: 

So, any "quantification of soundness" is going to require that we don't know the truth value of at least one of the premises. Now let's revisit your question: "Are there quantitative measures for the soundness of an argument?" Since we can determine this depends on the truth of the premises with unknown truth values, we can rephrase the question as "Are there any quantitative measures for the truth of premises with unknown truth values?" When phrased this way it becomes clear that what you're actually asking for is Probability, defined on Wikipedia as "the measure or estimation of how likely it is that something will happen or that a statement is true". Probabilities are also ranged over the Boolean domain, but include real numbers and not just integers. So, means that the statement will never be true and means that the statement will always be true. Mapping probabilities to logical/set operations is pretty intuitive. Intersection of premises multiplies the probabilities of their truths to get the probability of truth of the composite judgment. So, if there is a 0.5 probability that P is true and 0.4 probability that Q is true then there is a 0.2 probability that both P and Q will be true. This type of math works equivalently for greater numbers of premises. That should be enough for you to get started. The point is that the quantitative measure of the soundness of an argument can be reduced to the probability that all its premises are true. 

By attributing semantic meaning to emptiness, the foundations of mathematics can be derived without any dependency on a "physical world". This unique approach to iconic representation of thought takes its roots in C.S. Peirce's logical graphs and semeiotic theory. It was refined by G. Spencer Brown's Law of Forms. William Bricken has been the major contributor to this line of thinking in recent times and has even gone so far as to implement the foundations of the alternative paradigm in executable computer code. A short paper by Bricken, The Mathematics of Boundaries: A Beginning (PDF) describes the construction of both arithmetic and logic out of empty space. If you want to know if mathematics can be separated from the physical world, I think a good starting point is to evaluate the validity of a mathematics that is based on the absence of any world (physical, mental or synthetically axiomatic). Enjoy. 

Sometimes it's clearer if you step back and try to understand exactly what you're asking. Let's break it down: 

Boolean Logic represented in Venn Diagrams. This certainly adequate for representing the type of example in your question. However, representation becomes more complicated when you deal with more complex sets of propositions C. S. Peirce's existential graphs. They are not that well known, but it sounds like they are exactly what you are looking for. 

This is a controversial topic, with various conflicting view points. In general, sentience at least requires consciousness and the ability to feel pleasure and pain. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article on animal consciousness gives a good, non-biased account of what criteria for sentience is compatible with which epistemological and ontological positions. The issue is broken down into two particular questions, which are discussed thoroughly in the article: 

which means that for all x, x is a sin if and only if there is some y such that y is a divine law and x violates y. What would then for there to be a unifying concept of sin across religions? It would entail a unifying concept of the relation of actions that violate rules and also at least one instance of a divine law that is agreed upon as divine by believers of each religion. The first criterion is pretty easy because pretty much everyone knows what it means to break a rule. The second criterion is the real meat of your investigation: Does a rule exist that is considered to be divine divine law that all religions agree upon? What's a divine law exactly? I'm understanding this to be a rule that some deity (or deities) agree people should obey. The fact that the deity in question is different for different religions isn't really relevant to the question since you're asking about the "concept" of sin. This concept could be parameterized with an abstract deity without diluting the concept, (that parameter would later be filled in with a reference to whatever deity/deities (Mohammad, Jesus, Elvis, etc.) are considered to emit "divine laws" in the corresponding religion). If we are to allow the concept to be further parameterized with a rule, then we have already arrived at an abstract concept, central to all religions that represents "sin". This basically posits your question as the answer, in that there is a unifying concept of sin across all religions, but that concept is defined relative to the gods and rules of that religion. It may be that you're not actually looking for the unifying concept, but the unifying instance, which would be some action that would be considered a sin for practitioners of all religions. So, in this case we can narrow down the question to an anthropological one rather than a philosophical one. This approach can never practically prove that such a rule does exist (as there will always be the possibility of more religions with other rules), but it could disprove the assertion that such a unifying rule exists by means of a counterexample. That counterexample would be a finite set of rules, where each rule is not considered to be a rule by at least one other religion. I could make up a trivial example, "I believe my cat is God, and the only sin is not feeding her on time" and since not all religions agree with this, we've negated the existence of such a universal rule. That kinda feels like cheating, plus I have a better counter-example that's not contrived. Checkout LaVeyan Satanism - a religion that is defined in direct opposition to mainstream Judeo-Christian thought. You could probably find the schism necessary to prove global inconsistency by contrasting this religion with Christianity. Now, this wasn't part of your question - but I have an intuition that what you might be after is an underlying moral principle that pervades human consciousness and maybe you are looking at sin and religions in hopes that such an underlying moral principle would manifest in all world religions. If this is the case, then I'd recommend reading Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals, which gives the best purely logical evaluation of morality that I've encountered. 

6 is broken. You cannot derive from the definition of the Universe as the set of all things, that the Universe is itself a thing. It's easy to see why one might make this mistake. After all, if the Universe isn't a thing, then what is it? The problem is that what you are actually saying in premise 1 is that the term "Universe" is used to refer to the set of all things. This does not entail that there is such a thing as a Universe, any more than a mention of unicorn entails that there is such a thing as a unicorn. The inference of 11 from 10 is also broken. Since you are talking about things in terms of sets, "Nothing" would by convention refer to the empty set. While there are acknowledged problems with the concept of a "universal set", every axiomatic set theory will account for an "Empty Set". Therefore, any Universe or "universal set" will necessarily contain the empty set. By saying that the Universe came from the Empty set, you are refuting the very logic that you used to draw your conclusion. A more elegant formulation of the idea that I believe you are getting at is known as Russell's antimony. Different branches of logic and set theory propose different solutions to the apparent paradox. Most involve some form of distinction between a "set" and a "class" or a very particular definition of a universe (such as a Grothendieck Universe). If you google any of these terms you will find plenty of information that you can use to twist your brain into deeper circles. 

@vanden's answer gives a good overview of different "logics". You can also read more information at Wikipedia. If you want to get deeper into this topic, Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is a great resource with several articles: 

Can we know which animals beside humans are conscious? (The Distribution Question) Can we know what, if anything, the experiences of animals are like? (The Phenomenological Question) 

Solipsism Philosophy's name for the idea you are describing is solipsism. The Wikipedia article defines solipsism as "the epistemological or ontological position that knowledge of anything outside one's own specific mind is unjustified". The IEP article, Solipsism and the Problem of Other Minds, adequately summarizes the cases for and against solipsism. The article makes reference to relevant works by philosophers including Descartes, Locke, Wittgenstein, Ayer, Quine, Mill and others. The passage from the article which is most relevant to your specific question is entitled The Incoherence of Solipsism and has been copied below: 

the Stoics: Virtue is necessary and sufficient to achieve eudaimonia. The Stoics believed that eudaimonia cannot be achieved without virtue. Aristotle: Aristotle addresses your question in Book I of the Nicomachean Ethics. You can read the complete text at $URL$ . In summary, Aristotle believes that virtue is necessary, but not sufficient because "good fortune" is an additional requirement for achieving eudaimonia. Just like the Stoics, Aristotle believed that eudaimonia cannot be achieved without virtue. Epicurus: Epicureanism is the closest we will come to a eudaimonia that can be achieved without virtue, but even his Hedonistic philosophy requires virtue to achieve eudaimonia. According to Epicurus, eudaimonia is achieved by successfully pursuing and maximizing pleasure. The catch is that the only way to successfully pursue and maximize one's pleasure is to practice virtue. In Epicureanism, virtue is nothing more than a means to an end, but it is the only possible means, so it is still a necessary condition of eudaimonia. 

In Summary, There has been quite a bit of work done "that actively sought to rationalize that anybody else exists". However, there haven't been any notable proponents of solipsism, (most likely because such a view contradicts our common sense).