It's not a healthy distinction, but in petroleum geoscience one can characterize the distinction around the sort of data people look at. Geophysicists are into seismic, sonic logs, gravity and magnetics data, electromagnetic (resistivity) data,... and anything to do with computers. Geologists meanwhile are into core, outcrop, gamma-ray and density logs, stratigraphy, tectonic reconstructions,... and anything to do with coloured pencils. Of course, they're both working towards the same thing: a model of the earth and its history. Your question also made me think of a couple of Twitter conversations, both started by Chris Rowan at Kent State: 

It's the same story at an active margin: the plate boundary at a subduction zone is buried several kilometres beneath a wedge of sediment: 

I also labelled some survey tracks (rather subtle, very straight, very regular in width), which are data artifacts — these are the things you noticed radiating from the vicinity of Los Angeles. There are yet other types of linear feature on the sea floor: 

Image is CC-BY-SA by Wikipedia user Orion 8. The angle of the shadow depends on the time of the observation, and many lunar calendars seem to rotate the lunar images (as above). But this one gives a hint to the shifting relative sun position: 

There are a wide variety of bacteria that peform these steps, and some only do one step or the other. There are also other pathways for reducing ammonia instead of ammonium, for example. In conclusion, these are two different biologically driven steps in the nitrogen cycle, driven by two different sets of microorganims. There other biologically driven processes as well, such as ammonification, where organic nitrogen compounds in formerly living tissue (or waste) is broken down into ammonia or ammonium. 

First, let me link a variety of popular science articles which can give you some background explanation. Here are Scientific American, Smithsonian, and Audubon magazines. The 'smoking gun' evidence linking birds and dinosaurs is the evolution of feathers. Feathers are a feature that set the birds apart morphologically from the rest of the tetrapods, and indeed from the rest of all animals. All birds have feathers and nothing that isn't a bird has feathers. So a logical place to start looking for the origin of birds is the origin of feathers. Since the dawn of modern paleontology, there had always suspected links between dinosaurs and birds due to the fossils of Archaeopteryx found in the 1860s. Thomas Huxley claimed the two groups were related as early as 1863. But it wasn't until recent decades that the fossil record started being filled in with definitive links between Archaeopteryx and therapod dinosaurs, such as more species intermediate between birds and therapods and fossil impressions indicating that some therapods had feathers. The rest is just filled in by logical deduction, or Occam's Razor. There is clear evidence that all birds have feathers, and no other animals alive today have feathers. There is now clear evidence that therapods had very similar skeletons to birds with feathers about 150 million years ago. There is also evidence that many therapods had feathers, a trait otherwise confined to birds. Let our null hypothesis be that the origin of birds is unknown, and our alternative hypothesis be that birds evolved from dinosaurs. Given the similarities noted above (and, keep in mind, the evidence is much stronger for scientists who specialize in this area), do you think there is enough evidence to reject the null hypothesis and conclude that birds evolved from dinosaurs? If not, are there any plausible alternative hypotheses? The great thing about science is that you never have to take someone else's word for it. Everyone has the right to be a skeptic, just keep an open mind and look at the evidence and you can draw your own conclusions. 

Note that some properties, such as velocity, are scale-dependent. Be careful how you upscale them. Read up on Backus averaging, starting with Chris Liner's recent work. † How's that for a geoscientists's answer? 

For large (continental or global) areas of interest, you need geodetic datums. In the UK, Ordnance Datum Newlyn was defined in 1956 as the mean sea-level at Newlyn, Cornwall, between 1915 and 1921. In the US, the North American Vertical Datum of 1988 prevails today (though several others are in use). It was pegged to the local mean sea level height at Rimouski, Quebec, Canada. There are two types of reference surface, the earth's equivalent of the celestial ones you mentioned in your question: the geoid, and ellipsoids. The geoid is the surprisingly lumpy shape that the ocean surface would take in the absence of factors like tides. It can be measured with gravity anomalies, e.g. by GRACE. Since it's a natural surface, you could think of the geoid as the earth's absolute datum. Ellipsoids, on the other hand, are models of the geoid and, as mathematical surfaces, are smooth. 

Establish that your seismic data are zero phase. See this wiki article and this tutorial. Tie your wells with a purely statistical zero-phase wavelet until you know better. A Ricker is fine for most impulsive data. Don't bother with autocorrelation. Don't bother with mixed-phase. Once you've found the best one, don't change it from well to well. Take your best well ties (maybe the best 10 or 20 percent), and check them. Try extracting zero-phase wavelets from your best data, preferably near angle stack, and unfiltered (e.g. by fk, which processors love) — you don't want any spectral shaping nonsense. Only use the zone of interest, but at least about 1000 ms of data. Avoid the near surface. Average all the wavelets you got and tie all your wells with this wavelet. The ties should improve in most cases. 

What do you mean by a control Earth? There is a control Earth: all of history until now. We don't know everything that happened on this control Earth, but we have some reasonable estimates of how temperature, carbon dioxide levels, and other factors changed in the past, and so we us those as best we can to develop how the Earth did act. However, we have another data point to use, other than our limited information about the past Earth. We have physics to describe heat transfer, radiation emission and absorption and more. We could use this knowledge to create a model wholly independent of any knowledge of past Earth conditions. Since the various physics we use is all experimentally confirmed, we can be much more confident in it than we can in past Earth conditions. When you build a climate model, you make sure that the things that did happen can be modeled correctly by that model. The climate models that I am familiar with meet that criteria, for some subsection of the past that was used to create the model. Admittedly, the model is only as good as the past data we are using to calibrate it; but in the physics of the model we can be certain. So we have created models that can correctly predict the temperature changes in some subset of the past, and we are using those to extrapolate into the future. 

We use $\rho V_\mathrm{P}$ because it agrees with experiment. You point out that density and velocity are correlated and ask, "why not use only velocity contrast or density contrast?" instead of their product. In truth, P-wave velocity $V_\mathrm{P}$ velocity is not necessarily that well correlated with density $\rho$. Look at this plot of density vs $V_\mathrm{P}$ for rocks in a North Sea oil field from Avseth et al. (2001): 

Palaeontologists use lots of methods to investigate past life. Like most sciences these day, palaeontology is a growing field. More scientists are applying more methods in more sophisticated ways. The literature — what we 'know' — grows and grows. So palaeontologists use hundreds of different methods and tools today; indeed there's a whole journal dedicated to the subject! But like a lot of other geological disciplines, it's more or less impossible to test a hypothesis rigorously, because there are no actual dinosaurs, they died out ages ago, and so we cannot know everything about them. So we have to get creative. For example, a palaeontologist interested in how dinosaurs or early insects walked might... 

Reference Thomsen, L (1986). Weak elastic anisotropy. Geophysics 51 (10), 1954–1966. DOI 10.1190/1.1442051. 

The answer is because the Earth is not a static system. Due to the ideal gas law, air cools as it rises. This is referred to as the dry adiabatic lapse rate. However, you are curious why every location on earth is not the same temperature at the same latitude. We know this is not true. But why is not true? Weather. The earth, as with most natural phenomenon, attempts to achieve static equilibrium. The differences in incoming and outgoing radiation leave the earth with net energy reserves that need to be balanced out. Weather is the mechanism that the Earth uses to attempt to achieve balance. Okay, so we know that weather is disrupting static equilibrium on earth. But how does that work? Wind. Or better yet, advection. Advection is simply the transport of an atmospheric parameter (such as moisture, temperature, or rotation) from one location to another. So, wind can 'transport' temperature, moisture, and rotation. You don't necessarily need a storm to advect any of these parameters. In fact, they are always in motion. Cold air is always moving away from the poles. Still, that doesn't quite answer it, does it? Well, imagine you are hundreds or thousands of miles away from Tibet. You aren't in a mountainous region anymore but instead a flatlands at sea level. The environmental lapse rate is 6.5°C/1000m above this location (because we are not dealing with an air parcel). Tibet is 4500m - 8850m high. That would be around approximately 32.5°C of cooling at 5000m. The air that advects into Tibet from elsewhere is on average of 32.5-50°C cooler than at sea level. So, it isn't so much that Tibet is receiving less radiation than other points at the same latitude (its not). Its more that, the air at other locations at the elevation of Tibet is much cooler than the air at sea level. Remember, we measure air temperature! 

I believe this is biology related, not weather related I think your story is a bit anecdotal because there is no measurable evidence that the sunlight energy deposited into your skin is actually stronger in New York as compared to Ukraine. Let me offer two lines of evidence that this change is more likely to be related to you and your skin than it is to the weather. First, Rostov-on-Don, (the nearest large city I could find sunlight data for) has sunnier summers than New York. From NOAA via Wikipedia, Rostov has 286/314/293 hours of sunlight in June/July/August. New York has 257/268/268. This is largely because New York sees two more rainy days per month (and about twice as much rain on those rainy days) during the summer. Sunlight intensity at a certain latitude is directly related to the angle of incidence of the sun. The declination of the sun is the relative angle from the sun to the horizon given your latitude and the time of year. The sun moves (well the Earth moves...) from the Tropic of Cancer to the Tropic of Capricorn each year, from 23.45 N to 23.45 S. During the northern hemisphere summer solstice, the sun is directly above the Tropic of Cancer. From New York, the angle of incidence of the sun is thus 41.07 N - 23.45 N = 17.62 degrees. During an equinox, when the sun is directly over the equator, the angle of incidence of the sun is 41.07 N - 0 = 41.07 degrees. The cosine of the angle of incidence is the percentage of full equatorial sunlight energy that you would receive at that latitude. Thus, in mid-summer in NY, you get cos(17.62) = 0.953 of maximum possible sunlight; at the equinox you get cos(41.07) = 0.754; at the winter solstice you get cos(64.52) = 0.430. For any point in the Northern Hemisphere outside of the tropics, sunlight intensity will always be greater at all times of the year at lower latitude. Thus, New York always has greater sunlight intensity than Ukraine...but the difference is not very significant. At summer solstice NY gets 0.953 of the max sunlight, but Ukraine gets cos(23.3) = 0.918 of max sunlight. This is the difference between early July and mid-August in NY; not very significant. Given the close latitudes involved, you would expect to have gotten more net sun in the summer as a child than you do now due to fewer cloudy days. Since this is not what you observe, there must be some other explanation. Secondly, I grew up near Boston, and my mom made me wear sunscreen in the summer. I used to get sunburns pretty bad. Now I'm 35 and I live in Virginia and I never wear sunscreen, even when I get to the beach. I don't remember the last time that I got a sunburn. Things change, I guess? This is a purely anecdotal observation, but then so is yours. Without any data to measure the changes (maybe I am smarter about being in shade in my older age?) all I can offer is guesses. I think you should be looking at either your skin or your behavior as the cause of this change, not necessarily at the climate. 

The boulder is a sculpture; the rock type is almost certainly conglomerate, a kind of sedimentary rock. Quoting here from an article about a geology walk, by Jean Gardner, in the winter 2014 newsletter of the Hertfordshire Geological Society: 

It depends on the implementation, but bare-bones reverse time migration is usually not amplitude friendly. The problem is that the ideal imaging condition — deconvolution — is difficult to apply or unstable in the time domain. So cross-correlation is used instead, and this loses the relative amplitude information... so amplitudes are no longer necessarily related to reflection coefficients. Since this is the assumption of inversion (e.g. AVO inversion), an RTM volume could give spurious results. Several vendors have devised ways to compensate for this. For example, Zhang & Sun (2009; First Break, vol 26) described one of CGG's methods. Zhang et al. have written more recently (2013; EAGE London) about how this processing has evolved. Cogan et al (2011; SEG Annual Meeting) have written about Schlumberger's normalization algorithms, which aim to achieve the same goal. Those papers also contain nice explanations of why RTM is not ordinarily amplitude friendly. My advice is to talk at length to your vendor about the processing applied, and the attention paid to phase and amplitude. Ask lots of questions. Most processors (generalizing horribly) are either over-enthusiatic about treatments, especially new and/or proprietary ones, or ignorant of your needs as an interpreter–analyst. So if you're actually in the middle of processing now, test everything, ideally against geological data (like a synthetic). Lots of processing steps can hurt amplitudes, and inversion can work in surprisingly poor data... so assume nothing, and never give up! 

Reality is not as simple as your thought experiment The problem with your thought experiment is that, even though you are holding sunlight intensity identical between your two planets, there are too many factors that actually affect the planet's temperature for any one measurement to give you conclusive proof of the greenhouse effect. There are two primary factors affecting the planet's temperature, given constant sunlight energy: 

Further, the handbook suggests no less than 20 leaf traps in one sample area, and checking contents every week especially in moist areas. Also, to account for branch fall, the weekly collection should check for and weigh fallen branches in a 20m X 20m area. For fine roots: 

Venus has a surface emission peak that lines up almost perfectly with one of carbon dioxide's high absorption region, and a very dense carbon dioxide atmosphere. Thus Venus as come into a temperature equilibrium with a very high temperature because of a very powerful greenhouse effect that depends specifically on the surface temperature of the planet. If Venus were 100 K cooler, its greenhouse effect would be much less...and it would continue to get cooler until it reached some new equilibrium. Earth: On Earth the greenhouse effect is driven primarily by water vapor, not carbon dioxide. Here are the absorption spectra of the two: 

Extratropical cyclones in the Northern Hemisphere rotate around the earth in the mid-latitudes in a mean westerly flow. This means that, on average, the track of a storm between 30°-60°N moves from west to east. Ahead of these extratropical cyclones is a strong frontal boundary with very powerful winds, sometimes up to hurricane strength near the boundary layer. Moisture is advected (transported by wind) from the tropics (a very wet place, relatively speaking) by these powerful winds ahead of the extratropical cyclone. The moisture then creates a narrow channel of extremely moist air along the frontal boundary. Finally, the atmospheric river moves with the mean westerly flow as the frontal boundary/extratropical cyclone shifts east. Therefore, to answer your question, it is because extratropical cyclones on average move from west to east that ARs impact west coasts in the Northern Hemisphere. 

Massive amounts of freshwater rests atop the world's mountains in the form of ice, snow, permafrost, and glaciers. Many areas of the world rely upon the melting of snow and ice to recharge their rivers and reservoirs. But not all of that ice and snow actually melts. Some percentage of a snowpack will phase change directly into water vapor (sublimation). How much potential mountain run off is lost to sublimation anually? How can we measure this loss? What sort of insight do researchers have on the impacts of sublimation on the local microclimate? 

First off, hurricanes form in tropical seas over warm water. In general, they form in places where it never snows at all. Also, they form over the ocean, and it is hard to have snow on the ground in the ocean. So in that sense, the answer is: No, hurricanes cannot form in a place where there is snow on the ground. However, you may mean to ask can a hurricane show up to a place where there is snow on the ground. This is a little more difficult. Wikipedia's off-season Atlantic hurricane page lists 21 hurricanes that formed in Dec-Feb. Of special interest is the 1952 Groundhog day tropical storm which hit Cape Cod on Feb 4th and Maine Feb 5th of that year. Hyannis, MA had 2 inches of snow on Jan 28th of that year, which melted by Feb 1st (temp data found here). It dropped to 30 degrees F the night of the 3rd before the hurricane hit. The airport in Bangor, ME had snowfall the 28th and 29th of January which persisted on the ground until the 3rd of February. The night of the 4th dropped to 21 degrees F before the hurricane hit on the 5th. In both cases, temperatures got into the 40s and heavy precipitation while the storm was passing assuredly melted the snow on the ground. But in that sense of your question: Yes, hurricanes can strike somewhere with snow on the ground, although the warm air and rainfall of the hurricane will probably melt that snow.