Gimli seems to be singing that the ancient Dwarves had artificial lighting. With artificial lighting they could light their underground farms to grow food inside the mountains. And the dwarves could have farmed land outside, in lands claimed by their kingdom. Maybe the Dwarves used a thousand square kilometers of outside farmland to feed a million Dwarves in Moria at its height. That would equal a square areas 31.62 by 31.62 kilometers, or a circular area with a radius of 17.84 kilometers and a diameter of 35.68 kilometers. And when Dwarf economies were flourishing the Dwarves didn't grow much of their food supplies but traded their goods for food supplies from Elves and Men. Thus the Dwarves didn't need to hollow out vast volumes under the mountains to grow food. Thus the underground cities of the Dwarves would need to be the size of Human cities and not the size of Human cities plus the farmland necessary to feed the populations of those cities. The city of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania has a land area of 347.52 square kilometers and an estimated population of 1,567,872 and a density of 4,511.61 persons per square kilometer. Thus if Moria had 1,000,000 Dwarves and Philadelphia's population density it would have 211.65 square kilometers of floor space in it's chambers. This equals a single level with a square 14.54 by 14.54 kilometers, or a hundred levels each 1.45 by 1.45 kilometers. If the height of the chambers averaged 10 meters, the total volume of Moria's chambers might be 2.1165 cubic kilometers. And a typical mountain might have a volume on the order of 100 to 1,000 cubic kilometers, for example. Thus the excavated volume of a Dwarf city in the novels should be only a tiny fraction of the volume of the mountain it is in. The Dwarf and Orc underground realms in the movies are a different story. In the movies it often looks like 90 percent of the volume of the mountain has been excavated for the underground city, a very unsafe thing to do. The mountain would probably collapse, crushing everyone in the underground city to death, long before it was excavated that much. A better method to build an underground city that was mostly empty space instead of rock would be to tear down a Mountain A and transport all it's materials to another place and then build a building B that is the size of a mountain. And when the gigantic building is complete disguise the outside so that it looks sort of like a very regularly shaped mountain. Of course in a giant, mountain sized building, the interior architecture and placement of supports would have to be very regular and symmetrical, and in the LOTR movies the interiors of Dwarf and Orc underground cities often seem very irregular and natural looking, which is very implausible. And after seeing three questions in this series, I have the feeling that my answers about plausibility are going to be patterned something like yes, yes, no, yes, yes, no,...for the novels and no, no, yes, no, no, yes,... for the movies. 

You could build a castle with a building shaped like a skull, as in John Dixon Car's mystery novel Castle Skull. The gateways to your castle could be sculpted to look like the mouths of monsters and you could have the gatewway to Hell inscription of Dante's Inferno inscribed: "Abandon all hope, ye who enter here". 

Dragons are often depicted with feet like birds. $URL$ Here is a link to pictures of eagle's feet: $URL$ Note that one digit is on the opposite side to the others. Apparently some parrots and other pet birds use their feet like hands. $URL$ $URL$ Thus a dragon like creature with bird like but improved feet should be able to use them more like hands than any known bird and should be able to sew. 

You say that concrete is necessary for construction, that concrete requires cement, and cement is made from limestone that contains organic materials. Hence no limestone or concrete for building materials when building cities on a lifeless planet. Any simple chemical compound can be chemically synthesized from elements or from simpler compounds. Limestone may be formed from organic remains, but 

J.R.R. Tolkien actually did draw several drawings of the valley of Rivendell. Here is a link to one: $URL$ Elrond's house is drawn very small and thus is probably greatly oversimplified. From what we see of it there is little indication that if resembles the structures in the movies very much. The art nouveau influenced style of the buildings in the Peter Jackson movies seems like a good and practical style for a building in the tropics. But as I remember them from the movies the buildings are too open to be practical in temperate regions such as Rivendell. Kingledion's answer may say that art nouveau is practical, but in temperate regions all practical buildings, including art nouveau style buildings, are much more enclosed for temperature control than the open buildings in the movie version of Rivendell. Elves may be able to endure temperature extremes much better than humans, but since Elrond often has many non elf guests, it would be inhospitable for him to not provide guest quarters more suited for temperature control. Thus I consider Rivendell in the movies impractical for its climate. 

Note that there are settlements within the Arctic Circle. Here is a link to a map of the Antarctic Circle. $URL$ Note that there are research bases within the Antarctic Circle. The settlements and research bases within the Arctic and Antarctic Circles generate electricity. Have you researched how they do that? 

$URL$ With a lifetime of about 2,000,000,000 years, the brighter star will not remain on the main sequence long enough for the planet(s) in the Trojan positions to develop advanced life and become habitable for Humans, unless life on those planets develops more than twice as fast as life on Earth for some reason. That is why spectral type A stars are not considered suitable for having habitable planets. So, from what I have learned today, I would say that a Trojan system with a suitable type star as object A, a habitable planet as object C, and either a giant planet or a brown dwarf as object B may be mathematically possible. But it still seems that a Trojan system with a suitable type star as object A, a habitable planet as object C, and a smaller star as object B is mathematically impossible, because the two stars could not have the proper mass ratio for a stable Trojan system. So can anyone clarify whether the two types of Trojan systems with habitable planets are stable or not? $URL$ 

PERFECTLY POSSIBLE since Orthanc is made out of a stone-like substance which looks like obsidian but is much stronger than any known material. The Alan Lee painting does not seem to conform to Tolkien's description of Orthanc, a description that seems far more geometrical and modernistic to me. It would be hard for me to describe in words or pictures my conception of Orthanc. I picture Orthanc as looking vaguely like a shiny, black, opaque combination of: The Gherkin in London, but with no external framework showing: $URL$ The central tower of Fonthill Abbey: $URL$ The Ryugyong Hotel in Pyongyang, North Korea, but with four wings instead of three and with the central part lower than the tips of the four wings: $URL$ The Burj Khalifa at Dubai, UAE, but with four wings instead of three and with the central part lower than the tips of the four wings: $URL$ And with a floor plan vaguely similar to Fort Stanwyck, New York: $URL$ Or Castillo de San Marcos in San Augustine, Florida: $URL$ But enough about the architecture of Orthanc. What material is it made of? 

What you are describing is vaguely similar to what is described in these posts in PlanetPlanet: $URL$ $URL$ They discuss much more complicated solar systems than yours, with multiple orbits with multiple co orbital planets in each orbit. These are not Trojan orbits or Lagrangian orbits or Kemplerer Rosettes, but vaguely similar. As you can see by the "engineered" in the title the author believes that natural examples of such complex systems could never form, and thus assumes that they would be created by super advances societies. So perhaps you could ask there for advice on designing your solar system. 

Earth's semimajor axis is 149,598,023 kilometers. Thus the orbits of your planets are about 2.005, 2.072, 2.139, and 2.239 times the semi-major axis of Earth's orbit, the Astronomical Unit (AU). Note that your outermost planet orbits 1.116666 times as far from the star as your innermost planet. And to be more precise, your second planet would have 1.03333 times the semi-major axis of your inner planet, your third planet would have 1.0322 times the semi-major axis of your third planet, and your fourth planet would have 1.0468 times the semi-major axis of your third planet. I think that decades ago astronomers would have said that such close orbital grouping would be dynamically unstable, but recent exoplanet discoveries make it seem much more plausible. According to this list: $URL$ The smallest difference between the orbits of two exoplanets is only 0.0016 AU or 240,000 kilometers, less than the distance from Earth to the Moon, between Kepler-70b and Kepler-70c. Kepler-70c orbits at 1.26666 times the orbital distance of Kepler-70b. Another planet is suspected to orbit between their obits but is unconfirmed. And the smallest ratio between the orbits of two exoplanets is 11 percent. Keplar-36c orbits 1,944,700 kilometers farther out than Keplar-36b, or about 11 percent. Keplar-36c orbits 1.1127 times farther out than Keplar-36b, According to the list of potentially habitable exoplanets that orbit within the habitable zones of their stars: $URL$ The four exoplanets of TRAPPIST-1 in its habitable zone have years ranging from 12.4 Earth days down to 4.05 Earth days. That shows that they must orbit very close to their star TRAPPIST-1 and to each other. The difference between the orbits of TRAPPIST-1d, the innermost planet in the habitable zone, and TRAPPIST-1g, the outermost planet in the habitable zone, is only 0.0245966 AU or 3,680,000 kilometers. The orbit of TRAPPIST-1g has 2.9578 times the radius of the orbit of TRAPPIST-1d. And to be more precise, TRAPPIST-1e has 1.3153 times the semi-major axis of TRAPPIST-1d, TRAPPIST-1f has 1.3150 times the semi-major axis of TRAPPIST-1e, and TRAPPIST-1g has 1.2170 times the semi-major axis of TRAPPIST-1f. $URL$ Of course the planets of TRAPPIST-1 are all expected to be tidally locked to their star, making it less likely to support life. That would not be a problem in your solar system where the planets would orbit many times farther away from their brighter star. It may be noted that Keplar-70 has already been a red giant and is shrinking to becaome a white dwarf, while TRAPPIST-1 is estimated to be about 7,600,000,000 years old, much older than the sun. Thus the orbits of their planets should be stable. Nobody has discovered a stars system like yours yet, but some of the ones that have been discovered give hope that a system like yours might be stable. I believe that calculations indicate that the outer limit of the habitable zone of a spectral class F star could be over three AU out. Thus the orbits you specify are possible for a class F star much brighter than the Sun. But there is a problem. The brighter a main sequence star is, the faster it will burn up its nuclear fuel and become a red giant and then a white dwarf, and in the process probably killing all life on its inner planets - and probably absorbing some of them as a red giant. The Earth is about 4,600,000,000 years old and only developed such interesting for story purposes aspects as an oxygen rich atmosphere and other things needed to be habitable for humans, advanced multi celled lifeforms, and intelligent life, comparatively recently geologically speaking. The planets in your solar system would probably be significantly younger than Earth, and thus would have to develop faster to be as interesting as Earth. It is more or less arbitrarily assumed that no planet could possibly be habitable until it is at least 3,000,000,000 years old, and I think that class F2 stars are the brightest stars that spend as much as 3,000,000,000 years on the main sequence. Of course only a small minority of F2 stars will be as old as 3,000,000,000 years, and only a small minority of the Earth like planets of those stars will have advanced a lot faster than Earth did and so be habitable for humans. Your star will probably be somewhat dimmer than a F2 and have a longer lifespan, and thus having habitable planets will be a lot more likely. As for the stability of orbits that close, planets tend to interfere with each other's orbits and eject nearby planets from their obits. The strength of that effect seems to depend on the distances and masses of the planets and the distance and mass of their star. I think that having a more massive star will reduce the degree to which nearby planets interfere with each other's orbits.