In the sentences above we see the negative particle occurring attached to the auxiliaries. When not contracted it must occur directly after the auxiliary in canonical negative sentences. Notice how the verb BE is fulfilling this function even though there is no following verb. Inversion There are several instances in English when we need to invert the subject and auxiliary verb. The most obvious is in yes/no questions. Obviously we can only do this if there is an auxiliary! When there is no normal auxiliary in the declarative counterpart sentence we use the auxiliary DO: 

In traditional grammar the verb BE was considered as a main verb (or lexical verb) when used on its own in a sentence. It was only considered an auxiliary when it was used as part of a passive construction or a continuous construction. However, we now understand that auxiliaries are a grammatical class of words that have the same grammatical properties. Lexical or main verbs do not share these properties. But the verb BE usually does, even when it is the only verb in the sentence. Auxiliary verbs The important central properties which characterise auxiliary verbs are sometimes referred to as NICE properties. NICE is an acronym for: 

[Note: We lose the gender of the teacher, whether it is a schoolteacher or university professor, and the formality of you, and any choices about word order.] Now we translate back into Spanish: 

I won't lecture you on the inherent limitations of gloss translations, they are indeed useful some times. As you know, translation UIs as well as Wiktionary and many other sites give more complete information, but the translation APIs do not. For Google Translate, some unofficial scrapers like GoSlate do offer dictionary data, though without much guidance on how to parse it: $URL$ That said, there are a few techniques that can lessen the problems of a gloss translation: 

The root phenomenon is known as the motor theory of speech perception. (In computing the technique is called audio-visual speech recognition.) As it pertains to learning: Pronunciation is the result of muscle movements. Different pronunciations require different muscle movements, just like any other physical activities. The muscles physically develop with practice, as does the brain's ability to coordinate them. As to why seeing it done properly can help, it is not so different than learning to kick a ball with a certain technique. More reading: * $URL$ * $URL$ * $URL$ 

(In the sentence above we might not feel that Bob has moved to the beginning of the clause from another position, exactly. It is more as if a second Bob has been deleted from the end of the smaller clause. Again, this would depend on what kind of grammar you subscribe to.) Now it is the relationship between these gaps and the words or phrases that they depend on for their interpretation which we refer to as long distance dependencies. Why do we call them long distance dependencies? Well, for one thing, these gaps are non-adjacent to their antecedents. We could suppose that we could measure the distance between the antecedent phrase and the gap itself to see how long distance this dependency was. So consider the following sentences: 

There is a good rule for determining whether to use a [j] (like the first sound in yes) or [w] to link two words like this. The first thing you need to know is that the choice depends on the first vowel and not the second. Therefore in terms of the Original Poster's question, the choice is determined by /i/ at the end of the word be, and not by the beginning of the word ok. Now if the first vowel is either a high front vowel, for example /i/ or a diphthong ending in a high front vowel, in other words /eɪ, aɪ, ɔɪ/, then we need to use a /j/ to link the words. If you think about it, [j] is phonetically like a high front vowel. It is the same type of sound. So this kind of makes sense. On the other hand [w] is phonetically like a high back vowel. When the first word ends in a high back vowel such as /u/, or with a diphthong that ends in a high back vowel such as /oʊ/ or /aʊ/, then we use a [w] to link the two vowels. If the vowel is not a high vowel, or doesn't end in a high vowel, then you may find linking with a glottal stop, [ʔ], in Gen Am. In non-rhotic Englishes (those which don't have /r/ in the coda of the syllable) such as British RP, you will often find /r/ used to link a non-high vowel with a following vowel. 

glitz/glitzy entered English via Yiddish, but has nothing to do with Galicia. Like much of the Yiddish lexicon they have close cousins in standard German and German dialects and more distant cousins in modern English. (English cognates are glitter and glisten.) 

Polish and English are written in the same alphabet, and most Poles are literate, so the word boundary is obvious to Polish speakers. English is a prestige language in Poland and internationally, not unwelcome, and the elite will laugh at those who butcher it too much. Many of the Arabic words in Iberia were place names, that is, proper nouns. Polish does use articles in cases like The Beatles. 

Yes, there are examples, even examples of whole sentences like vasistas, imam bayildi or je ne sais quoi being understood or used as a noun, even in the source language. 

Sounds have no meaning per se. Besides a few ideophones, human language is arbitrary. See: duality of patterning The word khan is a bastardisation of khagan/kağan/қаған/خاقان‎‎/可汗, the ultimate origin of which is likely Mongolic. There are many such cognates floating around Asia, beginning about 1500 years ago, and in Europe, beginning about 1000 years ago. There is a tendency to mythologise these things, but it is not much more interesting nor older nor more widespread today than sir, sire, senior, señor, signore, sénos... or ustâ, ოსტატი, استاد, استا, остаз, استاد... (Names of fictional characters are of course just that - names of fictional characters.) 

Most transcription systems allow for white space between words. This is just to make the transcription easier to read. It is not for any kind of punctuation reason. When a group of scholars decide upon a convention for representing the phonemes of a particular language in language-specific, phonemic transcriptions, they may sometimes choose one symbol over another because it more closely resembles the orthography. So, whereas Southern Standard British English /e/ is in between [e] and [ɛ], most authorities use /e/ as opposed to /ɛ/ to represent the phoneme because this is how the phoneme is most often 'represented' in the orthography. This it is felt, will make life easier for learners of English, who will have to use these transcriptions in dictionaries and language learning materials. When used in written essays about phonetics or phonology, lists of phones or phonemes are often separated within their brackets by commas. The comma does not feature as an IPA diacritic and so serves to show that we are talking about a list of discrete phones or phonemes and not a string of sound or a string of phonemes. So people tend to write [p, t, k] or /p, t, k/, for example, as opposed to /p/, /t/, /k/ and so on. 

en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Grammatical_categories is a helpful superset of the possible dimensions and some of their possible values. The dimensions that I would consider applicable to verbs: - agent person + number + gender - object (whether there was one, and possibly person + number + gender) - tense - aspect - mood - voice - negation There is overlapping functionality, eg passive voice and reflexity ie object, and impossible combinations, eg aspect is not necessarily distinguished in all tenses. And of course, what some languages express with verbs, other languages express with nouns or adverbs or even random particles. You could also look at verb arguments, ie valency. 

Examples of languages with no grammatical gender at all, not even in pronouns: Basque, Finnish, Hungarian, Turkish, Persian, Mongolian, Kazakh, Tajik, Kyrgyz... and generally the languages of Afghanistan. It makes no difference. 

That round-trip translation very different than the original, although the translation in both steps was correct. This dynamic applies to both human and machine translations. Machine Translation Is Not Perfect The lack of readability of the machine translation of Icelandic text written by a human is possibly a signal that the human did not use that machine translation system but did, in fact, translate by hand in some way. In fact, good idiomatic translations are more difficult for machine or human translators. The last dynamic applies to evaluating a human translation by machine translating it into some language you know.