He was a great shot but his passing set him apart. He owed much of his greatness to his ability to uplift his teammates (also from Wikipedia). 

I think you have gotten a lot of great feedback related to the specific questions you asked the other candidates, but I don't see any real answers that address your stated question: How do I tell if a set of interview questions are too hard? One obvious way you can answer this question is by soliciting feedback from other developers. You said that you are the only developer in your organization but that doesn't mean you don't know or can't meet other developers. You can ask for feedback from friends who don't work at your organization. If you don't know anyone else that slings code for a living then you could go to a meet up and try talking to someone there about the task. Finally you could consider running these questions past a recruiter. Of course there may be a conflict of interest there if that recruiter starts sending you applicants who perform amazingly well on your test but don't appear to know anything else... Another direction you could go is search for interview questions online. This does two different things. First it might give you ideas about the style of questions other people are asking. Secondly you can compare the relative level of difficulty between common questions and the questions you're asking. You might think that this route might encourage cheaters since these questions are "known" but anecdotal evidence seems to show that even though FizzBuzz is incredibly well known a significant number of people still fail when asked. Finally, I would argue that "too hard" is really relative to the kind of person you want to hire. Don't dumb down your questions because you feel bad that people aren't passing. Instead set your questions at a reasonable bar to screen out people who aren't going to be successful in the position. I'm certain that a position at Google where the applicant will be designing advanced search algorithms isn't going to have simple questions like "What is one difference between a POST and GET request?" Instead I'm sure they are asked advanced algorithm and machine learning questions. Having questions that are too hard for people who aren't going to be successful, but demonstrate an understanding of the principles they will need to be successful is ideal. So my advice is to not worry too much if the questions are too hard. Instead worry about what are the basic principles you are trying to screen for that a candidate needs to be successful. Once you've isolated that the only real hurdle is making sure your questions are clear. That being said in my opinion there is real value to finding out if a person will ask for clarification before building a grand solution that solves the wrong problem. 

If you wanted to prove your greatness then you should have done it by uplifting everyone. Once you proved you were a threat then the opposition would have mobbed you. Instead of dancing around them all and making them look like fools you should have sent perfect passes to your teammates so they could be the hero and score. Same bit on defense you should have played zone defense and been a wall for any individual player. Even though you would prevent their forward progress still let them pass the ball away to their teammate. That way opposing players have a chance to have fun too. Of course if the score is close then score some easy points to keep your team in the lead. This way you still show off your skills but you do it in a positive way that shows you want to make the team shine instead of focusing the spotlight squarely on you. I think this kind of thinking will lead to a much better apology along the lines of: "Hey I'm really sorry for acting like a jerk out there on the field. If I had to do it over again I would use my skills to lift the team up instead of show off. My selfishness ruined the game, and I won't make that mistake again." As pointed out in the comments a great closing line would be to offer to buy the next round or two of drinks next time you all go out. After I gave this apology I'd also make it a point to give specific praise to your colleagues whenever you get praised. When your boss says, "Great job doing XYZ" try to respond with something like "Thanks I think that turned out really well too. Janice really helped make it all possible by doing XYZ." This will show that you appreciate the contributions of others, and won't try to hog all the glory like you probably did on the soccer field. 

I personally think that you should go for the Skype call with video. I'm concerned that if you choose a phone interview because you're worried about your appearance you won't have an opportunity to resolve that fear. Best Case with Phone Interview If the phone interview goes smoothly you're probably still going to be concerned about how they will react to your appearance. Worst Case with a Video Call The worst that can reasonably happen is the interviewer makes an off color comment or you get some vague rejection later from an HR type saying they aren't interested in hiring you. Both of these outcomes are actually a gift even though they might not seem like one initially. The off color comment shows you that this isn't an environment that you'd feel welcome in, and no one has time to waste in a hostile work environment. The vague rejection letter lets you focus on other companies that truly value what you can contribute. Best Case with Video Call The interviewer is completely unfazed by your appearance and you move forward in the interview process. Now you've eliminated your appearance as a concern, and can concentrate on how you can add value to the organization. 

The Board needs to approve a new hire at all. A competitive hiring process will commence at that point. You will be evaluated against possible candidates. 100% of the evaluators might be convinced that you're the right hire. An actual written offer will be created and sent to the first choice (who might be you). The first choice candidate will consider the written offer and make an actual acceptance at that point. Or the first choice candidate will decline the offer and the hiring manager will proceed to the second choice candidate (returning to step 4). 

In short, I think you've passed damage control and are now presented with options for the future. You have the credibility and flexibility to plan for the future. Do so and reap the benefits! 

tl;dr: This is a great idea and you should probably take it as a compliment that you made it to this level in the interview process. 

New guy: you feel like things are going great with your current team(s) and processes. Now, imagine hiring a totally new person onto the team. How quickly could you bring them up to speed? Could you summarize the high points of what your team does in a single sheet of paper that a person with no background could understand in five minutes? How long did it take to integrate the last new hire? Could you decrease that time by 50%? Motivation: until a new hire is integrated and productive, they are a cost to the organization. You are saving future money by thinking this way. Hit by a bus: who is your critical team member? What happens when they get hit by a bus tomorrow? Or you can imagine that they quit with no notice if that's a little less grim. Who takes over their tasks? How does that cascade throughout the team? What projects will be at risk? Motivation: plan for disaster now to avoid future cost. Double in size: what if your team suddenly doubled in size? It sounds like you're doing great with the people that you have. It's entirely likely that senior management will say "this is a good manager, let's give them more to manage!" Could you absorb a whole pile of people who, quite likely, are not up to your current standards of process and skillset? Motivation: plan for promotion. Halve in size: what if the economy hits harder than expected and you lose half of your people but maintain the same workload? What would you have to trim to get the critical work done? Can you negotiate schedules? How about requirements? This could also happen as a result of your work: your great team members get promoted to bigger and better things. Motivation: cutting my team improved efficiency! Please feel free to give me some of the increased profits as a bonus! 

None. There shouldn't be a need for any action at all. Their role on one Board should be entirely separate from the other. Anything else would be a conflict of interest. 

Who are you talking to? Senior management? The team that you'll be working with? This can drive the formality vs. chatty style of your presentation. What's the venue? Big room vs. small room, do you need a pointer or can you just point to a screen to make a point? How many people? If it's a huge room (and I doubt it is), you might need to wear a microphone to be heard in the back. What's the technology for the presentation? Powerpoint? Mac vs. PC? Are you handing them a disk of slides? Will you be clicking next page or will someone else be advancing the slides? Will you have some setup time before the presentation? You're going to be nervous so take as much time as they offer to get all the technical ducks in a row. Make it clear that you cannot present any sensitive information from current or prior employers. That will come as no surprise but it's a level of maturity that not all candidates will show. 

Your job is to help people work with other people and you think that they're going to approach perfection without help? I think you are a bit overly optimistic about human nature. 

Is there anything that they feel strongly about at all (technical or otherwise)? If not, they're likely not an interesting person to work with. Can they string enough sentences together about their favorite topic to fill a Powerpoint presentation? If not, it's highly unlikely that they'll be able to write work-related words and will be nearly incapable of presenting concrete ideas to the team. Can they get up in front of a group of people and speak at all? Many people are deathly afraid of public speaking. Can this person make the mental transition from "I'm doing public speaking" to "I'm talking to my team and this is an important part of my job"? If not, they'll never be able to take even the smallest leadership role: if you can't talk to a group, you can't lead an effort. Can they respond to questions and critical feedback? There will almost certainly be questions during the presentation (unless the topic is toxically banal, putting everyone to sleep). How do they respond in this situation? Are they defensive? Do they panic? Are they constructive? 

In short, this is a great way to start a conversation with a possible new hire in a venue that's not an across-the-desk interview. The candidate gets to choose the topic and style (within some bounds, I'm sure). The audience then gets to participate as a group in the discussion. This is an excellent distillation of the standard team effort. 

The key point to remember is that only the written offer is the binding one (at least in the US) and, so, it is the only offer that is actionable. If / when you accept a new position, you will discuss a start date. It is totally appropriate to back up from that start date (e.g., two weeks) and notify your current employer "my last day will be X." Full disclosure: I went through this exact same process when applying for my current job. Once I had a written offer, we worked out a start date and, from that, I decided on a give-notice day. My request to you folks is as follows: