All those riders were doing a very specific of rear wheel landing where you land into a momentary manual (finding a balance point on the rear wheel by shifting your weight backwards and pulling on the handle bars with your arms and upper back). This lets you absorb the impact with your upper back and legs (the two biggest muscle groups in the body) as well as using the bike's suspension. This is essentially a modified trials technique (watch how Danny MacAskill lands drops to flat). If you have ever landed this way and you nail the balance point, you feel like you can extend the time of impact by quite a bit, reducing the peak forces you experience. When done right it feels like you have an enormous capacity to absorb huge hits (especially when landing to flat). Miss landing into the balance point and you can end up in a lot of pain. Historical context of the linked video series The video series you linked to (the Kranked series; early 2000's) came out in the infancy of the big air/free ride movement in the North Shore and interior BC (time and place I learned to mountain bike). Being able to absorb hits like this was useful as most of the trails at the time didn't have big run outs or fast lead ins (we built them when our bikes were hard tails with 3 inch suspension forks). As a result riders tended come into these insane drops at a slower speed that is done today. The drops also didn't have kickers and the transitions were not groomed or tailored. The style evolved to handle these natural drops at a slower speed. (Personal I never did anything above 10 feet on these trails, though a couple people I used to ride with did do some of those insane road gaps and were even featured in the video series you linked). Today many of the trails are much different, more groomed and much faster with tailored launch rams and big transitions at the proper angle to land on. This necessitates a different style than the one in the video series. 

Most touring specific bikes will weigh more compared to similar none touring bikes for a number of reasons: 

Tire Compound This is probably the biggest predictor of whether or not you will have traction in the rain. The quality and tackiness of the compound can vary greatly by price and manufacturer. If you have a poor quality tire with a lousy compound it will likely be like riding on ice when it gets wet (regardless of whether or not it has tread). The ability for a tire compound to "hook up" will also depend on temperature. In cooler temperature tire compound will harden up and provide less traction (wet or dry). From John McKone (Vittoria) 

In order to brake you apply force on the brake lever that is then transferred to the braking surface (e.g. disc and pads). The advantage of hydraulics is the efficiency in which force is transferred (i.e. reduced system flex). Cable actuated disc brakes will have more compression in the cable housing, resulting in reduced efficiency and potentially tired hands from the extra force applied during extended braking. That said, you can greatly improve cable disc brake efficiency by upgrading the cable housing to "compression less" housing (e.g. Avid Flak Jacket). This could be a much more cost effective option than switching to hydraulics. I did this on my commute bike and the performance was quite close to hydraulics, but did take some time to properly set up. 

The bike is positioned level as it easier is to reference and reset the horizontal and vertical alignments. The wording around Condition C is a little vague. If the hanger is bent (as in Condition C), as you straighten it your original reference position will have shifted, so head back to 9:00 position to reset the gauge, then go back to position 3:00, and check the alignment again. If more horizontal straightening is required you will need to go back to position 9:00 and reset reset gauge after each straightening session, then head back to position 3:00 to check how you are doing on alignment. Repeat until straight or beer calls you away. You will use the tool itself to bend the hanger back into position. You will want to put force on either the horizontal axis or vertical axis depending on how the hanger is misaligned. Keeping the bike level (Q1) makes this easier to do. Typically, I use the frame for leverage. 

The fact a new batch of road bikes (race road bikes at that, not just general purpose road bikes) are now emerging with hydraulic disc brakes, and the UCI has now started paving the way for these types of bikes to enter Grand Tours, would suggest that previous brakes have not been explicitly designed to be less effective. Rather older style road rim brakes actually braking performance was likely considered to be "good enough" with the added benefits of weight reduction and minimal aerodynamic drag and general reliability of the design. Now with major manufacturers producing disc brakes race road bikes it is clear that there is a demand for better braking in road bikes (especially in foul weather conditions - where rim brakes can at time often sub-par braking). As an aside, road disc brakes have been shown to have higher drag in the real world due to off-angle wind interacting with the rotor and caliper. The increased braking performance was likely viewed as a advantage despite the increased drag in some situations. If lower braking performance was viewed as necessary for safe group riding (because people are incapable of modulating the brake lever?) then the UCI (which is noted for its slow technology adoption policies) would not have continued to trial disc brakes in professional races. Furthermore, if lower braking performance was a design goal for race road bikes that will be ridden in a peloton, then manufacturers would likely only have only created road bikes with disc brakes aimed at general purpose or "all road" riding. 

Unfortunately, its not just "Turbo trainers" most trainers on the market cannot sufficient replicate the inertial loads experienced when climbing. These are better suited to replicating riding flats and as such provide a poor substitute for actually getting out and climbing real hills because you are training muscle firing patterns that are much different than what is needed to climb efficiently. Finally, Cycling Tips has a good article summarizing the differences in how our muscle work when climbing versus riding flats. 

You need to determine which reach your current calipers are. Given the tire size of your current bike (700x32c), if I were to guess, it is likely option (2) 47-57mm. If you peruse Sheldon Brown's web page on brake calipers you can see which brands and model numbers will match this reach specification. I would however suggest measuring your caliper reach to confirm my guestimate before any purchases. 

Ultimately all road bike positions are a compromise between comfort, power and aerodynamics. The balance between each component depends on your goals, experience, flexibility and any underlying injuries or physical dysfunctions. If you find a position that works for you, that is outside the "typical" road positioning, then you should consider it as valid as more typical positions. A good fitter should be able to accommodate unique personal characteristics. That said, you must also be careful in that non-stand positions may also lead to other unintended problems over time if you do not have a good awareness of how your body operates biomechanically. What follows are some answers to some of your explicit in-text questions. Elbows in or out 

I think you are looking for a chart like the one below that translates your sit bone width (which I assume is 112 mm - you only specified your "bone" measurement) into a Body Geometry (BG) saddle width (pictured below). Your final width depends on a combination of your body position (and riding style) in addition to your sit bone width. Likely you will need a 143 mm saddle. Finally, this final saddle width is independent of saddle style (i.e., Romin vs. Power). I believe the Power is intended for more aerodynamic positioning and lets you position the saddle farther forward towards the bottom bracket, but still remain UCI legal (i.e., not less than 5 cm from nose to BB). The downside is the Power really only has one riding position, while something like a Romin should have more positions which can be better for longer rides. 

I asked the local bike shop and they said they have seen this before and it is largely a materials issue. A higher end cassette may make a difference. I personally have my doubts, but I will try an Ultegra cassette next and see if the problem continues. The only solution I can see is replacing the freehub body with one that uses steel or a harder aluminum. Interestingly, Velocity does make freehub bodies in a variety of materials, although I am not clear on the cross-compatibility. 

In real world testing, once into the second wear phase, the wear rate appears to be quite linear when plotted on the linear time scale (Figure 1; left panel). This differs from laboratory testing that showed a distinct curvature with duration for the entirety of the observation period (Figure 2). Does anyone know the reason for the different observed patterns in wear for real world testing versus laboratory testing?