In the Sivaka Sutta (SN36.21), the Buddha explains that not all experiences are caused by kamma. Sometimes, it's just the weather or something else that's not extraordinarily significant. Not everything happens for a reason. 

TL;DR version Sakkāya-diṭṭhi is self-view or self-belief. Conceit or māna is self-emotion. Long version Identity view or personality belief (sakkāya-diṭṭhi) is the "theory of soul, heresy of individuality, speculation as to the eternity or otherwise of one's own individuality" according to Bhikkhu Bodhi. It's a wrong view or belief that one is identical with, contained in, independent of, or is the owner of, the five aggregates. It's merely the wrong view or belief or conviction related to the self, but not the self itself. For example, the belief in an absolute, eternal and independent self would be an example of identity view. This is discussed in the Sabbasava Sutta: 

Your question can be answered by a detailed study of the Four Noble Truths. A good overview can be found here and also here. From the accesstoinsight.org website, you can also read this and this for details. 

What are the hungry ghosts or hungry shades really? Could they be microorganisms? Have any Buddhist scholars considered this possibility? Is offering of food to the dead still practised today? Is this a recommended practice or is it not recommended? And why? According to this answer, the Buddha neither rejected nor endorsed the practice. Does the opinion of the different Buddhist schools differ from each other on this? 

The suffering had indeed ended for the Buddha. That was why he was unperturbed by physical ailments. He feels pain but does not suffer from it. In the Sivaka Sutta, the Buddha explains that not everything one feels is due to past karma becoming ripe: 

Please see this answer for an in-depth discussion on this topic. The Ekamsena Sutta and this "Kamma: A Study Guide" article does say that past kamma results in consequences. However, we understand from the Sivaka Sutta (quoted below), that not everything we feel is due to past kamma. In this answer, you can find that the Buddha himself felt painful sensations due to dysentery but it's not due to his kamma becoming ripe. 

Well, if you are talking about books, then head over to amazon.com or goodreads.com and write your comments and vote down books which you think have wrongly represented Buddhist teachings. If many Buddhists do that, it would surely have an impact on the books' ranking. 

In the Yodhajiva Sutta, we find that the warrior who has the intention to kill and does exert himself to kill, would be reborn in hell or as an animal: 

What being developed in virtue (sila) means, is covered by the Five Precepts (and also the Eight Precepts and Ten Precepts), Right Speech, Right Action and Right Livelihood. These links provide more info on these. However, what does "developed in discernment" mean? Please also provide references from the scriptures. 

However, as also discussed in this answer, later on, Buddhist and Hindu philosophy influenced each other to produce Advaita Vedanta and Indian Mahayana Buddhist philosophy. Also, Tibetan Buddhism have adopted some Hindu deities. On the other hand, there has also been debates in later times between Hindu and Buddhist scholars (see this question). However, Anatta and the lack of a Supreme Creator God, still keeps Buddhism very far apart from the other religions, and due to this, it is very unlikely that Buddhism will form a doctrinally syncretic relationship with Hinduism, Jainism or the Abrahamic religions. The syncretism is likely to remain at the cultural level, if it exists at all. 

While the Buddha may be omniscient, the Arahants may not even recognize that the other is also an Arahant (see Bhaddiya Sutta). So, Arahants are not omniscient. They are only enlightened or freed from suffering. 

According to the Cula-kammavibhanga Sutta, certain types of karma leads to short lifespans and sickliness. 

Here is a list of study guides. For e.g. one of the study guides is the five aggregates. ATI also has a General Index, which list subjects from A to Z. There are also other indexes based on Author, Proper Names, Number, Similes, Suttas and Title. 

In my opinion, staying away from harmful people is not aversion. It's merely protecting yourself from bad consequences. After all, everyone desires happiness for themselves. If you practise Buddhism because you want to overcome suffering (dukkha), it's not because you have an aversion towards suffering, rather, it's because you want to solve the problem of suffering. That said, after staying away from harmful people, if you continue to bear a mental grudge against them, and speak ill of them to others, then you have an aversion against them. IMO, aversion is a mental thing, not a social concept. Karma works in such a way that it is primarily related to your intentions. If your intention is to avoid suffering, then it is not aversion. If your feeling of them is negative and continues long after their presence is removed, then it is aversion. 

By tending to your own renunciation, you may become dispassionate (which is a way to deal with your own suffering), but by cultivating compassion, you can create the balance needed in dealing with others. Renunciation and equanimity is how you deal with your own suffering. Meanwhile, compassion is how you deal with others' suffering. Bhikkhu Bodhi wrote in "The Balanced Way": 

After Nibbana, the Buddha could indeed experience the sensation of pain (as he did in the case of dysentery), but he nevertheless does not suffer from it. Hence, suffering had indeed ended for the Buddha. According to Itivuttaka 44: 

According to AN 11.2 below, it says that skillful virtue (sila) leads to freedom from remorse, which leads to joy, which leads to rapture, which leads to pleasure, which leads to concentration of mind. It says that there is no need to will for this - it arises out of the very nature of being endowed with virtue and consummate with virtue. This to me is a statement of the efficiency of the use of virtue to lead one towards concentration. Furthermore, I think it is far more efficient to start with the cultivation of skillful virtue and skillful thinking, rather than struggling directly with the five hindrances in meditation.