It really depends on your budget. Shimano 105 is quite a bit better than Claris. Claris uses an 8 speed cassette while 105 uses an 11 speed cassette. This means that 105 will have smaller gaps between the gears if both bikes have the same gear range. There are 2 levels between Claris and 105. They are Sora (9 speed cassette ) and Tiagra (10 speed cassette). You should look at all those different groupsets to determine which one fits your performance and budget needs. There's another way to get the small gaps of a 105, and also not spend so much money on a bike. Get a Claris with a triple chainset in the front. Then, get a 12-23 cassette. This will give you a bike with really small gaps between the gears, but it will also give you enough range due to the triple cranket. This of course comes at an increased weight penalty. 

Get a good track pump. It doesn't have to be expensive, but $25-$50 can get you a pretty good pump, that will last you a life time. Before I got a track pump, I got quite a few flats, now I get almost none. This may matter more with high pressure road tires. The better quality the pump, the more you will use it, and the smaller chance that you will get a pinch flat from low pressure. I've used Mr. Tuffy Tire liners on my road bike and swear by them. Rode over a broken beer bottle with these in and didn't get a flat. Personally, I think they are well worth the $15-$20 that they cost, and are probably the cheapest way to prevent punctures. At least on my experience with road bikes. But then again, they won't do anything against pinch flats, so I restate, get a good pump (or suffer with a bad pump) and make sure you tires are properly inflated. Us an old dead tube to line the tire. Cut it so that it can be wrapped around the other tire. This is basically the same idea as Tuffy tape, but less resistant to punctures. This can be done so that it does protect from the sides. The extra layer is similar to using extra thick tubes, without paying for extra thick tubes every time you need to replace your tubes. 

The only upgrade I think you could get while still maintaining an 8 speed cassette (nothing else would work with your shifters) would be to get a cassette with a smaller range. Something like a 11-28,12-26, or even a 12-23 would provide much closer gearing. The downside is that you'd be losing some of your easier gears. Whether or not this will work for you depends on the terrain your ride and your own physical abilities. If you don't have a lot of hills in your area, then the closer gearing will allow you to find a gear with a more efficient and comfortable cadence. I went from an 11-32 to a 12-23 and I noticed a big difference. However, I have a triple so I still have a reasonable number of easy gears. That being said, my middle ring in a 42 and I really don't need to go down into the small ring very often because of the terrain I bike on. That being said, my lowest gear of 30-23 is equalivant to a 34-26, so I would say that a 12-26 would most likely be enough range for myself, but I could probably also do very well with a compact crank and 12-23 like you have. I really depends on the amount of hills you have in your area. I think you should at least go down to the 11-28 as 11-32 is a very large range to have on a road cassette especially with only 8 sprockets. That is, unless you live near a mountain range. 

I would say that it isn't very common to see people wearing Lycra on a hybrid. However most people I see on hybrids wouldn't ride 80 km. At that distance, the right clothes can make a real difference in energy expenditure and comfort. The people who don't wear Lycra mostly don't know the benefits or feel too self-conscious to wear it. I think that you should keep wearing Lycra if it makes you comfortable. 

This one is the closest I could find. It has similar head tube and seat tube cut outs. It's titanium though. Is yours titanium? This is the current, steel version. As far as I can tell, this frame is identical, with the same brake bosses on the wrong side of the seat stays. Also has cable stops in the same place for the rear brake. Seat tube clamp is under the seat stays as well, which is another uncommon similarity. If this isn't the same frame, your frame is almost definitely manufactured by Eastern. The cut-outs on the seat tube and head tube are very common on their bikes, and many of their models seem to have a similar brake placement. The frame I linked to is the only one I could find that had the exact same head tube cut-out. All the rest had a logo cut out of the head tube. 

If you aren't using many of the gears, then you should definitely go for something with a smaller range. The triple crank will give you plenty of range even without a wide range cassette. They sell 12-25 and 12-23 cassettes which may be closer to what you are looking for. I have an 8 speed cassette with a 52-42-30 crankset and I opted for the 12-23 cassette. I find there is plenty of range for climbing hills. The nice thing is that the gears are so much closer and I find that it's a lot easier to find the right gear in order to maintain an optimal cadence. 

What others are saying is right. If you have a 48/11 and are only going 20 mph (32 km/h) then you aren't spinning fast enough. You also won't be able to find a cassette with smaller than an 11 tooth cog. You'll have to get bigger chain rings. That being said, it might be difficult to spin fast on a hybrid with platform pedals. Personally I find it easier to spin fast when I have clipless pedals. Also, make sure the bike is fit correctly to your body. If your seat isn't high enough and your legs are bent too much, it can be hard to get a high cadence. 

I use These cycling gloves. They seem to have much more padding than the ones you linked to. They are also available quite cheaply ($15-$20) if you can find a shop that carries them. I've done some pretty long rides in them, and I've only experienced numbness on the longer rides. I agree with the others though, you shouldn't have so much numbness after only a 10 km bike ride. You may be putting too much weight on your hands, possibly due to a bad fitting bike. If you ride a road bike, try changing your hand positions as your ride. Don't stay down in the drops all the time. Using a variety of hand positions can help to stop numbness from occurring. 

From some quick searching, it seems that "Everest" is a department store brand. Most upgrades that you would really notice would probably cost a significant portion of the value of the bike. Other than making sure it's in good mechanical condition, I wouldn't recommend putting much money into this bike. Make sure the chain is oiled and there is the correct air pressure in the tires. Make sure the gears and brakes are adjusted properly and work well. Even something simple like a set of tires or new brake mechanisms could easily cost $50+. Just ride it and have fun with it. Save up your money for a better bike. 

If you don't have these, you will need to replace the hub or the wheel. In your case it would probably be better to just replace the entire wheel. Your bike is pretty low end. If you are having braking issues, first make sure everything is adjusted properly. Then perhaps consider getting a higher quality v-brake with good brake pads. This upgrade will be cheaper and will provide more than adequate braking power. 

It sounds like you have a kind of injury that is common in skiing. What happens is the ski pole handle gets trapped under the thumb when falling, causing the thumb to bend the wrong way. You can find supports such as this one. I can't speak for that one specifically, but if you look up "skier's thumb" on the internet you should be able to find lots of information on the injury and ways to prevent it. Also, something like a rollerblade wrist guard might do the job, but I'm not sure how well you could grip the handlebars with something like that. 

In order to understand how your gears work, it's probably useful to do a little experimenting own your own. Since you have a hub gear, switching between gears is very easy. Just move the lever while not pedalling. This is a lot simpler than a derailleur bike which requires you to pedal and takes time for the chain to move between gears. It will probably be easiest to assess how your gears work if you just stick to a flat surface or a quiet road with a slight incline. Put the bike in first gear and pedal for a known distance, such as between two sign posts. Count the number of pedal revolutions required to get between the two points without any coasting. Now try the same in gear 2 and again in gear 3. Gear 1 should take more pedal revolutions than gear 2 to go the same distance, and similarly gear 2 should take more than gear 3 to go the same distance. If you don't find the above to be the case, then you should take your bike back to the store you bought it to ensure the gears are indeed working properly. Gear 1 is the easiest gear and should be used when going up hills. Gear 2 is usually for flat roads, and gear 3 is for if you want to pedal going down hills. As you become a stronger rider you may want to use 3 for flat roads an may find that 2 is easy enough for some gentle hills. If you are new to riding, hills will often seem very hard no matter what gear the bike is in. But the more you ride, the easier the hills will be. Physics does play a huge role is how easy or how hard it is to propel a bike. Assuming you have relatively smooth tires, even a slight downhill can indeed make pedalling extremely effortless, and almost pointless as the bike will often roll faster than you can spin your feet anyway. A flat asphalt road can be travelled at 20 km/h at almost the same effort as walking. An uphill section that doesn't seem much trouble to walk can actually create quite a bit of resistance. A 5% grade road probably wouldn't trouble most reasonably fit people to walk up, and most car drivers wouldn't even recognize as a hill at all would actually be reasonably difficult for a new cyclist.