If this would be a common practice someone would be able to prove it If somebody would find a proof it would most likely lead to a legal case. Such cases exist: see eg (1) cited in the paper you provided yourself. It is a criminal offense. It will likely happen sometimes, but that does not convince me that it happens by default 

Yes HIV is a sexually transmitted infection. The page you mentioned [*] gives plenty of proof for that. Let's just have a brief look to the population of the study: 

This comment should also apply to Isles own study. Here is the graph that should support the fact that there is a jump in pedestrians killed the year the legislation is passed: It shows the number of pedestrian casualties, scaled to 100 3 years prior to the law. This means that there is no confidence interval that year (everything scaled to 100). Interestingly enough, one country (Belgium) was excluded in the rest of the analysis of Isles, because their model did not fit well (!)*, this already means that all other confidence intervals are underestimations of the true uncertainty. But even disregarding these facts, it is clear from the remaining confidence intervals that their width is a lot bigger in the 'law year'. which makes the above comments more relevant again: if one county is included/excluded, the effect prior to the law would be small, but after the law would be big. The reason that the interval suddenly gets large is due to 2 things: the fact that scaling was done 3 years before (and autocorrelation is becoming less important), but also the fact that car usage was seriously changed in some in the same years due to the oil crisis. I also don't think the presented model fits the data nicely after the law year. The large jump in the 'exponential with jump' line seems too large in the law year, but it is that effect which is used to prove that there is a 8% increase. (* Being Belgian, I can imagine that they somehow changed the way that statistics were gathered and that that caused the strange numbers. If however no reason is found it would be plainly wrong to exclude the data because they don't fit an exponential trend seen in other countries.) 

Fake iPhone chargers There have been previous reports of electric shocks from fake iPhone chargers and the safety of fake iPhone chargers is notorious 1 2. The sister claims it was original equipment from an Apple store but it look like she was wrong. The BBC report, referred to above, says 

So its subject is near real-time monitoring of reports of health problems. You can sign up for email alerts. These are shown graphically on it's front page. A summary on that page counts numbers of alerts under various categories including "Ebola(1543)" At the Healthmap website I can find no predictions of future events. 

It might refer to the OSHA Act however, the OSHA act obviously doesn't apply to you unless you are an employee or an employer using bleach-based products in your business 

The "third eye" is a somewhat mystical name given to the pineal gland by somewhat mystical people. It's activity is affected by light levels which are sensed via photoreceptors in your eyes (the real ones). It doesn't provide any sensory capability itself (in the normally accepted meaning of "sense"). I could equally assert that humans have a second nose if I chose that as an alternative name for the appendix. Calling something an eye doesn't make it in any way like the two eyes in the front of your head. So yes humans have a "third eye" if you accept that name. 

I have not checked the dates of the references. It may be that this 2016 study is based on data from older studies. 

Counting single bet "underdogs" only If, however, you discount accumulators or pools and count only events treated by the bookies as single bets and given very long odds, I can't find anything close to 5,000-1. It's hard to prove a negative, but ESPN have an analysis that concludes that Leicester have the record (written shortly before their win was confirmed): 

However the story had already been reported in many places, including in the French press, as if the knee-touching led directly to Fallon losing his job. For example (Google translation from French): 

City AM, a UK newspaper aimed at the financial industry, published some calculations to see if any case can be made that at any point the two economies could be argued to have crossed: 

No. He laid a wreath, mourned the dead, spoke about a moral duty to prevent the horrors of war, but didn't apologise, didn't separate the nuclear attacks from the other horrors of war, and didn't express any view on whether the use of nuclear weapons at that moment in history was right or wrong. From the BBC: 

Actually, it appears to be even lower than this. From the book A National Cancer Clinical Trials System for the 21st Century by the Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Cancer Clinical Trials and the NCI Cooperative Group Program, published in 2010: 

I can't find any more up to date primary source, but here's a quote from 2013, quoted in the BBC from the UK's Chief Medical Officer, Prof Dame Sally Davies, which suggests that this particular expert didn't have access to any more recent data suggestive of any sudden increase: 

So if Gandhi didn't give up pulses and salt for a period before advising Kasturba to do so, it seems inconsistent that he would need to prove to himself or to others in advance that he could give up sugar. Inconsistencies I checked a few of the stories, none of which say exactly where or when Gandhi said this. They tend to vary considerably The period is any of: three days, one week, two weeks or three months. Usually the child is a boy but in at least one example it is a girl. What Gandhi says to the child varies quite a bit 

I think the 70% increase for thyroid cancer risks for women means that for every 100,000 young girls in the most exposed areas, instead of say 5 getting thyroid cancer sometime in their lives, there would be around 8. See Cancer Research UK for variations in rates between countries/regions. Something of the order of 170,000 people were evacuated (Ref) from around the plant (the number of people displaced by the earthquake and tsunami was more). Not all those 170,000 were from the most affected areas (the initial evacuations were around 5,800 people) and, of course, not all of them were young girls. Not everyone who gets thyroid cancer dies, the five year survival rates vary from 100% to 51% (ref) depending at which stage it is detected. The only deaths in the WHO report are of seven workers