To lose the knowledge of how to make stuff? About a generation. But to have the concepts involved become mythologized? That generally takes around 3 centuries. 

The reason that racism is problematic in our world is that it's based on a lie: that people of other races are inherently different, in a way that makes it harmful for them to interact with us. The simple truth is, we're all human and we all have approximately the same capacities for good and for evil as everyone else. If you want it to be justified, take that lie and make it true in your world. There is something inherent in their nature that makes at least one group, if not both, fundamentally harmful to the other. Subtle biological changes can exist between human subraces. Caucasians are almost unique in their ability to tolerate lactose beyond childhood. Native Americans don't have the genes for facial hair. IIRC the Japanese have an enzyme that improves their ability to digest raw fish. Sickle-cell anemia is common in people whose ancestry traces back to parts of Africa in which malaria is endemic, because the altered blood cells are resistant to it. And so on. Perhaps in your world, race A has a pheromone that is harmless to them but triggers allergic reactions in many members of race B. Now it is literally not safe for them to be around each other. That's all it takes. 

From Brandon Sanderson's Mistborn series: The heroine, Vin, was fighting a warrior who had Atium, which gave him the magical power to see her attacks before she made them, and to react to them accordingly. It was believed that the only counter to the precognition of a warrior with Atium was to have Atium yourself, but Vin had used all of hers. But then she realized she could: 

They want to keep education valuable by keeping it expensive Here's a crazy idea: We know that people with money are better off than people without money. Therefore, let's give a million dollars to everyone, and end the woes of poverty overnight! Anyone with even the most basic understanding of economics can take a single look at that and say "that's crazy, because inflation". Money is used as a proxy for labor and necessary resources, and putting more money into the system doesn't actually create more labor and necessary resources, so something has to give and it ends up devaluing the money. What does this have to do with the question? Well, here's another crazy idea: We know that people with education get better-paying jobs than people without education. Therefore, let's give a degree to everyone, and end the woes of poverty overnight in 4-6 years! With the context above, it should be immediately obvious why this will not work. Education doesn't get you a good job; it simply helps you distinguish yourself from less-educated applicants. It can be thought of as somewhat similar to money in this sense, and putting more degrees into the system doesn't create more good jobs; it just devalues the degrees. (See: US education policy over the last few decades, leading to some places where they literally require a Master's degree to be a pizza delivery guy, because that's how high you have to set the filter.) Which means you end up with a bunch of people trying to pay off a Master's degree worth of student loans on pizza delivery guy wages! (See: current US student debt crisis.) A government that's aware of the problems of inflation uses monetary policy to try to keep inflation down. A government that's aware of the problems of eduflation (yes, it's a real word, and it's a shame more people don't know about it) would use a restrictive educational policy to try to keep eduflation down. 

Lot's of great possibilities. Locomotion: Smaller animals could have small wings, or winglike structures (think flying squirrel). Floating animals (filled with gas) could use that gas for propulsion, like attitude jets on a space craft (and they would not have to be located only at front and rear, you could have a gill-vent for turning, etc.) Considering your planet's 60% water you could reasonably have amphibians who could fly in the air and use the same wing/fin / propulsion combination to move about underwater. Predators: would have to be fast and accurate - think moray eel, both in and out of water. So their prey would have to be faster and smarter and trained from birth (or have genetic memory) for evasion. 

Consider a smallish cube, self powered and capable of projecting interactive holograms. If your far-future race communicates verbally, the cube would be equipped with a language-learning routine, so it would learn the language of the future rather than the inverse. Holographic projection would first allow picto-graph type communication until the cube learned the language and then it could begin to communicate verbally. Preserve it inside one of those molybdenum aluminum boride mononiths (thanks to Pommerbot for the science!) and make it a "quest" to get inside the monolith with all the associated rewards of solving the quest. 

On intake, implant inmates with a tracking chip which is multifunctional. The chip also "receives" a paralysis field that is broadcast across the prison and its grounds at 2200hrs. This field can also be attributed to the zero jailbreak record of the prison, because it can be turned on manually as well as being set for automatic-on state at 2200hrs. Something to think about is - if this practice becomes widely known will it have an adverse effect on the political ambitions of Ytra? 

In one possible scenario you'll need three elements. 1) A launcher of some type on a orbital platform 2) the Clarke elevator/skyhook to get to the orbital platform and 3) a wormhole network Take the Clarke elevator to the orbital platform, board a launch pod, launch pod is loaded into a launcher and sent through a wormhole to its destination. Of course if the launcher can get the pod up to FTL speed, you might not need the wormholes. 

Humanoids living and walking along the bottom of an earth-like planet would have to put up with extreme pressure, wouldn't they? So, first of all they'd probably be shaped differently - shorter, squatter, beefy-er, etc. Their bone structure would likely be more dense. Given that they could breathe air, they might find walking on the surface of the earth a little like flying - definitely liberating. 

Several answers have already talked about technology, but one thing that does not appear to have been considered yet is that technological development itself would require the existence of a language more specific than intuitively-understood "ideas, concepts, feelings" can be. This isn't mere conjecture, but a lesson of history, as Dijkstra points out: 

Communism as described by Karl Marx can never be a viable, stable economic system, for one very simple reason. In order to succeed, it requires people to set aside their greed and destructive levels of self-interest in favor of building up their community, and yet at the same time it explicitly villifies and seeks to suppress the one part of human nature that has the capability to reliably impel people to do exactly that: the religious impulse. 

It's hard to see how "a rational and moderately intelligent precog" would be able to beat this strategy. 

Because the purpose of language is communication, in theory, what would be needed for a global language to arise is a global communication system. In practice... that's exactly what we're seeing. Look at how rapidly English is becoming the lingua franca of the Internet ever since the rise of the World Wide Web. It's already accomplished more, in a few short decades, than the combined resources of colonizing empires, missionaries, and traveling ESL teaching programs have in centuries. 

Want to cause all sorts of trouble for people living underground? Just divert the nearest river to the mouth of a cave that leads into the Dwarven habitation and let gravity and hydrodynamics do the hard work for you. Any giants capable of the earth-moving necessary for open-pit mining (as Dan Smolinske suggested) can dig a trench and drop a few boulders in the riverbed. Unless it's a very small stream, this puts the dwarves in a world of hurt, as they simply can't mine faster than water can flow in. The only thing they can do, once they realize what's going on, is evacuate as quickly as possible, and if they don't have some sort of teleportation available, or tunnels on comparatively high ground that lead to a distant settlement, the only feasible way out is likely to drop them in the middle of the giants' army, giving the giant general exactly what he wants: a stand-up fight out in the open. The tricky part, then, is retrieving the MacGuffin from the city afterwards. The steam engine was originally developed to pump water out of mines, not to move trains, but that happened well after the Renaissance. To get someone in there would probably require magic. But... one thing at a time. Flooding the place is the most expedient way to get rid of the dwarves, simply because it takes effect very quickly. Smoking them out or mining will take a long time, giving the dwarves plenty of time to plan against it and counter it. Plague takes a long time, can be healed with magic (maybe) and shut down with quarantine. But floods are devastating to city dwellers, and they're devastating very, very quickly! 

Depending upon how fantasy-oriented you want to get in your mystery, the tunnel could be used by an amphibian race that wants to worship but has been generally persecuted - they could arrive/depart via the tunnel. 

If you have 4 or 5 genders you may have reproduction that requires something more complicated than a gamete-based method. For example, you could use role types versus gender types and there could group responsibility for nurturing the offspring until its capable of surviving on its own. For the reproduction part, you would need gene-contributors (what humans would call egg and sperm donors) and you might need more than one of them due to something that would cause certain combinations to be successful and other to not be successful - and then perhaps you would need a "quickener" - a member of the reproductive group that contributes an energy that takes the gene contributions and makes them combine to form the proto-being. Lastly if these beings carry unborn offspring inside their bodies you would need an incubator. All of these factors taken together may result in a litter of offspring rather than one single offspring per reproductive cycle. 

What is the purpose / significance of the symbols in the eye? Identification, differentiation? Where would they get the idea in the first place? Maybe someone born with a genetic mutation? 1. maybe that mutation indicates they're from the ruling family - in this case the poser (person with fake lenses) has the potential of gain. 

First, consider the psychology of the dictator - that personality trusts no one, has to be first in everything, is extremely egotistical, paranoid and intolerant - especially of disloyalty. So impressing him would mean you're a totally loyal sycophant, but you'd have to be a useful one. Would a dictator encourage cooperation? Not really, that personality is too paranoid. Autocratic tyrant is a synonym for dictator so same applies. A democratically elected leader, however would be another story. Since a hierarchical culture style is set from the top down, the leader would himself have to demonstrate the merits of cooperation, and then develop a reward system for those minions following his example. 

When dealing with a collective consciousness of any type the best weapon is logic. Think of those ancient Star Trek episodes where Spock presents a paradoxical conundrum to a computer about its behavior and it bricks (after a lot of rattling and smoking). You could do the same to the ants, we're assuming they can communicate and that they're either following the edicts of their queen or some sort of ruling council or quorum. So what argument can you present to the collective consciousness that would show that it needs to stop attacking the terraformers because they are providing something that would help the ant-hill thrive - even while they have some sort of imperative to attack the terraformers. "Must attack humans, but humans give us "x" with the terraforming, must have "X", but must attack humans...." Eventually the ant-hills break down and become just a bunch of regular ants which are good for the terraforming process.