Potentially. Similar to DOMS, a lot of the focus on training through the discomfort assumes that you can hold perfect form. If you are squatting, as an example, and develop pain your left leg, there is a very good chance you will reflexively transfer weight to your right side. While this is a natural and terrific way for our bodies to adapt in real-time to injuries, it's a big issue if you're trying to hold good form during exercises that have a big price tag for bad form. With DOMS, cramps, and even just being really tired, I would caution folks to ensure they are holding a proper form. Not favoring one side or another, and not trying to work around the pain by shifting the load a bit. 

If your friend has genu varum, he needs to talk to a physical therapist to get an idea of how significant the problem is. I know of adults who squat and deadlift just fine with slight bowlegs, but in medical literature it's noted that genu varum conveys a higher rate of arthritis later in life. It's just too difficult to say what's safe and what isn't with a condition like that because there's too much variability and their anatomy is a bit different. A physical therapist can diagnose the extent of the issue and advise on exercises that won't make things worse. It's really worth the ~$100 USD. 

Planks are cool but I find them pretty boring, and isometrically I'd rather do front squats (including as part of the clean). 

I think you should ask yourself exactly what you're looking to accomplish. If you want to run a 10K in under half an hour, that's a whole different ball of wax than wanting to run a competitive time for your age, which is different than just finishing it without walking. They're all "running a 10K", but the training is a lot different. There's no right or wrong answer, but be honest about your goals as otherwise your training could have way too much or way too little stress. For competitive running in those distances, you'll want to work on a few things at once. I'm used to something a bit like this (for a 10k): 

There's a lot of quality peer reviewed data out there showing links between aerobic exercise and your heart, but a good summary (with cited studies) is this article from Johns Hopkins: 

Soreness you can work through isn't so bad and in general people training all the time will have a bit of soreness here and there that they're okay with. The problem with soreness is that on the upper end of the pain scale it can cause you to not move in the right ways. If you're squatting with really sore hip adductors (groin muscles) , as an example, that can cause you to not go deep enough and lean too far forward. That in turn can cause excessive loads on your lumbar spine. DOMS really has nothing to do with how hard you're training and it's a poor indicator of intensity, progress, or recovery. The biggest issue for me is really just that pain can cause you to favor certain movements which might not be the one you're supposed to do which can in turn lead to real injuries. 

Just at a baseline (no strength training involved), a 170lb man would need 61.2 grams of protein according to the US RDA. So bumping that up to the generally accepted "1 gram of protein per pound of bodyweight" is a 110 gram bump from the baseline. Beyond the gram-for-gram measurements, there's a lot going on about availability (2005 review): 

Normally I try not to answer people's questions with pills, but in this case you really should consider using melatonin. It's been fairly well studied. From a 2002 study: 

I'll answer this under the in-scope topics of "gear and gadgets used during exercise", and also because I had similar questions when I was running a lot and good experiences in your competitions can make you comfortable to do more. If anyone disagrees, you know where the close button is. Generally people don't wear the race t shirt on race day, but that's entirely your call. The custom as I've heard it described to me is that you don't wear a shirt for a race you haven't finished yet. Put the pins on a shirt you're comfortable running in, and even go for a run around the block to make sure the pins don't rub. Regarding music, I ran and raced with music on. I listen to music all the time and honestly I probably wouldn't do a race where it was banned. If you get any heat, maybe see if it's just a two-ear thing where if you have one earbud in you're okay. 

It's a long book with a lot of good information, but related to your question he does a lot to expose the physiology of thought. In athletics we are quick to recognize (or at least respect) the neurology required to move our bodies, but it's a relatively new concept to award our cognition the same respect: it consumes physical resources when it has to work hard. According to Baumeister's research, the same pool is drawn from for you to fire impulses to your muscles to squat heavy as it is for you to handle an emotionally taxing event. 

If you don't have anything to use that will give you a good grip, you'll need to buy/steal/borrow something. You can build your own for roughly $20. You can also spend $25 and get a cheap pair of rings (nice ones will set you back ~$40-$50). With those you can do levers, dips, pullups, muscle ups, shoot throughs, and much else. 

Days off from lifting, known as "rest days", are designed to let your body heal from the damage you do during training. Oddly enough, the more progress you make in strength training the less frequently you can train at maximum because you get very good at damaging your body. Putting it another way, the cumulative exercise (a.k.a. damage) a trained athlete can do to their body is much higher than a novice. As such, a new weight lifter can perform at maximum nearly every day, with no rest days, because they simply don't need that much time to recover. EXRX has some good definitions: 

Crunches and sit ups don't have a large isometric component, as where something like front squats, deadlifts, and planks do. Most of what we want our backs to do in daily life is related to posture, where that lengthened and upright position is really helpful. Also, a lot of lower back injuries can be traced to weak abs, and not being able to maintain a tight (and erect) mid section. Personally I'd vote for ab wheel rollouts (using an ab wheel) over crunches and situps as it engages far more muscles. Those combined with deadlifts, front squats, and planks make for terrific abdominal strength. 

So, jump rope away. If you want to strengthen your feet, go ahead and (seriously) take some walks on the beach to strengthen your arches. 

You're not really doing any type of strength training. The pushups, situps, and crunches are certainly better than nothing but they are a far cry from an effective strength training plan. If you want to stick with body weight activities you can, and there are some great books ( $URL$ ) that you can check out to get you on the right path. I'd also spring ~$40 for a pair of gymnastic rings. That will allow you to do dips, pullups, rows, levers, l-sits, butterflies, muscle ups, roll outs, and probably a dozen other high quality exercises. Your breakfast should be more substantial. I don't know how big that bowl is you're eating, but it sounds like you're getting a couple of hundred calories. I'd bump that up to maybe 600. Use a site like dailyburn.com or myfitnesspal.com to track your calories for a week and get some insight into your macros. The lentils/chicken/pork/spinach/beef sounds good, but you really need to have an overall view into your macro nutrients. Aim for (roughly) 1g of protein per 1kg of bodyweight. Highly active training people will double that, but at minimum go for 1g to 1kg. Strength training will increase your basal metabolic rate, but you honestly might be in starvation mode considering your limited calories. Monitor everything you eat for a week, get a benchmark of what you're eating, and go from there. Find some calculators online that can give you some guidance as to how many calories and how much protein/fat/carbs you should ingest daily. This is a good calculator: $URL$ 

Regarding strength training and running, they are a bit mutually exclusive but at the half-marathon level I think you don't really need to compromise much on either unless you're trying to be extremely competitive. I wrote up an answer with my old lifting and running (half marathons) schedule that might be of some value to you. Regarding fat loss, strength training generally shows better weight loss than cardio exercise. The slightly-fat-runner-body (I think) stems from the fact that runners on a whole have a terrible diet. After a 20 mile run it's pretty common to eat a pizza and take a nap. I'm not running much distance anymore, but I do spend a lot of time splitboarding (think: cross country skiing) which is a fairly rough aerobic activity. I'm not quite believing the hype about eating bacon and tons of saturated fat from the keto folks, but I do try to eat food that is actually "food" that one could reasonably find in nature and avoid anything made in a factory. Breads, crackers, most anything in a wrapper, etc. Boiled down, I would focus on maybe not cutting out carbs altogether but definitely trying to reduce the amount of simple sugars and flour-based products you're eating, if not removing them entirely. Coupled with some strength training I think you'll have your bases covered.