This is a complex topic. When you are exercising, you are burning both fat and carbohydrate. If you are exercising easily, the bulk of the energy is coming from fat. As you start exercising harder, you will hit the limit of the energy that can be supplied through fat metabolism, and the extra energy will be supplied by carbohydrate metabolism. If you are working very hard, the majority of the energy comes from carbs. To answer your specific question - whether 5 minutes at high speed burns more fat than 30 minutes at a lower speed, the answer is "probably not", for a couple of reasons. First, even if you burnt all fat, that would mean that you would have to be working 6 times as hard to burn the same amount of energy in 5 minutes as in 30. That would be a very big spread in effort; if you are working pretty hard at both durations, it would be rare to work twice as hard on a 5 minute (a more typical ratio is perhaps 30% harder). Second, the majority of the extra energy you burn at 5 minutes would come from carbohydrate, not fat. So, if you are looking for burning more calories during a workout, a longer workout will nearly always burn more calories than a short one. If you want to lose weight, you should care about the overall number of calories you burn, not just the fat calories you burn. However, higher-intensity workouts do burn more calories per minute, and can also burn more fat calories per minute. They will also burn additional calories at a higher rate after the workout is over. A caution: High intensity workouts are harder on your body, and it's easy to overdo it. 

To decrease your fat percentage, you need to lose fat, increase lean muscle mass, or do both. There are two approaches used for this. You can do a "steady state approach" where you eat enough to keep your weight constant and exercise enough so that you don't lose muscle at the same time. This is known as "recomposition". You can do the "bulk/cut". In a bulk, you eat a slight excess over what your body needs and weightlift hard, so that you put on a lot of muscle and a little fat. And then you cut, where you eat less than what your body needs and continue to weightlift to retain your muscle. I've only done the recomposition approach. It can work, but it's slow. Doing a bulk/cut is common among weightlifters. You don't mention how you had your body fat measured; there are a lot of methods, and many aren't very accurate. You may not be at 23%. 5% of your body weight is about 8-9 pounds. At 1 pound per week, you can lose that much weight. If you eat at a deficit of 500 calories per day and continue to do the weightlifting that you are currently doing, you should make it. 

Rather than work on the lower back specifically, I recommend working on your core instead. That involves the lower back, the abdominals, the muscles on the sides, etc. Most people have postural problems related to pelvic tilt; either tilted forward (anterior) or tilted back (posterior). This can lead to lower back pain and problems if you start to lift more weight in squats or deadlifts. 

Here's some theory for you. You get better when you put stress on your system. Intervals have the potential to put a lot of stress on your system, and therefore give you lots of improvement. However, they only work if you can work really hard at them, and you can only do that if you are very well rested. If you do intervals when you are not well rested, they will feel hard, but you won't go hard enough to get the benefit from them. You will be wasting your time. 

We sweat when our body has excess heat that it can't get rid of. If you are exercising in cold weather, your body can easily dump excess heat into the cold environment. If it's hot, however, it can't do that, so it tries to dump heat through sweating and having the water evaporate, removing heat from your body. Sweating as also a trained reaction; athletes who are better trained will sweat more. If you do two workouts in a room of the same temperature wearing equivalent clothes, if you sweat more you are probably working harder at that point. 

I have tried wall stretches, but by far the stretch that helped me most with my posture was to do dumbbell flys with a light weight (say 5 pounds), and use the weight to stretch my arms back. 

The only way you can figure out if it is serious is to go to a doctor or a PT. If you don't want to do that, you could try foam rolling the area. If it is related to muscles or tendons that can help. 

Work out harder but less often is likely to lead to improvement. HIIT takes a lot out of you; to be able to do it well - and you need to be able to do it well for it to help you out - you need to be well rested. If you are doing it every day, you can only work out "kindof hard", not really hard, and kindof hard isn't going to put enough training stress on your system to give you gains. I have two references that you might find useful. Chris Carmichael has a book titled "The time-crunched cyclist", which is all about training without a lot of time. I'd also recommend you look at Joe Friel's blog; he has been writing a lot recently about training for older cyclist. 

First off, on a hilly ride, the time saved from being lighter is roughly proportional to your weight + bike weight. Assuming your bike weighs 8 kg, that puts your total weight at 95 kg. Cutting 5 kg saves you only about 5% of your time. The effect will be less for the run. If you want to lose some of your muscle, you're in luck; there's nothing like long-distance endurance exercise to tear the muscle off of you. If you tip the balance to being calorie-negative, you will lose weight - some muscle, some fat. However... you are probably also going to be compromising your training and your recovery. Trying to both improve your condition and reduce your weight is very challenging. If I wanted to do this, I would try to cut the weight of early and then be in a weight maintenance mode in the time leading up to the second race. 

Given what you have said - that you are a relative beginner and you are working to not be skinny fat - I don't think either routine is particularly good. Because of the overlap in the routines (the repeats and things like flat bench/incline bench and squats/leg press) and the number of reps, this looks like a routine for somebody who is interested in muscle mass/aesthetics. There's nothing wrong with that as a goal, but that doesn't sound like you (and even if that was your goal, these programs are intermediate ones). I'm also not a fan of the smith machine for the listed lifts; you will get more benefit out of learning the motions with free weights. If you are looking for a program suggestion, both stronglifts 5x5 and starting strength are both good programs for people who want to start strength training. 

Different people have different size hearts, and that will effect their maximum heart rate. I knew a women who had a working heart rate about 220; she just had a small heart. If you doctor has cleared you, I would not worry about it. It is generally better to use a perceived exertion scale for workouts instead of basing on heart rates unless you have a better way of setting heart rate zones. 

Find yourself a physical therapist to help you if possible, as he/she will be able to tailor exercises to your particular situation. I recently went through this. I found that I could bench (flat) if I went really light on the weight (I dropped back down to the bar only) and if I got my back and shoulder position correct. For me this is retracting the scapula (but not as exaggerated as powerlifters do) and getting my elbows in the right position (for me, at a 45 degree position). Also, lift off with the arms rather than pushing the shoulders forward. If you play around with this, you should be able to find a combination of variables where it doesn't hurt (or just barely hurts). That's what you want. I've also found face pulls to be very helpful to get my shoulders back. Make sure to get the shoulders back and down at the beginning of each rep. 

Not really. You can get something by paying attention to how you feel riding at a specific speed outside vs on the exercise bicycle, but it won't be terribly accurate. However, I recommend that you don't try to duplicate your outdoor training. You would see greater improvement if you did some intervals instead. 

I'm a long distance cyclist (100 miles/week when in season) who does centuries and longer rides a few times a year. I ride 2500-3000 miles/year and lift a few times a week (deadlift/bench/others, plus a lot of stretching). Congrats on doing lifting; cycling is great for cardio but can lead to postural and other issues, and weightlifting can help. There isn't a simple answer to your question. It depends on how you are lifting, what you are eating, and what kind of rides you are taking. The term "cycling" spans such a broad range of activity intensities and durations that it's impossible to generalize. Some people think 60 minutes on a flat trail at 12MPH is a good ride. For others, it's 75 miles and 5000' of climbing. If your rides are 90 minutes or less and you are riding at a reasonable pace (say, 15 MPH or so), you aren't going to be burning enough calories for it to be much of an issue. On the other hand, there is nothing like hard endurance cycling - and by that I mean 19-20MPH on the flats and a lot of hills for 3-5 hours - to melt the muscle off of you. If you are in between, you will put some of your muscle gains at risk, but lifting will reduce the effect of the riding. You may not gain a lot of muscle during the part of the year you ride a lot, but lifting will keep from losing it. I also recommend being really careful with nutrition. Have a stream of calories (300ish/hour) while you ride will help, and making sure to have something for recovery when you finish will also help; when you finish your glycogen levels are low, and if you don't replenish them, your body will tear down some muscle. Chocolate milk works well if you tolerate lactose well; I use Endurox. I will note that it's hard to do deadlift or squats and ride at the same time. My legs are much more tired than usual, and when I'm getting ready for a goal ride I stop lifting.