Guys are supposed to have more upper body strength than girls but what about core strength? Seems like yoga, pilates, pole dancing and the like utilize the core much more so than biceps or chest or anything. 

According to $URL$ "[canes] actually make balancing easier while giving the appearance of more difficulty". Is that true? 

It seems that pistol squats with are easier with your hands in front of you than they are with your hands behind you. What I don't understand is why. Like with a front lever or planche or whatever straddles are easier because they're reducing your body length and thus torque. And with situps having a weight behind your neck is harder than having it in front because it seems like if it's in front you can rely on chest muscles to push it up whereas you can't if it's behind you. But what about pistol squats and hand placement? I just don't get it. Thanks! 

Here's more information regarding manual logging. Given that the Fitbit Flex uses a 3-axial accelerometer, I reckon it starts counting Very Active Minutes as soon as it notices a deviation from patterns of known activities such as normal walking, sitting or lying down/sleep. Especially if you fall into a repetitive pattern, it should be able to reliably determine you're doing something. My advice for cycling: put the wristband around your ankles, they might record awkward data, but it'll surely be very reliable. 

Of these, freestyle is the fastest and most efficient swimming style. In my own experience the butterfly stroke is by far the hardest to maintain for long distances. How you fill in your workout depends on two factors, how well can you swim and how hard do you want to be working out. How well can you swim? If you have a poor technique or a poor condition, swimming will become quite heavy to sustain at a decent speed very quickly. The poor technique causes you to swim inefficient, because having a wrong posture creates a lot of unnecessary drag and inefficient breathing. The poor condition means fatigue will have a negative influence on both your speed and your technique. A combination of both will lead to a complete downward spiral. Why should you care? Well, the point is you want to be swimming for a long stretch off time, enough for some real cardio-exercise. You don't want to be 'wasting' energy and end up completely wasted half way through. You should only make it harder on yourself once yourself once you have a decent baseline condition. Pick the strokes that allow you to swim for as long as possible. How hard do you want to be working out? Like running, swimming is something you can make as hard as you want to. If you swim faster, it will cost you more energy. You can also add tougher strokes (like butterfly stroke) or add resistance (wear a t-shirt or use paddles) to increase the resistance. The other option is working out longer, though unless your serious about swimming long distances, I reckon this is the last option for everyone. Why should you care? This means that if you always swim for half an hour and you're swimming condition + technique start to improve, you can either do more in those 30 minutes or add some minutes to make it harder. 

It probably maximizes hand strength and works the same as regular push ups(chest, triceps, etc.) But why would you do push ups on your thumbs? You'll end up with 2 broken thumbs and even more serious, 2 broken wrists. Also, not only that, but your traps(upper back) muscles are worked with regular push ups anyway. 

So I have noticed that I am doing far beyond 20 reps of push ups and still, after I have done about 50 of them, or even 2 sets of 25 my arms feel like they're expanding and growing muscle, both the biceps and triceps. This is confusing to me because I thought that over 20 reps only builds stamina and endurance, not stronger muscles. If this is the case, why do my arms feel like they're growing? Are they? 

Exercise will not increase intelligence. However, I can tell you from my own expierience that if you are a consistent exerciser that it definitely increases the conditioner's focus. When I started lifting in high school, I noticed my grades increased drastically and my attention span during class was much longer. Sure, some could call it coincidental but I noticed when I took a 2 month break my grades dropped a little lower. Is that a coincidence? Not only that, but side effects of exercise consist of: Longer life span(extends it 5-10 years) Optimism Self-Confidence and courage Self-respect Respect from others Strengthens bones Strengthens muscles Improves fitness level Sense of self-accomplishment Lets you contact your inner self(better meditation) Opens new doors 

Which doesn't tell us much, though I suspect it should be able to pick up forward accelerations. Other help topic mention your concern regarding cycling: 

Losing weight is more about burning calories than using different muscles. Running has several advantages: 

I did some small, very unscientific testing myself. I sat on a chair and ball for 2x30 minutes and averaged the heart rate and kcal/5 min. The bump at the beginning was caused by me drinking coffee. As you can see the heart rates are very similar and the difference in kcal is pretty negligible too. 

Unless you've been using steroids and/or have a history of heart conditions in your family, I don't believe that having a lot of muscles is a risk factor for heart problems. You gain muscles by working out, so while you were building up your muscles, you also built up your heart! Simply put, unless you notice any limiting factors during working out (like an abnormally high heart rate) or the opposite: feel faint during the day (which might be due to low blood pressure), I don't think there's anything to worry about. I suggest you read some more about the relation between power output and your maximal oxygen uptake + heart rate. These factors are all heavily linked and if you have a feeling there's anything wrong with them in your case, you can always ask another question 

The answer usually varies, but if we are talking about exercises such as swimming, running, walking, and biking(cardio, more commonly known as) then the answer is no as long as you are not doing an insane aerobic workout. For example, say that you are running 3 miles every other day. Will this hurt you in the long run? No. But now say that your friend is running 10 miles every single day. Assuming your friend is not extraordinary genetically gifted or is squatting for 8 hours every other day, eventually his/her leg muscles would shrink in size. This is because the muscles require more oxygen to be circulated through them so they shrink down to be able to push the oxygen cells closer together. So in other words, say this: If someone is reading 150 pages out of a book every day without eye breaks, they are more likely to develop blurred vision then someone reading 20 pages a day with no eye breaks(assuming these people are reading about 40 pages an hour). So, to make a long story short, yes if you are taking cardio or pilates to an extreme level it will kill your gains. But doing it moderately, or even at a somewhat advanced level, it will not as long as you say you won't swim over 5 miles a day or bike over 50, etc. When they tell you to "sit still," they mean to not lift weights. 

So the other day I saw two people sorta balancing on one another. Person A was on their back with their feet and hands in the air holding up person B who was sorta moving around on person A's hands / feet. Kinda a vague description but it looked kinda neat. Anyone have any ideas as to what that's called? Seemed kinda like a yoga thing idk. Thanks! 

A lot of exercises, I get the impression, require a flat back. Like if you're doing a front lever or back lever in a "V" shape with your hips sagging your back isn't straight. And I think you're supposed to have a straight back for planks, dead lifts, etc. Anyway, if you don't have a mirror, what's a good way to figure out if your back is flat? 

My question is... if someone weighs 140lbs and can do an iron cross is that the equivalent of doing a dumbbell scaption with 70lbs dumbbell's in both hands? 

So whenever I do standing military press with any weight, it seems to kind of tear at my back. Not my lower back, but maybe my upper or middle. Anyone with similar experiences?How do I avoid this? Am I using proper form? 

It has been proven that gains will still stay with you even years after, so not really. But gaining fat isn't a whole lot better then losing muscle. 

Actually, this answer can vary. If you are lifting 3 days in a row and are doing only upper body as you say in your comment and are working on the same muscle groups day after day, then your muscles are probably not getting enough time to rest to grow back stronger in between your workouts. However, if you are doing the bench press on Friday, curls on Saturday, and "nose breakers" on Sunday you are getting enough rest but may not be exercising each individual muscle group enough; not to mention that nose breakers can cause elbow tendonitis. You should be training each muscle group at least 2 times a week. And not to even mention, where are your leg days? Legs and glutes are the strongest muscle groups on the human body, so why would you deny them? Overall, I think you need a real workout plan. Try something like this: Monday: Full body workout(chest, back, legs, biceps, deltoids) Wednesday: Full body workout Friday:Full body workout And take the other days for rest. Don't worry about working abs individually, as they will be worked through squats and deadlifts. This way you are exercising your entire body 3 days a week and giving it time to heal back up. 

In case the inflammation/bursitis isn't very serious, you could still workout, though sufficient rest until its gone would probably be 'healthier' and you shouldn't feel any pain when working out. Because the bursitis occurs due to repetitive strain of the gluteal muscles on the trochanteric bursa you should work on your hip joint strength and stabilty. I'd suggest cutting back on the intensity of your workouts until your pain free and built up sufficient strength, so you won't be overusing the structures around the bursa. As Physioadvisor.com suggest: 

Assuming you probably only drink 2 liters tops, that's a whopping 70 kcal you just burned there! However, this is drinking nearly freezing water, which is highly unpleasant. And because the water travels through your body, the heat loss is spread out through your mouth, gullet and stomach. This might not reduce the local temperature enough to get your body actively warming it and potentially could be warmed up from your regular activities, so there wouldn't be a net gain. A more positive side effect would be that drinking lots of water fills your stomach and might reduce your need to eat, which probably will do more for your diet than the actual body warming. More info can be found on howstuffworks.com and MetaFilter.com 

So I have noticed a considerable amount of guys in my gym will not do any leg work(as much as 50% on some days).... All they do is bench and do bicep curls... Why don't a lot of guys wanna do leg work? 

If your question is strictly referring to just gaining muscle mass, then of course the steroid user shall make gains in mass whether they work out or not. However, where these gains are and how much gains they get shall depend on if they are lifting or not. You may have heard that steroid usage will enhance one's performance at powerlifting, but this will not be the case if the user doesn't work out, due to the fact that steroids prioritize deltoid, traps, and lat muscles, which none of are the main muscle used for powerlifting. That being stated, if a sedentary person has broad shoulders and a wide back, but the rest of their body is weak, they are probably using steroids. Also, the muscle mass gained would not be as much as an active steroid user. But why would you want to take steroids? The negative effects definitely outweigh the positive effects. 

I checked the inside of the Vibrams and saw there were some stitching's on the place where approximately my blisters are: 

Now I'm wondering why I got blisters in the first place and whether its to be expected to go away. If not, what should I do to prevent getting blisters or should I just 'bite the bullet' and wait until I get some callus there or the material softens a little? 

Disclaimer: I specialize in gait analysis, so obviously I'm heavily biased. What are your options for footwear? 

To understand how these two sports might conflict, we need to delve deeper into how muscles are controlled. Chad Waterbury had this nice picture showing how a motor unit touches several muscle fibres. I suggest those who don't know what motor units are start reading up a little bit :-) 

If you don't have any experience with running, are overweight and a poor fitness, I always recommend the Couch to 5K (C25K) program. Which consist of 3 to 4 workouts per week that last anywhere between 20-30 minutes of moderate exercise. The reasons for this are: 

Before I started lifting and eating more calories than I burn I had shredded six pack abs... Probably because I play baseball and did push ups and sit ups... But now I am lifting and eating and they seem to be slowly going away... How do I bulk and keep my ab muscles visible at the same time? 

I lift for an hr. and a half every other day... I have noticed that as I get further in(after 1 hr. of lifting I am breaking a sweat...) my face turns red and I sweat. Should this occur with weights? I thought it was solely cardio. 

So I live in Wisconsin, and I take my motor boat out on Lake Michigan every week or so during this Summer, usually about 30 or 40 miles out. I am literally the only one out there. It's water as far as the eye can see. Anyway, I have a built on ladder and stabilizers I have been using to get back on the boat when I'm done swimming. I get out, with a life jacket on and swim around and enjoy the peace and quiet for about 20 minutes. My only concern is what happens if my boat sinks or I can't get back on it or something. I am a male of age 27,height 5"10, weigh 155 and used to swim for my high school team. Is this okay?