Simplest method is massed arrow volleys. The most effective would probably be a counter attack with flying mounted warriors of thier own. 

Superstition or Cultural reasons In Stephen king's Dark Tower series the descendants of the the survivors live in feudal style structure where "knights" are replaced by gunslingers. Most of the wonders of the past are seen in a negative light depicted as the cause of the old one's hubristic downfall. Most technological items are seen as cursed. In particular people think that an ancient malevolent god of fire and furious light known by many names such as "conoco, exxon, texaco, and shell" ruled over people. He demanded his followers drive fiery chariots at ludicrous speed into each other. When his crazed worshipers weren't doing this they were on endless pilgrimages to all of the various holy sites where they fed their beastly chariots of noise and fire with holy water of light from sacred mechanical fountains, and purchased dark religious totems and ointments for their hateful machines from the gleaming chrome and glass temples bearing their dark lord's many names. Why not have people from your new society view petroleum combustion engines as a source of great evil that harmed the planet and led to greedy violent wars that almost destroyed humanity? To them crude oil is a black physical embodiment of evil and greed that must be handled sparingly with extreme care, and that's when the nasty stuff can even be found and collected in the first place. 

The biggest drawbacks to cities like that is that they dont make very effecient use of space like squares do. In medieval times cities were built in a circular manner because they usually were all trying to huddle as close to a castles fortified walls as they could. Living close to a fortress refuge during a time of extreme uncertainty and violence outweighed the inefficient use of space and loss of productivity inherent in the design. Circular cities also tend to run out of flat ground to expand across and begin developing haphazardly after that. Theres no reason your fictional culture CANT build that way if they wanted to, theyd just need A LOT of flat land to do it on. Also keep in mind theyd be wasting a TON of land for growing crops and stuff if "every single thing they build is circular" also includes farmland and property plots. If theres plenty of land and things are bountiful its not a problem, if theyre living in medieval european over-crowded conditions famines would probably become frequent enough to make them ignore circles and just use whatever land they could to grow food. 

The River and the Lake are not water. The fluid is actually a non-Newtonian ferrofluid, which is to say it is a fluid that has magnetic properties. The ceiling of the cave is comprised out of some sort of naturally occurring magnetic lodestone. 

Basic Component Materials Bone is primarily comprised of various collagen compounds and minerals. Collagen makes up about 50% of a bone's wet mass and about 30% of its dry mass. The rest of a bone's mass is comprised of hydroxite, calcium, carbonate, phosphates and hydroxyapatite. Bacteria will over time break down and digest the collagen leaving this crystalline mineral structure behind. Eventually given enough time this mineral structure will break down into finer and finer granules of the same composition. Eventually you would have.... well... a calcium and phosphate rich dust. Believe it or not this process only takes a few years. In a warm humid environment Bacteria digest the collagen and the minerals in bones are soluble to various acids that can be found in soils at humid locations. Even this bone dust will eventually just be absorbed as mineral components into the soil as well as be absorbed as nutrients by various microorganisms, fungi, and plants. Limestone is not formed from bones, it is formed from mineral deposits left over millions and millions of years in very thin layers from ancient corals and microorganisms. Limestone forms underneath the ocean in shallow clear water and takes geological periods of time to happen. 

You will probably recieve a host of deviously brutal and terrifying methods. These all probably work quite well too, but dont forget how effective positive reenforcement can be. Reward slaves for assisting in running the system by say, informing on escape plans or simply doing really good at thier jobs. In ancient rome trusted slaves could actually hold quite highly esteemed positions, or even be freed. In a system of slavery you can use brutality to keep dissidents in line, but if there is zero hope for any sort of positive enforcement then you end up with listless unproductive slaves who are in such a miserable learned helplessness that they arent as useful. If theres something good in it for them to go with the system and excel then they will be more likley to do so. Additionally skilled slaves are expensive, so brutality and barbarism can end up being self-defeating. The point of slavery isnt torture, its profit. A slave owner doesnt want to torture slaves, HE WANTS TO MAKE MONEY WITH THEM! You cant make money off a slave as say, a textile weaving merchant if you break the slaves hands. If they are concussed from a beating or anemic due to blood loss from a whipping then thier work will be sub par. 

The final on paper iteration of the plan could accelerate a space craft at 1G for 10 days. To give you an idea of how fast that is if you Accelerated at 1G for 5 days, then decelerated at 1G for 5 days you could reach Saturn in 10 days. Also it is a MASSIVE vessel. Since it's riding a series of thousands of nuclear shock waves the vessel's minimum size must be nearing the 1000 metric ton weight class just to survive launch. The vessel would have an order of magnitude larger amount of Delta-V required to achieve orbit, and as soon as it left orbit it could pretty much go anywhere in the solar system it wanted to. Shoot, if it used up all of its nuclear charges with zero regard for deceleration it could theoretically hit about 4% the speed of light. Keep in mind the pusher plate being shown here is approx 500 meters in diameter!. Seems a bit extreme? I say irradiating an area the size of Texas is a small price to pay for progress! 

A species developing technologically is going to require some features. There are a couple traits essential to gaining a technological civilization. One is the ability to manipulate tools, You also need to be able to communicate complex and abstract concepts. Take Dolphins for instance, researchers are beginning to suspect that dolphins are far smarter than primates and theorize that they may even posses an actual language that may even be far more complex than anything we have. So why did we evolve from primates instead of cetaceans? Even if it is true that they can talk to each other they don't have hands. Also They live underwater. Living underwater means that you cant discover fire. Not having hands means you can't invent tools, or begin building complex structures. I guess my point is that if they aren't humanoid that doesn't mean they cant be sentient or have developed technology, but a sentient puddle of immobile slime or a gas cloud, or some kind of silicon based living crystal pillar isn't going to be able to build anything or go anywhere, and probably wouldn't have anything very interesting to say either. If your alien race is going to be technologically advanced you need to give them a way to communicate, and a way to manipulate objects. 

I dabble in machining my own guns. I can tell you right now that getting a factory running again is one thing, but who is replacing the parts used to make the parts? In real life factories are themselves supported by yet other factories making the tools that make the tools. Contrary to popular belief piles of ore dont go in one side while fully equipped humvees pop out the other. Also, as dramatic as having some pale-faced warboyz huffing paint and throwing grenades at eachother is its pretty hard to imagine such people coming back from a raid, sitting down, and studying complex geometry, metallurgy, mathematics, chemistry, and matierial sciences and physics so they can machine new fuel injectors for thier engines. If they were that smart they wouldnt need to be out raiding in the first place. If such intelligent people managed to get established and organized in the first place wiping out raiders would probably be a prerequisite event prior to setting up all of thier facilities. 

Cryogenic Revival Also Means Immortal lifespans Realistically the tech to revive a person who has been cryogenically stored is pretty much identical to the tech required to make somebody live forever since we are talking about complete cellular regeneration. If one can feasibly freeze humans and revive them again (presumably through some crazy hypothetical tier sci-fi nano tech) you could just make your colonists functionally immortal. Think less freezer-ship and more "Methuselah" ship. If your colonists can live for as long as they have access to the regeneration tech required to revive human pop-sickles they don't need to be frozen. You also wont need as many colonists since "immortal" means they could potentially have thousands of children over a very very long time span. Plus, your population will never need to outpace a death rate since you only have to replace the odd loss to accidents that render a body totally unrecoverable. which by the way, would be VERY rare since the same tech that could regenerate a frozen body at the cellular level could just as easily be used to regenerate a body from any other kind of accident short of complete obliteration or simply being unable to find and recover the body. With a potentially infinite lifespan the colony ship can take as long as it likes to coast from star system to star system carefully building colony after colony and monitoring and assisting each one to full maturity. From the perspective of an immortal a few hundred years to the next star is not really very long. Additionally if you have that tech level you don't even need earth like planets to settle. Literally any metal and mineral rich planetoid or sizable asteroid you came across could be converted into a self sustaining self repairing artificial station Like pic related: 

There really wasn't an Industry for ice until 1805 when the first guy named Frederic Tudor tried to sell ice from new England in the Caribbean. Literally nobody wanted to buy it, and he spent 13 years trying to sell it and ended up in debtor's prison on 3 separate occasions trying to convince people that they even needed it. He was so obsessed with the idea of selling ice that he began bringing chilled beverages to entertain guests, who often scoffed at the idea of adding ice to a drink... until they tried it. He spent 20 years of aggressively marketing ice to people, convincing (even paying) bartenders to popularize chilled drinks, teaching vendors how to make and sell ice-cream, and convincing doctors it was required to cool down feverish patients. His idea FINALLY caught on around the mid 1820's and he ended up rich after two decades of introducing ice as a new cultural phenomenon. The guy basically forced a meme in the age prior to internet. As odd as it sounds today up until that point people just really didn't care about drinking or eating cold stuff, there was somewhat a cottage industry in some cultures but it really wasn't something people wanted to pay for (packing root cellars with snow and such). Thing is, Ice as a product really didn't catch on in a big way until the 1840's, peaked in the 1860's, and was replaced by refrigeration in the 1900's. This all may seem like a distraction, but my point is people needed to be convinced they even wanted to pay for ice! The average value of ice in the mid to late 1800's was 10 cents a pound, or about $2.70 cents today, ice vendors made their profits by selling anywhere from 10 to 50 tons of ice a season (with a total income per shipment of 54 thousand to 260 thousand dollars.) So a few barrels of ice a week wasn't worth much in the 1800's, (a few dollars) and wasn't really worth anything prior to the 1830's (nobody wanted it.) But see, thats the REAL WORLD history of ice selling. You are writing a fictional world. So you got cash strapped mages who make ice as a byproduct of their work. So these mages decide to make up some snake oil, they start a rumor that "mage-ice" is super duper special compared to "normal ice." Chock full of good humors and invigorating spirits and what-not which are "rumored" to extend ones life, improve ones looks, and boost ones intelligence! (never mind the person who started those rumors is the ones selling the magic ice!) It becomes "fashionable" for Nobles to show off their clout by outbidding each-other and engaging in petty little squabbles to have a house mage on staff so they can have as much access to this wonderfully magical substance as possible. (in other words your mages do just what Frederic Tudor did in the 1820's and convince people its something they even really want to buy) 

Air guns. Lower atmospheric pressure on mars would greatly extend the range and you only really have to puncture a suit to take an enemy out of the fight. Modern air rifles can approach power levels of regular fire arms but you wouldnt need to worry about the risky and complex business of manufacturing explosive propellants or take the risk of firing regular firearms in an oxygen rich artificial environment. Furthermore, you can adjust the power of you air rifles so that they only puncture suits and not habitat walls. All you really need to do is fashion a barrel, then attach a high-speed regulator valve and a high pressure CO2 tank to it and make sure the whole conglomeration is in the shape of a rifle. 

Cumulative Joint Injuries/Degradation is a real issue Humans have been known to fall up to 4 stories without injury, however it entirely depends upon what you are landing on, what position you are landing in, and health of the person falling. Women's biochemistry tends to pre-dispose them to at least mild osteoporosis and they already have a lower bone density than men in general. As she is older but athletic I would say that one might expect up to 2 stories without injury if landing on something soft like bushes or the forest floor leaf-bed directly on her feet and then conducting a tuck and roll upon impact. The thing is, if she is doing this regularly she runs a very high risk for cumulative joint injuries. In the Marines we saw guys who had been in for 6 to 8 years suffering knee and hip joint issues like gout, arthritis, and cartilage and ligament damage just from jumping out of the 8 foot tall beds of 7-ton trucks on a regular basis. We are speaking about guys in peak physical condition who are in their mid to late 20's. Jumping from a height is not necessarily something that would cause harm to an athletic older woman, but I can tell you that if it was a very regular event she would be suffering knee, ankle, and hip issues by at least age 30. She has a lighter body weight and is not carrying a hundred pounds of gear like my grunts were but its still not a healthy lifestyle choice to be jumping out of trees or off ledges regularly. Unlike Anime or Kung-Fu movies human joints accumulate wear and tear over time from such activity.