There's two different situations here. The first time disks are set up after installation can be a lot of work. The calipers need to be fixed in the right position, which can involve a special tool to shave a little off the mounts to get them square and parallel to each other, then some precise setting of the mounting adapters and positioning of the caliper on them. Both can be tedious because you need to do the bolts up quite tightly without letting the thing you're attaching move. If you're unlucky you might even need to bleed hydraulic brakes. But once that's done it almost never needs to be changed. So "setting up the brakes" means changing brake pads and every year or so either replacing the brake cable and outer, or bleeding the brakes. Neither of those should take more than half an hour, but I'd probably still get a shop to bleed the brakes because it's messy and toxic. Just changing pads is normally quick, even if you have to turn the bike upside down to pull a wheel out. It's usually ~2 minutes plus the wheel removal Cleaning the rotor takes as long as swapping the pads. Mostly it's just a dirty job. I wear disposable nitrile gloves and just use toilet paper to clean the rotor, but somehow still manage to get road dirt off the caliper on myself every time. IMO the difference in braking power would make up for any difference in hassle, but I've also found that to keep V brakes working properly takes more work than keeping discs working. Setting V brake pads up is a bit of a pain, and they wear out fast compared to disk pads. But you have to redo the V brake setup every time you change pads, where discs you just push the pads out (hydros) or wind the adjuster screws out (cable). It's quick and low-hassle. 

With caliper brakes like yours that's not the case. With some cantilever brakes adjusting them so that they contact the rim later can increase the mechanical advantage (leverage), making the brakes more powerful if then adjusted properly. But that's a usually-minor effect on a type of brake you don't have. For your bike the suggestions Blam made in comments are correct. Start by cleaning your rims and pads.That means sanding or filing the dirty surface of the pad off, and wiping the rim with a wet cloth. Don't do that the other way round! Damaging your rim is expensive to fix, but brake pads are cheap. Most people don't bother trying to clean pads at all, they're cheap enough that it's easier to buy a new set. In your case you appear to have two-piece pads, where there's a metal holder that accepts a rubber insert. That makes it even easier. First, buy new inserts. There should be a little split pin that holds each insert in place, which you need to pull out using pliers. Then slide out the existing inserts and put the new ones in, with new pins. Then adjust your brakes. There are several web pages describing that process in more detail, like this one 

Almost certainly the gear cable has come off the hub at the point where it's adjustable. Without knowing which make and model of hub you have I can't be more specific than that. If the bike is new take it back and get them to show you how to fix it, or at the very least fix it for you. If not, work out what hub you have (the manufacturer plus five speed will probably be enough) and search for a diagram of how it's supposed to be set up - probably if you find a photo of the rear wheel/hub area from the right hand side that will be enough, as you'll be able to see how the shifter mechanism attaches. If you can edit your question to have more details, or include a photo showing that area, we will probably be able to make more suggestions. 

Chainsuck. You have it/have had. I don't know if that happened before you switched to single speed, but it may indicate bent chainring teeth or bad chain alignment if it happened since you switched. Chainring guards will help here, or an anti-suck plate. But you shouldn't need either if the chainline is right and all the teeth are straight and not too worn. 

I suggest that before you think about buying it, ring a local framebuilder and ask whether they will fix it for you. Then ask what they will charge you. Then work out what parts you're going to need and roughly what they'll cost. Adding all that up will help you answer "is this bike worth that much to me?" My expectation is that brazing a diamond of old tubing over that hole would fix the problem, assuming there's no real cracking. You'd want to wire brush the paint off most of the seat tube, or possibly start by having the whole frame sandblasted clean. That will save the framebuilder charging you for the work, and once it's clean you can more easily check for other damage. After it's brazed you will be repainting it anyway, so this step just tweaks the order a little to make life easier. Note that after blasting it will rust very, very easily, and also soak up oil, so try to not touch it with your greasy paws any more than you need to. Once it's clean I'd take it straight to the framebuilder. Your inspection will mean nothing to them, they will want to check everything themselves. Not least because once they work on it, it's their problem - any failures of the frame are likely to end up on their doorstep. So be prepared for them to say "nope, not touching it, despite what I said on the phone". Ideally with a reason, but how much have you paid them so far? They may want to sleeve the tube for this reason. If it was my bike I'd just hit the area with a wire brush in the grinder to clean off 5cm each side of the hole all the way round the tube, check for damage, flex the frame to see if that opens up any cracks, then braze a chunk of old tube over it. Then I'd post it off to my local blast'n'paint shop, with the BB and other threaded holes plugged (I have a set of old BB cups that have been blasted and painted/powdercoated about 10 times so far). That would take me maybe an hour if I was charging for it, excluding the blasting and painting. But for a difficult customer I'd charge 2-3 hours because if you waste my time you're going to pay for my time. The basic issue is that it's an old frame that's not worth a huge amount, and after the repair it'll be worth even less. As in, you probably won't be able to sell the bike, full stop. So the question is: do you want the bike after the repair? 

Those are M5 button head cap screws (the entire name is needed to specific the exact part), usually 8mm or 10mm long. You can buy them from any fastener supplier, and many hardware shops as well as bike shops. 

This is quite normal. Each brake arm slips over the mounting post on the frame and pivots on it, but the limit on tightening the bolts are when they hit the posts, not when they clamp the arms rigidly to the fork. If they did that overtight would stop the brakes working, but also the bolts would have to be loose for the brakes to work, so they'd come undone over time. The diagram below is the best I could find, so for what it's worth... brake arms, bolt and fork plus a bunch of other bits... (Via bicycling.com forums "exploded view of the CX70 brakes from the Techdocs site" Note that these are cantilever brakes not V brakes, but they work the same way. V brakes don't have the saddle (part 4) though. 

A few years ago we bought a pile of the sub-$20 "mini dv" cams off ebay and they work fine as safety cams. Finding a waterproof enclosure is effectively impossible, so I used a plastic bag. At ~$10 each losing one is no the end of the world. Sample video: vimeo.com/15050277. If you're experimenting, buying a couple of those might be a worthwhile start to see how much hassle they are and how much use you get out of the camera. (I no longer bother, but then I ride to Cooks River cycleway every day and only ~5km of actual roads) One thing that I've become more aware of/irritated by recently is the difference between 60fps and slower frame rates. For a safety cam 15fps is fine, but if you want to use the video for anything, 30fps is hard to watch. And a lot of the 1080p cameras don't even do 720p60. So if you're going to spend $200+ on an "HD" camera, try to get one that does a decent frame rate. That way when you start playing with the video you wan't get too grumpy. If you shoot at 1080p60 you can usually get software-stabilised 720p60 out of it, or you can pay a bit extra and get the stabilised Sony action cam instead. 

The simple answer is yes, you can add washers to the axle and shove it in. If you put all the washers on the chain side the disk brake will still work without modification, at the expense of a crappy chain line (assuming you have derailleur gears - with a singlespeed you'll probably have to change the BB or you'll often drop the chain). Or you can space both sides and the disk caliper with washers as well to even things up (spacing the rotor is fraught as the washers all have to be exactly the same thickness and you can't buy them that way. The failure mode here the the rotor deforming under load and possibly locking your wheel up). It will be almost as strong that way as in the right size frame, assuming your washers are flat and the nuts are done up tightly. The reason you shouldn't do this, especially with a disk brake, is that there is a surprising amount of force applies to the rear wheel of your bike. By adding spacers you're adding longer levers to the little 10mm axle that has to cope with those loads. Since the initial lever is very short, even a small increase can have dramatic effects. Think about the left hand side. In normal use the wheel bearings are only 10-15mm away from the dropout. Changing that by 5mm makes it 15-20mm. Which is ok if you started at the 10mm end of the scale, but going from 15mm to 20mm with a design rating of 15mm... not so good. You will probably get away with this because there's so much excess built into most bikes. They have to be designed to cope with 120kg dudes sitting on the seat as they ride off curbs, so your average 80kg bike nut is just not going to stress the bike the same way. So by spacing out the hub you've shrunk that margin of error, rather than immediately breaking something. 

An armoured cable is harder to cut because there's steel segments surrounding it, and usually they're an inch or so in diameter specifically so you need a physically larger tool to cut them. But the segments can usually be crushed by a bolt-cutter style rope cutter and then the internal cable cut. The other obvious answer is a disk grinder. They're loud and obvious, but these days battery powered grinders are cheap and readily available. And they're quick - under a minute, likely under 10 seconds for most cables. Most bike thieves will have one or more of these tools available, and the trouble with the pocket-able plier shaped ones is that they're very easy to carry just in case. 

Straightening your trunk opens your lungs, increasing your aerobic capacity. The effect ranges from trivial on the more upright position bikes through to fairly dramatic in a TT position. So standing on the pedals increases the available power, at the expense of greatly increasing drag. Going slowly up a hill you can come out ahead by standing up. When sprinting the equation is often slightly different - standing brings different muscle sets into play, and if you're running hard on lactic, using muscles that still have extra capacity can give you a momentary burst of power. What makes this even more complex is where it ties into strategy and tactics. Tactically, if you can win a race without using the above you will be less tired in the future. Strategically, this is usually more important - in bigger races you'll often see pressure to say in contact with the current leaders, rather than to overtake them.