Some caliper rim brakes do have interchangeable pivot bolts and accompanying hardware available, either explicitly or by way of what are usually simple hacks. Within Tektro brakes for example, many of the brake arms use the same bolt style and hardware and can be switched between front recessed, rear recessed, front external nut, and rear external nut mounting if you have the hardware to swap around, which can be useful at times in the shop when you need a certain color, reach, front/rear position, and nut style permutation right now. Tektro makes a product that supports this so you don't have to go cannibalizing other brakes. But none of that applies in any way to a Force brake, or if there were a way of getting another company's external nutted pivot hardware on there (which would be one way of solving this, probably) it would be an experiment and a more fabrication-requiring hack. Your brakes don't have any pivot hardware offered aftermarket by SRAM. If you're willing to change the brake, you may be able to get a front brake intended for external nut mounting to work. I say may because you'll probably need to trim the bolt some to work with your recessed nut, but they only give you so much threaded length to work with, so you'll need to have enough threads falling in the right area. I believe all or almost all brakes have threads that can't be extended with a die because the material isn't there to do so, either because the threads are rolled or some other reason. Another potential solution if that becomes a stumbling block would be putting in some spacers in the recessed part of the fork and just using an external nut. Another approach is using one of the generator light brackets available that are somewhat intended to address issues like this by only adding a bare minimum of material behind the caliper. (Maybe you've already looked at this; I offer it in case you're running into the issue by trying to use one of the chunkier generator light brackets out there, such as the plastic ones.) An example would be the B&M 471F: 

If you want something nice, using an 8/9/10 crank here shouldn't be a huge problem but it may take some fiddling to work well. If it says 10, you will probably have to use .6mm Wheels Mfg spacers or similar under the large and small rings to avoid chain rub in some gears. Putting on an 8-speed chain will also help eliminate that problem and should still work fine with your 7-speed freewheel and FD. Narrower than that and it won't work well with your FD. Shimano Acera FCM-361 or the Suntour XCE mentioned in the comments are other options that would be drop-in replacements unless you needed to change spindle lengths. The Acera takes 126. It would be nice to assume that going from one Suntour crank to another very similar one that the spindle needed would be the same, and it's probably true, but I wouldn't be shocked if it isn't. 

If it were coming out around the bleed screw, then checking the tightness of the screw and/or the condition of the o-ring it's hiding would be in order. Taking the screw out to look at the o-ring is something you should only do if you're prepared to bleed the brake, but it sounds like that's probably in order anyway. Bleed port o-rings getting out of place or mushed is a thing that happens. 

Nobody is going to be able to tell you 100% that its integrity hasn't been compromised from this. Steel can fatigue, brazed dropout joints are strong but not infinitely strong, etc. We all know it's a tough dropout and in all likelihood it's totally fine. But there's always a level of distant hypothetical risk that gets created when things like this happen to bike parts, and nobody can tell you just how distant. Were a slightly more developed guess to be made, the first steps in getting there would be check dropout alignment (with dropout alignment tools), check the size and parallelism of the dropout slot with a caliper, and ideally check the fork alignment. The detail that's lost in time here, especially from an outside perspective, is exactly how hard it got hit. 

They won't just work together. However, presuming it's an STI lever other then ST-4700, you can use a Jtek Shiftmate 3 to match them. 

The full answer to this question has become fairly complicated because of all the many permutations of both. Also remember 3x11 is an option on the table too. Triples have more finicky shifting setup and maintenance, slightly worse shifting performance in practice, and add some weight. There are two main reasons one would choose to go with a triple at this point. The big one is range, which is the term for the total difference in gearing, usually measured in gear inches, between the bike's highest gear and its lowest. Triples still have 2x and 1x setups beat here, although not by a lot anymore. The group that cares about this the most are riders like cross country racers who need both a big high gear for pushing hard on flats and smooth downhills as well as a low gear for climbing. In particular, the MTB mainstream has moved away from seeing having a high gear quite as high as what triples tend to offer as being very important for most riding, and that's the main thing that's given rise to 2x and 1x. Triples are very seldom used on enthusiast-level or nicer mountain bikes of any genre anymore, but the main remaining holdouts seem to be some XC racers who want the range they offer. Triples have another benefit that gets overlooked a lot these days, which is that having a bigger large ring lets you spend more time in the big ring and the small-middle part of the cassette at times where if you had a 2x or in particular a 1x, you'd be on your smallest cassette cogs, which are subject to wearing out rapidly if used frequently. With the decreased range of 2x and 1x you will also spend that much more time in the bike's actual highest gear, which means wearing through your 11 or 10t cog. In some cases that's a non-replaceable part of a very expensive cassette. In practice this whole concern is not an issue for many riders (again, the collective realization has been that pushing on high gears is just not how many people ride), but for some it can be a big deal. In theory, the more individual gear combinations you have, at any given time you have better access to whatever gear would be most biomechanically efficient. In practice this would mean switching around in front more than people really do anymore with as many cogs as we now have in back. This used to be a major consideration in bicycle gearing however, especially for racers. To get a feel for how the numbers actually shake out, and also to compare the different drivetrain setups to what you have now, you can use a gear calculator like this one or this one. Those will let you plug in whatever numbers you want, but each component group has limits in terms of total capacity, smallest/largest cogs the derailers can handle, etc, so you might try putting in the numbers from different actual bikes you're looking at. 

You could do this by respacing a standard axle (as opposed to proprietary) 3/8" BMX hub. The freewheel thread is the same as long as the BMX hub doesn't take only metric or LHD freewheels. It's something a tinkerer might do for fun to make use of some rims. There are some issues that may hold it back from practicality: 

What you don't want to do under all circumstances is make large enough changes to the outside diameter of the inflated tire that pedal/crank clearance with the ground becomes an issue. Geometry will suffer too, but as a rule of thumb, dealbreaking ground clearance problems will arise first. (It's my rule of thumb at least, having observed various wheel conversions where it seems fine at first and then you learn you get pedal strike in turns). Generally speaking, if the brakes are a non-issue or a solved issue, i.e. a disk brake or switching to a different reach of rim brake, you can do whatever you want with swapping wheel sizes as long as the tire OD stays about the same while avoiding frame clearance issues with the tire. Lots of things about the bike and its ride qualities will change, but it will generally be rideable and functional. Note how 27.5+ bikes interchange with 29x2.3-2.4ish wheels, many people convert 700x23ish road bikes to 650b, downhillers running extra fat 24s in place of 26s, trials bikes with 19"x2.5" subbed in in back, etc. All the same principle. There might be a better resource, but the lazy way of comparing tire ODs across different wheel and tire sizes is a computer circumference chart and dividing by pi. Tire deflection of course throws it all off a little, but meh. In the case of a touring bike and trying to go from 700 to 26" (559), you'll usually find that you won't have enough fork/chainstay/seatstay clearance for the width of tires that get you into the right ballpark. There are exceptions, particularly with forks and seatstays because they're less inherently constrained in this way, but chainstays will usually be a pretty major limiting factor in back. Applying your idea with 27.5"/650B wheels is more likely to work out.