After reading Sexy desktop wallpapers in the office I was wondering what makes images safe for work. At my previous job, I used this image as a desktop background for a while: 

This replaced my gender, my name, my date and place of birth and my nationality, and also meant I had a picture of myself on my resume. I also partially put it on there because it is sort of an eye-catcher, while still being somewhat neutral. Since Belgian e-ID cards require you to have a card reader and a pin code to do anything remotely useful with them, I don't think it's a huge security risk. However, I'm wondering if putting it on there might bring other risks along. Other questions on here mention that putting a picture of yourself in your resume could lead to you being discarded right away to avoid any potential discrimination lawsuits, but also that some regions actually expect a photo, and that men are more likely to get a callback if they put one in. That's also specific to putting a picture of yourself, and the effect could be different (for better or for worse) if the image actually contains crucial information for my resume. 

Gift cards are much more transparent in how much they are worth, both for the giver and the receiver. You're not going to run into hidden costs or calculations concerning how much your gift is worth. Gift cards can be pretty closely tied to the hobby of the user. True, if you just gift an Amazon or Walmart gift card, that's pretty vague, but giving a 20 USD Steam gift card to a PC gamer, or a 20 USD Barnes & Noble gift card to someone who likes to read, you show that you paid attention to what your boss enjoys. Gift cards always have value for the receiver. You're not going to gift someone a book they already own, or a game in a genre they don't like. They can choose for themselves what they spend it on. 

During the past few months of unemployment and hunting for a job, I noticed that quite a few companies, after I apply to a position via their website, require me to log into their online portal (usually via an insecure protocol and a password mailed to me in plaintext) and enter my CV data again, EVEN if I already had to include my CV as a file attachment during the initial application. And after doing this, if I'm invited by a company, they usually still have the CV I made myself in front of them, so it looks like that extra work I did was not applicable for this particular job. Why do companies do this? 

I haven't gone too far down this route, but one thing I started doing a few months ago was keeping a 'reflection' journal on my own time. In lieu of manager or senior dev feedback I take the time every now and then to reflect on how things are going lately, what I've learned, how to improve, what action points I want to take going forward, and so on. I think in my case the most important thing is to just give myself time to think about how to improve. I also follow a bunch of business oriented pages on Twitter which offers a lot of great business, aka non development, advice. 

I've been involved in intensive practical programming for about 6 years now, including about 4 years in the working world, and lots of studying and reading on my own time, including most of the major 'coding bibles'. No doubt I still have some technical blank spots, but for the most part I'm a confident enough programmer, and my experience is extensive enough, that I don't feel the need to constantly learn on my own time, outside of keeping my eye on emerging trends. All that said, I'm reasonably sure that my personality is oriented to technical roles. I'm way too introverted to manage, so being a worker it is. In that regard, though, it feels like I've reached a plateau where I'm competent enough to fill my role, but don't have much avenue to improve my job security or develop my career. Switching roles isn't an option as I've also plateaued in terms of compensation in the city I'm in, and have some pretty favourable benefits. So am I just stuck in the classic place that introverted devs end up, or is there anything useful I can do? 

And so on. In a nutshell, that's what recruiters are looking for when trying to fill any position: can you do the job effectively. As far as being a mid-level engineer, the title isn't as important as what you know and what you've done. A lot of the time titles like junior, intermediate and senior only specify a political situation in a company (e.g. this guy has only worked here for four months, let's call him junior and pay him a junior wage). So your approach as someone with more experience isn't fundamentally different than the approach of someone with less experience than you, you just happen to have more experience to back up your credibility. Whatever the job is that you're applying for, prove that you can do it. 

My current resume has a skill matrix, where I try to give a relative indication of how skilled I feel in the .NET stack. In my current matrix, when indicating how much experience I have with a certain language or software, with some, I included experience from college as an indication of how long I've been working with that tech or software. For example, I say I have 3 years of experience with Visual Studio, with which I mean "1.5 years as actual work experience in a company, and 1.5 years of experience from my school assignments and tests". Should I include college experience in my skill matrix? On a related note, my current skill matrix gives an indication of my skill from 1 to 5, with 5 being the product that I judge myself to be best at and the other languages and technologies being relative to that point. Is this how skill matrixes usually are made? 

And then just answer them tomorrow. If the request is urgent, I'll call them on their own phone so I can discuss it at length. 

Some of you might remember the question I asked a month ago, My performance heavily suffers from distractions and partial code rewrites. How can I fix this?. As I expected, the week after, I had a meeting with HR and they gave me my termination notice, citing a lack of return on the substantial investment they made in me. my 6 weeks notice started on november 2nd, so I'm currently in the second of my 6 weeks. My boss told me I have to finish my current project, which should be nearly done, after which I may stay home for the rest of my notice period while still receiving full pay. He also told me that if the project is finished before the end of the period, I may put him on my resumé as a reference. I also get 1 day off per week to take care of job applications and interviews. I want to ensure that my exit does not jeopardize the company. I will definitely finish the project and discuss what I made so far with my coworker, but besides that, I'm not quite sure what else I should do. What are the recommended actions to take during a notice period? 

If you are unable to find sites like that, the comment from Colin Young about turning it into a company product might be of interest for you. Indeed, such a site can be of commercial value, because there are plenty of people out there that would love to be able to save on their shopping bills just by visiting other stores. 

Yes you are, but I'd add that this isn't entirely uncommon in the software industry, at least in the scope of my experience and network. Your case might be a bit of an extreme, but it is not entirely improbable that this could happen again, elsewhere, to a slightly lesser degree. A lot of companies are under-staffed and over-worked, and many of them tend to under-fund their IT departments, considering them a 'cost centre'. This can, in some cases, mean that software developers are stretched too thin. It does sound like you may be experiencing somewhat of an exceptional case, though. I would add that if you're not happy in your current situation there are companies out there which will be more realistic about the work they give you, you just have to be careful to understand the culture you'd be entering before accepting an offer. 

There are two major things you need to consider when trying to accomplish this: 1) Do I have enough practical experience in [x] technology to competently accomplish the job I'm applying for in the field, and be chosen over other qualified candidates? 2) Am I presenting myself via my resume in a way that will actually give someone enough confidence in me to give me the job? For example, if you've been coding in various languages since you were 8 years old and have built a compiler in your free time, and you can communicate the fact that you're an extremely skilled programmer in a way that will convince an HR person to give you an interview, you're set and should be able to make it work eventually. On the other hand, if you've only toyed around a bit with a few languages and are not actually that skilled, you need to ask yourself if you are actually qualified for the jobs you're applying for. If the answer is no I'd first ask why you are bothering to apply, and secondly I'd expect you will have quite a bit of difficulty breaking into the industry. Basically it all boils down to: am I genuinely qualified for the job I am applying to or not? And if I am can I convey that in a way that will get me a job? If you do have the requisite skill then I'd recommend spending a week or two researching IT resume strategies and how to sell yourself, because if you fail in that area you're dead in the water no matter how good you are. 

A recruiter calls a prospective employee for a phone interview. Who should call back? A client calls a company for a support problem. Who should call back? 2 coworkers call each other for a business-related matter. Who should call back? Is there a difference if one of the coworkers has seniority over the other, either through years or through rank? 

One thing that might be a feasible solution is to ask him whether he can provide these updates through email. This has multiple advantages: 

Today, I received a mail from a recruiter about an open position at another company. 6 minutes later, and before I even read the other mail, I received another mail, from the company the recruiter mentioned, asking me to complete my profile on their website after "my" application. Evidently, the recruiter submitted an application in my place, without my consent and even without my knowledge. I checked out the position on the company website, and it looks like a job which I wouldn't apply for myself: 

I don't have a driver's license, and I doubt I'll ever be able to get one due to my Asperger's. I'm currently on the hunt for a job, and during the about 2 years in total (including previous job hunt periods), I've had about a half-dozen times that I've been late to a job interview because of extenuating circumstances (usually missing my transfer due to a bus or a train being late). Most times, it was less than 5 minutes, but I had one time on a snowy day where the trains were heavily disrupted causing me to be over an hour late, and recently, I was 15 minutes late. Both of these longer times, I have informed my contact at the company as soon as I knew I would be late and gave them an estimated time of arrival. I've also had some cases where I arrived 10 minutes or more early to an interview, usually because the time tables were such that those were the only time I could arrive without risking being late. One time, I arrived half an hour early, even though I took my bike, due to a combination of taking some room for error and a route that was unexpectedly mostly downhill, skewing the Google Maps prediction. Usually, when this happens, the interviewer is understanding, especially when I inform them in time. However, being late can't possibly be helping my chances, and I doubt that being excessively early is all that positive either. How much does being late or early to a job interview affect my chances?