Upasaka Sarath, two thing come to mind that might be supportive to dispel doubt and give rise to clearency: One is the chain of "depending co-dissapearing", "lokuttara depending co-arising": jāti -> dukkha -> saddha -> pāmujja -> pīti -> passaddhi -> sukha -> samādhi ... (see SN12.23 or AN 10.1 which shows the same pattern, so to see that it's not a onetime issue. And the other is, that in origin countries (traditional) pīti is not translated as rapture or joy like in english, but with words equal "satisfied" or gratified, like if have eaten enough (which makes also the chain above more understandable, and does not require to develop philosophical theories of what the different between "joy" and "pleasure" might be. Maybe that "short-cut" brings sufficent satisfaction, gatification, or was final dish for pīti to simply follow further the chain. (Note: This answer is a gift of Dhamma an not meant ro use for commercial purposes or other wordily gains.) 

Roben, In regard to Robens question one by one, straight, defilement and doubts provoking and possible making nervous, for the gain of faith and encouragement to work on the base: What are the hungry ghosts or hungry shades really? Could they be microorganisms? A being ("mind") not capable to get even small satisfaction, even if food righ in front, not capable to take it. Not able to move from it's place, not able to trade. A famous Vietnamese Monks said once: "People who spend their times in Dhamma-centers without to grasp the Dhamma. Many being in the internet-realm have actually a mind like a hungry ghost. It's good to dedicate shares to them, if having once made merits befor they came in that state, they might be able to take. Have any Buddhist scholars considered this possibility? Scholars consider much. It's good to ask those knowing and seeing and with trust in the Noble Ones. If consdering, are scholars today not the most benefical provider for food for hungry ghost, thinking on the many new articels and consume of their work. They possible make much merits if knowing that and setting the mind to their ancestors and hungry ghosts. Is offering of food to the dead still practised today? Sure. Where ever there is still right view, where ever there is gratitude, where ever people know mother and father, where ever people know how seldom to gain a human life, where ever cause and effect, destinations of beings, taught by the Buddha, are known, there no one would eat before not having given a share to those before first. Yet it is also fast disapearing on earth at the same time, like right view, the Tripple Gems, prospering times... Is this a recommended practice or is it not recommended? The Buddha all wise recommended gifts to ancestors and spirits, recommend, and will recommend. So his, there good disciples, followers do. And why? 

The Buddha talk just two things, suffering and how to lose suffering. For the most, to understand suffering, see it, the first Noble truth requires to face strong suffering by one self to investigate further and make use of the path that goes beyound it. Its usually called drunken in youth, health and drunken in life called by the Buddha. Since liberation mean to get free, free of the cause of suffering, losing hunger/thist (taṇha)... My person recently came accross this wonderful talk which might be very useful to read or listen to: 

The Buddha didn't wanted his disciples, his followers, his heritage not to become a theater of actually worthless people - just think on the culter of the Brahmans he opposed, a folk of people who just talk and do not change things for them and the world for a better, and that is why his teachings and talks are actually contain more urging to be heedful than to explain the path, because the Dhamma it self is very simple and understood fast, simplier as our strategies to stay conscienceless. At least my person leaves a wonderful talk by Bhante Thanissaro behind: 

Aside of that, there is not much, he might not able to take. It's how ever good to regard a monk always like a small child in regard of food. Meaning to maybe even think how he can it, what he might need... if having possibilities, but at least it's better to give the half of you hot-dog you just eat, or the candy you just wanted to take, then to deicide you have no luck to be not able to give what is proper to give. Something people often cut of to use a seldom oppotunity. What ever you might have at home, maybe a half apple from yesterday, is great and it's always higher merits to give that what one has, or hangs on, than to organice or take for such a sake. It's also not a problem to give others then food, if inspired, if seeing an alms-begging monk, like maybe wash items or medicine. A lone living Tudong-monk depends nearly in all exclusively on his alms round and wise people. Sometimes even a Dhamma-book is a good gift. It's of course good and a sign of obligation, to thinks also further: to give proper amount and what he might be able to use and carry. How to open a conserve for example. There are those not using dishes, spoon. It could be that his bowl is full of rice and not other food would have any more place. It's also totally not wrong to ask to take a look into the bowl, so that one could see what is missing. It's also not wrong to ask for the bowl to fill it. It's also not wrong to ask for waiting, offer a place to sit, and prepaer food, or spontanious invite into the house or a place to receive food. In such cases, when inviting to take his meal, it's good to think that he will maybe not provided with later requirements, like drinks and tonic. Speaking as exclusively alms-goer with no other support, it's good to think also on water and tonic-drink for the afternoon. For monks living in that way, what ever is given on his round, that is his nourishment for another day, no store or another source. Some eat also just one time, exclusively what is given on the alms round into the bowl. It's not bad to think in that way always, even if in the city. One does not know normaly a monks circumstances. So it's not good to think in ways like "oh, that he will provided there and there" or "that will be organised in his monastery". Best thinking like if meeting a child that would not claim. Hope that gives a more lighter and joyful spectrum of the many chances. And Mr/Mrs. can not make anything wrong, that's most importand! Just being "creative" and circumspect without giving selfish thoughts and doubts any change in such blessed moment, is the best. If visiting a monastery, best to let you be assisted by lay assistance there. Importand: since you may give also things to eat for later: What ever a Monk has received on food, he and the other Bhikkhus would not be allowed to eat next day, even if again given. So such food exclusively giving to lay people. When giving food direct, respectfull and with two hands into the hand of the monk and don't touch, or lift it again. Give food or what ever, before receiving Dhamma, e.g. as fist thing best, when coming to monks. They might not accept after having given themselves. It's a good topic and there are often many wrong assumings "a monk eats this", "needs that...", so good to expand if questions arise. Now my person, nevertheless needs to prepare for his alms-round, so he stopps here. A warning: Be careful of that what ruins a fool who having gained knowledge! He/she might think in ways like: "The monks must... His duty is... so and so he should receive..." Having gained much knowledge about possible duties of others, not really know practice and as it really is, and forgetting on focussing on wn mindstate, which is the A&O of all here, one makes nothing then demerits, distroys his goodness, with every act one believes to make merits at least. Generosity that is path-supportive requires not only wisdom but also right view. A normal person or even a fool is not able to go or came as even far as this.