(Thatjs like most medi sessions or meetings of "Buddhists", or? Maybe even your (certain readers) way, reading it? When etting go it' not just something one speaks of or hypocritical theory but visible in actions and real abonding of home at heart. The common Jhains-practice under western and modern Buddhist explains also why they are terrible denying such as responsibility, gratitude and duties, don't like it, and it's good, right from the beginning to avoid assosiation with people of wrong view.) The proper cleaning of mind has afer the tipple gems as means for it, the good developed attributs and deeds done by oneself as means, like explained in the Sutta: Developing, doing, encouraging and rejoicing in skillfull actions, deeds, speech an intentions. Asossiation and spheres where put into action, people of integrity, with a right notion of self, hard to find in this world. But possible when becoming, step by step, for oneself one, having entered or seek for the stream to unbond... [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

"What's it like to be without the five skandhas?" If you read the Heart Sutra, "Avalokiteshvara saw the five skandhas to be empty [of essence, empty of having a self, selfless, empty of an 'independent individual']. This means that it is not the five skandhas that we are trying to abandon, we are simply trying to see them clearly and without beliefs. The Five Aggregates or Heaps or you might even say Piles or Sediment are: 

Return to the position your body was in while you were actively engaged in a dream, and your recall of the dream can be better. Be on the lookout for reality-oddities in your dreams that trigger your knowledge that "dreaming is happening." One such technique that ended up serendipitously working well for me personally was dying my hair blue in waking life, seeing my reflection in a mirror in a dream, and noticing non-blue hair, thus triggering the lucid catalyst dynamic whereupon one becomes entity and environment. In line with the above, dye your hair in waking life to some funky color. Definitely do breathing exercises and stretches for your whole body before sleeping, or at least at some point in the day. Think wind channels. Perhaps the most important point, kept for the bottom of the list: set a strong intention or motivation as you ramp up your going-to-bed process. It could be like in the above, where @Lanka mentioned the dream yoga stages. 

Well kamma is basically "action", so your attachment, aversion and ignorance certainly can lead to actions. If the actions are bad they have the potential to lead you to bad destinations. 

The fifth and six steps in Ananpansati, talk about training ones' self to be sensitive to these feelings, how can a mediator do this and avoid the dangers of getting caught up in them? 

If Sampajanna is clear comprehension and Vipassana is clearly seeing how or are they distinguishable? 

If you are in a situation/or period of your life, where you think your are reaping the results of bad karma, is there something you can do to mitigate or hasten the results of such bad karma since you can't avoid it? 

There is a mathematician Gödel who stated back around the 1920s using something we might imagine as "meta-math" that any axiomatic system (so any mathematical system you can create or imagine) cannot satisfy simultaneously two properties. Which two? 

Practice the Four Immeasurables, the four divine abodes. Potential practice methods: There are four, pick one a day and spend a few twenty-minute sessions meditating on it. 

Think to benefit all sentient beings with your gift, that the benefits may echo out into the cosmos and into all planes of existence. Set that mind when you give, and lose yourself in the action. 

Is there any way we can know that all these rules are from the Buddha and not made up after him, based on cultural and/or persons agendas? 

If someone attempts to rob you it is wise not to resist and give them what they ask for because of safety reasons, you are less likely to be hurt in that situation. If your intention is to practice generosity there are better ways to do that and practice the Dhamma. Buddhist need to stop thinking that practicing the Dhamma means allowing people to walk over you and take advantage of your practice. You have a right to your life, liberty and your property, just don't let your attachment add to your physical or mental suffering. If you want to practice that level of non attachment become a monastic. If he tells others that you are an easy mark you will have to use your wisdom to avoid those circumstances because sooner or later you will meet a thief who lacks wisdom and compassion and will hurt you. 

All of course "dutiesk in reagard of the Holly Life and for Nibbanas sake, the strive for it as highest underlying responsibility. There is no responsibility in regard of lay people, aside of certain conducts of "foreign - policy" for the sake of estimation of the Sangha at large, by Bhikkhus. The gift of teaching the Dhamma is a individual total voluntary act of goodness (if not made out of corruption and the sake of livelihood and requisits: such is not allowed). Further readings: 

Wolf keeping Uposatha or The Fox and the Grapes are sample-stories to "having closed oneself off to many emotions related to these worldly winds" [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other kinds of low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

The Four Dharma Seals encompass the whole Buddhadharma and are excellent. It brings me joy that you are learning them. You should pretty much give everything, to perfect generosity. However, before you go out and give away your house and all your clothes, you can probably benefit people in greater ways by "setting your intention and being natural" -- one of the Lojong Mind Training verses. (You can read more about Lojong proverbs at this wonderful resource $URL$ Think about, in the simple example, of a man who could use his great wealth to buy many acres of farm land and supply his village with a seemingly endless supply of food. Had he given all his wealth away at once, it might not be as beneficial to sentient beings. So, yes, time is definitely something you should give to other beings. In fact, practicing, studying, reflecting, and meditating can be of the most generous uses of our time, by setting our intentions to ultimately benefit all beings (as numberless as the sky is vast). This setting of intention is called Bodhichitta, it is the "Mind inclined to Awakening" and it is so very very precious. More valuable than all the diamonds and gold and silver. Your question is really wonderful! Our time is valuable, and if we can spend even 10 minutes a day thinking about how we can benefit someone we know, it is time well spent! Also wonderful, is that using your time in the service of others lessens our attachment, and brings us closer to the natural. You can use your time to think about how you can help people you know (or just met) who have similar needs as you. If you know someone without a job, you can try and help them get one, or if you know someone lonely, you can be their friend and really listen and be there for them. You can also spend your time reflecting happily on the good deeds you've done for others. This is also a great way to uplift the mind and ensure that our practice of virtue grows and grows. You can plant great seeds by encouraging the people you know to do the same: to help where help is needed, to think about how we can help others, and to spend our time offering all the wisdom and love we can. 

Another fart, this question. Again about the "upekkha" of people not having done their homework, Eggman: 

It's not possible to develop compassion, understand it even, if one is after certain elements, follwer of certain dhatus, holding on wrong views and disregard the tripple gems. Such are no means. So fist real refuge is generally the only refuge. Such answers like 

Such is impossible for a person with giant ego, totally overestimating one self. Such a person will of course, guided by his defilements, prefer to dwell in his "emptiness" (e.g. in his ignorance). At least, one IS able to help every being - to pull away the ground of such foolish ideas: even if one might not see certain lack, does not know certain mind, in keeping precepts, being without intention to harm, has threefold rght intention, one helps all beings. 

I've been looking into this lately and am curious how should we address crime and punishment? I know all about the story of Angulimala, but we can't expect all murders, rapist etc., to experience liberation in this fashion. If capital punishment is out and so many seem opposed to excessively long prison sentences what's the practical alternative? Yes programs and such to deal with the root cause of these issues are needed but in the here and now how can we best protect society and give these individuals an opportunity to reform. Also people don't like the idea of prison as retaliation or revenge "justice", but shouldn't all social actions have social consequence other than just allowing for kamma? And maybe the social consequence of jail is your kamma. 

➯ 3rd stage, supramundane wisdom: real compassion with all It's already given under one, but maybe a ballade give wisdom for success of being really dear to oneself and so naturally to every being by leaving the states of demerits as well as merits behind: 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other kinds of low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

One can gain pīti (satisfaction) by turning to asubha, unbeauty objects, yes. You might look at the answer on What is the logic behind visualization meditation But since you nature is an aversive, especially starting by lack of compassion to yourself, it's not recommended, given your seek after pleasure, and the insight that aversion migh not be conductive as well. Again, aside of Dukkha, it seems as if the is not much base for now, so rather to focus on building a palace in a swamp, focus on virture and much, much generosity, = reducing consuming but giv, give up, serve... Is there still attachment when we want the benefits of pleasure not for themselves, but for an altruistic or wider goal? Seek after sensual pleasure kills, sensuallity is the reason for killing and wars in this world: How can there be any alturistic be included in such? But, to do not understand wrong: the pleasure gained by Jhana is said to be outside the sphere of the five strings and such pleasure does not cause remorse if enjoyed. 

There are many misconceptions regarding mantrayana. In essence, the ultimate nature of the deity is bliss and emptiness, just like the ultimate nature of our own minds. When we invoke the deity via visualization and/or recitation or chanting of the mantra, we are invoking that aspect of our own consciousness, our Tara-ness or our Medicine-Buddha-ness. The Buddha Shakyamuni did teach that treasuring someone while in positive states of mind or sending beneficent prayers and thoughts would benefit another being, certainly in the "realm beyond" (afterlife, afterlives) and in the present there can certainly be effects. It is important to remember that Tara is Prajnaparamita, she is not a self-existent deity, the same for all the deities of the Buddhist pantheon. Some are called deities to mean deva or god-like rebirth, but in the tradition you are referring to deity means something special: it means that long ago a being aspired to be of benefit to countless sentient beings and through the strength of such aspirations and the diligence and patience of practice one was able to reach a state that helped reflect the fundamental goodness of all beings who practice their mantra/visualization with joy and faith, or devotion. So what happens when you are invoking green Tara or Medicine Buddha to help heal a friend? Well, the attitude you have is the most important part. You are using enlightened Buddha forms as a fulcrum for your own praxis, to adjust your mind and heart attitude to embrace their full healing potential. This will certainly result in a positive effect, and the waves of which may reach your friend rapidly through causation and intensity, having an ameliorative effect. At the very least, your mind will become more adjusted to these divine states of being (please see the four unlimited or immeasurable abodes) which is of immense benefit to yourself and to others. In Buddhism, attitude is just about everything. Karma is intention, so cultivating the intention to heal and relieve suffering (kindness, bodhichitta) is excellent. There are many methods, but sometimes it is easiest and fastest for us to relate to our own primordial purity through the practice of such sophisticated "spiritual technologies" such as deity and mantra practice. There are pure aspects of our consciousness, just remember that their ultimate nature is no different from the nature of mind itself.