If you can only run 2x a week and only have limited time, then running 10k as fast as you can is a reasonable training plan. However, you will rapidly reach a plateaux and see no improvement in results. The long slow runs need to be for times and distances that are generally 2-3x the length of your event. ( At least for events less than an hour. ) Serious training is as much about recovery and "training to train" as the actual workouts. You get the most benefit from relatively intense event specific workouts, but you have to recover before the next intense workout or else you actually go into a negative spiral. The more you work, the worse you get. Long low effort runs are "training to train", they build the endurance and recovery you need to be able to do enough of the hard intense workouts to make progress. 

Skiing is a gear sport and it is expensive, but it doesn't have to be nearly as expensive to start as many of these posts suggest. If you're going to spend money, spend it on lessons first. If you've got the clothes to go for a walk on a winter day, you've got all the clothes you need for your first few ski days. I'd suggest starting as late in the ski season as possible. The weather will be warm and the conditions will be soft. The snow will be wet, but you don't need to spend $300 on special ski pants. If it's nice and sunny, in the spring even just a fleece pullover will be fine. You can often rent ski bibs where you rent the skis. Or you can just ski in jeans and long underwear. When you get wet and cold, go into the lodge. You are unlikely to have the ski specific strength anyway to last more than a few hours to start with. I'd also highly recommend renting a helmet as well. As a beginner you aren't going to be skiing fast enough to need googles unless it's snowing. Sunglasses will work just fine. Keeping the hands warm and comfortable is important, but again you don't need to break the bank. Many professional ski patrollers use cheap winter work gloves. It's much better to have two pairs of gloves, than a single pair of expensive gloves. $URL$ There is definitely a time and place where all that expensive clothing makes a big difference, but it's not the first few times out. Get your feet wet, decide if you are willing to put in the work to learn to ski and then spending money makes sense. 

One last tip, if you don't get everything just right, carry a pack towel or other microfibre super absorbent towel to get the inside as dry as possible before putting gear inside. 

There probably is a point where not having a toe-crunched fit would make a difference, but it's not V3. Climbing shoes do wear out relatively quickly. The difference in the sharpness of the rubber edge between a newly soled shoe and worn shoe can make a difference on small holds. Your climbing gym likely has a referral for getting climbing shoes re-soled. Even climbers that use the toe-crunched fit shoes tend to save them for special efforts. Keeping your toes in that "hammer edge" configuration for long periods of time is very bad for the long term health of your feet. Bouldering is a great sport, but if you want to be in it for the long haul you need to be aware of the potential for long term joint injury. 

Something I've done in the Sierras where it can get quite hot at lower elevations during the day is to use the "siesta" method. Get up early and hike until about noon. Wait out the hot hours of the day (roughly 1pm - 4pm) and start hiking again as the day cools off. As far as hiking in the moonlight, even with the brightest full moon, it can be extremely disorienting. Without color vision your depth perception can be off, even relatively tame terrain can unnerve you. 

I have found that following 1 reduces the need to do 2 a lot. Renewing the DWR( durable water repellency) helps keep the garment clean since a good DWR reduces the ability of dirt and grime to stick to the jacket. Even with "safe" detergents, every time you wash the garment you are removing some of the DWR. While you can use products like NixWax or Grangers to renew the DWR, it never is as good as the original. You want to make that last as long as possible. For the gear I own and use, I've found that putting it in the dryer every other weekend only seems to help. This same strategy also works quite well with softshell gear. 

The altitude sickness sounds like the most likely explanation to me. However, one other factor is that snow reflects light. On a sunny day in the right circumstances, a snow slope can act as a giant reflector that can have some physiological side effects. 

Well, the primary difference is that once you've used your ice axe as an anchor, you can't use it to climb with. Also, two anchors is almost always better than one, especially in snow. You never know the exact strength of anchor in snow. While it is possible to improvise a deadman anchor in snow out of almost anything you can wrap a rope around, it's not fast and if it's not cold enough for the snow to refreeze can be very iffy. Those snow anchors work best when climbing when the snow conditions are "spring corn" (i.e. heavy wet snow, that has been through freeze/thaw cycles.) Very common on summer climbing on glaciers. My guess is that you would see those anchors most commonly on expeditions where they are setting up fixed lines or glacier travel is involved. When you need to do a crevasse rescue, being able to set up an anchor quickly matters. The names for the items are snow picket and snow fluke. Here's a good demo of how to setup a snow fluke. $URL$ Compare the time required for that verses the time required to build a deadman. 

There are many places it's used where it's completely inappropriate and just adds cost. In my experience boots are one of those places. Goretex only "breathes" when there is a significant difference in the moisture content on one side of the barrier verse the other. That's why it breathes best in cold dry conditions. If it's 100% humidity (i.e. raining ) it's not going to breathe much if at all, if the DWR fails and the jacket wets out, it doesn't breathe at all. Goretex in a boot doesn't have much going for it. It's generally put in as a "sock" layer behind the inner lining of the boot. This means the layer behind it is not exposed to the cold dry air, but whatever the outside of the boot is. At best the moisture vapor will just go through the barrier and condense on the inside of the boot. All the Goretex is doing is slowing down the drying time of the boot and acting as a vapor barrier to keep your feet wet longer. In terms of keeping outside moisture out, by the time it gets to the Goretex layer it's too late. The boot is wet and as it drys out, the moisture vapor can go IN just as well as out. You can get all of the advantages of Goretex in a boot when it works well by getting Goretex socks. These are vapor barrier socks made with Goretex, you can use them when it makes sense and not use them the 90% of the time when Goretex in a boot makes no sense. Here's one example. $URL$ 

The minute you have any doubt about it. There really is no other way to answer this question. There are so many different devices with different levels of mechanical complexity and different use and wear patterns, that it's impossible to describe what to look for in each one. Having said that, most recreational climbers would have a very hard time climbing enough to wear out a belay device in less than 5 years. Generally they are only replaced when dropped from height or something newer/better comes along. The primary way belay devices get worn out is using them to rappel. Rappeling will wear a device much faster than belaying. The more mud, dirt and bad weather the device sees the sooner it will need replacing.