Pea-sized. That's what size asteroid can move the sun, but, not in the way you expect. First though, an asteroid implies something that is currently traveling through space in a typical fashion. What would a typical object do when crashing in to the sun? Fist, it will be moving the sun long before it 'hits'. Gravitational effects will cause both objects to accelerate toward each other. Due to it's mass, the sun's acceleration will be significantly less than the asteroid's, but it will move. The question is really whether the impacting force (in the opposite direction) is more or less than the cumulative effects of the force that was exerted in the opposite direction before the impact. That largely depends on the velocity of the object before it entered the gravitational boundary of the sun (where the gravitational pull of the sun is more assertive than the pull of the rest of the universe). In turn, that implies that the asteroid is on a collision course long before it enters the cosmographical boundary which is on the far side of the Oort cloud - 50,000 to 100,000 or more Astronomical units away. (Pluto is up to 50AU from the sun). Something that is 'pulled' in to the sun through its gravity, will not ever be going fast enough for the impact forces to outweigh the forces that were exerted before the impact. Note that this happens regularly. In fact, it is how the sun was created. Additionally, comets regularly impact the sun. They have no measurable effect on the suns position (though they can produce spectacular solar flares). Something that is 'shot' in to the sun may. But also, something shot in to the sun would simply pass through it, unless it burned up first. Something bigger than the sun? (or close to the same size) Well, that's interesting, because then the logic all gets reversed, and you really should talk about our sun being shot in to it, not the other way around. The bottom line is that there's no way for an object to have any significant impact on the sun without being so huge that it will pull all the planets out of place before it gets to the sun, or it is 'fired' in to the sun from outside the solar system (it would be impossible to fire something like that from inside the system) 

Interstellar civilizations are going to be at a scale that makes our planet-based civilization really gimpy. We are Kardashev type-0.7 civilization. An insterstellar civilization, barring "magic" new technology, is going to be at least a type-1 or type-2 or type-3 civilization. The different in scale is ridiculous. By type-2, you are disassembling planets for raw materials, and Earth is not that big of a planet. By type 3 you are disassembling stars. So physically we have nothing to offer. Even if we assume computers don't get any more efficient, the dreams of their computer clusters will be far richer than our entire cultural history. Our culture will be interesting in the same way that the culture of gorillas is interesting: our civilization is ridiculously young, and ridiculously tiny, compared to an interstellar one. If a technological singularity occurs (where computers get more efficient, and they are a type 1/2 civilization), then all these conclusions are true even to a much larger extent. Going between stars is reasonably hard. The implied scale of the civilization that can go between stars so that it maintains an interstellar civilization has consequences. 

No. But a colony ship doesn't just carry DNA. Instead it would carry a selection of biotech to terraform the planet. This is going to realistically take 1000s if not millions of years. The ship might first sterilize the planet with something akin to nuclear weapons, then release life forms adapted for the streilized environment. Layers of later life forms would be designed to survive in the environment generated by the previous. You'd have an oxygen catasrophy, release more complex animals, complex life forms like lichens that can break down the surface and generate soils, etc. Each epoch would be designed to thrive in the environment predicted to be generated by the previous epoch. Possibly to make the situation work more reliably, a sterilization period (nukes) would occur to "clean slate" the world and prevent adapted previous-epoch creatures from out-competing the new-epoch creatures. Once the world is reasonably terraformed, multicellular plants and animals can be created. When a functioning macro-scale ecosystem exists then it becomes safe to add humans to the mix. 

The main issue with evolution is that it's all about concurrency in reproduction. So it would go in directions that an individual would aim for maximum of offspring and also might care for his offspring to improve their chances. A simple solution would be to construct a society which postulates rules where this is not possible - say to reduce conflicts. In natural evolution i could imagine some species that only has a single male or female and the rest of the population is the opposite gender. Like the queen in an ants colony. Also naked mole-rats evolved something similar. The reason could be that the individuals barely produce enough sperm or eggs for the "queen" so every single one needs to contribute. As you want communists you could consider the "queen" without brain just like a reproductive tank. 

In my opinion the greatest risk for humanity would be the onset of such a catastrophe. Realistically it would not be over night but rather decades till earth freezes but one of the first reactions should be war for resources. And it would be an all out war as the loser would surely die so mutually assured destruction is on the table. It could easily turn out the end for humanity. Also it will use a lot of the remaining resources. Next would be the strife for technology to deal with the situation. In almost any scenarios it should be possible to find technologies to deal with new circumstances. May it be using geothermal energy, nuclear or even (less efficient) solar power. They might be even able to settle on another planet. The question is - will a group be able to develop and deploy such a technology before it's resources are used up and they starve or freeze. Once just one group manages these two steps humanity should be safe despite living in permanent winter. 

No, materials science is not going to suddenly favor low-energy weapons. If you want to encourage such weapons, presume a semi-disinterested weakly godlike AI who decides that personal guns are no longer allowed. Use a gun, and the AI makes it a bad idea. Maybe its drones kill you. Maybe its drones fire interceptor rounds. Maybe both. The AI doesn't ban arrows, knives, hammers, etc. It doesn't ban lazer weapons. It even doesn't ban human carried railguns. Non-human portable guns are also not banned. Just human carried guns. Possibly we ended up with a weakly godlike AI, and someone slipped in some anti-gun laws. After the deaths of millions during the enforcement action they managed to prevent people slipping in new laws by creating laws that ban creating other laws. Repealing the earlier laws proved impossible or dangerous, so it wasn't done. Now humanity lives with arbitrary restrictions, but humans still like to kill each other, so they have adapted. A weakly godlike AI is an AI that has capabilities we cannot match or oppose, but is unable to do almost arbitrary things from our perspective. So we cannot oppose it, nor can we understand it. No miracles, but has super science. 

In the last few thousand years, AfroEuroAsian civilization experienced a large amount of urbanization and population density increases. This resulted in diseases that cross over from other species to have a fertile ground to spread and infect in waves that cross and recross the world. Many millions if not billions die over the generations, those that survive adapt to being resistant to the kind of symptoms the disease generates, and the disease adapts to be more efficient at spreading. When AfroEuroAsian explorers reached isolated communities who hadn't been exposed to the huge host of diseases they where used to, the diseases did a clean-field burn of the populations. Fewer diseases came back, as the volume (time times area) of dense human habitation wasn't as large; but possibly not absent. It is possible that syphilis did transfer back from the Americas. The seed population of Astronauts would have a genetic pool from the surivors of such pandemics. They would also carry with them aquired immunity to common earthborn diseases; that, however, lasts at most a generation or two, and sometimes as little as a decade or less. Their innate response to infection might not drift rapidly. That innate response is mostly what makes you die or not die to a given disease. A disease, say smallpox, might kill 1/3 of people who where culled by a previous smallpox epidemic in their genetic history, while kill 90% of those who lack that culling. There would be some drift. Back on Earth, new diseases and variants would spread, and those whose innate immune response was fatal would die and tend not to pass on their genes. The red queen's race would continue. Those on the station would have their innate immune response mostly drift, or respond to variations in the small number of diseases they carry with them. Immune systems that overreact to sterile environments with massive allergies might be selected against, for example. But if your immune response to the common cold (which dies out in a small population) in the next generation is massive and debilitiating, you wouldn't even notice. There is also the possibility of a pandemic hitting Earth, killing a significant percentage of the population. Such a hit would result in those with an immune response that isn't fatal to that disease being selected-for. Multiple such pandemics could cause significant genetic drift over the entire Earth. So these different factors would result in the innate immune response of the Space Fairing and Earth populations diverging. The Space Fairing would also experience the founder effect and larger amounts of drift due to smaller population size, where quirky unique mutations in the founders might end up being extremely common, or later mutations doing the same. Over 7-10 years, your immunity to colds and flu would fade. Going back, you would be likely to get a really bad cold and possibly flu, which could be fatal. The next generation would get some antibodies from their mother via breast feeding, but their immune system would mostly be missing defences agianst common earth infections; so they would risk a really, really nasty lung/ear/eye/skin infections when they come back. This would increase over time. These can be fatal, but they aren't like 90% death rates with modern medicine. The multi-generation effect of genetic drift and the red queen's race back on Earth could result in the isolated population having mass deaths. How long this would take is extremely hard to guess, as we haven't really had a good experiment. Even Pitcarn island was only isolated for 20-odd years. Animal models aren't any good, because we are stange critters with our city-hives, worldwide travel, and quirky immune systems. 

Your question is tagged as "law" and "weapons". Let's start from there... A law is only as useful as it is enforceable. No government of any world, even a dictatorship, would implement a "law" which would be that "extreme". So, the basic assumption that while it is possible for the government to enact that law, that the government will, in fact, ever do that, is not reasonable. Further, bullets are only effectively priced because of market forces.... and the competition for bullet-manufacturers is home-made bullets.... it is surprisingly easy to make a bullet, so taxing bullets more, will just make manufacturers use unofficial channels. Which undermines the enforcement too. Outside of that, though, the law can be circumvented by "traditional" means, like buying things from Mexico, or Canada, or "Amazon.com", whatever. Channels (even legal ones) will open up where it can happen. So, on a practical level, the law will just divert the sales channels to alternative places, and won't necessarily resolve the original problem. The kickback for the government will also be impressive.... I suspect an immediate "revolution" would be possible, and the government would be re-elected in no time. Politicians would almost immediately lose their funding, etc. It won't take long for the system to rebalance in a way that suits the population. So, that brings me to the only plausible way that a system like this could happen.... slowly, and by the will of the majority. Conceptually, taxing each bullet 1 cent, would be OK, then, a few years later, make it 5, then 20, then a dollar, and so on, until 50 years down the line the price of a bullet is mostly tax. The process would have to be slow, and take a generation, or two... .... funnily enough, that system works quite well. Consider your own income... there was a time, in Canada, abut 100 years ago, when that was not taxed at all. It was only during WWI that income tax was introduced in Canada. It was introduced as a temporary measure.... ;-) The trick is to use a small wedge, and make it bigger, and bigger. That's the only way it would work, and the scenario you present is unrealistic in any system, not just the USA 

Looking at this I would start by adapting a plot truck. It should fullfill many of the requirements. Just replace the windows by grates and cover the easy to climb parts with flat slippery walls. On the professional side riot control vehicles would be equipped perfectly (they are not considered military - though might be against your intentions). But have look what they build into them for ideas 1 2 3 All that said - given that Zs mass at one place means there are other places where they are sparse. It would be less effort finding a path around them than upgrading a vehicle. 

You will not move at full speed, probably not faster than walking. So Zs climbing on the vehicle will be a real issue. While weapons might take care of the first 100 on the long run it might be better if the vehicle wouldn't expose parts to climb on. The vehicle needs to push it's way through the horde. So its movement is less driving but more pushing through a gelatinous liquid. It will need serious horsepower. Near visibility will be bad. The odd splatter of blood and gore will cover windows. It would be good to have a way to clean the windows - or get rid of the glas and just have grates for protection. Farer visibility will also be problematic - the horde will cover the ground. Hiding all kinds of obstacles - till you hit them. It might help a lot if one could come up with a way to disperse the horde. Also it is a must that you have somebody elevated over the horde just to navigate. In a regular car you will lose orientation immediatly as view in all directions will be blocked by Zs. The ground will be covered by bodies, gore and stuff. Very easy to get stuck or hide the odd spike that might pierce a tire. Definetly large wheels for slippery ground would be advisable. It may be a risk that the vehicle might topple by a push of the horde - or just an unlucky hole in the ground. Ideally the vehicle would be rather wide and stable.