Also, a book on SQL Server 2012 I am reading tells me that in such situation I should see (to choose) "SQL Server Database project" template (which is absent in my case) When I launch VS2012 --> choose New Project , I see SQL Server Database project template 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: An exception occurred while executing a Transact-SQL statement or batch. (Microsoft.SqlServer.ConnectionInfo) 

I have a weekly and nightly SQL Server Agent jobs executing a weekly and nightly maintenance plans, resp. These weekly (on Sunday) and nightly (on other 6 nights of the week) maintenance plans differ only in the 1st task from total consecutive six steps. That is, in nightly/daily maintenance plan the 1st step is "Reorganize Indexes on all User databases" and in weekly/Sunday maintenance plan the first step is "Rebuild Indexes on All User Databases". Is it possible and how to run just one (instead of two) maintenance plan, all 7 nights of week, with condition that on 6 days the 1st step is one (Reorganize Indexes) and on the rest 1 day of week the 1st step is another (Rebuild Indexes) ? 

In SQL Server 2012 Enterprise Ed., which index types do not support online index rebuilds? and why? and which activity-operations can prevent online index rebuilds? 

Online MSDN article "Execute Statements Against Multiple Servers Simultaneously (SQL Server Management Studio)" (SQL Server 2012) states: 

I tried to create two separate virtual columns with SELECTS, just to list the values for the respective types. 

I need to create a view that separates types C and D, and list their values. I need it to look like this: 

Some tables were using the MyISAM engine, so I changed it and now all are as INNODB, and the ROW FORMAT parameters are like Do not Use. Other information that may be important, this base was developed in a version 5.1, and this base with problems is in version 5.7.14. UPDATE: I just tried to run mysqldump, to import on another server. And this error was thrown: 

Although I have little knowledge on Linux, I tried to connect the development machine with the Informix server on port 135 via telnet, and the result is:: 

I have a table with a column with the account IDs and I need to create a hierarchy scheme. So I created a column to add the parent account IDs, but I do not know how to update dynamically. I updated some records manually to find out how it would look, how could I make a script to update the other almost 2,000 lines? 

I have a table that has two columns, one with the type of posting and another column with the value. Source table: 

4) Enlist 'Target-Server-Name' into 'Master-Server-Name' (if Success here, then error in 3) or both in 3) and 4)) 

The enlist operation failed (reason: SQLServerAgent Error: Unable to connect to MSX 'Target-Server-Name'.) (Microsoft SQL Server, Error: 22026) For help, click: $URL$ 

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION: Failed to retrieve data for this request. (Microsoft.SqlServer.Management.Sdk.Sfc) For help, click: $URL$ 

After installing Download SSDT for Visual Studio 2010 then Download SSDT for Visual Studio 2012 from Download SQL Server Data Tools - October 2013, everething seems started to work but I am eager to understand whether VS2012 setup damages SQL Server 2012 (i.e. VS2010 Shell) Data Tools for everybody or just me? 

Fig.1.1. On launching SQL Server 2012 (i.e. VS2010 Shell)) Data Tools --> New Project and on pressing OK button 

What is the possible use of owner of an SQL Server Agent job, I wonder? Removed, and left it blank and the job still succeeds 

In SQL Server 2012 R2 Enterprise, whenever I check Management\Data Collection, right-click --> Configure Management Data Warehouse , I see whatever users-accounts-logins except the one I am logged in I cannot understand what's the point in "Map Logins and Users" in Management\DataCollectiion of SQL Server? 

The rebuild of indexes takes appr. the same 55 min. with both "Do not rebuild indexes and "Rebuild indexes offline" "For index types that do not support index rebuilds" with "Keep index online while reindexing" checked 

We discovered that several system tables were corrupted, and due to time, it was necessary to reinstall MySQL. 

I am new to MySQL administration, and this week a customer came to me with a problem. They created an application with Wamp in a Windows Server environment. For some reason when listing the tables in the MySQL Workbench, an error pops up saying . 

Also try to use the statement, but still unsuccessful. Could you give me a suggestion to solve this problem? 

I need to create an extraction job from an database, the requirement is that I need to enable transactions in . All of the settings of the target machine and the database are working, and the RPC service is listening on , both firewall are disabled and no antivirus is installed. The server is on a , where the is permissive, the disabled. I also ran the and scripts as directed by an article to configure linked servers in - and it worked. The connection between the development machine and Informix is through an ODBC connection, which is also successful in querying the tables. But when the job is started the following error occurs in SSIS: 

Does this mean that the RPC service in Informix is running on port 111? Is it necessary to change to 135? The important detail is that when I disable transactions option in SSIS, extraction successfully occurs. Test thousands of solutions over the internet and nothing worked, my last hope is here. 

On Windows 7 Prof I have installed SQL Server 2012 R2 with, as I am pretty well remember, client tools. Then, I tried to install Visual Studio 2013 Ultimate but failed. Then I've installed VS2012 Prof (30-day trial). Now, on launching SQL Server 2012 (i.e. VS2010 Shell)) Data Tools --> New Project I am getting: 

while executing a rebuild from mentioned article and observe that it is being delayed until index rebuild finished What is blocking and how to avoid it? Update: Microsoft SQL Server 2012 (SP1) - 11.0.3128.0 (X64) Enterprise Evaluation Edition (64-bit) on Windows NT 6.1 (Build 7601: Service Pack 1) 

I've tried to set Mater and Target Servers on various cobinations of SQL Servers 2012 R2 on Window Server 2008 R2 and Windows 7 machines but always getting one or 2 of the following errors during setting either target or master server: * 

Invalid class (System.Management) 3) Ensure the agent startup account for 'Master-Server-Name' has rights to login as a target server (if Success here, then 4) is error or both 3) and 4) are errors) 

I am having a maintenance plan configured with Windows Authentication being run by an SQL Server Agent job with owner 

Whom does Windows Authentication of a maintenance plan authenticate, for whom and for what - why is it needed and/or how can it be used? To which user I should give permissions for accessing backup (being stipulated in maintenance plan) dir location? And how does the owner of an SQL Server Agent job enter into all this considering that an owner has SQL Server authentication?