I'm not sure it would work in this case, but you can get brake nuts with a thread inside the cap. $URL$ I would definitely not mount the fender between the bolt and the brake mount. P-Clips are cheap and will allow you to mount the fender on the fork. 

The real difference to look for is the axle width and connection method. A "standard" road bike has a 130mm/10mm rear axle and 100mm/9mm front axle that both use a standard quick release. If a set of wheels matches those dimensions and has disk brake compatible hubs, then any difference between road/cyclocross disk will only be in the various details of the build and rim width/depth. However, many of the newer road/cyclocross bikes with disk brakes are using different axle widths and connection methods. Often the rear hub axle is 135mm/10mm, and many CX bikes are now coming with through axle mounts. These kinds of specs were previously only found on mountain bikes. Many hub manufacturers ( especially on the pricy end ) now provide exchangable caps to allow you to switch between connection styles. But before you spring for those fancy carbon wheels, you should verify that the axle widths/styles match your current bike. 

As is the case with 99% of the questions on this site, Sheldon Brown has an answer for us. $URL$ A 63 speed bicycle. My recollections from previous discussions about this topic is that you need to be careful to not get too low a gear ratio; if you get the front chainring very small you can have problems with stripping the planetary gears in the Alfine hub. BTW, it is extremely unlikely that you have a 1/8 inch chain. Shimano generally recommends 9spd 3/32 chain for use with Alfine hubs. 

$URL$ 2-3. All chains for geared bikes are 3/32 interior dimension, the difference between 7-11 speed is the outside width. You should buy a new chain if you buy a new freewheel, any quality 8spd chain is fine and should work on your current chainwheels. 

This page has the best answer I've found so far $URL$ Reading between the lines, the cable pulls from 9spd to 11spd are probably close enough, but the derailleur ratios are significantly different. 1.4 vs 1.7. This means that the 11 spd indexing in your new shifters will not work correctly with your old derailleur. 

You probably won't like this, but if you set up the bars and brakes on that bike that way on purpose, then the bike frame likely is the wrong size for you. Without seeing you on the bike, it's really hard to say. My guess is that the bars would work better for you if they were closer and lower to your center of mass. As a rough rule of thumb the tops of the bars should be "flattish" and the lower end of the bar should point at the rear axle. There are no hard and fast rules, but generally that's where you start on a road bike. Bars with the "level" lower grip are generally only seen on bikes for track racing where you almost always are using the lower bar. Bars come in a wide variety of shapes, key numbers are drop and reach. Drop is roughly the distance from top to bottom and reach is the measurement from the flat part at the back to the tip of the bend. Those bars look pretty "compact" already. But there are lot's of others to try. If just rotating doesn't fix the problem, my next suggestion would be a shorter stem. 

The only possible drawback[1] to using an MTB crank is that they tend to have a wider stance or Q-factor as it's called. More on Q-factor $URL$ They are also designed to work with a chainline on a 135mm hub vs 130mm road, but that is lost in the noise and doesn't really matter if you are running a single chainring. I use an MTB crank on my cross bike and it works just fine. [1]- Other than the obvious one of available chainring sizes. 

FWIW, I have put 140mm-100mm adjustable forks on an XC bike designed for 100m forks. Going from 140mm to 160mm will change the geometry of the bike a bit, but a bike that already has a 140mm fork is pretty slack to begin with. Depending on the exact fork and how much you set up the sag, there may be little to no measurable difference between the two forks during "normal" riding. The slacker the head angle, the less difference a change in fork length makes. If you're planning on running it at "All mountain" sag values, then ( 140 * .7 ) = 98 mm ( 160 * .7 ) = 112 mm So the fork will only be about 1.4 cm longer during normal riding, and at a 68 degree head angle, you will barely notice the difference in height. This assumes the two forks have roughly equal axle to crown measurements. If you want an official answer email trek and ask if putting the new fork on will void the frame warranty. $URL$ If it were my bike, I'd do it without a second thought. But I love building franken bikes. 

The big difference between rollers and the outside is that your position is much more static inside. If you are good enough on rollers to stand every once in a while that might help. ( I'm not ). Maybe just take a 5 minute break every hour. If your shorts/saddle are comfortable outside for 2+ hrs, I doubt expensive shorts will really make much of a difference. However, when it comes to saddle comfort everything works for somebody and nothing works for everybody. I'd try the expensive Assos cream to start with, it's only a $30 experiment vs a $300 one. 

There is a question here, it's just hidden in a misleading focus on details. How do you choose chainring setups? You need to analyze the gear ratios and speeds that you ride at and figure out the correct overlap for your riding. The way that I've found most useful to do this is to chart the gear ratios vs speed and use an error bar to represent the speed at a given rpm. 

The rim is bent slightly and requires significantly uneven tension in the spokes to get the rim true. There isn't enough tension in the wheel overall to keep the wheel true. 

A functional truing stand is a lot cheaper than a tension meter. But you don't need either to build a wheel. A bicycle makes a reasonably good truing stand all by itself. You can use zip ties to get good markers for getting the wheel properly centered and round. The problem with using the bike as a truing stand are largely ergonomic. Building a wheel takes time ( especially the first few ) and having it in an easy to use spot, where you can work on it in a comfortable position makes it much simpler. Hanging the bike or supporting it in some way so you can stand up straight and work on truing the wheel will help a lot. 

If you replace the chains early, you can get way more than 4 or 5 chains per cassette. A chain is about the cheapest part to replace on a bike and it's certainly the cheapest part of the drive train. One of my bikes has had the same cassette since at least 2006, that cassette has over 10K km on it and it shifts like brand new with almost no signs of wear. I'd guess it's been through somewhere around 15 chains. I replace my chains as soon as they show any wear with the Park CC-2 chain gauge. ( New chains generally read 0.5, I replace them at 0.75) If you are using standard low end cassettes than you can get for $50, this kind of care may not be worth it. However, I have a custom cassette (14-30) that I cobbled together Sheldon Brown style, this would be relatively expensive and difficult to replace. If you ride the chain/cassette into the ground together, it's going to get progressively worse until either the chain fails or the teeth on the cogs snap off due to wear. You won't get anywhere near 10K km. Having a chain break can sometimes lead to injuries. Once the chain starts to wear, it essentially grinds on the gears with every pedal stroke; the whole thing goes downhill quickly. If the chain shows wear at 800 miles, you'll start having problems at 1000 miles. How soon you replace things after that depends on your tolerance for an imperfect drivetrain; the problem is that the gears do not wear evenly. The least used gears stay at the "old" chain spacing and get harder and harder to use over time. You can often get away with not replacing the chainrings when you replace a worn cassette, but if you really run it into the ground, you may have to replace at least the smaller chainring as well. In particular, the smallest rings on a triple can be quickly destroyed in just a few days of riding with a worn chain. Instead if you pay attention to the chain wear, buy chains on sale ( $20 at the end of the summer. ), you'll have a gear train that works as good as new it's whole life. I fully expect to get at least another 10K km out of that cassette and the chainrings should likely last as long as I ride that bike. You can probably argue the economics either way, I don't include the cost of my time in dealing with chain maintenance. And while I spend more on chains than most people, I spend a lot less on cassettes and chainrings. It comes down to how much you enjoy working on bikes, having well working shifting and how long you plan to keep the bike. 

For grades beyond 10% having a gear that you can spin at the rate you can climb makes a big difference. Only you can know exactly what gear that should be. If you can find a gear ratio tool that displays speeds for a given gear, wheel size and rpm. This one seems pretty good. $URL$ Then think about your typical speeds while climbing on the steep sections. You need a gear that will allow you to spin at a least 60 rpm and still keep those speeds. A gear that works at 30% and 60 rpm probably isn't possible with a compact crankset. FWIW, Where I ride has lots of climbs above 10% in the 5-10k range and I see lot's of riders with compact cranksets and 11-34 clusters. Personally, I think if you are really considering this, you'd be much better off getting a compact 110 Bcd triple and something like 24/36/48 gearing. It's not that you get that much lower gears, but you get many more useable gears. Having a choice of a few gears in the low range makes a lot of difference compared to just the one or two extra low gears you get by going to a wide range cluster. 

For significant climbs, the VAM ( french? for meters climbed per hour ) is all you need to know. If you know your VAM and the height of the climb, then that's how long the climb will take. Road or MTB, it doesn't vary much in my experience unless the trail requires significant hike-a-bike. Walking speeds just don't vary that much so Naismith's rule generally works pretty well. Biking speeds vary much more from rider to rider, so it's very hard to make any generally useful rules. You can generalize Naismith's rule for bikes as follows: Time for ride = (distance/average speed on flat ground) + (Total Elevation gain/VAM ) Naismith's rule works so well because the two variables are fairly constant for hikers. For bikers, you'll have to figure out what your avg. speed and VAM are to estimate how long a ride will take. 

I'm not sure "designed" is the correct word, evolved comes much closer. Current dual caliper brakes actually stop a lot better than previous single caliper sidepulls. There has always been a compromise between weight and braking power. The designers have focused on how light they can make a brake that stops "enough". I don't think there has been any effort to deliberately reduce the performance. Older centerpull brakes such as the MAFAC Racer actually compare quite well to current dual calipers, but they are much heavier and more complex to install. Designers switched to sidepulls to save weight, but then compromised braking performance. The problem is that you can only do so much with a rim brake without risking locking up the wheel. You get the most effective braking by stopping just short of the point of locking up the wheel. ( This is called modulation). Given the nature of rim brakes it's very difficult to increase the braking force while still maintaining sufficient modulation. This is the advantage that disk brakes common to MTB provide.