I would ask you all to read the following from the Dalai Lama. Maybe it is childish... as most of the adult human race cannot seem to grasp the concept. I hope that you can find your answer it in. A Message on the Golden Rule from the Dalai Lama Dear friends around the world. The events of this day [written after 11th September 2001 and the attacks on the Trade centre in New York] cause every thinking person to stop their daily lives, whatever is going on in them, and to ponder deeply the larger questions of life. We search again for not only the meaning of life, but the purpose of our individual and collective experience as we have created it-and we look earnestly for ways in which we might recreate ourselves anew as a human species, so that we will never treat each other this way again. The hour has come for us to demonstrate at the highest level our most extraordinary thought about Who We Really Are. There are two possible responses to what has occurred today. The first comes from love, the second from fear. If we come from fear we may panic and do things-as individuals and as nations-that could only cause further damage. If we come from love we will find refuge and strength, even as we provide it to others. This is the moment of your ministry. This is the time of teaching. What you teach at this time, through your every word and action right now, will remain as indelible lessons in the hearts and minds of those whose lives you touch, both now, and for years to come. We will set the course for tomorrow, today. At this hour. In this moment. Let us seek not to pinpoint blame, but to pinpoint cause. Unless we take this time to look at the cause of our experience, we will never remove ourselves from the experiences it creates. Instead, we will forever live in fear of retribution from those within the human family who feel aggrieved, and, likewise, seek retribution from them. To us the reasons are clear. We have not learned the most basic human lessons. We have not remembered the most basic human truths. We have not understood the most basic spiritual wisdom. In short, we have not been listening to God, and because we have not, we watch ourselves do ungodly things. The message we hear from all sources of truth is clear: We are all one. That is a message the human race has largely ignored. Forgetting this truth is the only cause of hatred and war, and the way to remember is simple: Love, this and every moment. If we could love even those who have attacked us, and seek to understand why they have done so, what then would be our response? Yet if we meet negativity with negativity, rage with rage, attack with attack, what then will be the outcome? These are the questions that are placed before the human race today. They are questions that we have failed to answer for thousands of years. Failure to answer them now could eliminate the need to answer them at all. If we want the beauty of the world that we have co-created to be experienced by our children and our children’s children, we will have to become spiritual activists right here, right now, and cause that to happen. We must choose to be at cause in the matter. So, talk with God today. Ask God for help, for counsel and advice, for insight and for strength and for inner peace and for deep wisdom. Ask God on this day to show us how to show up in the world in a way that will cause the world itself to change. And join all those people around the world who are praying right now, adding your Light to the Light that dispells all fear. That is the challenge that is placed before every thinking person today. Today the human soul asks the question: What can I do to preserve the beauty and the wonder of our world and to eliminate the anger and hatred-and the disparity that inevitably causes it – in that part of the world which I touch? Please seek to answer that question today, with all the magnificence that is You. What can you do TODAY…this very moment? A central teaching in most spiritual traditions is: What you wish to experience, provide for another. Look to see, now, what it is you wish to experience-in your own life, and in the world. Then see if there is another for whom you may be the source of that.If you wish to experience peace, provide peace for another. If you wish to know that you are safe, cause another to know that they are safe. If you wish to better understand seemingly incomprehensible things, help another to better understand. If you wish to heal your own sadness or anger, seek to heal the sadness or anger of another. Those others are waiting for you now. They are looking to you for guidance, for help, for courage, for strength, for understanding, and for assurance at this hour. Most of all, they are looking to you for love. – My religion is very simple. My religion is kindness. Dalai Lama 

The reason why I find this question to be worthy here is because a Google search simply does not return any valid resources. Most results are from, shall we say, less scientific sources, yet simultaneously The Law of Cause and Effect is a central principle in the world of the sciences. I Imagine there are various sub-laws expatiating upon the relationship between Cause and Effect, various axioms for and/or derived by the law, and entailments of the law. What I want is something imitating Aristotle's 3 Laws Of Existence. Existence is an 'obvious' principle central to science, as we, afterall, don't go about studying the non-existent, so we may sometimes take this for grated. However, even this 'obvious' principle has certain properties that have been delineated by Aristotle. I was wondering if anything has been similarly documented for the Law Of Cause And Effect. 

No, reincarnation is not open to empirical validation: The problem of how life after death can be scientifically studied is not a simple one. Parapsychologists believe progress can be made in a scientific fashion, but they have received doubt both from the skeptic community and from sympathetic, neutral philosophers of science. It is this latter criticism I will focus on. The remainder of this answer is an extremely brief and hopefully accurate discussion of Michael Sudduth's new book A Philosophical Critique of Empirical Arguments for Postmortem Survival (Palgrave Macmillan, 2016). The example of Ian Stevenson's work on reincarnation is pretty straightforward: he proposes to simply find case studies of alleged reincarnations who possess factual information about their past lives that they couldn't have come across by normal means. This would seem to be evidence of some kind of paranormal activity, and indeed, much of the criticism of Stevenson has focused on trying to disprove his dozens of examples. However, what Stevenson provides is data, not a hypothesis. The "survival hypothesis," the statement "The soul survives death", does not cause us to expect any this-worldly phenomena in itself. We could be living in an orthodox Christian world where the future states of the soul do not affect us in any way. That doesn't make the claim unusual; according to the Durhem-Quine thesis, there are very few scientific claims that can be falsified by themselves. To restate Wikipedia's example, Galileo seeing rings around Jupiter could be explained by Jupiter being surrounded by a dozen small moons and thousands of tiny objects in a ring, or it could be explained by a scratch on the lens of Galileo's telescope, as one of the other intellectuals of the day suggested. So, a truer statement of Galileo's hypothesis is actually "Jupiter has rings and I can see them perfectly well through my telescope". The second half of this is called an auxiliary hypothesis. It's not essential to the main hypothesis but we need it to get from the data we currently have to the main hypothesis. Similarly, the survival hypothesis in a more testable form must make more specific claims that cause us to expect data, like "The soul survives death and goes to Heaven, and people can experience this themselves through near death experiences," or perhaps "The soul survives death, reincarnates sometimes on Earth, and retains at least some of its memories, and we can confirm this and rule out cold reading through carefully controlled interviews." The latter is closer to Stevenson's actual view. But we are not done with auxiliary hypotheses yet, because at some point they lose explanatory power. For example, if Stevenson were to narrow down his claim to "I myself spoke to a reincarnated person once, in a unique event that cannot be duplicated," that's not particularly helpful for our lives. In the more general form he gives in his books, Stevenson's claims can be explained in all sorts of other ways: 

In my mind, the 'Golden Rule' has nothing to do with a third party and only to do with the self. It is a one way street. People are free to behave in any way they choose and you should not impose moral ideals onto them. You don't have to follow the rule and nor do I. But if you choose to follow the rule, you do so because you choose to, and not because of any social or moral obligation. The same way you would choose to do yoga or cycling, the benefit would be your own and you can't compel others to do the same and treat them differently when they don't. For that would not be following the golden rule, would it; That would be reversing the rule and treating people how they treat you, which will get you into all sorts of trouble. The rule is simply about giving... treating people the way you would want to be treated means giving them your total respect, giving them all your kindness and understanding and above all love; And doing so regardless of how they treat you. Because that is how you would like to be treated. And when you truly give, from the heart, it comes with no desire for reward, recognition or reciprocation. You give because you want to, out of love. You have to try and find strength in the decision you have made, and know that the bronze (I just made that up) rule is always there to back you up... 'You reap what you sow'. 

The reason I ask is because of the ambiguity of some statements when the conditionals of a condition are not referenced by tense i.e time. For example, in the Cognito Ergo Sum 'I think therefore I am', it could be read as saying that thinking causing existence, which is obviously not the case. Let my elucidate the problem, as you'll be well aware, this is an instance of Modus Ponens, which can broken down as such: 

Before I begin, what I mean by 'systems' is what I've dubbed 'axiomatic systems', those which act as the starting point for all knowledge, for which I know of three: Maths, Logic, and Set Theory. I'll just call them systems from now on, though. I'll first begin with my intuitions behind this question. Most of you here will be familiar with logic, being that it's the 'tools of Philosophy'. Whenever you do logic, you're working within a system. One can't just 'do' logic, for logic is the activity within the structure of a system. So the reason you can't just do logic is for the same reason you can't drive without a car. So, such systems have to be literally designed; its axioms must be discovered, it's properties must be studied, its values and operations must be declared before use, etc. I've been looking for this answer for quite a while, and in searching the depths of the internet the best I can find are papers that partially (and very briefly) study some of the aspects of the analysis and creation of systems. What I really want, however, is an academic, and rigorous field of study that gives an exhaustive account of how such systems are created. I think the reason why am having trouble is because am using 'systems' in a very technical way, and I have no other way to really express what I mean other than "systems". Quick note: There are fields out there looking at the use of systems (maths, logic, set theory), how they can be combined, how there used in computer programming, but none which seems to study the actual systems themselves. Oh, by the way, am not sure what to tag this as, so sorry if I've missused the tags I have provided. 

Is it possible to use empirical evidence to build a case that reincarnation really happens? (Note 1: This is separate from the question "can belief in reincarnation be justified in general?" See: Ought we only form beliefs based on sufficient empirical evidence?) (Note 2: This question was partially borrowed from a deleted Skeptics.SE question by njfife. My answer will be copied from there) 

None of these alternative explanations actually falsify the claim "The soul survives death, reincarnates sometimes on Earth, and retains at least some of its memories, and we can confirm this and rule out cold reading through carefully controlled interviews." They just tell us we haven't truly tested it yet. But alas, that tells us that we need additional auxiliary hypotheses which reduce the explanatory power of the survival hypothesis so much that there's no particular reason to accept it as an explanation of Stevenson's data over any of the other hypotheses. In particular the living psi hypothesis would seem to cover any anomalous data that could possibly be claimed to support the survival hypothesis. So according to Michael Sudduth's book, the argument that "the soul survives death" necessarily has no explanatory power, regardless of the more specific data it is meant to analyze, or the specific test meant to prove or disprove it. There is no way to state it in a way that becomes scientifically valuable. Sudduth concludes that the survival hypothesis is not a scientific hypothesis, meaning that it can't be evaluated empirically. This is the problem with much of parapsychology: experiments may suggest to a reader that something weird is going on, but it's hard to turn "something weird" into a scientific hypothesis, especially when it's an anomaly that is not systematically reproducible and varies its nature widely between experiments. Such deficiencies reduce the explanatory power of any hypothesis significantly. 

I think everybody here is completely missing the point... The OP said... 'I think the value and effectiveness of the golden rule as guide to ethical conduct is self-evident, so far as the individual is recieving equivalent treatment in return among peers. And Kevin said... 'It all depends on what strategy your opponents are using.' This is the opposite to the golden rule. ie. Treat people how they treat you, or treat people how you think they will treat you, or only treat people kindly if they treat you kindly in return. This is nonsense and has nothing to do with the golden rule. Listen very carefully to what the golden rule is telling you. Think about it deeply and you will find that the it is the simpest and most beautiful of them all. This is why it is Golden. So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them. I am not a christian, but you should read Jesus' Sermon on the mount. It will enlighten you. 

This is usually thought of as p being a sufficient cause, which necessitates an effect, in the case of the Cogito Ergo Sum, this would mean thinking causes existence. However, it could also mean that p is sufficient evidence of a necessary cause, in the case of the Cogito Ergo Sum, this would mean that thinking is sufficient evidence for the necessity of one's existence, which of course is Descartes intent in his assertion. So it's not that a given cause (thinking) is sufficient for the necessary outcome for one's existence (the effect), but that thinking (the outcome) is a sufficient effect which can be adduced to a necessary cause – existence. It's not just grand assertions like the Cogito Ergo Sum, however, that is prone to such ambiguity. Afterall, one may consider that given such a fundamental assertion, it may not be the best example. Consider then the assertion: 'if there is rain, then there are clouds'. Certainly one has never seen the pour of rain from a cloudless sky, so we can say this is true with great confidence. However, if a blind man was told that 'if it is raining, then there are clouds' (and was never taught the cause-effect relationship of clouds and rain) he would be as justified to presume (though wrong) in saying that rain causes clouds. 

The term "conspiracy theory" was invented by Karl Popper as a way to describe Marxist theories of history as a collusion of the bourgeoise class against the working class. So, as far as I can tell, someone actually arguing after Popper would say Marxists are actually seeing the world in a similar way to people who claim that climate change is a hoax, vaccines are poisonous, historical world leaders are reptilian, etc. by placing the motives of large groups of people in an "open society" under suspicion. From my perspective, regardless of value judgments about conspiracy theory, the entire "hermeneutics of suspicion" fits the category. Nietzsche's historical thesis is largely a conspiracy theory about the nature of Christianity, and many popular writers have interpreted it as such. Alex Jones claiming that "there's a war on for your mind" is being very legitimately Freudian. However, when I went to read the academic literature on this, I found that this view is in a distinct minority. Placing, say, governments, doctors, or environmentalists under suspicion is considered a "conspiracy theory," but Marx, Nietzsche and Freud are not generally claimed to be "conspiracy theorists." There are only a few sources that make such a claim, and they appear to be on the fringes of academic philosophy. I was unable to find any critical literature examining the difference between the hermeneutics of suspicion and conspiracy theory. I would appreciate any book recommendations, no matter how heavy. 

About the question So, by 'type of questions', I really mean this from an ontological perspective. I imagine there is a complete set of (type of) questions, and thus any question that ever was or will be asked will be of one type or the other belonging to such a set. A problem In trying to form such a set containing all question types, is there a way we could know for sure that we have covered all possibilities? Say we never had a concept of time, we could thus never ask 'when' something happened. Furthermore, if this was the case, it's not like we could just conclude 'oh, we must be missing the concept of time!', because obviously we would have started with such a concept to make that conclusion to begin with. My attempt at an answer In trying to derive an answer myself, I have come up with 6 types. These are: when and where (relating to spacetime), what and who (identification and personhood i.e human identification), why (motive) and how (causality). A problem with the answer It seems as if though however, that many questions can be rephrased to give the same meaning, but using different question types. For e.g, 'how does a ball drop to the earth' vs 'why does a ball drop to the earth'. The answer to both seems to be gravity. So there seems to be a problem of interchangeability. Now I know that why and how aren't always interchangeable, such as 'how did he murder' vs 'why did he murder', but when they are, that seems to be problematic. Summary So, how can we go about forming the set of all question types, and can we know when we have done so? Furthermore, why is it that some question types seem interchangeable when such types are of a different nature to each other? Maybe it's just a matter linguistic confusion? 

Children like making up stories and sometimes hit on several real facts about other people through totally random chance. Children can access the memories of relatives of a deceased person through some unknown mechanism. (Living psi) Memories drift around in the ether at death and sometimes fall into other people's heads totally independent of the question of survival of the soul. (René Guénon's "psychic residues") Stevenson was systematically deceived by his interpreters, or for some other reason didn't see what he thought he saw. (Cartesian demon) Regardless of what country you're in, for some reason -- pursuit of fame, confirmation of community beliefs, etc. -- people have a strong inclination to fake reincarnation-like incidents.