The costs and inefficiencies will be enormous. Let's use the US as the obvious starting point. Current automobile registrations are about 255 million vehicles. For most people, personal transportation is necessary, since housing (rural or suburb) is widely separated from place of employment, place of goods purchase, schools, hospitals, etc. In the long run this can change, of course, but a 2-year deadline is simply too short to allow much accomodation. Let's assume that car-pooling and car sharing (such as Uber) allow consolidation to 100 million vehicles. As a further assumption, the first year will be occupied simply in building the factories needed for both parts production (especially batteries, but equally for all parts) and vehicle assembly. The second year will see actual vehicle production. Current US vehicle production is about 18 million vehicles per year, with direct production employment of about 1 million persons. This means that the production year will require a vehicle production rate about 5 to 6 times as great as currently occurs. Additionally, an extra 5 million workers will need to be found, and it's not clear where they will come from. The obvious choke point in terms of parts is batteries. I'll assume that lead-acid and nickel-cadmium batteries are off the table due to environmental concerns involving lead and cadmium. I'll further assume that lithium batteries will be the dominant technology. This article suggests a lithium requirement on the order of 400 g of lithium per kWh of battery, and using the Volt battery pack (18.4 kWh) as a baseline produces a lithium requirement of 736,000 tonnes. Current world production of lithium is about 32,500 tonnes, so world production will need to be ramped up by a factor of 20. Just as with the production of the vehicles themselves, it is not possible to spread the production over the two years. Mining depends on heavy equipment, and these machines have a very long lead time. Additionally, operators will need to be found and trained, and processing plants constructed. Likewise battery production plants must be built and staffed. Given the short deadline, it does not seem feasible to invoke robotic assembly lines. This would require, in effect, the construction of large production plants to produce the robots themselves, and this will add to delays in achieving final production. This sort of infrastructure expansion is fairly painless over decade time scales, but 2 years is catastrophically short. To make matters worse, these massive investments in upgrading capacity cannot be amortized over a long period. After the two-year deadline demand for the product will fall precipitously, although there will be a follow-up period when more than replacement levels will be needed to fill demand by people who are severely inconvenienced by car pooling and such. However, a second year of peak production will raise the number of vehicles available to 200 million, and demand will then essentially be at replacement level. Since at this point virtually all operating vehicles will be less than 2 years old, demand will drop catastrophically, and among other things you'd expect massive layoffs among production workers. Conceivably the government could intervene by stockpiling vehicles at the projected long-term replacement rate, but this has its own difficulties. To begin with, stored vehicles will deteriorate, and it would be an unusual government program of this nature which got the numbers right. Political pressure to either overbuy (to appease the manufacturers/miners) or underbuy (to save money at a time when the massive expenditures involved in ramping up production produce calls to cut back spending) would certainly distort any decision-making process. 

Eliminating 50% of visible light with no change in infrared or ultraviolet produces Snowball Earth, with ice extending to the equator. Temporarily. As has been mentioned, visible light accounts for 44% of solar energy. Eliminating half of this, which would only be slightly noticeable in terms of brightness, cuts the total energy by 22%. Since black-body emission will produce an equilibrium temperature proportional to the 4th root of energy, average temperature drops by 6%. Current average temperature is about 290 K, so the new temperature is 272.5 K, or just below freezing. This alone will cause an ice age of a sort not seen in recent geologic times. During the past million years or so, the worst deviation from current temperatures was about 9 K, and this would be twice that. To make matters worse, current temperatures are greatly above the temperature indicated by simple absorption/radiation (about 33 K more), and the cause is greenhouse gasses. The dominant greenhouse gas is (no, not CO2) water vapor. With most of the water vapor precipitated out of the atmosphere by the low temperatures, you can expect at least another 15 K drop in average temperature. And, of course, all this ice will increase the earth's albedo, dropping temperature even more. All of this is temporary, though. With the oceans frozen solid and no land life, there is no mechanism for sequestering CO2 produced by volcanic eruptions, so it will build up. At some point the greenhouse effect of this CO2, combined with the reduced albedo caused by dust emitted by eruptions will raise the temperature high enough to melt ice, and a positive feedback cycle will raise the temperature even more. At this point, the question becomes one of the persistence of plant life in the ocean. If even a small population remains, they will spread explosively and begin reducing the CO2 to oxygen. It is an open question whether the resulting situation would produce a stable equilibrium or an oscillation between hot and cold. Alternatively, if no such life has managed to hang on, the new greenhouse atmosphere will persist until life re-evolves. Since there has apparently been at least one Snowball Earth episode in the past, the survival of a remnant population seems likely. This is, of course, extrapolating from a single point, so the conclusion is hardly a strong one. 

there is no reason for the king or the kingdom to care, with rare exceptions. Since this is a medieval, "feudal" society, the king does not (generally speaking) rule directly except for the royal estates. Rather, he oversees his liege lords - in England, the barons. So, the question becomes, does the area have a lord and does he approve? If the area is currently unclaimed, the king will grant the township as a fiefdom to one of his favorite (or otherwise) barons or the son of one of them and the baron (new or old) will take over control of the town. The reason he might assign the town to an unpopular lord is to get him out of sight and off to the boonies where he won't cause trouble. And, of course, if the township lies within the boundaries of an existing barony the baron will assert control. After all, he gets to tax them. There are a couple of exceptions that I can think of. Keep in mind that a bunch of people deciding to found a town in a remote wilderness is very, very unusual, except for religious or political reasons, where the people want to be free of their current lords, and in neither case is the king or baron likely to allow this. So the town gets a governor or lord whether it wants one or not. And royal courts are always full of ambitious younger sons who will jump at the chance to gain their own lands. European society, as the standard example, practiced primogeniture, and only the eldest inherits the father's estate, so all subsequent sons are simply out of luck. 

Any ship which can maintain a stationary position halfway between mercury and the sun for 100 years+ will have no obvious problems handling the heat, since the technology required is fabulous. In effect, the ship must produce thrust equal to (roughly) 1/1000 the weight of the ship on earth. While this doesn't seem like much, over 100 years that's an enormous amount of energy, something like 1% of the ship's mass - assuming perfect energy conversion and a photon drive. For anything reasonable in terms of density radiation pressure from the sun doesn't help, either. Anything which can produce this amount of energy should have no trouble handling a little heat. Furthermore, I assume your story calls for a visit to the enigma. You might want to think about this. The orbital velocity of Mercury is about 47 km/sec, so the nominal orbital velocity at the monolith's orbit is about 4 times that, call it 200 km/sec. EDIT - As MobOrg pointed out, the factor is about square root of 2, not 4, so the orbital velocity will be about 66 km/sec. Sorry. Brain fart. END EDIT While you may object that the object is not, in fact orbiting the sun, the point is that any intrepid space explorers will be, and an approaching spaceship will require that amount of velocity change (called delta-v) in order to dock with it, rather than going splat/crunch. Note that this is about 20 times the velocity change required to get into low earth orbit from the surface of the earth, so no currently feasible technology is going to permit a visit. Worse, in order to maintain its position, the object clearly needs a powerful anti-meteor defense, since anything in orbit around the sun will also be running 200 km/sec relative to the object, and any automated system is likely to lock onto your approaching ship, since it needs to get fairly close before it initiates a hi-g burn (to do otherwise requires much more fuel). 

In part, you have made an unwarranted assumption - that merfolk reproduce like "higher" animals, with either live birth or large eggs. The life cycle of mers is completely up to you, and there is no reason to think of the young as recognizable, smaller versions of adults. For all you know, mermaids produce hundreds or thousands of small eggs, like frogs or fish. The hatched young go through several life cycles, eventually becoming something like their final form. At some point they would join groups of adults to become socialized and educated. Or not. Like I say, the subject is obscure. 

Your "raising a clone army" has an entirely unsupported premise: "Faster reproduction is theoretically possible". Why? How? You are aware, I hope, that human clones are successfully raised all the time: they are called "identical twins". They are not notably quicker or cheaper to produce than regular singletons. Furthermore, if clones can be raised as cannon fodder, and apparently have no legal rights as individuals, which one of a pair of identical twins is the real person, and which the disposable clone? You are presumably thinking of using artificial wombs, or something similar, and you must be assuming that clones can be subjected to forced growth rates in order to reduce their production time. Why is this not true of non-clones? Admittedly, the fast production of clones would be a great boon to geriatric medicine and oncology as a way to provide replacement parts, but the ethics seem a bit dodgy. Assuming the existence of clone armies, and obvious countermeasure is biological warfare. Such armies would have all the problems inherent in any monoculture, and an enemy which creates a devastating plague which is restricted to the clones could use it with impunity, since the usual limit on such research is the need to protect your own population when the weapon gets out in the wild. 

If the question deals with what is essential, rather than what a life-form is based on, then yes, you can certainly call Earth-based life nitrogen-essential. No problem. But why are your aliens fixated on nitrogen? Let's look at a few other elements that are essential, at least for most species (in order of atomic weight): Hydrogen Boron Oxygen Sodium Magnesium Phosphorus Sulfur Chlorine Potassium Calcium Iron Copper And I'm sure there are more, but I'm too lazy to think about it. So, what's so special about nitrogen? 

For areas near the equator, the speed of the cable end is roughly $$V = \frac{2\times \pi \times 3960 \text{ miles}}{24} = 1036 \text{mph}$$ So any attempt to use the elevator would require matching speeds and transferring to the end of the cable - at Mach 1.4. Top Gun, anyone? 

Assuming the earth has a mass of 5 x $10^{24}$ kg, the energy released would be $$ E = mc^2 = 5\times 10^{24} \times 9\times 10^{16}= 4.5\times10^{41}\text{ J} $$ The diameter of the earth is about 13,000 km, so the resulting radiation pulse will last about $$t = \frac{13\times 10^3}{3\times10^8} = 4.3 \times 10^{-5} \text{ seconds} $$ At what distance will the energy density be lowered to 1 J/$m^2$? That's easy $$A = 4\pi r^2$$ so $$r = \sqrt{\frac{A}{4\pi}} = \sqrt{\frac{4.3\times 10^{41}}{4\pi}} = 1.9\times 10^{20} \text{ m}$$ Which equals 6 x $10^{11}$ light seconds, or only about 19,000 light years. Of course, it will look like God's own lightbulb, with a peak intensity of roughly a quarter of a MW per square meter at this range, but the duration is too short to do much damage. So the answer is no, it won't destroy the universe. It won't even do any damage outside of our galaxy, and not even most of the galaxy, at that. The local neighborhood will get pretty well trashed, though. At 19 light years the energy produced is in the neighborhood of a megajoule per square meter, which ought to be pretty tough on anybody who's looking in our direction. 

This is actually pretty straightforward. The toxin is targeted at a critical organ or function, and the "antidote" is not actually an antidote, but rather provides the same effect as the now-missing organ. A simple example would be a toxin which comprehensively destroys the Islets of Langerhans, while the "antidote" is insulin. A slightly less common case would be thyroid/thyroxine. In fact, Dorothy L. Sayers wrote a Lord Peter Wimsey story, "The Incredible Elopement of Lord Peter Wimsey" about a sadist who punishes his wife's possible infidelity by withholding her thyroxine tablets (she has hypothyroidism) for long periods, turning her into a cretin. EDIT FOR THE SAKE OF HONESTY - Sayers was either mistaken or taking literary liberties. Hypothyroidism in adults does not produce cretinism. It's a developmental issue, so my example is not actually correct. But I enjoyed the story a great deal, so I won't delete it. There is, of course, a drawback here - these conditions are known and the counteracting medications readily available. Here is where authorial license comes in. There are any number of brain functions which might be controlled by an as-yet-undiscovered chemical. Oliver Sacks has written an excellent book "Awakenings" about sleeping sickness patients whose condition was caused by dopamine deficiency, and feeding L-DOPA (a dopamine precursor) made amazing improvements. At least temporarily. Likewise, destruction of the substantia nigra (or at least dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta) produces Parkinson's. A toxin would be asserted to be able to destroy some critical function, and the prison (or more probably the central government which administers the prison) is in possession of some secret therapeutic material which will provide function. EDIT - It has been suggested that I address the possibility of recovery. I see at least 2 possibilities. The first is that the damage produced by the toxin is temporary. With supportive treatment the affected function will recover. To put it a bit inaccurately, it's not the disease that kills, it's the symptoms, and if you keep the symptoms from killing the body will eventually recover from the disease. An example might be tetanus: the cause of death is not organ destruction, but rather asphyxiation or heart failure due to sustained muscular contraction. Keep the blood oxygenated and the patient will (probably) recover. Another example would be the Milwaukee Protocol for rabies, in which the patient is put in an induced coma to prevent (more or less) brain damage while the immune system gets control of the virus. Note that this example is iffy - one study suggests an expected 8% success rate. At any rate, in this version of things the replacement medication only needs to be continued for a limited duration. Of course, this implies that the toxin will need to be readministered at regular intervals if Joe is expected to be a prisoner for a long time, but frankly I don't see this as an overwhelming problem. Joe is, after all, a prisoner and at the mercy of the EO. The second possibility is as straightforward as the original suggestion: transplant. One experimental therapy for neurological conditions such as Parkinson's is the transplant of fetal brain tissue, which is hoped to replace reduced function in the affected portion of the brain. The author can have any amount of fun developing the mechanism and pitfalls of the process - compatibility (note that fetal tissue is somewhat different), sources, recovery therapy, etc.