Some semantics may make it the case that LEM is true and PB is not true. Consider the following supervaluationist treatment of vague predicates. A statement such as 

Philosophers refer to this question as the mind-body problem. See also section 5 of the SEP entry on consciousness. Your own thoughts seem to lean towards a version of panpsychism. This is not a very popular position in contemporary philosophy, but it has a few articulate defenders, such as Galen Strawson or Philip Goff. 

means, instead, that every kid shouts at every plant. While I believe that (1) is what you had in mind, I wanted to point out that your own proposal 

Primitive notions are undefined concepts within a theory. For example, a theory of meaning may have causation as a primitive notion. A theory of causation, obviously, will not. First principles are propositions that are not argued for in a theory -- maybe because they are considered self-evident. For example that we know our Ideas and Impressions, in Hume's philosophy; that (Descartes) thinks, in Descartes's philosophy. So, a primitive notion is expressed by a noun phrase: "causation", "the good". First principles are expressed by sentences: "I think", "We know our Ideas and Impressions". 

This will depend on what kind of entities enter into causal relations. The standard account has it that it's events that are causally related. If so, A and B are ill-suited for the role, and A and B's interaction looks better. For example, A and B are two Star Trek action figures, and P is being in mint condition. A and B crash violently into each other, say, in a car trunk, and as a result are no longer in mint condition. The standard account would have it that it's A and B's violently crashing into each other that has caused this. 

What the author of the SEP article claims (Siegfried Gottwald, incidentally the author of a popular Treatise on Many-Valued Logics) is that BP can be profitably understood as a product system: we take BP's truth degrees as evaluating whether a. There is positive information about the truth of the SOA. b. There is positive information about the falsity of the SOA. We can track these two aspects with an ordered duple: ; a will be true [t] iff there is positive information about the truth of the SOA, and false [f] otherwise. Mutatis mutandis for b. If so, there is the following mappings of BP truth degrees onto the ordered pairs (represented with square brackets and not the habitual corner brackets; mysteries of the SE markup) of our product system: 

So, if truth is not enough and justification is not enough, the obvious next place to look is knowledge. Knowledge: : F(p) takes p to the asserter knows that p. This is, probably, the mainstream position in this debate. Knowledge has been defended, e.g., by Williamson 2000, DeRose 2002 and many others since. This norm seems to solve the problems with Truth and Justification: in none of these cases does the asserter know the asserted proposition. It is also well positioned to explain the appeal of Truth and Justification: knowing the target proposition implies both that it is true and that the asserter is in a good evidential situation. But Knowledge has not passed unchallenged. Pressure coming from Truth defenders takes, not unexpectedly, the form of unknown but true propositions which it is proper to assert. Weiner 2005, for example, offers examples of assertions based on reasonably competent hunches. For example, 'This is the work of Professor Moriarty! It has the mark of his fiendish genius.' as said by Sherlock Holmes, based merely on the looks of the deed in question -- cf. Weiner 2005, p. 231 -- seems like a proper assertion, but it also seems that Sherlock doesn't know that Moriarty did it; he is just making an educated guess. This is just a very quick introduction to the problem of the norm of assertion. If you ask me, I think the sensible position is pluralism about such norm: in a certain sense truth is enough to make an assertion appropriate; in another sense justification is enough; in yet another sense knowledge is enough. There are good arguments for this kind of pluralism, but their discussion would take us too far afield. DeRose, Keith. 2002. “Assertion, Knowledge, and Context.” Philosophical Review 111: 167–203. Lackey, Jennifer. 2007. “Norms of Assertion.” Noûs 41: 594–626. Millikan, R. 1984. Language, Thought and Other Biological Categories. The MIT Press. Weiner, Matthew. 2005. “Must We Know What We Say?.” Philosophical Review 114: 227–251. ———. 2007. “Norms of Assertion.” Philosophy Compass 2: 187–195. Williamson, Timothy. 2000. Knowledge and Its Limits. Oxford University Press. 

Have you come across an example of such an inference anywhere? I don't think it has a name, if only because it's very dumb :) Notice that such a pattern of inference allows you to infer anything: take any A whatsoever. Now 

1+1=2 is a necessary truth---roughly, a statement that is true in every possible world. Your question, thus, is asking for true counterfactual conditionals with impossible antecedents. These are sometimes called counterpossibles (e.g., section 5.1 here). The traditional view used to be that all these counterpossibles are trivially true. According to this view, "if one plus one were not two, then q" would be true for arbitrary q. More recently, several philosophers have argued that making sense of science and everyday reasoning requires a semantics for counterpossibles that does not trivially entail their truth. See references to this debate in the last SEP entry linked to above. In any event, rest assured, one plus one necessarily equals two. 

According to representationalism, which is probably the most popular philosophical approach to perception these days, when you perceive a red apple, you token a representation of the apple. This representation, which is the percept itself or a related entity, represents the apple, in the sense that it will typically have accuracy conditions that are sensitive to the apple---say, the representation will be false, or inaccurate, if it represents the apple as red but it is green. Now, many, although by no means all, philosophers will say that perceptual representations are non-conceptual: they are not constituted by concepts, at least if concepts are taken to be the same entities we think and judge with. Perceptual representations earn their accuracy conditions in some other way, perhaps simply by tracking extramental states of affairs. In any event, you are perfectly right: when you think of, or perceive, an existing red apple, there are two things: a mental state of yours that represents the apple, and the apple out there. Only the latter is red; the formerly merely represents the apple as being red. 

To begin with, the second premise in this argument is false: One can believe all of the Peano axioms, and these axioms jointly imply all of the truths of arithmetic. This doesn't make one arithmetically omniscient. Apart from false, the second premise is also irrelevant: that the proposition expressed by S is true does not imply p in the logical sense. S could have expressed a different proposition. 

From this premise one can deductively infer that all A are x, unsurprisingly. One problem with this maneuver, of course, is that we have no better evidence for the extra premise than we have for the conclusion -- both being the same proposition. Therefore, as it is sometimes said, there is no transmission of warrant from premises to conclusion. I suspect that the same will happen with any plausible candidate for the role of premise X. Take your own example, 

The problem with some instances of the kind of reasoning you are deploying is that, in a train of thought of the kind If A, then probably B; if B, then probably C; if C..., then probably Z, although every of the single steps might be likely and compelling, the transition from A to Z might not be. Suppose that each transition has a probability of 0.99 -- that is, P(B|A)=P(C|B)=...=P(Z|Y)=0.99. Then, for all the argument tells us, the probability of Z given A is the much lower 0.99^28 = 0.75 This doesn't mean that, in general, reasoning from causes to consequences is fallacious. As you rightly point out, it is not. 

By the way, one nice way to go about the preface paradox is the following: positive doxastic attitudes towards a proposition come in degrees, from full acceptance (1) to full rejection (0). Suppose that belief in a proposition requires placing a creedence of 0.99 in the truth of the proposition. If the book in question expresses more than 458 propositions (that can be true or false independently), then the writer can assert, without contradiction that: 

It's closest to an operational definition. The idea of such definitions is to identify empirical criteria that would provide every reason to believe that we are before an instance of F, and propose such criteria as the definition of F. Other operational definitions are the phenetic concept of biological species, or verificationism about meaning. In general, operational definitions are discredited in philosophy: they stem from very extremely empiricist positions in epistemology that are nowadays generally considered as misguided. Operational definitions hope to find an empirically salient symptom of the definiendum whose presence coincide perfectly with it. But symptoms are hardly ever necessary, or sufficient. In the case that interests you, it appears both that a judge could mistake a cleverly built (but dumb) automaton for an intelligent agent, and an intelligent (but, say, shy) agent for a dumb automaton. That doesn't mean they are useless, though: operational definitions might not be great qua definitions, but they provide a good empirical foothold for the investigation of the putative definiendum. 

Suppose for a moment that all ravens are black, and that you have observed n ravens to be black. Your premise X is safisfied, but not because n ravens being black somehow makes it the case that all ravens are. Rather, the consequent of the conditional being true, the antecedent also is. Here, too, we have no better (and no different) evidence for the X premise than we have for the conclusion: there is no transmission of warrant. 

Let us say that the Arabic sentence in question is S, and that the proposition expressed by that sentence is p. Your friend is equivocating between 

∅ -- this means: there is no information concerning a certain state of affairs [SOA henceforth] {⊤} -- this means: there is information saying that the SOA obtains {⊥} -- this means: there is information saying that the SOA fails {⊤,⊥} -- this means: there is information saying that the SOA fails and information saying that it obtains. 

They are different: you can have the former belief without having the latter, and you can have the latter belief without having the former. One way to see that you can have the former without the latter: suppose that p is the proposition expressed in English by the sentence "the Earth is round". The beliefs that the proposition expressed by S is true, and that the Earth is flat, are not contradictory. The beliefs that the Earth is round and that the Earth is flat are. You can have the latter without the former, for example, if you have never encountered S. 

where, as in other replies, K stands for the property of being a kid, P for the property of being a plant, and S for the relation of shouting. In this answer, the proposed formalization, 

Now that we are at it, it is probably useful to note that hardly any of the traditional fallacies single out reasonings that are never compelling. Take, for example, post hoc, propter hoc: while, indeed, in general it is not true that if an event follows another they are both related causally, noting a strong temporal correlation between events of one type and events of the other can provide very good evidence of the existence of a causal process. Ignoring it on the grounds that post hoc, propter hoc reasonings are fallacious would be very silly. 

You might want to keep an eye on other contemporary developments of the notion of evidence. For example, according to Tim Williamson (see his Knowledge and its limits), the evidence a person has consists of everything that person knows. This is a thouroughly non-Bayesian understanding of evidence. 

is neither supertrue nor superfalse: it lacks truth value, according to supervaluationism. PB, therefore, is false: that sentence is neither true, nor false. Now, what happens with a sentence of the form [p v not p], such as