Note: If both riders are pedaling or stopped at the start line, then all this is irrelevant, because the bike will be tensed up, and the pawls will be ready to go, so 0 degrees of slack lost. 

My truing stand is an old 26" fork clamped in a vise, and I use a stubby cable tie around the fork tine on each side as an indicator. Its not a high precision solution, but its possible to drastically improve most wheels. Since the indicators aren't linked, I normally work to identify the high spots that bulge sideways the most. They get tweaked back into line a half-nipple turn in the middle of the bulge, and then the nipple on the other side is released the same amount. Successive nipples around the rim are adjusted by a half-turn for the neighbours, and then a quarter turn for the next pair out. Sometimes I just use my secondary hand's index finger as the gauge, to feel where the most deflection is. After a bit of sideways, I'll check for out-of-round using the same methods. Then return to sideways true adjustments. Normally I aim for the "longest section of rim that needs the least adjustment" as a baseline target, on the basis that is probably pretty good and the aberrations are what I have to fix. After that I'll ping the wheels looking for high or low tensions, then put the whole wheel on my knee and try to taco it, to relieve any bad tensions. And then spin it in the stand again to check what may have changed. The tricks are 

$URL$ Downsides of this is that it only fits their multitool and nothing else. Also exposes the tool to a lot of dirt and muck that it wouldn't see if higher up. 

That's weird! It sounds like slack being taken up on the cranks, but the image doesn't match that. Try separating the components - take the wheel out, can you feel any notchiness on spinning the cassette? Diagnostic Ideas: 

That last photo shows the chain on a smaller chainring. Notice the air-gap under the chain? That is a clear sign that the chainring is worn and the "effective" gap between teeth is now larger. So instead of the load being shouldered by multiple teeth, one single tooth carries the load for an instant, accelerating wear of the chain and the tooth. You're up for chain and chainrings, and its worth doing the cassette at this time too. You might even want to do the jockey wheels for a clean sweep. 

The main problem is light braking may glaze the brakes decreasing overall braking effectiveness. The common practice is ~30 hard stops is needed to bed in the pads. So the best thing to do is go for a ride and get up to 30+ km/h and then brake hard down to stopped. Repeat. And then see if your brakes work better. 

A quick google shows $URL$ Its a straightforward clincher tyre that may be used tubeless, but may be used with a tube. Best thing to do is take the tyre off and see if there's a tube inside. Do note that tubeless tyres can be run with tubes perfectly well. 

If you want to be warm and dry and indoors then a trainer or rollers are probably what you want. Rollers and resistance trainers tend to be hard on bikes and tyres, its not unusual to use the "spare" bike on a trainer. Approximately where in the world are you? I'm in the Southern Hemisphere, and were just coming into summer. I managed at least 500 km/month of mostly road, but there was a bit of velodrome and a fair serving of singletrack too. I'm guessing you're a MTB guy, possibly a downhill type and when its wet and horrible, those can be additionally dangerous. Consider some Cross Country, or even pop on some slick tyres, lock out the suspension and hit some roads to boost your endurance. Biking in the rain can be excellent training, just need a bit more gear and preparation. Biking in fallen snow is magical. Remember rule #5. Finally, do remember that howling southerlies can also be the best tailwinds. 

So the rear wheels are direct drive. Safety avoid the temptation to make a three-wheel pedal car. They are inherently tippy, and not recommended. Steering A four wheel pedal car will probably need ackerman steering else its hard to turn. Depending on your kid's weight this may not be an issue. 

When done by a rider on a bike moving a second bicycle, this is called ghost riding and it can be easy or very hard depending on the two bikes and their riding characteristics. Normally the rider would steer, brake and perhaps gear change with one hand, and have their other hand on the middle of the tow-bike's handlebars. Braking is done slowly and gently. Your tow-hand will get very sore after a short time. The tow bike will follow a different path when turning, so you have to be careful to not hang up. One minor advantage is that you can trackstand easily at the red lights. 

Everything on a bike is a tradeoff between efficiency and weight and complexity and cost. If you imagine the simplest drive ratio which is 1:1 then the cog and chainwheel could be any size up to the rim size. and down to the mechanically smallest possible around the axle, perhaps 4 or 5 tooth? Why not a really big chainring and cog on the simple bike? Because big weighs more. Plus you need some space under the chainring for ground clearance. Big also uses more materials to make, and even more space in to ship worldwide. Why not a super small one, like the mountainbikes with compact chainrings? Because its expensive to make them so small, the forces exerted on smaller cogs and chainrings increase exponentially as size drops linearly. Historically such leverages would break components, its only in the last couple decades that materials engineering has make them possible. But they're still expensive. Why do bike makers not offer weird-stuff? First, because the bulk of the buying public buy "average" bikes that look like normal bikes... and that's where the money is. I have a recollection that none of the big makers shows a profit out of their top-end groupsets, that they all cost more to design than they earn. Its only once the quantity of sales increases that there is a profit margin. Why are there so few recumbents and tandems and other non-conventional bikes on the roads? Because they don't sell well. Only once a market segment reaches a "critical mass" does it self-perpetuate. Without volume its not worth tooling up a production line, and without the volume made, the price stays high, leaving the item in the Boutique class for rich buyers only. 

Those are drop bar brakes, with an auxilliary brake lever for the tops. They are also known colloquially as "sissy bars/levers" for people who can't or won't ride on the hoods. Some people refer to them as "suicide brake levers" because they don't brake as well as the hoods directly. They are not brifters, or STI, or ergo-anything. Those are purely brake levers and have no function of shifting at all. 

$URL$ can show you where people ride in your area, so explore and see if there's something of which you're unaware. 

It is not ideal, the tyre is approaching end of life, but the tube is unlikely to burst through that crack because the structural part of the tyre (the threads) still there and are still somewhat protected from the weather. Do plan on replacing it, but you should get at least months or more of riding. Basically wear the tread out some more then replace both tyres.