Years ago, after a storm, I found a dead bird with an id ring on its leg. I wanted to find out where to report it, but before I returned with a camera to take a photo, a neighbor decided to dispose the body. In case I ever find another one, I'd like to know how to find out what I can do. The above incident happened in Mexico, but I'd like to have answers that aren't country specific, if possible. 

And that's good advice to stay hydrated, but offers little insight into optimizing urination stops. My races so far have taught me quite a bit about how my hydration works. I stress that it's my hydration because I've seen that it works differently for different people, so YMMV. Nonetheless, these are a few tips that may work for you. Many of these tips are often recommended by some professional trainers and long-time athletes: 

Several years ago I sprained my ankle. I was lead-climbing a route that was a bit over my technical skills. I was in an overhanging segment above and sideways to my last bolt. I fell, swung, got tangled with the belay rope, started spinning, and hit my foot against the rock. I stopped climbing and started recovery. At this point I became careful about all my physical activities. A month later I embarrassingly fell on even floor in a supermarket and hurt my ankle further. At this point I became a bit fearful. Six months later while trekking I stepped on a loose rock, fell, and hurt myself even further. At this point I became panicked and maybe close to depressed. 

The one way I know to remove the twists from a climbing rope, requires for the rope not to be hanging nor in use in any way. The procedure is quite simple but may require help from your partner: 

You should run There's a good video from MinutePhysics that explains it all: $URL$ The short(er) version is that the amount of water you "run into" depends only on the distance, which is equal whether you run or walk. But the water falling on top of your head depends on how long you stay in the rain, and you can minimize it by running faster. Also, like Ben Crowell said, the usual motivation for staying dry is to maintain our body temperature. In which case, running is also a better choice since we generate more body heat. 

Haba Xueshan (Haba Snow Mountain 哈巴雪山) is a commonly summited peak here in Yunnan, China, at the eastern extent of the Himalaya. It's not as high altitude ("only" 5396 m) but it has high prominence (1794 m), and is situated picturesquely above Tiger Leaping Gorge. I understand that people summit without a lot of expertise, but it requires overnighting and a guide. It has the additional advantage of being easy for foreigners to travel to (fly in to Lijiang or Diqing airport via Kunming with no need for special permits), unlike many peaks in Xizang (Tibet), and in Tibetan areas of Sichuan. Haba Xueshan (left), with Yulong Xueshan in the foreground and the upper Yangtze River below 

At least for some species, Rhododendron wood is not especially toxic when burned. I've seen (and used) many species of Rhododendron in the Chinese Himalaya as firewood, in both outdoor and drafty indoor conditions. This included seasoned and unseasoned wood, and large enough quantities of smoke that my Rite-in-The-Rain notebooks still smell like bacon. 

My tent (REI Quarterdome) has mesh pockets on the ceiling – I find stuffing a headlamp up there is a reasonable space lighting solution. 

It's always okay to take away trash! I'm not just being tongue in cheek here. Many US National Parks (and other protected areas) have more latitude for beach-combing; manmade items like sea-glass may be considered trash / non-natural additions and be fair game to remove. Again, you'll want to note the specific regulations for the Park you're in; and of course be attentive to man-made items that could be artifacts and to items that might have living creatures attached to them. 

Long tangent on Rhododendron Toxicity While this doesn't directly address the question of burning Rhododendron wood, the whole idea that Rhododendron smoke might be poisonous springs from the idea that it is a very poisonous plant to ingest. And, while I'm not encouraging anyone to eat large quantities of Rhododendron, I suspect that the often-repeated stories about its toxicity are overblown: Tales of poisonous Rhododendron honey go back literally thousands of years (and were even repeated in the 2009 Sherlock Holmes movie!), but don't apply to all species / methods: Rhododendron honey is common in the Himalayas, and made in Europe as well (it's tasty!). It's used in Asia and Europe as a medicine. Most of the modern cases are of people becoming sick from using medicinal-grade Rhododendron honey. There's also evidence for species differences and processing effects (drying reduces grayanotoxin) on the toxicity of other parts of rhododendron, both from chemical studies, and again from my experience in the Himalaya, where flowers of some Rhododendron species are eaten and others considered poisonous, and leaves of some species used as animal forage and others for animal medicine. American Rhododendron vegetation is more famous for poisoning livestock, but this also varies between goats and sheep who show more ill effects, and deer with fewer. The toxicity seems to be even less in humans, and the cases of poisoning are in fact very rare. 

The first one is pretty obvious, but the other two deserve a few words. Once the first healing phase is over, what you're trying to accomplish with therapy is to avoid the injury if you happen to have another accident. Strength and flexibility play a huge role in being able to sustain another fall without injuring yourself. And here's the rub: Your ankle may be stronger and more flexible than before you had your accident. You may be less susceptible to injury. I have since had a couple of episodes where the stress to my ankle have been bigger than the time I got sprained. I'm not a therapist, so I can only assume that YMMV. But for me, knowing that my ankles are more resilient than before helped me overcome my fear. 

I started reading Petzl's tech tips for mountaineering. While on the section for Crossing a Bergschrund, specifically in the part for Belaying a leader we have the following warning: 

I relied on being well informed to overcome my fear. Specifically, I did my best to understand what physical therapy could do for me. A good therapy will: 

Have your parter attach an ATC with a carabiner to the belay loop in her harness (if your partner is otherwise engaged, you can tie the ATC and carabiner to a rock or tree with some webbing). Push one end of the rope through the ATC in the way you'd use it to belay (through the top of the ATC, around the carabiner, and back out through the ATC). Pull the full rope length through the system. 

We have a new puppy and can't wait to take him to TGO. Since he's still growing he'll grow out of any harness that fits at the moment. I'm considering tying a harness out of webbing, but all instructions I've found so far require D rings, stitching and cutting. But aside from my current needs I'd really like to know how to tie a makeshift hoist harness for my dog in case I ever need it. How can I tie a one-piece harness out of webbing? Some tidbits: 

I usually do sport-climbing so I've never owned a static rope. However, most rope-related Q&As in TGO.SE don't bother specifying dynamic vs static ropes. I've been told that for rappelling (or even canyoneering) it's not only pretty common, but actually advised to avoid elongation when you're not expecting it. On the other hand I know you should avoid at all costs using a static rope when climbing. But other than that, when is the use of a static rope recommended? 

The general consensus is clearly that it's a bad idea to try to teach yourself. I tend to agree. That said, I suspect that none of these people who have commented thus far are speaking from experience, so I thought I'd chime in as someone who has actually taught himself to climb, to offer a perspective of what that's like too. To make it short: in my case (and do not assume yours will be the same), I felt like learning to top rope and sport climbing was fairly safe and straightforward. Ditto for multipitch sport climbing. Trad climbing was more extreme. Having had a more experienced partner would have been more helpful here. Trying to learn to alpine climb on my own was... Not good. Don't do it. Take a course from the american alpine institute instead. When I started to climb I didn't know any climbers, lived in the midwest before the gym scene exploded and was too poor to take a course. So similar situation to what you're describing I think. Top Rope/Sport climbing: There were not a lot of "unknown unknowns" here. You should be able to look at the safety system and understand why and how it will keep you alive if you fall. If you don't understand it, stop and figure it out before continuing. There were no surprises here. I found a crag with bolted routes, and bolted anchors. Asked a local climber in camp where a good top roping spot was and spent a weekend on the wall he directed me to, and then went back for another weekend once I could afford quickdraws and started lead climbing on bolts. It was terrifying, but in retrospect we were in fact climbing and belaying more or less safely. Common sense was very helpful, but I wish I'd known how to tie an autoblocking friction knot to back up rappels. Would have made it a bit safer (see Accidents in North American Mountaineering 2012, "know the ropes" section). Also, should have bought a helmet on day one. I got comfortable sport climbing pretty quickly though. Learning to do multipitch sport routes was also fairly easy. Plan ahead and get a belay device you can use for belaying off the anchor. Petzl Reverso or black diamond guide are good. Trad cragging: There were many more "known unknowns" here than in sport climbing. Books helped a lot, but experience was also clearly needed, which I gained by climbing routes that were well within my abilities for a long time. The main issue is learning what a good gear placement looks like, understanding fall forces and anchor building. After about two years I had placed enough gear in a large enough variety of rock at many different crags to have gained some perspective. By this point I had also climbed a bit with a couple of more experienced people, not many, and not often, but enough to at least gain confidence from having a more experienced climber sign off on my placements. I also did some mock lead falls with backup ropes to test gear, and see how bad a placement could be and still hold. Some top rope aid climbing also helped, as did John Long's anchors book. Alpine rock climbing: Lots of unknown unknowns. I thought I was going to die. And I don't mean I was scared shitless. I definitely was, but what I rather mean is that I realized death was likely, and I had to force myself to come to terms with that. In retrospect, this is the point where I think no matter how motivated you are, if you don't have the money, you should stop. Better to come up with the cash, and take a course from the american alpine institute (AAI) or something equivalent. I ended up going back with more experienced people and getting some instruction from them for this one.