So a bit of a strange scenario here.. I work for an MSP who has a client that has recently moved to a Regus managed office space. The client has moved from their own offices where they had a full server infrastructure setup to this new managed office which does not allow them to keep their servers. As an MSP we have taken on the job of hosting their whole infrastructure from our Data Center - Each employee at the company we are working for is now connecting to their now 'Remotely hosted infrastructure' over direct access technology. While endpoints can see the remotely hosted servers (Over DirectAccess), our servers cannot see managed office LAN. Our client has printers which are situated on-site - We previously had all printers setup on the File and Print Server (Drivers, Spooling was managed from here). Even though the remotely hosted servers cannot see the printers on-site, we would still like add the printers to the File and Printer Server - I thought this would be possible by 'Turning Off Spooling' (In other words ticking 'Print Directly to the printer') & 'Rendering Jobs on the client machine' & changing the 'Printer Ports'.. The reason we would like to keep the printers on the 'File and Printer Server' is so we have a place to centrally manage printer drivers. Ideally what I am looking to do here is have machines print DIRECTLY to the printer without needing to spool or send any information to the server (Because no doubt the server will want to send information to the printer it cannot access). Is this possible? Thanks very much 

We manage a client site that has a file & print server on-site and our intention is to move their files / data to a centralised server at our data center. As the client has a very slow internet connection (adsl @ 5mbps), my boss has visited site to copy the data to an External USB Hard Disk. I've copied the data my boss had collected to the centralised server at the data center via USB. I now need to copy all the new files / changed files since my boss had taken the initial copy/seed of the data over the internet. I will need to conduct the cutover data copy using Robocopy (Over the internet, using UNC path - We have a VPN connection setup to link the new servers). My question is, will the below robocopy command do delta's (Keeping in mind that the original copy method to usb was done using the standard windows drag and drop method): robocopy "\Source" "\Destination" /e /np /r:1 /w:1 /xo /log:BackupLog.txt I only want to copy new files / folders that exist at the source using robocopy over the internet, and not the whole 1TB data set. Thank you very much for your assistance. 

.. For your information our Gateway server name is rdp.sparkorg.org To renew the RDS Certificate, I have.. 1) Generated a CSR in IIS 2) Completed the signing request 3) Exported as PFX (With Private Key) 4) Binded the certificate with the RDWeb IIS Instance 5) With the PFX, gone into 'Deployment Properties' and applied a COMODO (Previously exported) aginast, RD Connection Broker, RD Web Access & RD Gateway. 

Start by deleting the stanza from your file since that triggers the now unwanted behavior of including content at level. Now you could use some locations such as: 

As @Lukas explained it, forwarding the Authorization header to the backend will makes your client attempting to authenticate with it. As you probably have not defined any authentication in your backend, it will answer with a 401, as the RFC 2617 requires: 

If I understood your question right, you just need to redirect each location to a different backend, each listening on a different port, like the following: 

Redirect will be done through the use of rather than using , which is discouraged when avoidable. 2. www.domain -> domain Now to redirect www to non-www, I would use a , avoiding to use : 

is not specific to any Process Manager () mode. Its benefits are to respawn worker processes after the specified amount of requests they handle individually. It could avoid memory leaks in extreme cases, but usually it just frees up memory allocations accumulated when memory-hungry scripts were executed. Memory allocations pile up and the total amount of memory allocated grows, but is only freed on exit (thus when respawn). As you put it, you seem not to have activated when using . You should have seen a difference, and certainly more than a flat line. has the added benefit of stopping workers depending on the number of idle processes amongst them (, ), which are a kind of a metric measuring instant load. Stopping useless processes frees the associated allocated memory at the cost of process handling (CPU), which counteracts ensuring a safety cushion in case of spikes, maintaining idle workers ready to process requests. Now, if you really are looking after your memory, is more aggressive, (de)spawning processes as (not) needed (anymore). This mode is the closest to the edge, since it won't absorb spikes as well as , but it is the leanest on memory consumption (with the counterpart of using more CPU for process management purposes). TL;DR Memory allocations stack up for any worker process. If a particular request was memory-hungry, it will top the processing worker memory allocation, and this won't be freed until the process stops. Use to recycle processes, whatever mode you use. will recycle processes on another criterion which is load, and will kill processes when too much of them are idling. Having a higher processes turnover is more likely to prevent them being too much memory-hungry, at the cost of more CPU cycles used for processes management. 

Avoid at all costs automated tools which lack, by definition, the brains to properly convert rules. There is no simple 1-to-1 match between Apache and nginx ways. They have 2 different mindset. You thus need to understand what you are doing and use the nginx way of configurating it. That is IMHO a complex problem out of the reach of an automated tool. Concerning rules: 

Using prefix locations, you ensure that whatever ordering you use, the result will always be the same. 3. Minimal configuration Here is a minimal configuration aiming in the direction of what you wish. There is no obvious translation rule from 2xu-glid to Glide%20SX%202012%20-%20%20Super%20Partno. If that depends on non-trivial conditions and complex checks, it is probably better to use scripting to do it. Using inside nginx is dangerous without knowing what you do and could wreak havoc. You can also use a bunch of nested locations to split your translation rules into modular units. Note that I use a single rewrite here, so it does not need a flag nor does it need to be enclosed in a location. That is because there is only a signle way that configuration might be resolved. Also note the use of at the end to ensure no file is ever tried to be served (the default behavior, when no suitable location is found, is to try to serve either a file or , depending on whether the URI ends with ). Since no is defined, the default internally set would have been used. 

But I do not know how I can redirect UDP port range from 60000 to 610000 and also port range UDP Port 10000 - 20000 

I have freeBSD router and it host public IP address, I am using ipnat.rules to configure port forwarding prom public network inside my private network. Now I wondering can I restrict only specific public IP addresses to can pass trough my port forwarding. What I want is to only my specific public IP addresses can walk inside my network on specific ports. Here is how now look like my ipnat.rules file 

I apologize for reopening this and answering 3 years after. I have almost same issue on pf ver 2.3.2-RELEASE-p1 After hours of googling I fund this. $URL$ Sometime gateways do not want to response to ping. If your gateway working but dashboard still shows that is offline you can try to change advanced settings on gateway for Data Payload.(Define data payload to send on ICMP packets to gateway monitor IP.) 

I use WinMobile device and What I fund useful is free Putty tool for SSH connection, Whit putty I can made SSH connection to lot of routers which I admin. After that I can use a lot of network tools which is already build in routers. 

We are using pfSense as Openvpn server / clients. We are have around 20 site to site pfSense clients which connects to main site using Openvpn site to site configuration. On main pfSense (vpn server) we did install multiple wans and we have setup failover site to site connection, by setting server to listen localhost and port forwards vpn ports from multiple wans to 127.0.0.1. On the clients in Custom options we added: 

Is there any good solution to make Mozilla Firefox display well and work alright with SQL Reporting Serives web application, I am tired of bugs and stacks produced by IE and theri last versions. The most annoying thing is size of displayed report in Mozilla is very small and printing control is disabled, I know that is i connection with ActiveX controls that cames with reporting services but I still hoping that maybe I can set Mozilla to worrk fine. Maybe I also should ask this question on SO to try find a programmers side of story because all of report on my server is mine, So if some one has solution to make things right in code please let me know 

I am trying to configure asterisk PBX behind my FreeBSD router. To allow other sip clients to call I need to forward ports to my local network asterisk machine. I did it for 5060 and 5061 ports using ipnat and configuring ipnat.rules 

Gmail from Google also have great integration with other POP3 servers, but also got many benefits like, addons for mozila or IE so it can work faster a great amount of space and also mobile version and others 

How many current users can accept FreBSD, I am using it for about 30 current users, whit no any problems. Maybe pfSenes distro can offer You faster way to implement OpenVPN or PPTP VPN