One way suggested by Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu to overcome sexual addiction is to mentally take apart and analyze the parts of the body (the so-called contemplation on unattractiveness or asubha). You can find some info in this question and this question. But also see this answer - this type of contemplation should be replaced with the mindfulness of breathing if it triggers negative thoughts of suicide. The other technique he proposes is to watch your mind for triggers and observe how lust arises in the mind and recognize it (basically insight meditation). You can find more info on this in his chapter entitled "Daily Life" of his booklet "How To Meditate". So, here you have two techniques for sexual addition. Regarding food addiction, you can try the insight method above, or the gradual food reduction method in this answer. 

Try the videos under the section of Children on this website. There are some ebooks for children here. There's a simplified introduction to Buddhism for kids here. There are websites on Jataka Tales for children here, here and here. I think a great way of teaching Buddhist concepts to children is through stories. Stories are entertaining to young children who need their creativity and imagination stimulated, in order to learn things happily and efficiently. Instead of trying to teach very young children concepts like anatta which may be too difficult for them, it might be better to teach them virtues and good moral values, which are available through the Jataka Tales and some Dhammapada stories. This is the foundation to inculcating sila. 

According to tradition, Gautama Buddha was not the first Buddha. There were previous Samma Sambuddhas before him who taught the same teachings (called Dhamma). Also according to tradition, a new Samma Sambuddha does not appear until the teachings of the previous one has been completely lost and forgotten. According to The Buddhist Society page here: 

Some useful teachings by Ajaan Fuang on this topic below. Ajaan Fuang teaches not to plan how the meditation would go, or deliberately look out for signs to determine what stage you're at, or to be obsessed about what the next steps should be. Instead, he teaches to go on practising by oneself to find out how things will turn out. From my understanding, one should not just reach one stage and then rush over to the next. One should instead master one stage, then go on to master the next. In my opinion, it is also useful to have such a teacher to guide the student when he finds that the student has reached an impasse or is going on the wrong path. Otherwise, if the teacher finds that the student is progressing on the right path, he should allow the student to discover the next steps on his own. Quote: 

This means that only the pleasure and joy dependent on what is skillful can exist in jhana. In AN 4.123 and AN 4.124 below, it is stated that one who enters jhana, has withdrawn from sensuality and unskillful qualities. 

Here, the warrior has the intention. But when he strives and exerts himself based on the intention, then the fruit of the kamma reaches its peak. Despite this, thoughts are also kamma that can result in suffering. From Maha Kammavibhanga Sutta: 

On the Devadaha Sutta (where the Buddha speaks to some followers of Mahavira, the founder of Jainism), the translator Ven. Thanissaro comments: 

In AN1.51-52, we find a description of the luminous mind. The Pali version can be found here. The description in 51-52 implies that it is pre-existing. It's just that the ordinary worldling doesn't discern that it's actually present. But the noble disciples discern that it's actually present. "yathābhūtaṃ" means "in truth; in reality; in its real essence." "pajānāti" means "knows clearly". We know that Nibbana is not conditioned (sankhara) and not impermanent (anicca). But from the description, it sounds like the luminous mind, which is pre-existing in both worldlings and noble disciples, is always there, just that it is obscured by incoming defilements (kilesa). Does this mean that the luminous mind is also not conditioned (sankhara) and not impermanent (anicca)? 

Following the Dhamma towards the end of suffering, is not doing the natural thing. It's actually doing what's opposite to what's natural. It's going against the current. What is natural is to follow cravings. From Itivuttaka 109: 

The rule of requiring your parents' permission for ordination, even if you are an adult, comes from this incident: 

The practice of the five precepts and virtue (sila) with heedfulness (appamada) is recommended. In addition, eating, sleeping, consuming entertainment and socializing should be done in moderation. You can find this in the "Daily Life" chapter of Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu's booklet "How to Meditate": 

There is no self in all phenomena (including the five aggregates). The five aggregates and the rest of nature and the world is always changing and not permanent (anicca). Emptiness is only about the emptiness of self in all phenomena (including the five aggregates). The aggregates and the world definitely exist. These are not empty. Suffering definitely exists (first noble truth). The Theravada practitioner has to strive to become free from suffering. Nibbana exists, and is permanent and unchanging. 

My analogy here is concerning different application windows running on a PC like the browser, a wordprocessor, a spreadsheet etc. Do they truly exist? Not quite - they are simply overlaid images on the screen by software (essentially 1s and 0s - electrical signals moving through electronic circuits), that goes off when the PC is switched off. Then do they truly not exist? That's not true either because they exist in the way that you can use them to do productive work. So, instead of discussing whether those application windows truly exist or truly not exist, we should view them from the perspective of how they arise and disappear, and arise again and disappear again, from a technical perspective. The Yamaka Sutta discusses later on, that such wrong views come about due to associating the five aggregates with the self. This is also discussed in the Samanupassana Sutta (SN22.47). 

If you have questioning doubt regarding the teachings, then you should start investigating deeply. If you have hindering doubt regarding the teachings, read below and further on the website. 

And it goes on with "What is the purpose and benefit of joy?" Ven. Thanissaro wrote in the essay "The Integrity of Emptiness": 

I would say that the same technique could be applied to food craving as well. The Donapaka Sutta may also be helpful for the case of gluttony: 

Your definition of spirit is "The non-physical part of a person which is the seat of emotions and character." Dhammapada 165 states: 

On this page, you can find quotes from the Pali Canon on jhanas together with their sources. For further commentary on jhanas, please see this page. This question may also help you. 

I take the killing of mosquitoes and mosquito larvae with the motivation of dengue or malaria eradication, to be a trifling evil deed, and if we do it with the correct motivation and the correct state of mind, then it is acceptable although not ideal. The same applies to rats and diseases spread by rats like leptospirosis and hantavirus. Hitting a mosquito that bit you is also considered impulsive killing, rather than premeditated killing, and according to Bhikkhu Bodhi's description above, impulsive killing is less grave than premeditated killing. Despite this, it is clear that not killing any sentient being for any reason, would be the higher dhammic decision. 

Argument 1: Korean Air Crashes A theory on this is explored by Malcolm Gladwell in his book Outliers, as summarized here: 

You could try to understand this by your own meditation experience, or you could trust science (for now). From this April 2016 article in Quartz based on this research paper: 

The fourth factor of stream entry is basically to be virtuous and principled, which includes keeping the five precepts. Virtue (sila) is defined by Right Speech, Right Action and Right Livelihood. In the Nandiya Sutta, there is further elaboration: 

The Buddha taught it because this was what he realized to be true, and this knowledge is also useful to understand two things. The first is that suffering has happened since forever. The second is that it is not possible to escape suffering through death. Only ending craving and the ten fetters would result in freedom from suffering. According to the Dvedhavitakka Sutta: 

There's interesting information provided in this website, which provides some (presumably) anecdotal justification for the rule. The first story from the Sarvāstivāda Vinaya Suttavibhaṅga is as follows: (Thullananda is a Bhikkhuni) 

It is not that the self does not exist. The self does exist, but it is not permanent, and it arises out of the inter-working of the five aggregates. The self does not exist standalone as an agent or entity by itself. The self is also not eternal. In the Sabbasava Sutta, it is stated that both the views that "I have a self" and "I have no self" are wrong: