Update There have been several low quality studies suggesting that aspartame containing drinks don't have the expected effects on obesity (they don't have any calories, so you might think they ought to help compared to sugary drinks). But a better quality recent study (link is to pdf of paper) has looked at some of the implications of sugary drinks on long term health and has found a significant association with Type 2 diabetes. The summary of the paper claims: 

But you have to be careful using those numbers, as the BBC don't report the underlying mortality rate for the groups (a group having a 2% chance of death per year when married might have a 3% change when unmarried giving a 50% higher mortality). So current evidence suggests being married is good for you, perhaps partially because married people behave in more healthy ways. NB I expect the literature should contain some good quality meta-analyses and reviews, but I have not yet found any. I will add references if and when I do. 

The Romans built a large number of roads across much of Europe. Their primary function was to aid military movement and communication. But they became useful routes for trade and were, therefore, often linked to increased local prosperity. A recent article in The Times claims that this link has persisted two millennia after the Roman Empire mostly faded away: 

Versions of this video showing a starving polar bear have been widely shared recently. The Guardian description of the video says: 

They are popular products and many people clearly believe they work. So is there any reliable evidence that they do? 

So we could argue that the newspapers have distorted what the paper said by claiming a link between alcohol and dementia. But the initial discussion muddies the waters by starting like this: 

The implication of the research is that the majority of the opposition to both the science of climate change and government policies intended to mitigate it is just paid advocacy and not genuine skepticism. Is this a fair summary of the reality of skepticism about climate change? I'm skeptical because some of the more interesting climate skeptics don't seem to be part of this network despite the claim that it is "primarily responsible" for opposition to climate policy. 

Yes, checklists do make a significant difference in operating theatres in a variety of environments The original research is reported in the NEJM here. To put the results in context the article provides the following background: 

This papers report the results of carefully controlled experiments in a variety of environments on whether the perception of red alters performance in intellectual tests such as IQ tests or solving anagrams. And they find a significant effect. As the summary says: 

But HFCS contains more fructose. And there is some emerging evidence that is is digested differently which may have a health impact. As the BMJ summary of a recent study reports: 

And this is the fundamental problem with most of the supposed evidence about K-waves: the analyses are all about fitting historic data to the supposed pattern not about making reliable and bold predictions about the future. We have had plenty of time for those predictions to be made and for the predictions to be tested and yet the believers are still adjusting the theory to make it fit history rather than making useful predictions about the future. Spectral analysis as reported in $URL$ (mentioned in another answer) isn't much use for predicting and will tend to find more patterns than exist in noisy data. Even that analysis doesn't think k-waves explain more than 5% of the variation, which isn't much help in a forecast especially when you also take into account the vagueness of the actual cycle length (which visually looks anything between perhaps 45 and 60 years). Commenting on some of the original predictions by Kondratiev himself one critic notes: 

No, screening does not save lives even for the higher risk older groups never mind the lower risk 40-50s. The evidence I'm going to quote below addresses the broader question of whether screening works for any age group (which was my original question). But, since the evidence clearly shows that the risk of having breast cancer grows with age (older women have higher risk) I hope that simple logic will show that this answer will be even more relevant to the younger group the question now addresses. I also need to make a statistical clarification before quoting what thorough reviews say, as careless language is one of the reason that the stats are often misunderstood. One key problem is the casual confusion of all-cause mortality with breast-cancer mortality. It is easy to assume that mammography (which is designed to screen for breast cancer) must reduce all cause mortality because it catches some cases of breast cancer. But many studies show a reduction in breast-cancer mortality but no reduction in overall mortality. Guess which number is used by advocates of screening? The latest Cochrane review (published in 2011) is here. The review was designed to assess: 

You don't have to look far to find examples of major classes of drug where we don't have a good knowledge of how they work. One of the earliest "modern" medical advances was anaesthetics, first used in 1842 to transform surgery. Despite using them for a century and a half, medicine is still debating exactly how they work. There is an excellent summary on wikipedia which summarises the situation like this (my emphasis): 

Omega-3 has been associated with various benefits but many of the studies to measure them have been poor, hence the controversy. The basic theory that they are important for proper brain function (a much broader idea than just concentration and cognitive ability) was, I think, best articulated in the book The Madness of Adam and Eve by David Horrobin as part of a theory about how the modern human brain developed. The most interesting study I know of supporting this was conducted as a randomised controlled trial on prison inmates reported here (see also the news comment from the Guardian and the BBC where the prison service seem to express some doubts). But replication trials from other countries are due to report this year. So we might safely say there is some evidence that omega-3s can reduce disfunction. But there have been badly constructed trials as well, intended to show improvements in children in school. Ben Goldacre demolishes the design of the Durham Experiment thus: 

So, moderately overweight seems to (slightly) associated with lower risk of death compared to the thin, but if you get too fat the risk of (technically association with as true causality is hard to prove) death goes up a lot. 

So what does the clinical evidence say about the balance of good and had and the number of lives saved by screening? Expert recommendations have recently been turning strongly against screening. A news story in a recent BMJ reports that the US expert group has found against screening (my emphasis): 

It is nearly 50 years since Rachel Carson's Silent Spring was published where she popularised a belief that we are all being poisoned by artificial chemicals. 

Is is true that more medical interventions and higher spend don't improve the outcomes for patients? 

So, not only does an alcohol diet protect you from pathogens, it doesn't kill you from dehydration either. 

The study has been widely reported elsewhere. The text of the study can be read here. This paper has been confused with an earlier paper on the attractiveness of political candidates in some news sources. But this paper reports the related conclusion: 

So screening does no good but comes at the cost of significant over treatment (women suffer surgery and other clinical interventions that do harm but create no benefit). 

Cyber crime cost estimates in general are self serving and unreliable. I can't answer specifically for the cost to the US, but there is a great demolition of estimates released in the UK on the excellent UK site Straight Statistics. Here is a flavour of their analysis: 

So there are risks which are not common, but are serious when they occur. Most people who drink raw milk will never experience them, but if you are going to choose to drink it you probably should do so knowing the small probability of danger. EDIT Summary of more recent USA experience from this paper (my emphasis): 

The UK government has been implementing tight constraints on public spending to attempt to recover from the 2008 financial crash and bailout. But this austerity is controversial. A recent report in The Independent claims the following (I've bolded the key elements of the claim): 

There has been a similar debate in the UK (for an argument in favor see here). Moreover few doubt that unpasteurised milk tastes much more pleasant and it may even be more nutritious (for the nutrition argument see here). Beware, though, of some of the positive health claims made by the "raw milk" movement as they smack of the lack of skeptical analysis common in many "natural is best" arguments. So the reason why some government restrict supply isn't because raw milk is bad. The problem is the small risk of serious food poisoning that is easy to reduce to nearly zero with pasteurisation. So most people who consume raw milk will get taste and possibly (marginal) health benefits, but, occasionally, people will die from an avoidable cause of food poisoning. The evidence is presented in this BMJ article. And here are some selected quotes from it. First from the summary (my highlights):