I would say it's probably easier / cleaner to take your bike to a friends house who has a garden or to a petrol station or car cleaning place (but don't use the jet wash on your bike). I can't imagine trying to clean a bike in bathtub! 

Should I use WD40 to clean the derailleur? After cleaning, should I apply dry lube then grease or just grease? If I apply dry lube won't the grease just slide off? 

From my experience, you need to make sure that the top rims of the glasses above the lenses don't get in your line of sight while you have your head pointed downward otherwise you'll suffer neck ache from craning your neck upwards to see out of your glasses. I found that was the case with non-cycling specific glasses but my Shimano's are just fine. Worth keeping in mind as it's not obvious and nobody seems to talk about it. 

I plan on cleaning/re-greasing my rear derailleur this weekend, something I've never done before. I watched a video on youtube.. the guy wiped it clean first, then used a spray lube (dry I assume?!) to clean it.. I don't have a dry spray lube and wondered if I could just use WD40 to clean it, and then apply grease. So two questions really: 

There's a 2.4km, fairly gentle hill near me which I want to get quite a bit faster on. The traditional answer to my question is likely to be 'Go up the hill more often', but I also have a turbo trainer. I was wondering if it's more useful to do intense intervals on the turbo or just keep going up the hill on a regular basis? The hill is definitely more fun than turbo trainer but I want to get stronger and faster as fast as possible. What's the answer here? Some more background: I'm ~78Kg in weight, 6ft tall. My PR is 4:23 on this segment/climb. My first goal is to beat some guy I know who is 15s faster.. I think I can do this just by getting a decent run up and having a good day.. however that brings me on to the real challenge which is getting a lot faster! Ultimately I'd like to knock off 31s. Strava link: $URL$ 

Unfortunately the manufacturer's website, and google don't appear to hold this information. The only thing I've found is that the hubs are aluminium which doesn't really help. Is there a common size of wrench? If I get the size wrong I can always send it back but I'm guessing people who deal with road bikes a lot will know that there's a common set of sizes. Any suggestions? :) 

With no training in the mountains it'll be quite painful I suspect regardless of what bike you have. If it were me I'd just take my road bike with panniers containing a bit of food etc. My Trek 1.5 2011 cost between 500-700 quid and is, in my limited opinion a fantastic bike. I can't say that's the best solution, but I'd confidently take my trek up those mountains. Might be worth getting with a triple chain ring (3 cogs at the front) otherwise you might really struggle if you've done no training. Saddle wise you stick with what it comes with and get some decent cycling shorts. Remember to keep back some money for: 

I have a road bike with a 26/11 9 speed SRAM rear cassette. I cycle in Cambridgeshire on a daily basis and it's very flat. I find that I never use the hardest cog, leave the chainring on the biggest cog and generally find that the jump between gears is a little too much. My chainring is a compact 50/34 110mm. Sometimes it gets very windy and I'm forced to have to change to the smaller chainring cog - I guess that means I don't want the big cassette cog to be any less than 26 or so. I'm not a fan of changing between my chainring cog much as it kind of changes everything. Ideally if it exists, I guess a 27/14 (do they exist?) or something similar would suit me better... not sure if 27/15 would cut my top speed down too much though.. I find with my current 28/12 I can get over 30mph without spinning out (with lots of room to play). I never go this fast unless I get an amazingly lucky tailwind :) There's no downhill here either! Basically I have no experience of different cassettes so any guidance from an experienced cyclist would be of great help. I'd like to avoid buying something stupid. ---- UPDATE ---- In the end I replaced my 9 speed drivetrain with a tiagra 10 speed.. this was fairly involved as I needed quite a few new components: new shifters, cables, derailleur, cassette, also got new chainrings, crank arms, bottom bracket (and pedals as I just couldn't get them off!) One of my reasons for replacing all the old stuff was that it was worn, another was that I recently got a tax rebate! The 'feel' of this change is apparent and it does seem to help a bit.. however speed wise my new wheels made the biggest difference! 

I have a Trek 1.5 2011 compact road bike that I abused a bit too much over winter. The rear hub has quite a lot of sideways play on it and I am buying the tools needed to hopefully fix this. My concern is that even if I manage to remove the play on the hub the bearings will still be ruined (fairly likely). What I'd like to avoid is having to remove any spokes.. the idea of building a new wheel scares me quite a bit! Or perhaps I'm being afraid for no reason? What I'd like to know is what my options are if I find the bearings have had it. I don't really know what I'm talking about but in an ideal world I'd just replace the hub with a drop in replacement. Does that exist? :) I don't mind getting my hands dirty, but at the same time I want to ensure I have a bike to ride! 

I'm looking to replace my rear cassette and reduce the tooth count between the sprockets in order to make my gear changes less dramatic. I currently have a 11/26 9 speed SRAM cassette, and a stock shimano tiagra derailleur (whatever the 2011 trek 1.5 comes with). My chainring is a compact 50/34 110mm. When I'm cruising along I often find that the jump between gears on the cassette is pretty substantial and it feels as though I could do with a missing gear to get the best efficiency with a cadence above 90. I have my eye on a 12/23 cassette: $URL$ (Shimano HG50). This is a fairly cheap cassette so it's not the end of the world if it doesn't work out, but what I'd like to know is if I can just replace the existing cassette with this one without having to buy a new chain/derailleur etc. Or, if I do need to buy some new stuff - what would that be? New jockey wheels? I have all the tools to replace the cassette so that's not a problem. My concern is all the talk of 'hyperglide chains' etc. 

2 weeks ago, I started using trainerroad for structured turbo based training - it's going well but I'm keen to improve my top end power (10 second power or so), and from what I understand the best way of doing this is to use heavy weights and do squats and variations of squats. Is there a good guideline for what workout I should do? I don't want to overdo it and compromise my gains from the base training plan I'm on. Current TSS is 216. Each week tends to consist of 2 medium-ish 1hr sessions and 1 1hr30 session which is harder at the weekends. My guess is I should just do a 20 minute weight workout every week, very heavy but not outrageous. Enough to make the legs really really burn but not so much I lose form. I'm new to structured training on the bike so could do with some guidance. 

One of the runs I do on my roadbike is a very straight, flat, very smooth strip of road. Everything I read recommends wider tyres because of less rolling resistance. Where does tyre weight come in? How much do the aerodynamics make a difference? Because the road is so smooth does that make a difference? I've recently been trying some (admittedly not great) 28's in place of my 23s and they have seemed quite a bit slower on this road. I'm getting up to speeds of between 30 and 50kph (if the tail wind is right..) to give you an idea of wind resistance.. Perhaps it's all in my mind? 

I'm looking for a new bike for approx. £1000 with the intention to, by the end of the year, get into road racing. I've had a Trek 1.5 (Tiagra groupset, alu frame) for about 7 years now and it's been great but it's a bit long in the tooth and having had a quick blast on some other bikes it's decidedly not very fast (even with fulcrum wheel upgrade, better tyres etc..) It's time for something new (also need to use the trek as a winter bike..) I've been keen on getting a b'twin bike - namely the 720 AF, this is top of my list (ultegra groupset, decent 'race' geometry alu frame, good mavic wheelset).. however I'd like to see if there are any other bikes with a 105 groupset or above with a race geometry at the £1k-ish (or below!) mark.. but I don't even know where to look. I've found Wiggle's Eastway Emitter's OK but they don't get nearly as good writeup as the b'twin. I'd like to avoid something with disc brakes as I'm guessing these won't be allowed in road races (and probably boost the price up a bit). So far I've looked on chain reaction cycles, wiggle and evans cycles.. are there some other good places to look? Really I'm just looking for ideas, good places to shop etc. My first bike I got I just went to the bike shop and asked 'what's good?' This time it's gotta be as good as it can get for the money.. 

First and foremost.. I'm slowly trying to replace my bottom bracket.. it makes a kind of knackered-bearings sound when I move the pedals round without the chain attached. This is because I've been bad and not washed my bike after cycling out in the rain, snow and gritted/salty roads. Whoops :( I have a Trek 1.5 2011 with a compact chain ring. I'm having great difficulty identifying what sort of bottom bracket it has. I believe the crank is an FSA Vero, 50/34 if that helps. Unfortunately the manufacturer does not provide any information on the bottom bracket. How can I identify for sure what I have, what I need to get, and what tools I'll need to replace it? I really don't want to start spending lots of money on the wrong tools and the wrong parts. Any help would be massively appreciated! Thanks! John. 

Update: 3 years later, I never did buy an e-bike. I stuck with my road bike and just powered on through. I can now average 20mph if I feel that way inclined. I'm also the fittest I've ever been so I think all in all e-bikes aren't for the likes of me. I did however buy a new, faster road bike but the real speed comes from stronger legs/mind. 

My bottom bracket is on its way out.. No longer getting smooth rotation even without chain attached. I was wondering if anyone knew what sort of bottom bracket the frame supports? I've googled but the results are fairly mixed. Also I assume I just need a special bottom bracket wrench to replace it, is that correct? Cheers, John 

I'm about to move further away from work, so my 5.5 mile commute is going up to 12 miles (24 there and back). I'm not interested in using an elecrtic bike because I can't be bothered to pedal.. I want to use an electric bike to speed up my commute to work and back. I estimate that on my racing bike it'll take me approximately 45 mins to get to work. If I got an electric bike, is it possible to use the motor to assist me rather than do all the work? If so, what sort of time saving do you think is possible? Do they offer much oomph? I have my eye on one of the giant electric commuter bikes but I don't really know what to look for. I'm not sure yet if there's actually going to be any speed advantage hence I'm asking :)