Which pants do you have right now? And did you enjoy that downpour yesterday? There wasn't a dry cyclist in the city, breathable pants or not. Some days we're just going to get wet. Showers pass is made right here in portland, and I use them on all the nasty days, for me they work great $URL$ Arc'teryx, even though I can't pronounce their name, make the top of the line holy grail rain gear. I was just looking at these for myself yesterday: $URL$ 

If I were in your shoes at this intersection, my plan off attack would vary greatly depending on the time of day, the weather conditions, and the specific traffic conditions. If it were particularly dark and/or rainy, I might cross as a pedestrian even when I'm familiar with the intersection and I have good lighting, just to reduce the risk of losing some skin. During the day, depending on the speed limit, I would probably use a convenient gap in traffic to take the middle of that lane I need to turn left. Or, I'll often time it so that I can blend in with a line of stopped/slow moving cars and smoothly take the middle of the lane, most of the time the other drivers will get the idea ( you're going to occasionally run into a few jerks no matter what you do, don't take it personally ). Just take your time and feel it out, you'll get the hang of it. 

There's not really a science to tread pattern the way you're hoping for. Sure, there are some basics that you've already caught on to. But there are many, perhaps infinitely many, variables involved in how a tire will handle once you get it into the real world. Yes, most of the wording on a brand's web site is just marketing speak. Even so, you're better off just trusting what the manufacturer recommends the tire be used for ( downhill cx/ wet/mud/gravel etc ) rather than spending so much time picking apart the details. To make things easier on yourself, find someone you know that's done this before or ask this site for a recommended and reliable brand. Once you've got a brand you can trust, use their web site to narrow down your selection and just give some tires a try. You've got to start somewhere. 

The main most important consequence is that you will eventually get hit by a car (or something heavier); and the way things are, if you survive, you will be charged with reckless "driving" (cops are good at detecting accident causes). People using road expect that everyone follow a certain "social contract" that we (driver, cyclist, pedestrians) should follow traffic regulation. If you come to an intersection with 4 stops, and all the cars in turn stop and wait for other cars to stop an go. If one of the car, or a cyclist or a pedestrian does not respect the regulations (social contract) then the risk of accident will increase. 

have a look at this : $URL$ and this : $URL$ It is all a matter of statistic and probability of failures in the lifetime of the component. This means that the component should have a normal life of about 1000 miles before a certain percentage of failure (can) start appearing on a number of components. Another example, my washing machine has a design life of about 14 years [1]; before that the number of failure should be minimal according to the manufacturer, after 14 years, the number of failures should start to statistically increase. It does not mean the component will fail after the design life, but that the probability of failure increase. [1] $URL$ 

What is the intended use of the bicycle ? Commuting? Racing? As far as I know, Indian weather can be very diverse from near desert areas to jungle and seasonal monsoons... with and without mountains. If it is mostly commuting, I'd get a "good" hybrid bicycle if you can store it safely, or a simple old road bike (well maintained) that you don't care that much if it gets stolen or damaged. If it is for racing or training, I'd get one of those new "gravel" bikes with the best tires you can get to limit the risk of punctures. As for which bike to get, it depends on your budget and availability near where you live. 

Motorcycles are mostly used for media (video and photos) and sometimes for support (they can have a limited number of wheels; I'm not certain if they are "neutral" or team specifics. The motorcycles will be mixed in with the cyclists; the drivers are highly skilled. The cars are for race support; there are team specific cars with spare parts and replacement bikes in case of breakage, and have team coaches and also used to transfer food and water bottles to the cyclists. I think there are neutral cars with spare wheels (maybe dependent on the particular races) There are also neutral cars with doctors and race officials and VIP. Most of the cars stay behind the cyclists; if there is a breakaway a car will (as safely as possible) stay with the breakaway. As for the fumes; at the speed they are going, it is not an issue; and since there are only a few motorcycles mixed in the cyclists, I don't think it is an issue in itself; and the majority of the cars are behind the cyclists. 

I'm betting that you need to install a brand new chain and a brand new freewheel / cassette, at the same time, and out of an abundance of caution, make sure they're the same brand. I doubt your friend actually ruined anything, the more likely scenario is that the chain is old and stretched, causing it to slip ( or it's the wrong length as Daniel mentioned ). This isn't all that unusual. 

Many first time cross racers use a mountain bike. It makes perfect sense, don't go out and spend $1500+ before you even know whether cyclocross is your cup of tea. Most all races allow mountain bikes, the only type of equipment that's usually forbidden is a fixed gear. A full suspension mountain bike will do just fine as an introductory race vehicle. Your primary setback is that it's heavier than a cross bike, so it will slow you down when carrying it up a steep incline, or carrying it over the barriers, etc. But, those beefy ( and heavy ) tires might carry you through the mud quite nicely, maybe even putting you at somewhat of an advantage in a muddy beginners race. Just be friendly and courteous out on the course, cyclocross is about having fun. 

It's not about numbers, it's not about this many teeth should be in the front and this many teeth in the back. There's no right answer here, and no one on this forum can say what your best fit is. It's 100% your responsibility to find out what works the best for you and what lets you achieve your ideal cadence and beat your mates up the mountain. 

I don't know why, but Merida seems to be confusing the terminology. Cross is typically short-hand for cyclocross and used interchangeably. If you told me you were looking for a cross bike I would instantly assume you mean 'cyclocross.' Cyclocross bikes, are somewhat race specific and sacrifice suspension for speed. Most cyclocross forks are going to absorb some of the vibration, but not much. If your back is giving you trouble, I would go with something that does have front suspension like the XT you had. 

The main difference between road and mountain shoes are the stiffness. On road bikes, the shoes are much stiffer allowing for a more efficient transfer of energy from you -> crank -> tire -> road. When you are in a race and every tenth of a second counts, the more efficient you are the better. On a mountain bike, you give up some efficiency, so you don't sprain your ankle every time you plant your foot. Flexibility is better than stiffness. 

If your derailleur is adjusted properly, and you are slipping gears, it's usually a worn chain and rear cog. Take the bike into your local bike shop, and they can help you get replacements. 

if you are positive it's coming form the bottom bracket, and you have already R&R'd them, try using Teflon tape instead (plumber’s tape), wrap it around the cups and reinstall them - this should fix any squeaks in the BB. 

Mark your tire where the tube's valve stem is located, remove the tube, inflate it and put it in a bucket of water. Look for bubbles. This is where your leak is. Now inspect the tire and rim at the correlating point for something that may be causing the leak. Good Luck. 

Pinch flats are due to under-inflation of tires. On a road bike you should be inflating your tires to 120-130 lbs. Also, you need to check and re-inflate your tires every time you ride. I just keep my pump right next to my bike, and wind up adding air every 2nd or 3rd day. I see you added tire size - those are older bike tires, they don't inflate as high as road bike tires, I'd try pumping them to 65 lbs, and if you are still getting pinch flats, go up 5 lbs at a time until it stops. You can tell a pinch flat because it will look like a snake bit, 2 small holes close together. If you do not get any pinch flats at 65 lbs, you can try going down 5 lbs at a time until they return, then you know the range your tires need to be at to be properly inflated. The most important thing is to check tire pressure every time you ride, as bike tires can lose up to 5/lbs a week from just sitting. These are high pressure tires, so they lose air much faster than low pressure car tires. Cheers, Mike