As @talmu says, if a dragon was introduced into a battle as a total surprise on the enemy, it may well be that they would have no effective response and it would win the battle. But once you knew the enemy had a dragon or dragons, wouldn't you be racing to find some weapon to counter it? If this is the most powerful weapon your enemy has, and it is proving decisive in combat, it stands to reason that you would deploy major resources to counter it. In real life, every creature has SOME weakness that could be exploited. On the more realistic side, people managed to hunt and kill mammoths in ancient times. The dragons of legend were able to be killed by individual strong and brave heroes. There are theories that "dragon" is just an old name for "dinosaur", and if a dinosaur showed up today I bet a stout hunter could kill it without recourse to major military hardware. 

There's the preliminary question: How long does the light saber continue working? How long do the batteries last? Or how long before something breaks or wears out and it needs to be repaired? If it's like a cell phone and the batteries die in a week, then it quickly becomes a useless metal artifact, and the people who said it emitted a blue light that killed people are thought to be gullible and superstitious, or particularly inept con men trying to pull a lame hoax. But assuming that it works long enough for many people to see it in operation ... I'd say the real implications in all three categories would be: Very little. Let me take them out of order. Technology: I'd guess probably zero impact. The technology is so far beyond what the people possess that they are unlikely to be able to learn anything from it. If you took some piece of advanced technology from today back in time 10 or 20 years and showed it to a talented engineer, it's likely he'd figure out how it worked and leapfrog the technology. Take it back 50 years and it would probably take a genius to figure it out. But take it back 200 years or more? I doubt even the greatest genius could figure out all the steps that would lead to that technology. I'm not sure how a light saber is supposed to work, but it's beyond us. Suppose you took a cell phone or a computer to the Middle Ages. They don't understand electricity. How could they possibly figure out what integrated circuit chips are? They'd just look like funny little boxes. Maybe, possibly, they could play with the battery and wires and jump start understanding of electricity. Warfare: One light saber will not seriously change the power structure. Sure, the man who has it has a distinct advantage over opponents armed with swords and spears. But even one-on-one he's not invincible. If he faces someone much more skilled in melee combat, the guy with the primitive weapon might well duck and dodge the light saber and get in a killing thrust. Someone with a bow and arrows could take him out long before he's in range to use the light saber. Even assuming he uses it effectively, so in a battle he kills dozens or a hundred or more of the enemy. Good for him, he's a hero. In a close case, that might make the difference between victory and defeat. But if his army has 1,000 men and the enemy have 10,000 men, it's unlikely he can win the battle purely because of the power of the light saber. Society: Here it gets very speculative. Maybe people would say, "Wow, here is technology far beyond anything we have. We must devote greater effort and resources to scientific research and engineering, so that we can eventually build things like this." In the most optimistic scenario, a few very intelligent people are inspired and go on to found some great movement. Or maybe, as you suppose in your scene, they think it's magic or demons. I think the most likely scenario is that it's put on a shelf and remembered as a curious oddity. Eventually it quits working and/or is lost in a fire or flood or war or whatever, and it becomes a legend. Many say the legend is a silly myth, some absolutely believe it. It then has the same sort of impact on society as legends we talk about have on us. Think of Atlantis, Bigfoot, King Arthur, the Holy Grail, etc. Whether these and similar stories are total fiction or absolute truth, I don't think they have any great influence on society. They inspire some people. Maybe you could trace some important events to belief in these stories. But it's not like people think of them every day and this changes what they do in some direct way. 

I think pretty much by definition anyone with the ability to take over the world is someone of extraordinary capabilities. Many people with exceptional abilities have tried to take over the world, and despite thousands of years of human history none as succeeded. Taking over the world is not an easy thing to do, or someone would have done it by now. Your question is like asking, "Could someone of average athletic abilities win an Olympic gold medal?" I think anyone who wins an Olympic gold medal must be one of the best in the world, or he couldn't win. I suppose if you define "average" narrowly enough, it would be possible. If you mean born to an average middle class family and not inheriting any great power or wealth or otherwise having great power and wealth dropped in his lap, but nevertheless being someone of extraordinary intelligence, charisma, political skill, military leadership abilities, and/or other relevant skills, then it probably is possible. Lots of powerful world leaders throughout history came from humble backgrounds. As to a realistic plan to do it, if I had one, I'd be ruling the world now and I'd sentence you to death as a potential dangerous upstart. :-) If you want to be realistic, all the creative plans you see in movies and in other posts here are generally impractical. In practice, people who have succeeded in the past in taking over large countries have almost always relied on one of three basic plans: (a) Run for office in a democratic country. Work your way to the top through the existing political system. If being a democratic leader isn't enough for you, then once you get to the top, start changing the system to give yourself more power. (b) Join the military. Work your way to the top. Once you're high enough, get a few like-minded friends and stage a military coup. (c) Form an organization of political dissidents. Wage a guerilla war and overthrow the government. Fiction writers love plans that involve becoming a billionaire and then using the money from your corporation to build a private army or a super weapon. While I suppose it's not impossible, I'm not aware of any case in history of anyone getting anywhere with this sort of plan. (The Dutch East India Company is the only example I can think of, and they had the backing of the Dutch government, it's not like they were out there totally on their own.) I think a big part of the problem is that convincing people to be willing to fight and die for you is pretty tough. People will risk their lives to defend their home and family. People will risk their lives for a political cause that they are convinced will create a utopia. But risk their lives so that their employer can have more money and power? I might possibly give my life for the cause of freedom. I can't imagine giving my life to help Wal-Mart sell more toasters. You would have to convince these private soldiers you hire that there is some glorious political cause, in which case you're back to building a traditional guerilla army and the mega-corporation is just a means to that end. In which case, it's a very round-about means to that end. Which brings me to the second problem: Building a corporation with resources that rival the major nations is a hugely difficult job in itself. Only a handful of people in history have accomplished it. To say that you're going to do this as a sideline along the way to a totally different plan, that you're going to pull off a feat that few people have achieved when that isn't even your real goal, but just a part-time job that you're doing along the way, is asking a lot. If you want political and military power, it's way easier to pursue it directly, by going into politics or the military, than by such a round-about route. 

The United States today has economic growth rate of about 2 1/2%. This is historically low. The U.S. average from 1790 to 2014 was 3.73% according to this article: $URL$ The fastest growing countries today are around 10%. Those are mostly poor countries, I presume it's easier to show a lot of improvement when you're starting from a low baseline. Among large countries, India and China are both growing at about 7%. The average for Europe is 1.4%. There are a number of countries showing negative growth, like Italy, Cyprus, and the Gaza Strip. You could easily look up growth rates for various countries and project that forward 45 years. But that would be unlikely to give accurate projections: these rates tend to vary with all sorts of circumstances. It certainly would be valid to look at historical rates to get a feel for what the standard of living might be in 45 years. If to get the standard of living you are projecting would require 20% per year growth for 45 years, that's very unlikely to happen. If you assume less than 2% you should be explaining why that country is stagnating. As to who will be on top in 45 years ... of course one could speculate endlessly. I'd be surprised if a list of the major players was totally different from today, though it's likely some existing power will decline and some existing lower-tier nation will rise. Think how today compares to 1970, i.e. 45 years ago. Russia has declined sharply in power in that time. Besides that, any list of major powers is pretty similar. On the other hand, compare 1935 to 1980. Britain and Germany were among the greatest powers in the world in 1935. Both were still important in 1980, but no longer the top of the heap. The U.S. rose considerably in that period. Etc. 

When you toss in, "with sufficiently advanced technology", I think the answer is "obviously yes". I certainly haven't worked out the details but I strongly suspect we could do it with current technology. Dig into the surface fifty feet or so, so you have plenty of insulation. Then build a power plant that puts out sufficient energy to keep this place warm, in addition to providing power to run lights, computers, etc. You'll need to grow food without sunlight, but that shouldn't be tough: you need artificial lighting that reproduces sunlight well enough to "fool" the crops. While it might be expensive, I don't think any of that is beyond present technology. How many people you could sustain this way would depend primarily on how much time you had to prepare, I think. I don't see anything fundamentally impossible about it, so if there are points where we don't know how to make this or that work, the "with sufficiently advanced technology" should solve that. Presumably without energy coming in from the Sun such a colony could not survive forever. But presumably the Sun cannot last forever either. As I say, I haven't done the calculations, but I'd guess there is enough energy in known fuel sources in the Earth -- coal, oil, nuclear, etc -- to last for, well, I guess it depends on how many people we are supposing are surviving this way, but even if it was millions, there's enough energy to last for centuries if not millennia. Plenty of time to develop the technology to mine the asteroids or travel to another solar system. Assuming all the stars in the universe haven't gone dark in your scenario. 

Why do humans consider anything immoral? That's a complex question that has been debated by philosophers for thousands of years. Why do religious people, specifically, say that something is immoral? Well, because the Bible or whatever sacred book they believe in says so. But why does this book say so? Did God just make up some totally arbitrary rules for no apparent reason? As a Christian, I'd say no. I'd say that God gave us these rules because he created us and therefore he knows what's best for us. I'm reminded of a lecture I heard once where the speaker talked about how he had just bought a new printer for his computer, and it came with this instruction book with all sorts of rules that they expected him to follow! You must plug the network cable into this hole and you must put the ink cartridges in with the arrow pointing up and so on. Well, he said, this is MY printer. What gives them the right to tell me what I can do with MY printer? They're just trying to take away my fun. Etc. Even if you don't believe in God -- as I assume from the phrasing of your question you don't -- religious people for thousands of years have been presenting logical arguments why various moral rules are good for people. There's no reason why an atheist could not find those logical arguments convincing. Even if you find some particular argument unconvincing, another atheist might find it convincing. As to specific rules, I could easily rattle off reasons why so-called "traditional sexual morality" is a good idea. YOU may or may not find any of these convincing, but there are people who do. No polygamy: As KeithS discusses, if a man can have more than one wife, than given biological realities, this means that some men will get no wife, creating sexually frustrated men. Women have to share a husband, meaning some will be neglected. Similarly if a woman can have more than one husband. No homosexuality: It spreads AIDS. Generally, the biological purpose of sex organs is for the male to combine with the female. Any other practice is mis-using these organs, and thus inherently unproductive and dangerous. Like trying to walk on your hands: it may be appropriate in some odd cases (like if your legs are injured), but it's foolish to do it if you don't have to. No BDSM: This is disrespectful and demeaning to the subject. Society should treat all people with dignity. It encourages thinking of others as toys for our amusement rather than as human beings worthy of respect. No pornography: Society should encourage people to have real relationships with real human beings rather than sterile fantasies. Etc. Let me repeat that my point here isn't to say that these arguments are irrefutable, and if we get off into a debate in the comments about their validity I'm sure the moderators will rush in to delete it. My point is simply to say that there are arguments for rules of sexual morality that are not inherently "religious", but are based on logic, human nature, biology, and so on. 

Yes, I've often thought the same thing. If there are intelligent aliens out there, who says they use radio? Perhaps radio is just a brief step that civilizations take on the road to more advanced technologies. Like vacuum tubes. There was an era when vacuum tubes were the latest, cutting-edge technology. That lasted for, what, 40 years or so? Then they became obsolete and we've moved on to transistors and integrated circuits. (Not to say that that's the ultimate technology either.) Maybe radio is something that intelligent being use for a century or two and then naturally move on to something better. I don't know what that "something better" would be. But then lots of people in the 1940s had no idea what could be better than vacuum tubes. (I always get a chuckle today when I read a science fiction story that was written in the 1940s or 1950s and that talks about the computer on the star ship or at the capital of the galactic empire having vacuum tubes.) Or, maybe other civilizations would have different communications technologies, not because they are inherently better, but just because their technology took a different route. If aliens were truly different from us -- if they lived in water or breathed methane or can "see" microwaves but not visible light or whatever -- their technology might be different in many ways. The problem is that we have never met an intelligent alien. We don't even know if such creatures exist, much less what they are like if they do. We're just piling speculation on top of speculation. Not that that isn't fun, but unless and until we actually meet such creatures, it's impossible to know. Well, when I say "impossible", we can presumably put constraints on it. Years ago I read that we know for a fact that aliens do not play games using regular polyhedral dice of a shape unfamiliar to us, because Plato proved that there are only 5 possible such shapes, the Platonic solids. Likewise, current science indicates that the speed of light is the absolute limit for transmitting information. So aliens might have an alternate means of sending information, but it can't be faster than light. On the other hand, I'd be very reluctant to say that aliens might not have, say, more efficient ways to produce energy than we do. Just because we don't know a better way doesn't mean it doesn't exist. My point is, there's a big difference between "I can't think of a solution to this problem other than X, Y, and Z", and "I have proven logically and mathematically that there is no solution to this problem other than X, Y, and Z."