Firstly, chapatis (a wheat flatbread), has some protein, but not nearly as much protein weightlifters need. Most vegetables have negligible protein. There are only a few vegetables with good protein, such as quinoa. The easiest way to get protein is from animal meat or protein powders. You shouldn't be eating the same things for three meals a day. Most natural foods do not have the complete essential amino acid profile (the amino acids your body cannot synthesize). You need variety so that the amino acid profile of one meal can be grouped with that of another meal to fully utilize the protein. Weightlifters should not be eating only 3 meals a day. You need to split your food into 5-6 smaller meals spread evenly throughout the day so you always have a positive nitrogen balance. 

Lex Luger, below, shows an example of a feminine male chest. His chest is round, soft, and squishy looking. We would call these "man boobs" if he were fatter. 

One arm tricep extensions helps to train your stabilizer muscles because it's hard to keep balance while doing this exercise. 

You burn 0.00467 kcal to move that dumbbell up. (Food items are always labeled plainly with calories, but technically they mean kilocalories). No where in these equations does experience or ease of effort factor in. Arnold Schwarzenegger in his prime will burn 0.00467 kcal and a scrawny kid will also burn 0.00467 kcal to move a 20 kilogram dumbbell up 1 meter. Yes, Arnold will have a easier time because trained muscles store more glycogen and stronger muscle fibers contract. But he cannot defy the laws of physics by burning less calories than the scrawny kid. Real World The above assumes that the experienced athlete uses the same technique as the novice. In the real world, this is not always the case. In nearly every sport except bodybuilding, athletes use special techniques to more efficiently use their energy. These techniques channel more energy towards there goals and lets less energy dissipate for other means. For example, I recall in the 2008 Olympics, the announcers said Usain Bolt took on average less steps than his competitors. This allowed him to more efficiently channel his energy towards running fast. His competitors were generating less speed for the same amount of calories burned. 

I know the 84% daily value for 42g of protein an overestimation for bodybuilders. Most reputable sources say protein intake should be proportional to your target body weight (2g protein per kg of body weight) and how much you work out. 42g of protein yielding 84% DV would only be sufficient for puny 5 year olds that lift weights. Now lets move from talking about macronutrients and start talking about vitamins. Would the amount of vitamin C in this example protein shake be 100% DV for everyone, or do bodybuilders require more or less? I would like to know how to calculate any vitamin daily requirement based off of physical fitness goals. 

Age and genetics are the major factors in testosterone generation. It peaks in your 30s and drops steadily thereafter. There are some things you can actively do to increase testosterone level, but the effects will be miniscule compared to what your age and genetics have already given you. Kraemer et al, 1991; Kraemer et al 1990: 

Short Answer No, experienced athletes burn the same number of calories as novices when performing the same action over the same time. Long Answer We will use physics to answer this question. In particular, the forumla for potential energy will be of use: 

Try Hot Yoga. The room is heated to warm up the muscles and stimulate sweat. When the muscles are warm, the body can sink deeper into the stretches, reducing the risk of injury. 

Below is the total opposite of a feminine chest. The skin around the breast is too tight. You can clearly see that the breast is forming a bulb over the chest. On some more extreme female bodybuilders, the breasts appear to be dried up like raisins. 

Working large muscles such as those in the legs also slightly increases HGH and testosterone. Eat less soy. Soy increases estrogen, a female hormone, which lowers testosterone. There's scientists on both sides of this. Some say the soy isoflavones are 1/10,000 the potency of real estrogen, so there's no real danger in eating soy. Get more zinc: 

Source: $URL$ Neither of these sources explained why low carbs increase focus/vigilance. What is the reason? 

To summarize, Arnold believes that machines add variety to a workout and variety is the key to growth. He recommends using more free weights than machines because our bodies have evolved to grow better with free weights. He also points out many of the things Dorian Yates advocates, but I left them out of my quoting. 

Can skim cow milk be effectively used as a pre-bedtime drink for slow release of casein protein as one sleeps? Do casein protein powders found in health stores offer any advantages over skim milk? 

Muscle still has the potential to grow back stronger and bigger, but at a much slower rate. It patiently waits for what little nutrients come in day after day. Muscle remains the same - there is equilibrium. Muscle senses it does not have proper nutrients and gives up. It does not completely repair and becomes smaller and weaker. 

Inner The inner (or short) head of the bicep is the part of the bicep closer to the rest of the body. It is targeted with a wide grip on a barbell or curling the dumbbell far from the chest. This head of the bicep is, by far, overdeveloped in beginners because a wide curl is easy in that the dumbbell doesn't rub onto the body. 

Muscle contractions are powered by ATP losing a phosphate and becoming ADP. Creatine can give away one phosphate to convert ADP back to ATP. With more ATP, muscles are more powerful. How is any of this related to the purported claim that creatine can not only increase power, but also increase muscle size? To my understanding power is not the same as size, although they overlap at some region. Just look at the huge difference in size of Olympic powerlifters versus Mr. Olympia bodybuilders. 

How does hand position in a dumbbell flat bench affect which muscles are activated? The positions I know are palms facing each other and the traditional palms facing down. On rare occasions I see people do it with palms facing upward. 

Google tends to botch Russian translations, so I'm trying to make sense of Julia's point. In the last sentence, she's concluding that "you get what you pay for". Optimum Gold Standard is more expensive than PureProtein by an average of 20 cents per ounce. Thus, in her eyes, Optimum is the higher quality protein. And since the only difference is that Optimum doesn't dissolve well in cold water and even curdles in hot water, then insolubility is proportional to quality of the protein. I understand her experiment, but not the premise. How does solubility of whey protein correlate to its effectiveness? 

I've found that incline dumbbell curls help target the upper bicep. You can feel that upper bicep stretch when the weights are at their lowest point. 

Do preacher dumbbell curls to target the lower biceps. The preacher bench helps you stretch all the way to target that lower bicep. 

Looking at the nutritional facts on an egg carton, I see that one medium sized egg satisfies 71% of the daily nutritional requirements for cholesterol. Many bodybuilders eat up to a dozen of eggs per day, putting them well over the suggested amount of cholesterol. For example, Jay Cutler eats 2 whole eggs and 10 egg whites for breakfast. This puts him at 142% the suggested cholesterol, if we're being conservative and assuming most of the cholesterol is in the yolk. His 4 other meals throughout the day will put him even more over the limit. If you're an active person like Jay Cutler, can you safely consume more than the suggested daily requirements for cholesterol without damaging the heart? Does exercising flush out cholesterol at many magnitudes faster than being sedentary? 

This is what Fabiola looks like. You don't need any more proof of her authoritative knowledge on fitness. 

As a kid, I took many years of swimming lessons. I discovered that learning how to swim, in the notion of staying afloat, is a mental skill that no one can teach you. Fear of drowning causes you to struggle. Struggling causes you to sink. Therefore, to not drown, you should stop being scared so you don't struggle. For me, the moment I realized this I instantly transitioned from using the kiddie boogie board to being able to float. It was an instant revelation. It was not a gradual learning process where I could somehow increase my buoyancy. You either drown or float - there is no in between. If we're talking about how to swim technically, then yes, you do need an instructor. An instructor will teach you all the styles: breast stroke, back stroke, etc... He will correct your form for maximum speed and efficiency. He will show you how to place your hands and form your body to cut the water cleanly on a dive, for example. 

Source: $URL$ An article from Forbes also says low carbs increase vigilance at the expense of hurting other traits: 

Do normal dumbbell curls for the bicep. Use a narrow grip (dumbbells closer together) to put more emphasis on the outer bicep. A wide grip (dumbbells flown away from the body) puts more emphasis on the inner bicep. Use a neutral grip if you want to target the whole bicep. 

It sounds like you've been focusing too much on high repetitions. 15-20 is an extremely high rep range for weightlifting. High reps don't increase strength. You need to do much more weight at lower reps to increase strength. After doing a low rep routine for several months, you should be able to have enough strength to do more than 15 bicep curls. Here are some useful tips on rep ranges from Bodybuilding.com. The 1-6 rep range is for strength increase, but won't subtantially increase muscle size. I think you'll want to stick to this range to strenghthen your biceps. 

I've watched videos of two big bodybuilders, Jay Cutler and Hunter Labrada. Both bodybuilders start with the premise of "your calves are being used all day long...". Jay Cutler finishes with 

When walking on a flat plane, your knees don't bend as much. Your hamstrings will do most of the work. 

You're limiting yourself to the number of exercises by only using dumbbells. But if that's all you have then these are my dumbbell suggestions for the upper arm: Do hammer curls for the brachialis. It also works forearms at the same time. 

Rowing is also low impact. It works your entire back and biceps. Real rowing on the river is the same, if that's an option for you. 

Which one is correct? Or is there a different scenario that happens? Application I'm trying to lose fat by eating less (including protein). I still exercise every day. I enjoy weightlifting, but hate cardio. Will my muscularity be compromised because of this combination of weightlifting and eating less? 

The afterburn effect also increases metabolism. This effect describes the energy burned on the days after your workout. Scientific studies show that high intensity cardio increases the afterburn effect. So don't waste your time doing hours of slow cardio. 10 to 20 minutes of fast running burns more calories when measured over several days. 

Feminine A feminine chest is hard to describe because it is covered by breasts. There should not be a division between the chest and the breast. The two parts should seamlessly join. The chest should enhance the breast, making them appear bigger. Silvana Silvati, below, is a great example. 

Cheat reps, which require swinging, can help push a muscle to failure. But if swinging is dangerous, why are cheat reps suggested for advanced bodybuilders? There's a contradiction here. 

I bought some Optimum Nutrition creatine (Creapure blend of creatine monohydrate) and it does not dissolve in liquids. When I stir the creatine into a sugary drink or even plain water, the crystals get stuck on the side of the glass. To not waste the creatine, I am thinking of taking the creatine without liquids. 

No. Ketosis is the deprivation of carbs. High end protein shakes, such as your ON Gold, don't contain many carbs. Thus, drinking your protein shake won't remove you from your ketogenic state. On the other hand, cheap proteins (Muscle Milk) and any protein labeled as "mass builder" will contain carbs to prevent ketosis. Your comment about protein shakes spiking insulin is wrong. Insulin is secreted to process sugar. Your ON Gold with water has hardly any sugar. Thus, drinking your protein shake will not spike your insulin. Insulin spikes usually only occur when you eat simple carbs from fruit, candy, etc... 

We know carbohydrates are used for immediate and stored energy (glycogen) before being converted to body fat. We also know protein is used to repair tissue, mainly muscle for bodybuilders, before being converted to body fat. Conversion of protein into fat is 20 times less efficient than converting carbs into fat, so the body doesn't readily jump-start this conversion. So what is dietary fat used for before turning into body fat? How readily does the body do this conversion compared to carbs and protein, and at what relative rate does it do it at? I ask this question because the word "fat" may be as misleading as "cholesterol". I learned from a previous question here that dietary cholesterol doesn't necessary increase cholesterol in the bloodstream. Maybe the same principle applies to fat... 

Source for all the above properties: The New Encyclopedia of Modern Bodybuilding by Arnold Schwarzenegger. Width The width of the bicep is how wide the bicep looks when someone stares at you from the front. According to fitness model Rob Riches, the width can be developed by curling with a long bar, such as an Olympic barbell. The long length of the bar exacerbates any imbalances you have between your two arms and cranks the stabilizer muscles into overdrive. The extra torque on weaker arm adds width to the bicep. 

There are many people, including Arnold Schwarzenegger and Hodge Twins, who say that endurance and stabilizer muscles should be worked out at high rep ranges (16+) for optimal hypertrophy. Their theory is that these type of muscles, for example legs and abs, are composed mostly of type I fibers, so focusing on those fibers would be the most efficient way to increase overall size. There's also a lot of other people who have the mantra that every muscle needs to be trained heavy in the 8-12 rep range. So who is right? 

Firstly, is losing fat and gaining muscle at the same time possible? If it is possible, what is the general nutrition and exercise plan to do it? Secondly, is losing fat and gaining muscle at the same time not efficient for bodybuilding? Most bodybuilders have a heavier off-season weight than contest weight, which implies that they go through a bulking phase a distinct cutting phase. Here are examples of pro bodybuilder's phases: Jay Cutler 

I feel Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS) on all my muscles except my medial deltoids. I know DOMS is not the only sign of muscle growth, but it's one good form of feedback. The way I do medial deltoid exercises isn't too different from my other exercises. I lower the weight slowly, which should increase DOMS. So I'm wondering if the medial deltoid is less prone to DOMS or just I'm not working them our effectively. 

It takes 196 joules of energy to increase the potential energy of that dumbbell. Where does this energy come from? It must come from somewhere to satisfy the law of conservation of energy. 

I would like to know why all Olympic sprinters have muscular arms. They probably have muscular arms to help them sprint, but the reason is unclear. These are the two paradoxes I cannot fathom: 

Weightlifting creates micro-tears in the muscles. When these micro-tears repair, the muscle grows back bigger. Does this same principle apply to tears caused by other means? For example, if you create micro-tears from overstretching cold muscles, does that also stimulate hypertrophy? If not, please explain biologically how muscles discriminate against the type of micro-tear. 

I read an article on SimplyShredded that claimed that the type of carbohydrate doesn't matter, but rather only the amount of carbs matter to bodybuilders. In the following excerpt, the author claims that exercise performance does not differ with carbs of differing glycemic index. 

I've been a long time bodybuilder, but never tried Crossfit. I watched some videos of Crossfit athletes use large plates of the same size as the 45 pound plates I find in bodybuilding gyms. I am wondering if the Crossfit plates are also 45 lbs? From this knowledge, I would like to gauge my comparative strength as a bodybuilder. 

A specific example is the Hodge twins suggesting to do chin-ups rather than barbell curls to get bigger arms. What's the scientific explanation for this? In a chin-up, the weight is distributed across your biceps, latissimus dorsi, and some other back muscles. On a barbell curl, the weight is mostly concentrated on the bicep. It appears to me that the bicep is doing more work in the barbell curl than the chin-up (if you adjust the weight properly for a fair comparison). So how is it possible that the compound exercise is going to get you bigger arms than the isolation exercise? 

A two-arm overhead extension allows you to do more total weight than the above exercise because it's much easier to stabilize.