In Greek mythology, Zeus is capable of striking the enemies with giant meteorites, inflicting a devastating damage. 

Watchtowers : Put watchtowers in every city, they provide a military advantage especially inside the city's walls : 

Since you are writing a sci-fi the only technology I can think of is : the bubble maker. Each citizen in your city lives inside a personal bubble, they can eat, work, sleep and do everything normally without breaking it. Each bubble has a 24 hours supply of oxygen after that, every citizen must go to this huge medieval machine to change his personal bubble. 

The infamous main character in my story is traveling among others on a mining spaceship that is carrying tons of valuable materials from Mars to Earth under the protection of the US government, our infamous hero wants to convince his fellow miners to seize control of the spaceship and travel to a Chinese space colony near Saturn (he arranged a deal with someone in charge of that colony) where the US has no authority and then become rich thanks to the spoils of Mars, but his diabolic plan is faced with many challenges : Obstacles : 1 - The ship is heavily guarded : about 100 soldiers equipped with laser rifles. 2 - The ship is under the command of one ruthless ex-military feared by everyone. 3 - The miners are many (about 600) but have no criminal background. 4 - He has only two months before reaching earth. Spaceship : The spaceship is very huge, it's a mobile industrial refinery used to refine materials extracted from Mars before shipping to earth, but it's also very fast (not speed of light fast). Miners : The miners are a variety of space engineers in many fields such as : 

Well the 14th century is full of crisis : The Black Death that wiped half of the population. $URL$ The Great Famine of 1315-17 $URL$ So if he brings medications and antibiotiques, he will be idolized by them. 

Practicing Sports with your fancy shoes : One way to demonstrate that you are wealthy is to practice sports while wearing your fancy shoes instead of regular sports shoes. In that case you will prove that you are too rich to not care about your fancy shoes getting worn by playing sports. Avoid walking on pedestrian passages and walk on rough unattended roads : Yes you are rich enough to torture yourself by walking on rocky roads just to prove that you are much superior than the others. That doesn't make sens but it will definitely get your shoes worn. 

But who put them in this position long time ago (more than 10000 years ago) ? I think they were living in a village near Antarctica and a huge mountain fell over them burying them underground for good. 

They are using advanced high-tech tools in order to get their job done, however under the new regime of the US government, scientists and engineers are being treated like slaves and forced to work for a cheap payement since it's their duty towards their ruling government. Advantages : The main good thing that could work in benefit of his conspiracy that the miners are poor and underpaid by the government so they are angry with their condition, also they are not traveling in cryostat (they are not sleeping) because they have to refine those materials before delivering to earth. Important : He needs to get rid of all the soldiers (kill them and burn them or send them to the nearest rock in escape pods) before reaching Saturn and also get rid of the ship after taking all of the cargo, because the person in charge of the Chinese space colony can't protect our infamous hero from the Chinese government in case he brings back anything representing the US government (a proof of the mutiny). Question : According to Wikipedia : 

There are other things to consider like overpopulation that will drive them to go to the surface, but the question is why can't they come up to the surface when they are suffering from overpopulation ? The answer is simple : 

A country had a massive influx of (probably illegally arrived) immigrants from a vegetarian country/culture (being Earth before 20th century, probably India?). The powers that be wish to discourage said culture from existing - either by driving adherents away, or making them assimilate ASAP. For a modern example, see prohibiting circumcision all around Europe. 

Similar to #2a, but in geopolitical instead of religious context. The country was in a major war with Luftisia. Luftisians are avid vegetarians. The war was nasty, long, and anyone who in any way shape or form can be accused of Luftisian influence/sympathies is in for a rough time. 

"Andromeda"'s "Slipstream" approach. Your FTL technology relies on slipstream that can only be navigated by a human pilot. Obviously stolen from Gene Rodenberry's "Andromeda" show. 

There are a wide variety of issues with IQ-based voting systems. First of all, there's absolutely no basis to think that IQ based voting system would in some way be superior, even if it worked as designed/intended, for a variety of reasons. 

Engage the services of media makers. Producers, film directors. As with #2, the approach #1 helps you win points with them. Have them make propaganda movies that paint you in good light. Cuba successfully did that with Michael Moore. 

For the background: Although the needs/situation are purely Earthly-reality-based, the background is not. 

AI is notoriously poor at pattern recognition, especially visual. If the enemy has really really good stealth mode, you need to have a pilot who can intuit patterns to defeat that stealth. Politics/theology. 

Main reason: You're hedging against ELE (Extinction Level Event) Another answer mentioned alien threat, but ELE's can happen for other reasons as well - meteorite, supervolcano (Toba nearly led to humans becoming extinct in the past; and we are right up against Yellowstone deadline), super-plague, nano-gray-goo, Large Hadron Collider Creating Black Hole, Chthulu wakes up, Singularity, Judgement Day (of Terminator type, not religious type). Elon Musk spoke on this extensively when discussing his vision of Mars colony in real life. Early investment. Yes, the colonies aren't expected to produce much benefit now. But if technology/surcumstances/etc.. change in the future such that they can - they will have already been there, ready to benefit. High-risk investors would be all over that like Lehman on subprime mortgages. Political freedom Plenty of people chafe under the less-free society that invariably gets imposed on everyone due to population density. Various libertarian minded (or anarchist etc...) people would be VERY interested in a new frontier, where you don't have to worry about intrusive laws, regulations, coddling the weak, etc... In the past, they moved to real frontiers. Wild West in America. These days they dream of seasteading or moving to Vermont. Give them whole worlds to be free in and you have plenty of interested individuals. This has the dual benefit: Earth gets rid of "live free or die" people who chafe under "world Government", "daddy government", "big government", and the like - WITHOUT violating their freedom. They go on their own volition, attracted by the frontier. Secondly, collecting such people helps you succeed better in colonization - those ARE the kinds of people who have the psychological drive to succeed as a colonist. 

No, banking isn't rendered worthless, circa 2016. However, people would need to spend a bit of an extra effort to not be victims. 

More specific societal response would strongly depend on scientific effects (which OP noted are offtopic for this question) However, sudden seasonal climate changes would likely wreak havoc on food availability. This would likely lead to food shortages, and in Portland, likely rationing, price controls, and not impossibly, full on nationalization of food supply and distribution. 

Typical IQ "g" test measures pattern matching and sometimes problem solving. It doesn't measure emotional/social IQ (required to correctly understand politics, which in large measure is just psychology and social interactions). There are many and varied criticisms of IQ testing in general, covered in this Wikipedia article 

NOTE: I would prefer answers based on real research into religions and psychology. But you don't have to be limited to that. 

Basically, given the largely Laissez-faire deity like this, most likely a set of competing religions would spring up, which would formulate religious rules to satisfy the needs of the local power elites - the same way Christianity was severely transformed once Roman Empire decided to adopt it for a state religion. Specific details would heavily depend on (1) precise basic moral rules the deity declared and (2) the level of spiritual enforcement of said rules the deity declared (does your immortal soul go to hell, or do you simply get soup-Nazi "No Salt-Shaker for You"?) 

Many other answers have already covered the dangers associated with Jupiter-like Gas Giants. In this answer I'll endeavour to suggest a few things that might make engineering the existence of these flights more viable. 

Not unless they were natural readers. The march of progress only marches if people, as a whole, get smarter over time. In order for an R-Selection species to grow in average intelligence would be if every generation read what the generation before had written. We take care of our elderly, and have done for a long time. By doing this, they can pass on their knowledge to people who are young enough to use it. They make less mistakes, ergo better survival rates overall. Without the ability to pass on knowledge, we don't get smarter. You'd need your species to instinctively know how to read and there's no science I know of to suggest something that intricate could be passed on genetically. However, language is definitely "in our DNA" in that we know instinctively how to learn a language and the language we learn is just whatever we're exposed to. So your aliens COULD, theoretically, only communicate in visual cues allowing a writing system to be similar enough to their "vocal" communication that they could instinctively pick it up easier. It all depends how much "Suspension of Disbelief" you're going for. 

I am writing a rule system for a homebrew space sci-fi tabletop RPG. As part of this process I also need to come up with gear to give my players. My setting, with two major exceptions that don't affect melee weaponry, my setting is set in very hard science. I like things like carbon nano-tubes, and megastructures, and fusion that are understood now or theorised now but hard to do. Basically, I don't want anything that requires new science. Other questions on this site have already dealt with the question of whether or not melee is ever viable and proven that it is in many cases. Just not usually warfare. This will be reflected in the guns being mostly superior but, due to roleplaying situations, sometimes the guns will become less viable or unavailable. Therefore, I need to give players the option of carrying, and being skilled in, melee weapons. (Or martial arts) How would melee weaponry (like knives, brass knuckles, and shock batons) be improved in the future? And what about defences? Could we see retractable perspex-like shields? A Folded Graphene Katana? Or a shock glove that works at short ranges? Ideally it would be something already in the works, but any idea that's plausible enough is very much appreciated. 

Answers do not have to be super hard science but the more believable an explanation, the better. Also, I'm willing to change the setting minimally, if you have a particularly believable explanation. 

I am running a sci-fi RPG. One of my players (the Engineer) has expressed interest in having a gold hammer. This seems pretty ridiculous to me as gold is soft and softness doesn't seem like a quality you'd look for in a hammer. However, this got me thinking, are there any types of tool used nowadays or possibly in the future where gold could be a primary material? 

I have a race of very non-humanoid aliens, let's call them Zoblings, and they find an English Dictionary. These aliens are being oppressed and exploited as a resource by the humans because they don't realise they are dealing with intelligent creatures. During a raid the Zoblings find an English Dictionary. Given that they can recognise that these symbols have meaning to the Humans, could they learn to at least write in English without the aid of a human? 

By request, these are the two previous questions in this "series": Low Voltage Lightning and Alien Nitrogen How To Make Lightning I recently asked a question about lightning storms on planets. One of the answers mentioned the idea of lightning between planets, and whilst I don't think that itself is feasible, I am going for a "Pirates of the Caribbean IN SPACE!" kind of feel to it and there's nothing better in a pirate story than stormy weather but I do want to stick to REAL science as much as possible. Some of the more detailed answers to my planetary lightning question suggested that dust, sandstorms, and ash could be used to generate lightning. Would a nebula, possibly artificial in nature, could be dense enough to create sparks in a vacuum? Is there an easier way to create "space storms" by natural or artificial means? If you come up with a decent estimate for density I'd also, ideally, like some sort of idea of what this would look like. Would you be able to see through it like a thick fog? Or would it be so dense that you couldn't see your own hand? The idea of a space battle surrounded by lightning and compounded by the inability to see, is very appealing to me but as I've said, I want this to be as real as possible. Maths is appreciated but not required. Thanks for reading.