I've found myself in somewhat of an awkward situation, or at least it seems that way to me. Personally, I like to metaphorically wear two outfits: one for when I'm not at work and one when I'm doing my 9-to-5 day-job. I love to relax and have fun with friends and be silly online when not working, but when I go to work, I try to carry myself respectably, seriously, and professionally. I am a software engineer, by the way. And as with a good chunk of software engineers out there, I do enjoy me some videogames, and have had a steam account since about 10 years ago, give or take. I try to put gaming in the relaxed, non-serious, non-professional partition of my life. However, compartmentalizing everything like that doesn't quite work out all the time. Recently, the topic of a certain video game came up between a couple of my coworkers and myself, while we were on the job. I have been with the company for many years longer than either of them and am in somewhat of a minor mentoring position with them. And then came the question: "Hey, do you have Steam?" I didn't lie, of course I have Steam. And then he wanted to know my Steam handle, and that's where things start to get weird. He wanted to gift me this particular game I haven't played and to play online. As I said before, I try to compartmentalize my professional life away from my personal life. While I respect my coworkers and bear them no ill will, I realize that the workplace is the workplace, and a coworker is not automatically my friend. I don't really want to decline his good intentions, but I would prefer to not expose the personal details--especially those of my online persona--to my coworkers. I told him that I'd get back to him after I finish up my work (because I have been genuinely very busy), just to give myself some time to think things through. How can I best handle this sort of situation without coming off like a total prude? 

If you had slept with his wife would it be reasonable for him to expect you to leave the company? If not it seems like there might be an argument that if you fired him it might be an abuse of your position. I'd personally do my best to keep business and home as separate as possible, but on the other hand if you have to look at him every day it could become difficult for you to get work done. 

First of all what other people said is right--Just because a programmer has been around a while doesn't mean he has any clue what he's talking about. I had a team lead once tell me not to use the ?: operator in Java because "Nobody knows what that means". In a way, however, he's right. If the rest of my team is going to take more time pulling apart one line of code than an if statement, the if statement is the "correct" way to go. They both make the machine work the same. Also your field matters. In an enterprise situation your strongest focus should be on making your code readable, but in many other areas (Small teams/startups?) perhaps being able to write code quickly is more important. So to address some of your specific issues: Class size--Smaller is probably more maintainable. Period. You're good here. Try to do your best to avoid inheritence--I realize it's tough but it really does lead to confusing code. If you want to use code, try to use delegation wherever possible, leave inheritance for cases where it's really obvious that it is exactly what you need. Speed is one I struggle with. I take more time but often find that my code has less hitches in QA and later (Which tends to be more expensive to fix). Try following a small project through it's lifecycle and see how little of it is actually related to coding. Many people forget this. (Again, this can depend on your situation) Overall I'd say you probably have good instincts--the most important of which is to have an open mind and learn. It seems like every few years I'm picking up some technique that helps me code better--there is no book you can read to become an instant master--most is going to be learned through trial and error. One technique I can suggest: Be sure to examine old code you wrote every time you come across it with a critical eye--regardless if it's the next day or a year later. If you have trouble reading it, add comments and try to understand what you could have done better. If another developer doesn't understand your code, redo it (Chances are if someone doesn't understand it, you won't understand it either in 6 months--cute tricks are like that). 

So, long story short, my manager's predecessor's predecessor promised me a raise for my continued employment and hard work at Acme, and that was the primary driving factor towards me suspending my job-search. 18 months have come and gone, the position of my manager has changed hands twice, and I haven't gotten any additional raises or promotions. In fact, there has been a lot of very loud whispering and moaning among my ex-Acme peers that raises for us are completely off-the-table because of the average salary in Globex's geographical HQ location being so much lower than Acme's, although none of those whisperings have any "official substance". How do I bring this up the promise of a raise with my current manager? Should I bring up the promise of a raise with my current manager? Was I a fool to think of the promise of a raise as something I was virtually entitled to? Does Globex have any obligation to follow through on the promises Acme made to its employees prior to the acquisition? Should Globex's average salary have an impact on me, even though I'm thousands of miles away from their average employee? (P.S.: Yes, I know that maybe I seem a bit "shallow" for calling off my job search in the interest of a bigger salary. However, before my original raise, I was making a massively-lower-than-average salary for someone in my position, so it felt justified that I be brought up to par with my position at the time, at least. Plus, I needed the additional income if I'm ever to be able to afford a halfway-decent place of my own in my current location.) 

Lets say I am working on technology x in my current company.I want to work for a company working in technology y. I am really passionate about technology y.In order to get a job at this new company,I did some projects in technology y in my spare time. So should I include these independent projects before my professional projects? The new organization likes to hire employees with some experience in their technology.Thats why I am confused on the ordering of my projects? EDIT: By independent projects I meant projects that I did in my free time(Not for any customer or company). EDIT2: My independent project is not a small project.Its a large project that took 6 months to complete.I followed a very famous book to complete that project.The book ends with a finished project.The thing is, lets say I developed mobile phones and that company I am applying for develops robots.So I followed this famous book to learn this technology and made a similar robot in 6 months.Ofcourse, their robot would be much more advance than mine as they have been working on it for years.But I created a robot with very basic features ,in order to learn this technology.So is'nt this project more important than my industry work? I am sure my industry work is of no use to them as there is a large difference between the two technologies. EDIT3: What if that independent project resulted in a publication? 

One possible interpretation of your email is "The code sucks, @Bob did it". Although I doubt that's what you intended, it's possible that's how your boss read it. The biggest problem with that take on your email is that you might be seen as to be dodging responsibility. If you really wanted bob to fill in details, you could have gone and talked with him first and then not mentioned him in the email, or you could have just cc'd him which would have brought him into the discussion without calling him out--he's obviously a person of interest at least. 

You asked from a "Professionalism" point of view which is really difficult to answer because different companies will have different views. In general if you can't just up and leave because you are not feeling well, it's not a very good company to work for... Most companies I've worked for would consider it unprofessional for someone coming down with a cold (this is when they will be at their most contagious) to stay at work. I'd also be surprised if anyone wanted you to stay around if you weren't feeling well unless this happened regularly (More than once every few months would indicate a problem I'd think) I think you acted appropriately, but when it comes down to it--if you get the feeling that it bothered your boss and you like the job, don't do it again because it probably did bother him. Right and wrong has little to do with what does and doesn't bother people. 

Would it be beneficial to include an academic reference for a job in the industry? What if that reference is a senior like the head of a department or a principal? When I talk about an academic reference,I mean a reference from a university. EDIT: The reference was my teacher and I was a very good performer.He is the most senior person in our university(Being one of the few 'Professors' ,not lecturer or assistant professor). He has also written a few books which are used in other universities as standard course material.Not mentioning several research publications. 

I am working in a product based company.When I joined the company, there were two large issues with the product.These issues were causing a lot of refunds.The issues were known for about 6 months but nobody knew what was causing the issues.I caught both of these issues and solved which saved my company a lot of refund cases and in turn saved them a lot of money.About one third of the people were asking for refunds. I don't like to brag and I wouldn't like to come off as a self praiser in the interview.But a lot of seniors have told me that if you have saved your company a lot of time or money then these are huge plus points. So I was wondering how do I mention this in my interview or resume(if I should even discuss this thing at all)