Depends on genetics, hormones and your exact diet. You cloud find equilibrium. Or your body may use fat and produce muscles, or than again it may starve your muscles and feed your fat cells and leave you vulnerable to injuries. No simple answer here. There are many variables at play. 

Looks prety decent, but I'm worried about the granola. It depends greatly on the brand, but granola can have an extremely high amount of sugar in it. If you want to build core strength, make sure you don't under eat. Make sure to get sufficient protein (approximately your fat free body weight in kg times 2.5 in grams), and most of your remaining callories from fat. Sugar should be limited to (pre)workout, and other carbs are OK as long as you take small portions. I would suggest going for full fat yoghurt with nuts rather than low fat yoghurt with granola. For dinner, it looks good, don't overdo the taters, use sufficient healthy oil while cooking (peanut oil or olive oil) and stack up on the chicken. 

You could consider free weights program with bodyweight exercisers. There are several relatively cheep racks to complement free weights training with bodyweight training. 

At most gyms they can measure your body fat percentage for you using the 7-Site skin fold test. Have them do a measurement ones every four to 6 weeks to keep track of your progress. Likely you are gaining both muscle mass and fat mass, but unlike other suggested, the fat 'mass' isn't really that important, its the fat 'percentage' that counts. If you weigh 100kg at 35% and you gain 5kg of muscle and 2 kg of fat, than you haven’t gotten 2kg fatter, you'd have gotten 0.4% leaner. 

In my experience loosing fat quickly at the expense of muscle mass is doable but is an extremely bad idea. Better aim for a moderate speed of 1% minimum and 2% maximum of your body mass per month of fat made. That way you keep your muscle mass and you wont bounce back that easily. 

About 6 years ago, after having been a couch-potato for about a decade (following a knee injury) I've picked up strength training once more, and for the most part I'm already back at about 80% of my pre-injury strength stats: 

The article suggests getting most of your carbs throughout the day and than adding some pre-workout. If you do a normal sized high intensity workout, you will: 

Both require a relative shitload of carbs, that you should probably get as 'fast' carbs from fruit and isotonic drinks. Given the amount of carbs taken this way on workout days, I would suggest that its probably best to make the rest of your work-out days basically low-carb. You can than get your low-sugar slow carbs (taters, pasta, rice, bread, etc) on resting day and have equal amounts of carbs every day. That is: Workout day: get most of your carbs from fruit (fructose) and isotonic drinks (glucose) and time it to only be (pre-)workout. Resting day: get most of your carbs from starches (vegies, taters, pasta, rice, bread, etc) and time it to spread it across all meals. 

Start off with 18 months 'strength first', get some real strength into those muscles, gain muscle mass, gain some weight in the process but try to find the balance as to at least not gain any more fat mass. Keep your far-mass gain in check. If you are gaining less than 1kg of body fat for every 5kg of FFBM increase than you're doing fine. Go on the ripping program for 6 months. Keep your FFBM in check. If you're loosing less than 1 kg of FFBM for every 4 kg of body weight your doing fine. Determine the goal for your FFBM and your fat percentage. Go on a muscle building program until your FFBM has overshot your ideal FFBM by about 5%. Go back on the ripping program until your FFBM drops below the desired value, than continue at 3. 

This is a difficult one. You're basically both somewhat under-weight and somewhat over-fat. You want to gain about 2kg a month without gaining fat mass. There are very few people who can manage that, no matter what diet they are on. Given your low FFBM (55 .. 58 kg at 1m90 is pretty low) and given the fact that you are only slightly (if at all depending on your age) over-fat, my advice would be to abandon the 'without getting extra fat' for a while. You have given yourself 6 months (26 weeks), and thats a prety short period, but if you want to go for it, I'dd suggest you try and go for a 20 week bulking period followed by 6 weeks of cutting. With the 20 week for bulking we are going to have to get you to gain more than half a kg a week, its pretty high but if you focus on the largest muscle groups it might be doable. Forget your biceps and your shoulders for a while and focus on chest, triceps, upper back but most importantly your legs. Give your legs their own day and give them hell. No cardio during bulking, just 8..10 rep sets as heavy as you can manage, taking at least two resting days for each muscle group, if possible 3 resting days for your legs. Now that we've sketched the settings, about your nutritional question. You need to take care of getting sufficient protein. At your weight about 150g a day. Now for the protein source, its important that you take in all essential amino acids in sufficient amounts, and animal proteine are the easyest way to do thar. Next to this, you need to look at sources rich in leucine, L-isoleucine L-arginine. I could list some of them, but a quick Google will show you what you can choose from. If you don't want to over complicate things, go for the foods with highest levels of these acids that arn't from plants, but try to limite your carnitine intake and try to aim at the 150g mark for your dayly proteine intake. In the last 6 weeks you are going to be cutting, at that point you will want to add l-carnitine to the mix. You may want to cut down on the leucine, and L-isoleucine levels in your food, but thats just theoretcally, personaly I've not seen any difference during cutting, but some people claim you should limit bulking acids while cutting. Finally an other controversial one, it does wonders for some and works disasters for others, but after about 6 weeks into your bulking program you may try to add CLA capsules to your diet. Stay on top of your body fat and body mass and see what it does for you. If you see yourself getting fatter faster than in the first 6 weeks, stop, CLA is not for you, you do not want to make your final 6 weeks impossible, but otherwise continue taking the capsules to your diet as they likely help you in your bulking. 

I don't think that, lacking definite proof of causality, basing advice on strong correlations would qualify in any way as bad advice or as "extremist". We know there are strong correlations at a populations level between eating relatively 'much' sugar, 'much' refined grains and relatively little lipids and many diseases. We don't have any data indicating that eating very low levels of grains and sugars are correlated with any negative consequences. Correlations can be misleading and arn't definite proof, its the difference between being a suspect and being a convict. But the idea is that its not unwise to incarcerate the suspect while you continue to look for definite proof. At this moment, given the available data, reducing sugar and grain intake seems like a safe bet. 

My current body weight is 108kg, so these stats for me are pretty satisfactory for the most part for a 43 year old guy I think. I'm not where I was prior to my knee injury, but I'm not a twenty something anymore so I'm quite happy with where I'm currently at, especially as my stats are still improving over time. With this much regained strength, one would expect that doing a few pull ups wouldn't be any problem, right? Unfortunately for me they are. I can still not even do one clean (broad) pull-up. In fact, with the lat pull down I've been stuck at about 75kg for a few years now. Progress has completely halted on my lat-pull-down, and at 108kg body weight that's just to much of a gap to even try to do pull ups. I would really like to be able to do pull-ups like I used to do in my twenties. My last attempt at changing my schedule ended in disaster. I moved shoulders from back/biceps day to chest/triceps day so I would have more room to focus on my upper back, but doing so ended me up with a shoulder injury that took me two months to recover from, so I had to move shoulders back to back/biceps day. Are there any ways to somehow get myself out of this stagnated lat-pull-down situation and somehow work to doing clean broad bodyweight pull-ups, or should I just accept that I won't ever be able to do pull-ups again? 

Yes it might be harmful depending on where you are getting your remaining calories from and how your body reacts to your new diet. Yes cutting calories will make you lose 'weight', but if you are not careful and keep track of your progress your weight loss may end up being mostly lean body mass being consumed. Keep measuring your body composition during your efforts and try not to cut your calories below the point where your lean body mass decrease is an order of magnitude less than your total body mass decrease. Idealy your lean body mass should stay stable or increase slightly while your body fat percentage goes down gradually. Don't buy into the quick weight loss idea. Most of these results are water and muscle mass rather than fat mass you you may end up having lost 20kg of body mass with 10 kg being water (that you will hopefully quickly gain again) and 6 kg being muscle and organ mass. If you were not that fat to begin with. Just do the math. Lets say you go 100 kg with 25% body fat, that is 25 kg of fat. You lose 20 kg (including 4kg of fat). End result: 80kg, 21g fat, that means you "GAINED" 1,25% of body fat even though you dropped 20kg. You end up fatter than you started and dehydrated at that. Most people who stuff like that happens to don't even realize it until they pass out during their workout. Its easy to avoid if you keep tracks of your stats. Track your FFBM, that your ICW and ECW levels and track your body fat percentage. Don't allow yourself a drop in FFBM and accept that it takes time to lose weight. 

Building muscle will mean you will 'gain' weight. If you want to substantially gain muscle mass, you will need sufficient nutrients during your workouts and during recovery. Importantly, consume plenty of carbs before and during your workout and extra proteine post workout. You will need to do heavy reps in short sets, giving each muscle group at least two days of rest between workout. Doing so you will gain muscle mass and likely slightly gain some fat mass, overall you will get heavier, but as your muscles gain more than your fat, your body composition would still be leaner. You might be able to tune your diet in such a way that you don't gain any fat mass or even have a slight decrease in fat mass, but however you turn it, if you want good muscle building results, you will need to accept an overall gain in total weight. This should not be a real concern though, when you look in the mirror you will look leaner, when you use a measuring tape, your waist will get leaner, your weight should not concern you really when you are out to build muscles. If in contrast your first concern is to loose fat, as it might be if you happen to have health issue, or just want to look ripped when your on the beach, than you need to abandon rapid muscle increase goals. You should do lots of cardio, drasticaly limit your carb intake to almost zero, do long sets of relatively light reps, etc. You will be loosing your fat mass relatively quickly, and if you tune your diet and training program carefully you may manage to do so without loosing muscle mass. I've tried to find some kind of middle road, but it doesn't seem to give half the result of what I'm about to suggest: 

I would suggest you stop your focus on total amounts and have a look at your protein intake relative to your intake of other macro nutrients (fat and carbohydrates). When you are concerned with how much you can eat in a day, it may be worth noting that fat holds much more calories per gram (9) than protein (4) or carbohydrates (4), so moving calories from carbohydrates to fats would reduce the amount of macro nutrients you need to physically consume in number of grams. You won't want to reduce your carb intake to much, especialy your pre-workout carbs are essential to get the most out of your work-outs, but the following might be a good way to chop up the grams of your macro nutrients that you consume over the day: 

You should try to adjust your schedule so that every muscle group gets at least two and at most 4 days of rest between workouts. For example: M - Chest + Triceps + A Little Cardio T - Back + Shoulders + A Little Cardio W - Legs + Abs H - Chest + Triceps + A Little Cardio F - Back + Shoulders + A Little Cardio S - Legs + Abs That way you give each muscle sufficient time to recover. 

Are you absolutely sure that loosing 'weight' is your real goal, or do you really get a better body composition? You can loose weight consuming to little calories, but you are likely to loose the wrong kind of weight depending on how much you under eat and how much of your diet is made up of carbs. It is unhealthy to loose the wrong type of weight. Keep monitoring your body composition. If you are loosing weight and seeing improvements in your body fat percentage, than stick with it. Even (and this is controversial) if you are 'not' loosing weight and seeing improvements in your body fat percentage I would also suggest to stick with it. If you are loosing weight and not seeing improvements in your body fat percentage you are doing something wrong and you should probably increase your calories and make sure you consume the right type of calories at the right time. Change one thing at a time and see what happens. For example first try to change some carbs for fat and see what happens (make sure you have sufficient carbs for your workout though). 

Eggs are a decent source of protein, and there is no reason to throw away the yellow part, certainly not the cholesterol in there. Egg yolk is one of the few foods naturally containing vitamin D and dietary cholesterol has been shown to play a neglectable part in cholesterol levels. But next to that, the whole theory that claimed a causal effect from high cholesterol to heart disease has been falsified. Want to reduce your risks on heart disease: "No more sugar!". But anyhow, next to eggs, most animal protein sources are pretty good. If you have a specific goal in mind you may want to look for animal protein sources rich in specific amino acids. Try to aim for about 2g of protein a day per 1kg of body weight. 

Bodybuilders tend to interleave periods of 'ripping' with periods of 'bulking'. If you want to gain muscle fast, you will need to eat big time and will have to accept also 'gaining' a bit of fat and you will need to do mostly anaerobic exercises and skip cardio. If you want to loose fat quickly, you will have to undereat a bit and work out with lower weights higher repetitions, etc. You will need to accept loosing a bit of muscle. And yes, if you focus on the larger muscle groups, have a good bulking diet and work out schedule, you could gain muscle faster than you could loose fat when on a diet. Going on a bulk/rip cycle can be an amazing way to get in shape. Start off with bulking until your body fat percentage stops going down. Once you are at that point, start interleaving periods of ripping with periods of bulking.