Short answer: NO, your age is NOT limiting you...you are. You are the in the beginning stages or the prime of your life, especially hormonally speaking. You need to ask yourself some questions: 

First, congrats on the weight loss, great job, Misty! I would perform your stretch routine within 30 minutes, but I'm not sure I would push it much more than that if you want to have an effective stretching session. If you wait too long, it'll be like trying to stretch a frozen rope and you won't be as effective at removing lactic acid. Once the muscles and tendons cool down, the chances of tearing of either or other unwanted trauma increases. 

No, there is a fundamental difference between the Pendlay row and the bent-over barbell row. Neither of which, if you execute proper form, put your shoulders in a position to impinge. The Pendlay Row has your torso, more or less, parallel with the ground and you pull the bar to your sternum (or just below) from the ground. You can pull a barbell to sternum without having your shoulders perpendicular to your torso. Your arms are typically between 45 and 75 degrees depending on your anthropometry and bio mechanics. The Bent-over Row is where your torso is at 45 degrees, plus or minus a little, and you pull the barbell to your hips. Also, you continue holding the barbell during the exercise as opposed to starting each rep from the floor like the Pendlay Row. The stabilizer muscles that are engaged are pretty much the same, the difference might be which ones have more stress on them. This is a result of the differences in how these similar exercises are executed. 

These numbers are based on 4-6 hours of exercise a week. If you workout more or your metabolism (this is subjective) is faster than average, then you need to increase your caloric intake. You can get an idea of how well this diet is working by getting an average of your weight over 7-10 days. If it isn't going up, then you add calories until it does. Weigh yourself every day after going to the bathroom and keep an average. You need a data point for comparison or you don't know if your changes are working. Realize that weight gain isn't necessarily always linear, it'll look like a stock market graph if you put your daily weight in a spreadsheet. If you need to add calories, do so at 50-100 kcals at a time, then wait for 7-10 days to see if your weight climbs. Add calories to carbs and fat first, then consider protein later. Typically, you'll want 1.1 to 1.3 grams of protein per pound of lean body mass - there is much debate over this topic. The above coupled with a proper weight training program will yield incredible results at your age between now and high school graduation. 

You do not need supplements to be a body builder, period. An argument could be made if you were chemically enhanced...steroids. Train hard and efficient with a proper program, eat balanced based on macros for your goals, rest on rest days, sleep. Repeat. To appeal to the people that love spending money supplements, most of which are COMPLETELY worthless, then go ahead buy some. If you had the money to spend, buy some protein powder, a good multivitamin, and fish oil. The rest is just superfluous. 

Since you're on a cutting diet, I think that 3050 is a bit too high and seems more like a maintenance diet. One of my issues with some of those equations online is the activity multiplier is too high based on the exercise you commit to during a week. I can see how you'd get tired of eating over 3,000 kcals a day. One trick that makes hitting your macros a little easier, instead of eating, is to drink them. Put what you need in a blender and drink up! I think a better starting point for you daily diet would be something like: 

Yes, you will continue to make gains on the other exercises if you're diet is on point. Although, if you're not squatting and deadlifting, you progress and gains will slow down. Squatting more than deadlifting initiates quite the hormonal response in your body as far as testosterone and growth hormone. 

No, there is a fundamental difference between the Pendlay row and the bent-over barbell row. Neither of which, if you execute proper form, put your shoulders in a position to impinge. The Pendlay Row has your torso, more or less, parallel with the ground and you pull the bar to your sternum (or just below) from the ground. You can pull a barbell to sternum without having your shoulders perpendicular to your torso. Your arms are typically between 45 and 75 degrees depending on your anthropometry and bio mechanics. The Bent-over Row is where your torso is at 45 degrees, plus or minus a little, and you pull the barbell to your hips. Also, you continue holding the barbell during the exercise as opposed to starting each rep from the floor like the Pendlay Row. The stabilizer muscles that are engaged are pretty much the same, the difference might be which ones have more stress on them. This is a result of the differences in how these similar exercises are executed. 

These questions are important because they give you a compass, a direction, and something to work toward. Also, it gives you focus and perspective, you need to measure where you're at in your journey and where you want to end up. If you don't have a starting and ending point, you have no frame of reference for measurement. How do you know where you're going if you don't have a focused goal? Stating that you eat considerably well by eating 4 meals a day and drinking protein shakes doesn't define anything or mean that you actually "are" eating well. Again, how do you know if you don't measure? How do you know if your diet is well enough to support your goals? Also, when you say that you workout...what does that mean? Are you on a program? Are you performing specific exercises every day that you workout? Do you keep a training log? This is important so you know where you have been and what to do better the next time you perform those set of exercises. For an example, with some quick math, and a general starting point for building muscle mass: 

Yes, I think if someone decided to spend years at ONLY deadlifting, you would have asymmetrical musculature. Yes, deadlifting is one of the single best exercises you can perform. However, your workout is incomplete as you need others to balance your physique. If you wanted to get away with the least amount possible and build a solid muscle base, then you would need to perform a series of exercises like barbell squats, deadlifts, bench press, shoulder press, and bentover rows. A good argument could be made to add a few more exercises, but you can still build an impressive physique with just those 5 exercises a few days a week (this assumes you have proper programming and a proper diet in place). 

Yes, Stronglifts or Starting Strength are very good programs. You can stay with either of these programs for a couple years or more. Get your lean body mass where you want it, sculpt through some isolation exercises, and then cut to single digit body fat. Of course there is some minutia in between all that, but it won't matter until you have a solid base of muscle mass. 

Start there and then adjust 50-75 calories at a time, plus or minus. Weigh yourself every morning after you take care of business and before you eat or drink. Take an average of your weight over 7-10 days, if it is going down, then you're on point assuming it isn't a radical drop. Aim to lose about .5% to 1% of your body weight per week. Another way to measure your fat loss (especially if the scale is playing tricks on you) is to get a tape measure and measure the widest part of your midsection. If that number is shrinking every week, you're losing fat. Also, take pictures every 10 to 14 days. One front, one side, and one back and compare them to the previous pictures for a more visual comparison. FINALLY: ALWAYS DO YOUR SQUATS AND ALWAYS HIT YOUR MACROS! 

For a very simple answer: Gummy bears, pixy stix, skim milk, egg whites. Fast carbs and quick protein absorption. Or... You're splitting hairs if you're not working out because you don't have fast acting carbs and/or a protein powder to eat directly after strength training. Eat a balanced diet based on macros for whatever your goal is (cut, bulk, maintain), push/pull the weight, and sleep. Rinse and repeat. Training and diet are simple, supplements are NOT necessary to build an amazing physique that you'll be proud of and your friends will be jealous of, don't over think it. 

Short answer: Go as hard as you can go! Long Answer: The level of effort that you put in would depend on how much you've had to eat. I found it easier sometimes when I lifted at night because I had eaten several meals before lifting heavy weights. Some people have a difficult time not eating much, then hitting the gym and lifting weights as far as energy availability and focus is concerned. However, if you can muster up the energy by eating early enough; your circadian rhythm and science shows it is better to work out in the morning hours. Especially with high intensity as your test and growth hormone levels are naturally higher. This is increased further by performing heavy compound exercises like squatting, deadlifting, bench pressing, shoulder pressing, or bent-over rows. 

As you get stronger you can get weights and hold them against your chest or wear a weighted vest. If you're physically capable of performing barbell exercises, then I would work on good mornings or stiff legged deadlifts. Then you can incorporate barbell squats and full deadlifts. 

A heart monitor is only one data point or piece of the puzzle when it comes to calculating energy expenditure. Both the elliptical and heart monitor by themselves aren't going to be accurate, at least not in the sense you care about. Typically, when you want to get a more accurate reading on calories burned, you need a device (fitness wearable, Fitbit, Garmin, etc.) that will accept several data points like: age, gender, weight, height, body fat percentage, etc. With this information along with your heart rate will you paint a more accurate expenditure of energy. Even with this information, it is still an estimate, but certainly better than a heart rate monitor or elliptical on its own. For perspective think of this: you have two people that are 150 lbs, but one is 5'2" and the other is 6'0". Now put them both on the same exact program in an elliptical or recumbent bike. The net result is both of their calorie expenditures are going to be different. In this case, the 150 lb person at 5'2" will have burned more calories. They're overweight relative to their height and have to work harder to perform the same program as the 6'0" 150lb person. One more thing to think about is your body adapts and becomes more efficient at performing the same exercises. For example, when you started running for 10 minutes, you might have burned 100 calories. After a month, and performing that same exercise at the same speed, you're now only expending 80 calories over 10 minutes. This can be further exacerbated by your diet if you're in a caloric deficit. As a side note: if you want to burn fat and sculpt your body, lift weights. You burn more calories lifting weights than you do performing cardio. One exception is HIIT, or high-intensity interval training. It provides a similar effect that strength training provides, EPOC, or excess postexercise oxygen consumption. This is a fancy series of words for something known as the afterburn effect. Which means, you continue to burn calories 12-48 hours after the activity is over. Why High-Intensity Interval Training Is Best For Weight Loss