Buddhism teaches that conditioned things are impermanent ... that anything which begins because of some cause (i.e. because the conditions for its existing have come together) will have an end when those conditions no longer apply. So, it's interesting to know the cause (or beginning) of suffering: because knowing how or when it begins is a hint as to when or how it end (for example if a fire starts when there is heat and fuel, it ends when there's no heat or no fuel, or when heat is detached from fuel). But samsara doesn't seem to have a beginning, doesn't have a "construable" beginning (and may continue endlessly). Even so it may be possible to escape it, to find release: by becoming dispassionate and disenchanted with fabricated things (also known as "conditioned things"). 

I don't know, so the following is a complete guess, and I hope someone will give a better answer. Apparently the aphorism come from Dōgen. Dōgen has a perhaps-non-standard view of Buddha-nature, which he calls Busshō. My guesses are: 

I'm having a slightly similar experience: in that I'm taking a Yang style Tai Chi class for beginners, however I'm not quite a beginner i.e. I previously practised Chen style for a few years with a relatively expert teacher. Now in this class, I hear the teacher explain the basics, but during that I notice that there are (what I'd consider) some important fundamentals (e.g. to stand up straight), which this teacher never explains. 

What are the Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma according to Tibetan Buddhism? Where did they take place according to Tibetan Buddhists? The Three Turnings of the Wheel of Dharma according to Tibetan Buddhists are broadly speaking three different categories of teachings the historical Buddha gave as recorded in various Sutras. The First Turning of the Wheel of Dharma is said to have been given at Deer Park in northern India. Here is an article cited by the FPMT which describes what Tibetan Buddhists believe constitute this first turning: 

I don't think there is any reason to invoke rebirth if this is your objection to the emptiness of inherent existence. By this line of reasoning, if phenomena lacked inherent existence (ie, they are empty), then moment-to-moment in this very life, a person would vanish. However, we do not vanish. So, either the line of reasoning is based on incorrect assumptions or it is valid and leads to absurdity thus refuting emptiness of inherent existence. I believe the line of reasoning is based upon an incorrect assumption: that things lacking inherent existence will be unable to function. Let's set aside the selflessness of phenomena and look only at the selflessness of the person as this is agreed upon by Theravada and the Mahayana. It is clear, the Theravada posits the selflessness of persons. That people lack inherent existence. This line of reasoning also refutes the Theravada position: if people lack inherent existence, then they will be unable to function and thus they will vanish in this very moment! So either the line of reasoning is flawed - it assumes the incorrect assumption that lacking inherent existence renders things non-functional - or the Theravada selflessness of persons has also been refuted as well. 

I think that "reactivity" is one example of a saṅkhāra (e.g. "reactivity" a combination of a "reactor" with a "thing-which-it-reacts-to"). 

I read somewhere (perhaps in an unreliable introduction to Tibetan beliefs) that rebirth is conditioned by the last thought before death (or perhaps affected by a thought or desire that you have after death). Another belief that's similar, if not the same, is that a person may have had some (good or bad) life but that having some (bad or good) final dying thought determines their rebirth (e.g. into hell or heaven). 

The term "āsava" is also introduced in the dharmafarer translation of the Jhāna Sutta (AN 9.36), including, 

Fortunately however; although death is real and suffering exists; even so the dhamma, hearing the dhamma and reciting the dhamma can be helpful, can help to liberate people from suffering. 

For more about Buddhist lay morality, consider the Five (or Eight or more) Precepts (including "don't steal" or "take what's not given", and "don't lie"), and the three factors (right speech, action, and livehood) from the "Virtue" division of the Noble Eightfold Path. The advice for "Right Speech" is more detailed than the advice for a lay-person's Right Livelihood. If you're in a "very competitive" environment there may be a risk that people around you speak in harsh or cruel ways: maybe that (right speech versus wrong speech) is something to beware of more than simply earning a livelihood. There are various types of wrong livelihood listed, and we're told to give up or renounce "false (or wrong) livelihood" which presumably includes lying and deception. 

It can not be trivial. If it were trivial, then it would not have any power whatsoever to cure our suffering or pull us out of this endless cyclic existence. It can not be mere word games or simply an intellectual philosophical exercise. If it were, then again it would not have any ability to end our suffering. It can not mean that nothing exists. If we come to the conclusion that nothing exists, then there can be no clearer guidepost saying “turn around!” as it is stated over and over in the Dharma that this is manifest evidence that the reasoning on emptiness has gone astray. Still, it must be something that can be inferred from reasoning. It is not a completely obscure phenomena. 

You are knowingly causing the suffering of sentient beings who want to be happy just as you do. Your actions are non-virtuous and you should stop. Thinking that you can continue doing so and somehow ameliorate your continued bad actions will only cause you to incur heavier debt than already incurred. This is necessarily so because if you convince yourself that you can ameliorate it somehow, then using this as an excuse you will continue to cause harm to yourself and others. All sentient beings wish to be happy and to avoid suffering - even insects - just as you do. Does that mean that all beings know how to achieve happiness? Clearly not! To take an extreme example, human beings who wantonly spread terror by killing and torturing in the name of religious zealotry, obviously do not know how to achieve happiness. They are extremely - to the nth degree - unskillful in the method they are using to try and achieve happiness. Nonetheless, these people wish to be happy and to avoid suffering just as you do. It is exactly the same for all sentient beings. When you are in a hole... stop digging. Only after you have done this should you make a plan to get out of the hole. Short of this, I think Andrei's answer is excellent. If you practice what Andrei suggests with sincerity and with a mind aspiring for compassion I have no doubt you will stop your non-virtuous actions which will be very good for your - and the insects! - aims to be happy and avoid suffering. 

By the way a friend once told me there are different axes along which a topic of conversation between two people is more or less intimate: 

Is it true that we're taught to try to understand our fears? Assuming it's true, do you suppose it means nothing more or less than the first noble truth: i.e. that dukkha is fear and vice versa? Or does it mean something else? Are there techniques to "understand our fear"? 

Later in the same paragraph he clarifies that by "timeless" he means "always" (i.e. continuously and not just continually): 

You cannot always choose - conscious choice implies awareness: but when you can, choose well. Free will has been the subject of argument in Western philosophy: partly because of notions like "God is omnipotent" (because if God can do anything and does everything then how much choice do we have); and/or because the opposite notion of the world having a physical (not spiritual or mental) basis. IMO this is a 'false dichotomy'. It might be asking a question about the existence of self of the kind that it's recommended you don't ask. There was a nursery story (i.e. a children's fable) told to me: someone asked a centipede, "Which foot do you move first?" and the centipede thought about it and didn't know and got confused etc. Whereas a natural centipede will just move. Similarly a natural person makes decisions, and those decisions have an effect, and self-training (if you choose to do so) can make the decisions more skillful, etc. 

I think this is a very important question and one which really gets to the heart of a big misconception about emptiness or the selflessness of persons. To my mind, the best way to see the hidden assumption in the question above is to ask another question: why invoke rebirth? How about this alternate question: If there is no soul, how can there be a person who lives moment to moment? It is clear, that all schools of Buddhism teach the selflessness of persons. This is one of the four seals of Buddhism. So, why don't we ask how can there be a person who lives moment to moment? It's manifestly evident that people live moment to moment. With just a little bit of insight we can see that persons are impermanent. That we are non-unitary (we have parts). That we are dependent phenomena. That right there is enough to establish the selflessness of persons at a course level and yet we still function and live moment to moment. Rebirth is simply the continuation of this living moment to moment even after the death of the body. In other words, the question has two hidden assumptions: 

Context: I'm considered a skeptic of rebirth in my tradition which is the Gelug branch of Tibetan Buddhism. I'm asking this question to help me understand what other traditions think. In my tradition it is believed that rebirth is a semi-obscure phenomena the truth of which can be fully known through reasoning alone. I have a hard time understanding how and do not find any line of reasoning I've heard to be particularly convincing. The strongest reasoning I've seen others in my tradition give for rebirth is that each instance of consciousness must have a substantial cause. And that brain/matter cannot be that substantial cause because brain and consciousness are fundamentally of two different natures. Therefore, each instance must have been proceeded by a previous instance as its substantial cause leading to an infinite regress/progress back/forward in time. Here is an excerpt from His Holiness the Dalai Lama's book - Kindness, Clarity and Insight - where he briefly summarizes this reasoning: 

Also, in a (now-deleted) comment someone pointed out that the answer depends on who "you" are in the suttas, i.e. on who "we" are to who the Buddha's message is addressed. If "we" are all humanity, the human race or species, then yes there have been a lot of past lives (billions), a lot of wailing. When I considered this argument -- trying to understand the message without identity-view, by interpreting "you" as "everyone" -- I wondered why he'd say "not easy to find" instead of "impossible" -- why did he say, "A being who has not been your mother at one time in the past is not easy to find", instead of saying, "Every being has been somebody's mother". That reminds me of the story of the Mustard Seed, where he sends Kisa Gotami looking, for a mustard seed from a house/family in which no one had died -- an impossible task, but he made her look, rather than just saying "it's impossible". So maybe "not easy to find" in that context can mean just, "it doesn't exist" or "it isn't evident". 

Here's a sutta about an ideal way to respond to being "abused and criticized in foul and harsh words, reviled": Akkosa Sutta: Insult I think I interpret it literally, i.e. if someone uses harsh words I see it as a statement about their state of mind. You can maybe take it too far, e.g. if I irritate you and you tell me so, it may be wrong of me to assume that irritation is all your fault. Nevertheless I think's it's a good sutta. I'm rather struck by one of the statements in it, though: 

What better teacher can you find for an introduction to Buddhism than the Buddha himself? This is where I began and to my knowledge every extent tradition of Buddhism regards this book as authentic Buddhavacana. If I had to pick one companion book to go with this which would explain the differences among the extent traditions of Buddhism in a thoroughly respectful and careful manner I'd pick Buddhism: One Teacher, Many Traditions by His Holiness the Dalai Lama and Venerable Thubten Chodron: 

There is hope friend! Your question leads me to believe you might have misunderstood the meaning of anatta or emptiness and drifted toward nihilism. Take heart that this is just a misunderstanding and that the Virtuous Teachers have said emptiness and nihilism are completely different. Emptiness or anatta is an extremely hard concept to wrap your head around and there is danger in misapprending it for nihilism like there is danger in mishandling a snake. Fortunately, we can use this warning as a handrail to support ourselves: when we recognize ourselves drifting towards nihilism then let’s happily put down that view knowing confidently that we have misunderstood. Hope this helps! 

This is a very interesting question and one I've been pondering as well! What follows is speculative and more based on reasoning than any specific teaching so please take with a big heap of salt... otoh I can't see how it obviously contradicts what is taught in my tradition? First, I want to make a distinction between karma and the ordinary mechanics of the world. I don't think it can be said that karma drives the process of a maple seed turning into a maple tree. Why? Because karma is created by intention and action and maple trees are not sentient beings. And yet they age and are subject to causes and conditions. In a similar fashion, I think it is important to separate out the notion of karma from ordinary cause and effect or the mechanics of the world. Now, one interesting thing to observe is that when a being is enlightened or achieves liberation in this very life the aggregates continue. It is not like upon achieving enlightenment that the body winks out of existence any more than the mind winks out of existence. Not only would that violate the conservation of energy ... it simply isn't the way we observe things to be. It would violate what is known to the world. Indeed, even after an enlightened or liberated being dies in this very life their corpse remains. Not only does it remain, but with the break up of the body the atoms that were formerly a part of the body of an enlightened being continue. Conservation of energy and matter is observed. The question could be reformulated maybe as what drives the aging of an enlightened beings body and mind after achieving enlightenment, but before death? For me, I find it inadequate to say that an enlightened beings aging and sickness are caused by past karma for various reasons. Rather, I think that karma must be extinguished upon the pacification of all afflictions. An enlightened or liberated being is no longer subject to suffering and thus past non-virtuous karma that is the cause of suffering must have been extinguished and laid down. In exactly the same way that an enlightened or liberated beings corpse does not wink out of existence the moment they die I think neither does the mind. Anyway, I post this not so much as an answer that others should rely upon because undoubtedly I'm very confused or made some egregious error. Rather, I'm hoping someone can help me learn something :) 

Another important Buddhist view is that things are impermanent. Whatever they are, they come and go, they arise and cease, they change and change again. In that way, things tend to be past or future. 

The book In the Buddha's Words by Bhikkhu Bodhi translates "is a worthy one" in this sentence as "is an Arahant", 

I think that's the essential: how I structure or remember it. I don't remember them all at once, but more-or-less in that sequence (stated above). If I'm stressed I may be lucky to remember anything at all (e.g. craving and cessation). Other topics are more theoretical (I think they're someone's analysis, the Buddha's analysis, of factors involved). 

So I read that as saying that any one of the conditions is reason for it's being a non-offence; and that the only condition for exemption that's only applicable once is being a first offender. On page 29 it says, 

Anyway, the Pali suggests to me that the "all" there is associated with the "beings" (i.e. "to all beings") -- and that agrees with the second English translation that I quoted. So I thik that what's translated as "mass-donation" in the first translation means "donation to all" ... i.e. that the Tathagata gave the dhamma to all beings. But maybe the sutta (both the Pali and the second translation) is really saying, more literally ...