I've been supporting someone close to me in her transition for the past year. The work side of things has been challenging, to say the least. Managers and colleagues have for the most part wanted to be supportive, but most people are frankly clueless about the trans experience. I think unless you've been through it on a very personal level, there are so many things you just don't understand. I would not mention it before you need to unless you are going to need special considerations early on in the position (for example flexible hours to undergo treatments). Certainly not before you have any sort of offer. Even if potential employers aren't technically allowed to discriminate based on that sort of thing and even if they are relatively nice people who would befriend a trans person without hesitation, it will colour their view of you as a potential employee and they will easily justify their not wanting to employ you in some other way. If they are not personally acquainted with any trans people, their understanding of it is likely to be informed by the antics of the loudest trans activists, some of whom are frankly bigots or troublemakers. They may think you will be the same and therefore not a good fit for the company. My friend had one coworker she was friends with outside of work worrying that she would transition into a humourless activist when she first came out to him. This person was no ultra-conservative whining about political correctness, quite the reverse, but all he knew about trans people was from the most aggressive ones he'd met and so he had a wrong impression of all trans people. Unfair perhaps but I think it's not uncommon. Even if people don't have that misconception, if they don't know you well (or even if they do!) they tend to be nervous about even acknowledging you are trans in case that offends. Whatever else happens, I think you will do better in your employment quest and in your new job if people know you as something other than 'the trans person' straight off. If they see you are a good worker and are on good terms with you they will be less likely to be too afraid of causing offence to have anything to do with you once your transition is something you must share with them. Further to someone else's suggestion of trying to feel out any LGBTI groups within the organisation, you could ask if there is any diversity training you might be expected to do in the new position. The most anyone should assume from this is that you are gay yourself or an interested ally, neither of which is particularly scandalous these days. If there is no training this could be a red flag. There was none at my friend's job and she has had to fight management to get training going because it really does make a difference. If you know who the company is at this point (I know some organisations operating through recruiters can be a bit mysterious) then you could try to find their website and see if they have any documents outlining diversity policies. You can't necessarily believe that anything you read there actually represents on-the-ground attitudes and behaviour, but if you see they are actively trying to, say, support women in management positions (and not just saying that they should while their board remains 100% male), it's a good sign that there will be people there on your side. This is only just relevant to your question in that it may inform your attitude towards the position but I feel I need to say it either way: if your transition progresses to the point where you can pass almost all of the time (which is easier than a lot of people think), you may then find you want/need to move to a new job where people don't know about your trans history. My friend did not intend to change jobs, but has changed her mind after this past year. It is incredibly hard to transition and keep the job you had at the time. You will probably want to be treated like any other woman, but people find it hard to do that if they knew your prior identity. My friend isn't one of the guys any more, and has lost some good friendships in large degree, but the women at her company don't properly accept her as one of them either. It's sad but you can't do anything about it at that point. Your coworkers may just never be willing to let go of the image of you as a guy who is doing something really weird. They might think they're "supportive" and that's enough. At the same time (and this is what's really weird), most people will subsconsciously react to you as female even if knowing you are trans they don't want to treat you as one of the women. Be prepared to experience all the worst aspects of being a working woman - especially if your chosen field is male-dominated. Guys might talk over you or disregard your good ideas or patronise you. You may feel like you suddenly have to work harder to be seen as doing a good job. Some of your male co-workers might find you attractive the first time they see you in clothing that makes the most of your new curves, and this may make them very obviously uncomfortable! Maybe you won't have these experiences with your set of coworkers, but it's pretty difficult to know until you're actually in the job and you see what happens. I live in a pretty progressive town and I can tell you for a fact that many people say 'LGBTI' without hesitation but so few of them have any clue about trans people. So I guess the point I want to make here is that it's good to be open to just seeing how this job goes, and that you should consider withholding certain information initially as the best thing you can do in an awkward situation to give yourself a chance to succeed. 

I'm reading several different possibilities in your post. 1. Part-time education There are several types: 1. Continued education which is directly related to your job and could help you get a more highly paid position. 2. Continued education which is incidentally related to your job, and will only help you personally to do a better job, thus enabling you to become more useful to your employer and potentially gaining a raise. 3. Continued education which is unrelated to your job, and will only help you on a personal basis. I've kind of ruled this one out because you said "one can always learn more about their field." Whatever the case, I would encourage you to be open and honest about your education. Don't hide the fact that you're going for further education. On the other hand, don't go out of your way to tell your boss, your co-workers, etc. Tell them, but don't make a big point of making sure everyone knows. (Boss included) 2. Full-time education If you are quitting your job, regardless what you are planning on studying, definitely talk to your boss about it. Work out with him/her when you will be able to leave so that you have sufficient time to prepare for the entry to the scholastic year, but so that you can get done any projects that (s)he has for you to get done. 

Alerts people of the need for quiet. Frequently, when people are jabbering away, it's not because they want to disturb, it's just carelessness. They hadn't thought of the fact that silence is appreciated. My guess is that a sign will take care of 80-90% of the problems. If the noise continues, they know already that quietness is appreciated; hence, you don't have to alert them of new information; you simply have to remind them of what the sign has already said. This gives you more authority, and therefore less of a confrontation is necessary to bring things into order. 

This is a major issue in IT; we face it all the time. I would personally recommend several things. 1. Don't take your boss by surprise. In other words, don't just mention out of the blue, "Say, we need to upgrade our servers," or pop it on him while he happens to be walking through your section. Either write him a detailed e-mail (concise, mind you!), request a short meeting, or even write or print it up on paper. Your boss will take something more seriously if (s)he can see that you take it seriously. 2. Make comparison This is a key point that I have found quite effective. It works best in a real interview, which I try to steer something along these lines. 

...might do the trick. If, on the other hand, it's something that you deem important, or they feel they are rendering you a service by meeting with you, a similar, but slightly different tack might help: 

I had a similar problem as well. In my case, the other employee's reason for opening the blinds was to get a bit more light in their corner, where light was somewhat insufficient. The solution for me was simple: I would close the blind as far as necessary to make me able to see the screen, but it was still open enough let some light through. The next step was obvious: go to management and ask for better lighting. The main point in this issue is understanding. They need to understand why you close the blind, but ideally, you should know why they open it, too. Presumably, they don't simply open it to spite you, though I suppose that's possible. Once you understand each others' motivations, you can work out a solution, and if necessary, request better lighting from management or even (very much dependent on work situation) switch work stations. 

Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.* Let's think through this question logically from start to finish. Basically, you have three options: 

Great question! Here are a few things I have learned both from personal experience and from talking with others. 1. Keep up with technology Don't get comfortable. Don't get complacent. Technology is always advancing. Don't wait for HTML6 to be the standard: jump on board ahead of time. Don't wait to catch up with technology, keep ahead of it and wait for it to catch up with you. If you don't have the freedom to do that at your job, do it at home. This will give you at least two advantages: 

Suggest he take off his shoes. @DavidSchwartz's answer is excellent. If, however, he does not want to invest in anything, and your workplace is comfortable with this, he could simply take off his shoes. Very likely, he's building up static because either his chair or his shoes are not grounding as necessary to keep from building up static. I know it can sound very unprofessional in some domains - and it is - so I don't suggest it unless your workplace is very relaxed and is absolutely fine with him doing just that. For instance, if there are high profile clients going in and out of your office all the time, don't do it. But if you're a kind of back-end tech company who basically sits in a back room all day, this could be an option. 

Communicate with your superior. From what you're saying, it sounds like your responsibility is essentially to get the job done at the price and in the time that your superior expects. From what I'm reading, at any rate, it sounds like you're basically a facilitator between the superior and the subordinates to, as you said, keep them "on track." When something like this comes up, your superior has to know about it. He is the one whose pocket is going to be hit: essentially, it sounds like you are there to keep this kind of thing from happening. When you talk to him, you should clarify at least two things: 1. Is this person your subordinate? You mentioned that it wasn't official that you are really responsible for this person. If you aren't, this issue isn't in your department, and you can just alert your superior of it and pass on to other things. Whatever the case, there should be an official position on it. Request that it be made official if at all possible. 2. What should be done in this situation? Mention that this is an issue, and ask him / her what (s)he recommends you do in this situation. Should you work out a different way to work hours? Should you send an official warning that this behaviour is not acceptable? Should you leave it totally in the hands of your superior?