Not necessarily, self-evident truths simply do not require a proof, e.g. see Russells comment upon his completion of the proof for "1 + 1 = 2" As for redundancy, sure "2+2=4" can be considered redundat, but it is a very different statement than "4". Likewise with "dividends require financing" - the statement is obvious to those understanding finance but may be revelatory to those who do not, and, in the case of either reader, the sentence is meaningful beyond the utterance of "dividends" wholly unconcerned with the logistical considerations of the actual financing. 

In short: mechanism a belief that the world is causal and explanations of the world are reducible to physics, chemistry biochemistry & biology. materialism a belief that material substance being all there is implies that volition and consciousness are the result of material agency Note: I'd change your question to "are these two perspectives synonymous?" It is a grammatical error and misnomer to consider either "a philosophy" as these are both world-views, not respect for obtaining wisdom (read: philosophy). It is etymological fact that philosophy translates from the Greek and through the Latin to "love of wisdom". This is distinct from "love of perspective upon the world". Wisdom obtains - in fact, requires - knowledge. If perspective could obtain knowledge then the poet's claims regarding a rainbow would have epistemic and ontological equivalence to Newton's prism. The former is an example of weltanschauung (an understanding of what is to you), the latter of verstehen (an understanding of what is) A mechanistic perspective (emphasis my own): 

This is a technical point but instead of "element" the term you are asking about is the "operand". In a conjunction statement such as "φ ∧ ψ" there are three elements, two operands (φ and ψ) and the conjunction (or connective) operator (∧). Your question could also be phrased, "If one [statement, proposition, assertion, premise, etc.] in a conjunction..." (Note that the ampersand is not as common anymore, but along with ∧ and •, & is an acceptable symbol for the "and" operator of a conjunction.) 

I think it is arguable that none of those authors are philosophers except in the sense that "philosophy" is used as misnomer for "my way of looking at things". Philosophy is of course "love of wisdom" i.e. respect for obtaining knowledge. To answer your question such that you may obtain the knowledge you are pondering, I'd suggest researching the former two and emailing them to ask the "primary sources" themselves directly. Slavoj Žižek: sz21@nyu.edu $URL$ Cornell West: lpollock@uts.columbia.edu $URL$ $URL$ 

Same way you know you accept anything: you are sincere in your acceptance. For example, this is the same way you are sincere when you say "I feel glad" and you sincerely mean it.* To paraphrase Ayer: "Axiom is true simply because we do not allow it to be otherwise" (from Language, Truth and Logic, ch.4 "The A Priori" p. 41) *see section 3-6 

Here's as good a place to start with Plato as any: The Complete Works of Plato ...some 1800+ pages and best of all: it's FREE (just like the love of wisdom) normally I'd suggest skipping the introduction but you might find it worth reading some of the "Chronological vs. Thematic Groupings of the Platonic Dialogues" & "Translations" - otherwise, Njoy! 

You might appreciate Professor John R. Searle's thoughts on "desire independent reasons for action" from chapter 6 in his book "Rationality in Action". The entire book is available online if you modify the end of the embedded URL - there are 9 chapters total (e.g. http...chap1.pdf, http...chap9.pdf). In short, he would argue in response to your question: 

There is philosophy, not philosophies. There is love (in the sense of initial utterance, read: virtue, respect, reverence) and there is wisdom (read: obtaining knowledge) and there are prepositions to join them (i.e. "of" and "for"). Perhaps you mean something like, "according to my philosophy..." or "in their philosophy..." or "some philosophies suggest..."? This is using philosophy as misnomer for a way of looking at things. Unlike "theology" and "theism" philosophy is not an "-ology" (a study of...) nor an "-ism" (a belief in...). Note that religion requires neither theology, nor theism, I merely bring this up to clarify the distinction between what you can categorize as "religion" and what is "philosophy". If a religion encourages reverence for obtaining knowledge, it may be said accurately that it is philosophical, but do not confuse this description of religion or the religious with the virtue of obtaining knowledge (read: philosophy). Hope that helps! 

If you haven't listened to it already, you might like this audio recording of the APA 'authors and critics' session from December 2006 between Peter Hacker, Max Bennet, Dan Dennett & John Searle. Also, I think Searle speaks directly to your concerns with this article: $URL$ Particularly in his conclusion, I think he makes a very salient point to the contrary: 

It is a misrepresentation to characterize logical positivism as only holding "empirical data to be valid." Logical positivism just holds that philosophy should aspire to the same sort of rigor as science. 

You could start with Alexander Bryan Johnson's "A Treatise On Language" And there's Alfred Jules "Freddie" Ayer's "Language, Truth and Logic" He is considered an "ordinary language philsopher" but there's John Wisdom's "Gods" ...which was developed by Anthony Flew in "Theology and Falsification" And there's this overview. 

How can we impartially distinguish philosophy and literature? In other words, if in the whole of an author's work there is not one single knowledge claim, then is it misnomer that the work be described as "philosophy"? If an author issues no knowledge claims, then is the work of literature philosophy? How then to distinguish philosophy from literature? Does such a demarcation render a scientific journal philosophy? 

Is that actually what he said? From William James' "The Meaning of Truth: A Sequel to 'Pragmatism'" (1909 - page 104, boldface and italics my own): Having previously written that truth means 'agreement with reality,' and insisted that the chief part of the expediency of any one opinion is its agreement with the rest of acknowledged truth, I apprehended no exclusively subjectivistic reading of my meaning. My mind was so filled with the notion of objective reference that I never dreamed that my hearers would let go of it; and the very last accusation I expected was that in speaking of ideas and their satisfactions, I was denying realities outside. My only wonder now is that critics should have found so silly a personage as I must have seemed in their eyes, worthy of explicit refutation.