The above phenomenon is also found in other Romance languages such as Spanish and Italian, with their own versions of avoir and être. However, what seems to be unique to French is that the participles that take avoir agree in gender and number with the object when the object is placed in front of the verb. For example: . (This is the car which I bought) The participle is inflected to agree with the subject (la voiture) which is feminine. 

I am aware that probably there is no answer as to what exactly caused the fronting and the "VRSVS" exception, but mere guesses would be fine for me, as such sound change violates the rule that front vowels tend to be unrounded. 

Since your goal is POS-tagging, looking up the word in a list may not always be helpful, because the same word may act like one of many classes, depending on its context. (See "set", for example.) However, unsupervised (i.e. without using annotated data to train a model) POS tagging is a well-researched topic. The paper, "Two Decades of Unsupervised POS induction: How far have we come?" compares several approaches you could use, either for implementation, or for inspiration. As a starting point, I recommend looking into the Brown clustering algorithm (video), which, despite being one of the most effective methods mentioned there, is simple enough to be taught in introductory NLP classes. 

Late-closed refers to those that are open in Vulgar Latin and then became close, in terms of the syllable (not the vowel). Usually they only have one , so the syllable was open until the final vowel was lost, causing to be shifted to the now final syllable (second chain, ). capillum > cheveux Short i in Latin becomes in Vulgar Latin. Only long i is preserved as in Vulgar Latin (the lengthening is basically gone). For example, . Therefore, the answer to your question is, quoting you: 

You could go the BNF way too, if you prefer. (The NLP community prefers to call it CFG (Context Free Grammar)). You can find some online demos of these too. NLTK comes with an implementation you could play with. 

I have no idea about the specific person that you mentioned, or how to go about identifying his country of origin. My answer addresses the general aspect of it. Yes, there are linguists/computational linguists who are working to create software to identify aspects of the author, be it country of origin, or even personal identity. Speech is definitely an aspect that many are working on (example). There are many others who are focusing on the errors of non-native writers (example). The field, in general, is called stylometry or computational stylistics. If you want to try out some such software, stylo and JGAAP are good apps to start with. 

All forms of the Latin verb "FACERE" that went to French had a "c", but it has disappeared in all forms of the French verb "faire". In FACIS > fais, the "c" completely disappeared. In FACIUNT > font, the "c" also disappeared. In FACIAM > fasse, the "c" became "ss". I have noticed that some of the instances of "c" in the Latin forms are followed by a yod. Perhaps this is the cause of the difference. However, the "c" in FACIUNT is also followed by a yod, and it also disappeared. I am seeking an explanation of the evolution of these forms, and I would also prefer to have a step by step evolution of those three selected forms above. 

Are there other approaches... CCG is not the only logic-based grammar. There are others that closer to mathematics, in that, their derivation trees for sentences that look exactly like natural deduction proofs. I think the ACG guys have a working parser. I am not sure about the others like TLG, CVG, etc. 

mean very different things to me, and each has an unambiguous meaning -- not just in text (with punctuation) but in speech too (with intonation). I have pasted a couple of graphs below. To make these, I fed the sentences to the Stanford Parser and used my own software to generate the graphs. But you can verify it for yourself at the Stanford Parser's demo website. 

However, some of the forms did not have the yod, e.g. VL. *sequis > Sp. sigues. What is it that caused the raising of those forms? 

According to WALS chapter 136, the languages are divided according to their words for the first and second person singular pronouns. The M-T languages are the languages which have an /M/ sound (or similar sounds) for the first-person singular pronoun and a /T/ sound (or similar sounds) for the second-person singular pronoun. The M-T paradigmatic languages are the languages where the /M/ and the /T/ sounds occur in the same position, i.e. you can find a common pattern. German 

Modern spelling correction algorithms work independent of language. However, their statistical models have to be trained for each individual target language. This blog post by Peter Norvig is a good place to start exploring. 

Code switching is common in India. So, even when writing to each other in English on facebook or IM, many Indians tend to insert phrases from one or more Indian languages. When people do that, they do not use one of the standard transliteration schemes. Most Sanskrit books, when printed for an English-speaking audience, use IAST. However, that's difficult to type on a computer. I prefer ITRANS, and that's what I'd recommend for you. "Is there a common way to phonetically transcribe Hindi?" In the "common way", people don't aim to be accurate; they just aim to be understood by a fluent speaker of Hindi. Since you're not a fluent speaker of Hindi, I advise against the common way. 

One would think that as long as one of the two vowels are closed, then a diphthong could be formed. However, if a diphthong consists of two closed vowels with the same roundness, like the following 8 diphthongs, then they rarely occur: 

That the first sound has become the sonus medius. That it is a regularization of "sigillum" based on the prefix "sub-" ("sug-" before another "g"). It may have been entirely analogically constructed from "suggetto" (which can also explain /i/ > /e/). But, this is irrelevant to the French word "sceau" (since the French word is "sujet"). 

My only point of contention with the phrasing above is that I would rather have said "an utterance is the spoken realisation of a sentence". Afterall, a sentence is physically realized whether it is spoken, written, or gesticulated (as in ASL), and none of these are any less real situations of language use. 

Note that dependency graphs are (1) not a formalism and (2) not standardized, so each researcher may re-define what happens in dependencies. Some of those dependency graphs are not even trees. Refer Generating Typed Dependency Parses from Phrase Structure Parses. 

Main problem In French, past participles that take avoir are not inflected to agree with the object in gender and number, except when the object is placed in front of the verb. Is this phenomenon found in other Romance languages? How did this phenomenon originate? How is the agreement of the participle in Old French? This page seems to have some clues. How is this phenomenon in Spanish and Italian? 

नर (nara) This is from Proto-Indo-European *h₂nḗr. Cognates include Ancient Greek ἀνήρ, genitive ᾰ̓νδρός, whence English andro-. नरक (naraka) According to hi.wiktionary: