Yes, gender is generally a noun class. If you go outside common European languages, you will find that in languages of the world, there is a whole range of non-gender-based noun categories. Even in IE languages, this can shift from Masculine/Feminine/Neuter to Animate/Inanimate but more famous example is e.g. Japanese with its long thin objects category etc. or in linguistic circles even more famouse Dyirbal with classes for a) animate objects, men; b) women, water, fire, violence; c) edible fruit and vegetables; d) miscellaneous. As for your query about other lexeme-describing grammatical features for other word classes, it is quite possible but it would help if you defined more specifically what you mean by this term you are trying to establish. 

I adhere to the sociolinguistic view on this, represented by Max Weinreich's quotation that Language is a dialect with an army or navy, i.e. this is a social and political question rather than linguistic one. Mutual intelligibility is not a good criterion (but it is a good, albeit not necessary, condition) for this because e.g. Czech or Slovak are totally mutually intelligible, yet they are considered two separate languages, while you have certain dialects of German (to keep it close and not exploit Chinese all the time) that are not intelligible to each other yet they are still dialects of German. It is politics that dictated this status in Europe of nation states. Another good lead in this is prestige of the language variety - standard German is a variety understandable to pretty much anyone, it has a huge corpus of literature, reaching hundreds of years back, which many speakers consider prestigious and aspire to master this variety because it helps them to achieve/imitate adherence to higher socio-economical status. So in conclusion, if you have two language varieties that do not have obviously different origins (different families), one of them is highly prestigious in a socio-economic entity that has the means and willingness to enforce it, and not necessarily through repression but also through science - by creating academic institutions that define the categories in harmony to the ruling willingness, than you are likely to end up with one variety being classified as the "language" and the other as "its dialect". 

aboculus to aveugle is totally regular and not very complicated development (i.e. can be explained by three or four processes that do not intertwine) 

A child, or more precisely an infant (from Latin in-fans - not-speaking), is said to be "universal phonetician". This stems from the fact that you can observe in children of this age the ability to distinguish between any two phonemes in any world language (and the child can grow and learn to make that difference in speech). Now this is no supernatural ability, superpower or proof that our educational systems kill children's wonderful abilities. This means that the child is a rough, unformed piece of wood that will eventually evolve into a precisely carved... something (sorry, I had a beautiful metaphor in mind but it slipped away). During this process of learning, you put stuff into context and you discard the rest, you build your phonological space, you segment the vowel space as required by the realities of language environment around you and you train your articulatory muscles for the gestures required to utter the sounds of that language. After this lengthy process is accomplished, you will inevitably struggle with distinctions, which you were learning in the long previous years to be irrelevant (because in your language they are varieties of the same phoneme). So you have to unlearn what you learned and overcome the constraints set up by your own own phonology. And considering certain articulatory gestures have to be very, very precise to produce the required sound (e.g. Czech voiced /h/, voiced /ř/ etc.), it may require lot of effort to learn them past certain age. 

Now this is not an irregular declension, it is a whole paradigm. Good luck with separating some of the forms into morphemes, let alone finding what constitues the case in the ending and what constitutes the number. Of course there are varying degrees of this and as indicated in the corollary at the top, in Indo-European languages the fusionality hits mostly case endings for declensions and person endings for verb conjugation. Otherwise the derivation and even most inflection is based on the same principle of one morpheme per one function and in this respect may be considered agglutinative. Agglutination is between these two extremes and you can argue that many of the endings are actually somewhat more clitics than parts of the word. E.g. when you decline an adjective phrase, the case endings are appended frequently just to the very last element of the sequence (ADV ADJ NOUN-nr-case) but if you rearrange the order, they are not bound to a specific word class (NOM ADV ADJ-case endings). The fusional languages often require that the grammatical functions are expressed on all the elements of the phrase (ADV ADJ-nr-case NOUN-nr-case). 

It is purely coincidental. Betray comes from French trahir (prefixed with be-), ultimately from Latin trado,-ere (to give something over), itself being a derivation of trans- (over) & do,dare (give). Bedra comes from Germanic dreugan (prefixed also with be-), etymologised as PIE dhrewgh- (mislead) which is also coincidentally the most probable stem, from which Latin fraus, fraudis comes from! Förrådda, on the other hand, comes from Germanic rédan (to advise; compare the prefixation with Czech pro-radný). 

There are several indications this was not just combination of *k+*w. 1) Morphology: Semi-vowels were vocalised in zero grade verbs but this does not happen for *kʷ. To the contrary, there are cases where there is *ḱ followed by /w/ that can vocalise to /u/ ("dog" - a.gr.: kyón, gen.: kynos, skrt.: śván, gen. śunah) which would be fairly peculiar if it did not happen for regular /k/. 2) Alphabetic representation: Some pre-classical Greek dialects use letter "koppa" where *kʷ is reconstructed (which is actually the source of Roman letter Q). There is little reason to assume they would record one particular combination of phonemes as a single phoneme (not that it would be unprecedented in Greek, just the coincidence seems unlikely). 3) Contrast type: It seems certain that PIE *ḱ corresponded to some sort of mildly palatal form of [k] as in the so-called satem languages, it developed quite indiscriminately to sibilants. Therefore if you have a palatal version of [k], and another version of [k], it is likely the contrast will be somewhat reinforced by distancing the places of articulation from each other, the latter being moved more to the post-velar regions of the mouth (as in [q] in IPA), which tends to produced effect not entirely dissimilar to labialisation (same as back vowels tend to be rounded too). I believe it is not difficult to find supporting evidence in linguistic typology for this. 4) Satemisation: When IE languages changed the spawn of *ḱ into something else (either by satemisation or frequent palatalisation), the spawn of *kʷ tended to lose the labial element, as if it were no longer needed to distinguish a contrast because the contrast ceased to exist due to one part of it changing almost entirely to something wildly different. Also it makes sense with regards to (3) - the contrast might have been lost due to it being reinforced too much one way or the other. Again, this is not ubiquitous and does not constitute a proof but it points out in this direction. 

As indicated, Slovenian and Polish are from different subgroups of Slavic languages (South Slavic and West Slavic respectively). As such they are not mutually intelligible (actually spoken Czech and Polish are not very mutually intelligible, yet they are in the same group). In phonology, Slovenian has less consonant distinctions (they mostly got rid of palatalised consonants while Polish evolved ternary system in sibilants) but more vowels distinctions (afaik they distinguished mid-close and mid-open vowels). Slovenian also lost all nasal vowels while in Polish they are preserved. In morphology, both languages share the Slavic structural features - they both decline nouns and adjectives heavily, they conjugate verbs in similar ways and their tenses are formed from similar bases. Polish is further in development of synthetic past tense while most other Slavic languages still cling to the analytical forming with the verb "to be" (Slovenian actually is the last Slavic lanhuage to lose the aorist, i.e. the original synthetic past tense though). Slovenian also preserves the dual number for both declension and conjugation, a feature that is only very residual in all other Slavic languages. In syntax, I would say the languages are pretty much the same - SVO word order where subject can be left unexpressed as it is pointed to by the verbal suffixes. The largest difference will be in lexicon - the problem is not that there are words that are different, but that there are words that actually sound very similar but have a wildly different meaning. All in all, Slovenian is much closer to Czech or Slovak than Polish, but again that applies to Polish too (being closer to Czech and Slovak than to Slovenian). 

How comes from germanic * hwó, which an instrumental case of * hwaz (what). This comes from PIE * kʷod (the same meaning), composed of * kʷ- (iterrogative/indeterminate morheme) and * -o-d, ending for neuter pronouns. Como/Come derives from Latin quo modo (by which way/mode), where the first part quo is ablative case of quod (which), bringing us to the same exact origin. 

First of all, the letters did not become silent as letters are not linguistic units and the orthography of a language is quite arbitrary. In fact in French, there was a time when linguistists (or precursors thereof) were tracing Latin origins of the words and in order to make French closer to Latin, they renewed letters for phonemes that were lost long ago, like Latin "tempus" (time), which gave French "tens" (today just [tã] and reflected in the English word "tense" as in "grammatic tense") but was later changed by the grammarians to "temps" (this was sometimes done incorrectly, e.g. French "pois" - a "weigh" came from Latin "pensum", but grammarians traced it to Latin "podus" and add the letter D into the word, resulting into today's "poids"). So if we modify your question why so many original latin phonemes disappeared, the answer is fairly simple: Ancient French, probably under the influence of Germanic invaders, developed a strong dynamic accent (compared to Latin melodic). This led to the same effect as in today's English, where accented vowels are reinforced (often diphthongised) while non-accented vowels are reduced (typically to schwa). In French, this led to loss of all post-accent syllables, which combined with the general Romance tendency to drop final consonants or consonant clusters led to what the French looks like today. However since there were contexts where some of the consonants were still pronounced (e.g. before a vowel of a following word - today's liaison), they were kept in writing mostly ("il finit" > "finit-il?" also compare with "il parle" > "parle-t-il?", which is the same phenomenon, just the original Latin T for 3SG was dropped for the verb class entirely). 

To be precise, it is /wudʑ/ and in most contexts it will be pronounced [wut͡ɕ]. Phonologically there is phoneme /dʑ/ because when you decline the word, there is a vowel that follows, the phoneme stays sonorous, e.g. "Łodzi" [wodʑi]. But otherwise, the sonority is lost/neutralised at the end of the word, so unless the following word starts with voiced consonant, the final segment will stay devoiced. For the recording in question, this may be dialectal or just an example of the word taken from the middle of an utterance. 

⟨ch⟩ is pronounced [x] in Polish and as many other Polish sounds, it can undergo so called "voice assimilation". Assimilation is a process during which a speech sound gets a feature from an adjacent or otherwise close speech sound. Typical example of the is the voice assimilation, causing that the voicedness of a consonant depends typically on the consonant directly following it, e.g.: I have a dog - [aj hæv] I have to go - [aj hæf tu] Most typically, this process is limited for a class of sounds called obstruents, i.e. sounds formed in a manner where the articulatory organs create an obbstruction (in case it is full, they are called occlusives, in case it is partial, they are called fricatives), through which the air is expulsed and creates a noise (non-harmonic sound). Thus the obstruents are sounds like [t,p,k,d,b,g,f,s,š,x,v,z,ž,ɣ,...] but not [m,n,l,r,...]. In Polish, this works in a very similar name - when a voiced obstruent follows an unvoiced one, such as [x], the unvoiced one is assimilated and becomes voiced, in this case [ɣ], even though otherwise there is no stand-alone [ɣ] in Polish. This does not happed in front of liquids (l, r) and in front of [v] (which behaves like an approximant in Slavic languages) śmiech siostry (laughter of the sister) - [ɕmjex ɕostry] śmiech brata (laughter of the brother) - [ɕmjeɣ brata] chleb (bread) - [xlep] The same rules should apply to [x] sound regardless the way it is written - be it ⟨ch⟩ or ⟨h⟩. The best strategy to pronounce this correctly is to pay no attention as the voice assimilation is very widespread process and most speakers do not even realise this is happening (especially since [ɣ] is not a phoneme in Polish, i.e. it does not distinguish meaning).