The stock advice is to put zero reliance on your ears ever. There's this issue, there's the related issue of wind direction keeping you from hearing a car even not at high speeds, and there are extremely quiet cars. Basically the choice is look back a lot and get good at it or use a mirror. 

Yes. If it actually measures 47mm wide inflated then it's a little caught between 2 sizes, but 700x45 tubes will work fine in it. 29x1.95-2.135ish tubes would also work, but be big. If it's Dunlop/Woods valve now then get Schrader. If it's Regina get Presta. 

You should indeed start by just loosening the caliper mounting bolts and trying to do a simple adjustment of the brake. Try to center the gap either by eye or by squeezing the lever while tightening the bolts back down, which sometimes works great and other times not at all. Tighten the bolts to about 8nm, which is firm but not super tight. If that doesn't work, remove the wheel, remove the brake pads (careful never to touch the pad surface), clean around the pistons with alcohol and a rag, then stick a tire lever in and push the pistons firmly back in place. You've now reset the automatic centering of the brake. Put the wheel back in and re-adjust the brake. You have to work the lever a couple times until it firms up. If none of that works, you probably have a sticky piston. If it's fixable, it's done by re-lubricating the piston seals with Shimano mineral oil. 

The vast majority of OEM hubs for adult bikes are 3/16" front, 1/4" rear, usually ten per side in front and nine per side in back. Exceptions do exist, but if nine 1/4" bearings comfortably fit in the cup with little to no extra space, that's very probably what it takes. Quando is a line of Kun Teng, or KT, one of the largest hub manufacturers. By doing enough homework, or maybe just emailing them a picture of your hub and asking what bearings it's supposed to have, or asking them if they've ever made any singlespeed/track rear looseball hubs with anything but 1/4", you may be able to get a definitive answer. If one had to figure this out without any external information, it becomes a matter of making an educated guess based on looking at: 

No for a whole lot of reasons, the most decisive of which is that the 7801 hubs are among the only (along with WH-6600) ones Shimano's ever made that use a drive ring in the hub shell to engage the pawls, as opposed to the pawls and the ring they engage being all internal to the freehub body. In other words the design is completely different from any of the 11-speed freehub bodies. The hub design from WH-7801: 

Yep, same cable pull for the shifter. Alfine shifters have the same bar real estate needs as most any other modern flatbar shifter, so you can use pretty much whatever you want that's compatible with your brake, which is its own question that you can find plenty of discussions on here. 

You need any BH59 hose with the right ends. The commonly seen current model kit would be BH59-JK-SS, comes in black or white and 1700mm or 2000mm. 

The Coda's freehub body can take a 7-speed cassette with the addition of a 4.5mm conversion spacer to take up the extra room, which is a common bike shop item. There are two stumbling blocks though. First, if the Coda's current left shifter and front derailer come from a Shimano mountain group, which they probably do, then they won't work correctly with STI because the actuation ratio is different between mountain and road. It can be made to work badly but will never be right. So if this is what you have (as opposed to a flat bar road shifter and a road derailer), you'll need a road derailer, and then there's the question of getting one that either plays nice with the existing crank or getting a crank to match it. If you don't want to have to mess with changing cranks, you may look at the IRD Alpina FD, because it's just about the only one out there that has a cage profiled for mountain/hybrid/trekking/etc triples and takes road cable pull. Second, you probably have normal v-brake-lever-compatible brake calipers, whereas your STIs have road/sidepull/canti cable pull. They don't work together, at all. So you need either road calipers or a cable pull conversion device such as Travel Agents. 

"Worth it" is opinion-based, but no, probably not. Possible, yes, but it's more technical than it might appear, and much more complex than building normal wheels, because the Bontrager wheel in the pic has paired spokes and the other does not. Normal hubs have spoke holes on the two flanges that are interleaved evenly with one another, to match the evenly spaced holes on the rim. Hubs for paired spokes have holes on one flange staggered a certain amount ahead of the other, also to match the holes in the rim. That's why your radial paired spoke wheel has spokes that still all radiate outward from the center of the hub. If you were to do what you propose with these two hubs, you wouldn't be able to use the standard spoke length calculation formula. You'd have to do some measuring/math and rework the formula for the unusual spoke/hub angles that would result from doing this. You'd then be left with double-grooved hubs because the spokes wouldn't fall along the same path as original on either, which is never a good thing but should be avoided at all costs on radial wheels, because it sometimes makes the flanges blow up. (Also, if it's not obvious, even if not for the issue of one being paired spoke, you'd still only physically be able to swap just the hubs and re-use the spokes if the hubs were close enough to the same dimensions, which they may or may not be, and that's putting aside all cautions against re-using spokes.) 

The idea is that it keeps the dirt and water that would otherwise get kicked on to the cable from getting worked into the noodle, contaminating the cable system and causing friction, corrosion, and poor brake feel. 

Existing examples, that I've come across at least, are generally a mess and ride more like early proof of concept experiments than something that should ever have been put in the hands of normal people. They're difficult to modulate and add what feels like an arbitrary and unpredictable amount of power to the braking system. This impression of them became more or less entrenched, and that's essentially the last we've seen of them. But why did it end there so decisively? In the canti design, instead of completely replacing the pivot with a helical interface, why can't you combine the two? I.e. have a traditional pivot doing most of the work but with a helical interface with a very short, controlled amount of travel layered alongside it to amplify the power up to a certain point. Or, similarly, in a disk brake, couldn't you have traditional pistons but at the end of them there's a little track angled on either side towards the rotor for the pad to get pushed down, similarly adding a controlled amount of braking power? 

So putting the caliper directly on the post without any adapter sets it up for a 203, and the fork can't take anything smaller. If you had a fork with 180mm post mounts and you wanted to run a 200mm rotor, you would use a +20mm adapter, and you would not be able to run 160. If it's not specified anywhere, which is often the case, usually that means 160 front, 160 rear for mountain and hybrid/urban and 160 front, 140 rear for road. Sometimes manufacturers make it difficult to track down the number. SRAM/Rockshox only sticks it in their giant tech spec pdfs as far as I know. This is the answer as it applies to current forks. In the past there were more forks that needed model-specific adapters, and various IS-only calipers based on specific rotor sizes. So in the scheme of things, there are also all sorts of older forks and brakes where the minimum or maximum rotor size was limited in those ways. In the more common case of a fork with standard IS mounts, the minimum is always 160. 

Different chains, including modern ones, have all sorts of patterns or markings on the tips of the pins. On some there's some level of intentionality to it as a shift aid. There are no bike chains where all the links are screwed together. (There are some half-link styles where the pin screws in place, but that's a tangent.) The pictured chain is an older bushing-type chain, which was the norm until bushingless chains took their place. From the look of the cranks/rings/guard the bike is a bike-boom era 10 or 12 speed (as in 2 front chainrings and either 5 or 6 rear cogs). If so, chains specific to such drivetrains, which are labelled 5/6 speed usually, are still made and available. You could order one, but many shops don't carry them, instead choosing to use more modern 8-speed chain for replacements on such bikes, which works perfectly.