A philosopher's job is original thought, not self-publicity. Wittgenstein never formally published beyond his Tractatus; the work he is most famous for, and certainly among the last centuries most important, only survived from informal notebooks, and in the inspiration of his students - and it's so unclear there are a huge variety of interpretations. Nietzsche similarly was way far ahead of his time, but more than made up in original thought what he lacked in self-promotion or frankly, clarity. Great philosophers get discussed, that is more important than who can read their original texts. Most of Marx is as bad as Hegel, and Hegel is only even read now because of his influence on Marx. But 20th C. politics and history cannot be understood without addressing the impact of Marx's thought. Meanwhile many philosophers popular in their own times for giving intellectual backing to people's prejudices, are remembered at best as footnotes, or else as villains. There is nothing wrong with popular science or philosophy, and public intellectuals are essential to informed healthy public debate. But we will remember the breakers-of-new-ground, in telling the story of how we got where we are, not some kind of popularity contest like you seem to suggest. We will record the path to todays unanswered questions, and areas of concern. Intellectual snobbery is no good, wilful obscurantism, and jargonising - I feel analytic philosophies obsession with formal logic is more about gate-keeping than utility. But proposing anti-intellectualism is no better it is the path, not only to ignoring great thinkers and thoughts, but those which disagree with and challenge you too easily, by labelling them 'difficult'. 

Consider the seperate parallel schools of logic, in China $URL$ and India $URL$ both from a similar era to Ancient Greece. The centralised nature of the Chinese state allowed this school to be suppressed, similarly to how gunpowder, compasses, canals, paper & printing were invented there but didn't have the transformative effect they had in the West ($URL$ with it's fragmented islands and political squabbling (Rome may have fallen because of lead poisoning from the plumbing - it could have been far more centralised but for that). India had a cultural and religious unity rather than a political one, that began to flourish in a similar era to the unification of China. There is fascinating evidence that derivations of pi, geometry, zero and infinity all came from India, mainly developed for religious purposes: In Our Time, 'Indian Mathematics' $URL$ These reached Ancient Greece from there. Ancient Greece was profoundly shaped by the conflict between Athens & Sparta, and crucially by the values of Athens who prevailed, a democracy (of sorts). City of Athena, prophesied to overthrow Zeus. The goddess of teknos, and philo-sophia. Plato's Symposium illustrates a culture where philosophy, rhetoric, mathematics, didn't simply have the roles we give them. But were for a kind of performance. Consider how $URL$ got within 15% of the true value of the Earth's circumference - but no one used that to understand how much of the globe remained undiscovered. Theatre and the sports (eg the Olympic Games) developed as competitions, which refined both. City states, warring states, religious diversity and conflicts, meant technology, theology, and philosophy, gave groups a crucial edge as the mediterranean cultures and Europe developed, driving developments and uptake of new ideas. There are remarkable parallels between developments of ideas in different regions of the world, probably relating to the spread of agriculture & writing (from seperate emergences). Geographical and political differences have been crucial to the different outcomes from these over time. Edited to add: Jared Diamond backs up this speculation on geography in Guns Germs & Steel: Variables. The Shapes Of Continents $URL$ 

I have to begin by saying, if there unambiguously were free will would not be such an area of consternation and debate. There is a Zen story: 

I am an epistemological nihilist. I see this as following the thought of Nagarjuna, as eloquently explained here $URL$ (yes in Buddhism a middle way between nihilism and eternalism is essential to the 'middle way', but that teaching uses a non-standard definition of nihilism) I see nihilism as like absurdism, but instead of a confrontation between our need for meaning and the universes complete unwillingness to provide it, simply accepting the meaningless of meaning, and refusing any compulsion to create it. Nihilism like anarchism started as a pejorative, a spectre, a terrible thing no one could wish to be. I see a parallel to anarchism too in taking up the pejorative, adding refinement to the definition, and using it as a framework for a kind of perpetual revolution, not so much an assertion of views as a turning away from a former eras views. Also a broadening from a purely political niche identified mainly with destruction, to something brought to different aspects of thought and ways to be. I see postmodern antifoundationalism as epistemologically nihilist also. As we move from the idea of a single reality, a reference frame implicitly found to have been relying on the mind of 'the god of the philosophers' to percieve it, we are moving to a peer-to-peer perspective. Meaning and reality and truth are not found, nor is there a duty on us to make them. Like Buddha, we can choose to simply unravel all these causes of suffering, and cease the self-defeating turbulence. Vines used to unravel vines, words used to end words, philosophy used like Wittgenstein to cure us of the need to create philosophy. 

I see this as a significant question, based on a significant observation. For me it is a way of thinking about what real means, and what 'thingness' or identity is. So to start with, you missed a zombie. What if you are deyerministic, a slave to the sum of your biology and experiences, predisposed to act in a specific way in response to every unique circumstance? It doesn't feel like that's the case, and it doesn't help you make decisions, even if there is a crib sheet somewhere with all your answers already written out. Similarly, with predicting others. They may possibly be deterministic, but given sensitivity to initial conditions means we can't fully predict the role of a dice, what chance of a billion-celled human? A model that ascribes motivations and emotions is simply a better predictor. More broadly, we forget how science sees 'real'. There is no universal objective framework, because every observation was by a subjective thing. Think of the scope for systematic error! Time may be one such, we may exist in 4D, but only be able to experience it as 3D intersecting with the moment. Scientific method is also tentative, empiric Not ontic. It does not reveal The Real or Truth. It only provides our best model so far, which is almost certainly wrong or at least incomplete. A real, from here, with these tools, consistent with these observations. I really like this idea, of 'peer-to-peer reality' $URL$ 

Key qualities of humans vs other apes are explained by their eusociality $URL$ The defining qualities of which are 

There are models with explanatory power that do include a 'before', but they are highly speculative: $URL$ Leaving aside both the nature of time and it's role in cosmology, that still leaves infinite things in finite time. I suggest that this part of your question is reiterating Zeno of Elea's paradoxes, which recieved formal solution in the mathematics of limits and infinitesimals applied to infinities, by Cauchy and other $URL$ A key observation, is that these methods are about linking conceptually continuous and conceptually discrete things. A continuous thing, like time, can contain infinite discrete 'moments' or opportunities for events (at least conceptually). In physics instants occur (or are modelled anyway) as surfaces of simultaneity between states, so not 'spaced' apart. However, this addresses the question formally, and ontological and phenomenological concerns remain. 

Try some stoicism. This philosophy aims to shift attention from things it is meaningless to speculate about, and over which you have no power to change, to areas where you can have a positive impact. Helping from slaves to emperors eg $URL$ 

Reductionism is based on an unjustified and unjustifiable assumption, that wholes are completely explainable by parts. This Methodological reductionism, the process of simplifying systems and reducing them to an assembly of parts, has been mistakenly taken to demonstrate ontological reductionism. 

I find it interesting to compare Hobbes and Rousseau. Their ideas of the 'state of nature are diametrically opposed. The' war of all against all' vs the 'noble savage'. They unfold this from their views about human nature, and one can't help but feel, their own natured. We can see the same dynamic, from Kant to Sartre. The projections of their concerns onto themselves, their view of human nature, and their conclusions about what dilemmas we face. 

That is not a skeptical position, which would withold judgement on that. Unless, you implicitly define 'knowledge' as consisting of provable truths in a way analogous to mathematics, or as emerging from some foundation which somehow resolves the nature and origination of meaning. These are we think we have strong evidence, not possible. Science is tentative and proceeds only by hypothesees. It has been argued, that science must remain fundamentally incomplete, that is if all true axioms are known and unified, all truths will still not be recursively enumerable $URL$ So is science radically skeptic? No, it simply doesn't bother to be. The scientific positiin is agnosticism, not atheism, because the metaphysical speculation is just irrelevant without relating it to specific evidence. I know of two well established schools of thought which can reasonably be described as radically sceptical. The first is the Madhyamaka school of Mahayana Buddhism. The acknowledged core of this is the demonstration of the futility of metaphysical speculations. The second is postmodern antifoundationalism, which is approximately the view that knowledge must be understood with a behavioural context and reference to power, which places fundamental limits on the possibility of objectivity (though it can be achieved by degree). This does not view knowledge as impossible, only redifines it as not having the transcendental qualities which might wish it to have, which are fundamentally revealed as a power-play. So. Your definition is essentially absurd, self contradictory. Radical skeptics can and do place limits on the definition and especially objectivity or universality of knowledge. It is a perspective widely, and convincingly held, which allow many metaphysical quandaries to be discarded, including whether we can have fundamental or transcendentally true knowledge. The only reason this is not more widely recognised, is that radical skeptics exactly have no interest anymore in whether their view is fundamentally or transcendentally true. Lol 

is that all this development is just accidental, not necessary for mentality and thinking. Babies not only fail to thrive and develop without these developments, they die. The philosophical framing, in the Private Language argument, points out meaning is not inherent in signs or objects, like 

Picturing pleasure as an ontic category, leads to this $URL$ I would argue, that this is indicative not of a desired state of affairs, but of a problem with the assumptions, that pleasure is intrinsically good, and pain intrinsically bad. Where do we get those valuations? Looking at the supposed generators of 'positive mental states' we have, not rats choosing them over food, social benefits etc. but $URL$ It is pretty dubious to equate psychaedelics to stimulants and opiods and other addictive compounds, in practice they seem to have a counteracting effect $URL$ Say you decide for whatever reason, drinking special brew in a comfy chair watching TV is the ultimate goal of life. Or any other set affairs. Evolution will place a creature that chooses a more resiliant versatile goal, in the position of propagating more. Meaning itself, is a heuristic for understanding resiliance and versatlity. If you have more meaning, and pleasure is just one subset of the category, you will strive harder, suceed more often. And propagate. When people take mind altering substances in practice, their succeptibility to unhealthy use is actually related to their own unhealthiness - see rat consumption of cocaine over food as a result of isolation, or alcoholism not as a 'product' of alcohol itself but of poor emotional development etc. We reset our sense of what is desirable in relation to feedback, and desire for repeated simplistic feedback is a pathology, because feedback cannot be an end in itself, only a category of subjective experience. You can choose special brew in a comfy chair watching TV, and the world will move on without you. You can choose curiosity, community, vision, and build a future in which you are part. That is not a judgement, unless you choose it to be. 

Plato's views diverge strongly from Buddhist ones. For Buddhists there is reBirth, of causes and conditions created by craving and ignorance of the true nature of reality. This is contrasted to reIncarnation in Hinduism, of an immortal soul. This is a core fundamental distinction that anyone who 'gets' Buddhism, read texts or studied with a teacher, would have to know. Buddhism is very much opposed to both idealism and materialism, with a core descriptor of it as the Middle Way between these, through describing dependent origination and contingency. There are speculative but quite strong lines of circumstancial evidence for the indirect influence of Buddhism on the ancient world though, especially of synchretising with Judaism by Essenes, the branch of Judaism that became Christianity $URL$ Stoicism has remarkable parallels with Buddhism, and Pyrrho is known to have studied philosophy in India, while travelling with Alexander The Great $URL$ It is interesting to look elsewhere at how external theological ideas or discourses indirectly caused religions to change. Jainism, Buddhism, and Sikhism, can all to some extent reasonably, be described as reform movements of Sanatam Dharma, or Hindu perennial philosophy. Buddhist thought strongly influenced Shankara in forming Advaita Vedanta, the most philosophically robust interpretation of Hindu thought. Sikhism declares itself a development of Hindu thought, although it is monotheistic, and emphasises martial self-reliance, responding to Islam. So, influence doesn't have to mean incorporation, or even direct study by key thinkers. Challenger religions or theologies change public debate, asserting their value, or capacity to deal with current problems in different ways. Established religions have to respond to have survived, and provide satisfying counterpoint developments to thrive. It seems unlikely that detailed awareness of Buddhist theology came to the West, and this is not surprising because it would need to have been related to the theological concerns where it occured, needing a large amount of study, and transfer of religious 'professionals' and scholars to and from India, which we might expect historical evidence for. But it seems very likely core Buddhidt ideas did influence Greek philosophy through Stoicism, and later Western thought through the Essenes. 

It is important to distinguish between meaning, and information. Information can be examined and quantified in isolation. Meaning is relational, and essentially comes down to some criteria of 'success' in the form of predicting outcomes and navigating a probability space towards desired outcomes. This gap, between information and meaning, has to be linked to the hard problem of consciousness. Meaning is not only relational, but at it's most fundamental, subjective (it begins in minds, whatever error-correction and comparison tools we use). We have to generate a kind of virtual reality of mental objects in a probability space (with heuristics like character, and signs and codes to represent mental objects and more complex 'threads' e.g cultural expectations), and invite other minds into it, to witness the projected navigation of the probability space, and so to share meaning. Strange Loops (eg as we discussed) are a model for the crucial difference between logical systems which are finite and explicit, and meaning systems where at any moment you can 'step out' of the system, and treat that whole previous system as a new symbol within a larger system. They are virtual realities, which are open ended, and can be examined for implications according to how well they are defined. Consider a problem like the travelling salesman problem, as a logical system success is (typically) defined as the shortest route. As a meaning system, it is defined as the best use of energy, including in calculations about the best route, to get to your goals. That is, the igger picture of being an organism, with energy constraints, never dissappears, cannot be walled off. The problem is never truly isolated, but a matrushka doll nested in ogher systems of meaning and proposed ways to navigate. The outside of this nesting is the fundamental problem we all have, 'What should I do next?'. Which is like the Zen 'root koan', 'who am I?' - which for Zen practice must always be manifested in a way to be, a proof of accepting you can -and answered as a demonstration of skill in- stepping outside of finite logic, into the domain of creativity with meaning. A paradigm shift that takes an old or limiting ordering, and reinterprets it to get around a limit or block, or otherwise expand the capacity for prediction, and meaning. To say meaning is computable, it contains information, is a truism. But what infor ation has meaning, is beyond the s ope of a logical system, where that decision process is done by definitions, from outside of it.