Science has limits. We use tools developed inside of a complex system to try to measure and model the system itself. It is likely impossible that we, as component parts of the system, could ever build a cohesive scientific model to accurately define the entire system. Science can only expand by extrapolating from our current models and rulesets. Philosophy is a different type of tool which can explore many things that the scientific method cannot. As such, it is essential. Lastly, philosophy has throughout history originated a good percentage of the concepts that science has explored and tested to construct these models. 

I can offer a discussion on the issue of embryos and personhood; however, I have not kept track of specific names of the philosophers' works that I have read on this topic. I hope this will provide you with thought-provoking points to consider as you develop your presentation - it is a truly interesting and important topic. To summarize this discussion, by the argument I will lay out (that if it is X at the end, in the absence of a distinct change, then it must be X from the start), there is not a good criteria for terminating another human's life at any developmental stage to use its cells. The term personhood is inadequate, and more objective terminology should be used in order to successfully address these ethical and legal topics. Person / Non-person is a binary distinction. (There's no validity to "half-person" or "3/7ths person.") "Person" has many different interpretations, even referring to adult humans; historically, often the adult males of the ruling class were the only "persons" in a society. The fact that even in the US, women were denied full "personhood" within the last century makes it clear that the term fluctuates based upon current societal attitudes and politics. It also morphs depending on the context in which it is used, and in some cases can even be defined by the desire of another human being. It seems illogical (and unethical) that the definition of a rightful member of our species is allowed to morph depending on swinging attitudes and politics. Scientific objectivity is a key in moving away from these fluctuating definitions. So as definitions have shifted from white adult men being the only "persons" to defining person as a living human being, it's become even more critical to define "living human being." Human / Non-human is also a binary distinction. With binary definitions: If something is X at the end of a time interval, then either it must become X during that interval, or else it must have been X from the start. Therefore, starting with the premise that all adult humans are persons: If a human adult is a person, then either he/she became a person at some moment, or he/she was a person from the start of his/her individual lifetime. Then, becoming X requires a distinct change. An individual living human being's natural development proceeds uninterrupted from zygote through adult senescence, given adequate nutrients and environment. The embryo is just one stage in this life cycle of a living human organism. When you zoom in and look carefully, it is obvious that all development is gradual- physiologically, genetically, biochemically, anatomically - from the formation of the independent, genetically-unique zygote through adult senescence. (Look at the above link and see how slowly we change - and remember that these are a small number of stop-motion frames over 9 months of gradual development in gestation.) There are strong scientific arguments that no single defining moment of change in the life development of an individual organism is significant enough of a change to demarcate a change in status to toggle from "not a human life" to "human life." Nor from "not a person" to "is a person." 

Heaven, in Swedenborg's conception of it, consists of people who have freely chosen to be in mutual, loving relationship with God and with one another. This is in line with Jesus' pithy distillation of the entire Scriptures into the two Great Commandments: 

This answer comes from the perspective of the Christian philosophy and theology of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772). Key point: The false premise is #2. God made humans for the purpose of ruling over His creation. This also falsifies premise #4. Scripture does not say that God's purpose in creating humans is for them to rule over God's creation. The idea that God created humans for the purpose of ruling over his creation is based especially on Bible passages such as: 

From the perspective of the Christian philosophy of Emanuel Swedenborg, then, God's purpose in creating humans is to have beings with whom God can be in a freely chosen and mutual loving relationship. God's purpose in creating humans requires humans to have the ability to reject that relationship. Finally, to take up the issue of whether or not God created humans "perfectly": Obviously there is much evil and imperfection in human life, both individually and collectively. The issue of God's perfection, and perfect love, in the face of the existence of evil in God's creation, and particularly in the human element of God's creation, is a vast subject both in philosophy and theology, covered generally under the term "theodicy." Though we cannot fully cover such a vast topic here, the basics, from the perspective of Swedenborg's philosophy, are these: For a relationship to be truly loving and mutual, it must be freely chosen. If humans were created so that we could do nothing but love God (and one another), we would be mere robots, or mere extensions of God. Our love would be no more real or mutual than that of a computer programmed to display "I love you" on its screen. For humans to be able to freely and mutually return God's love, then, we must also have the ability to reject God's love, and refuse a mutual, loving relationship with God. And yet, if everything good is from God, and is God, as Swedenborg's philosophy states, then rejecting God also means rejecting what is good. And rejecting what is good means opting for evil over good. Therefore in order to fulfill God's purpose of creating a human race with which God could be in mutual, loving relationship, God had to create humans with the ability to reject God, love, and goodness. God therefore had to create humans with the ability to choose, "create," and perpetrate evil instead of good. This means that the existence of evil in human life and society is not an imperfection in God's creation. Rather, it was necessary for God to allow for it (not create it) in order for God to achieve God's primary purpose in creation of being in mutual, loving relationship with beings other than God's own self. Conclusion Based on the above reasoning: Premise #2, "God made humans for the purpose of ruling over His creation," is false. Premise #4, "Humans are not perfectly suited toward their purpose," is also false. According to the Christian philosophy of Emanuel Swedenborg, humans are created perfectly by God to accomplish God's purpose for them. That perfection, however, requires human to have moral and spiritual freedom, so that we can reject God's goodness, and choose evil instead. The fact that we humans are capable of rejecting God's purpose for us is essential to our very humanity, and to our ability to freely choose to fulfill God's purpose for us, which is to be in a mutually loving relationship with God and with our fellow human beings. 

Science is a method. The scientific method gives us tools to hypothesize and theorize models to fit what we currently observe about our universe. Science is not an absolute truth; our body of scientific knowledge is a collection of the best models we currently have. Many models are extremely strong, some are works in progress, and some are just starting to develop. We don't yet have models to fit absolutely everything that we observe, and there are also many things that we have not yet observed, could never observe directly, or have not yet even contemplated. We are inside of a complex system, doing our best to make models that explain the system. Physics is the primary tool that we use to explore models for the mechanics of the universe. We use our current theoretical models of the universe and extrapolate backwards in order to hypothesize what came before what we currently observe. The strongest theory I have ever read for the initial inciting force is the necessity for the existence of an "unmoved mover" (also called "prime mover"). It is philosophy that illuminated the unmoved mover. I would recommend reading about it. I will try to find a better link that Wikipedia, but it is a great start. Nothing from astrophysicists that I have read has presented a convincing-enough argument for what comes before the Big Bang. Many refer to a singularity, but the force that initiated the expansion of the universe has not been successfully modeled. This suggests that it is indeed philosophy that so far has been capable of going beyond the current scientific models proposed. (I consider religion as being an aspect of philosophy.) There are various proposed scenarios for the very early universe, most of which differ radically from one another. A discussion of some of them can be found in the Wikipedia entry on the Chronology of the Universe: 

These are just a few of many, many passages in the Christian Bible regarding the ongoing theme of the covenant between God and humanity. This overarching theme of Scripture strongly suggests that in Christian philosophy and theology God's primary purpose in creating humans is not to give them dominion, but rather to establish a covenantal relationship with them. Relationship is God's purpose in creating humanity. Swedenborg picks up this theme of relationship as God's purpose in creating humanity in the most philosophical of his theological works, Divine Love and Wisdom: 

What Swedenborg is saying here, in brief, is that the nature of love itself, and especially of divine love, is that it must have others to love, and that love must be mutual, and that it was therefore necessary for God to create finite (non-God) beings whom God could love, and who could love God in return. Another way Swedenborg formulates this, much more briefly, is found in Divine Providence, which forms a sequel to Divine Love and Wisdom: 

However, neither of these passages states that ruling over God's creation is God's purpose in creating humans. They simply state that giving humans dominion over the remainder of creation is something God has done. It could just as well be said that God's purpose in creating humans is for them to "be fruitful and multiply," or to be "a little lower than God, and crowned with glory and honor"–which God is also said in these passages to do for human beings. In short, what God does for humans is not necessarily God's purpose in creating humans. Scripture suggests that God's purpose in creating humans is to be in relationship with them. Taking any one or a few verses from Scripture in isolation and using them as the basis for major conclusions about God's actions and God's purposes is a fundamentally faulty way of reading Scripture. Especially considering that much of Scripture consists, not of philosophy and theology, but of a narrative, a better approach would be to look at the overall themes of Scripture for clues as to why God created humans. And a key theme of Scripture overall is the concept of "covenant." In fact, this concept is so central to Scripture that Christians have actually named the two major divisions of their scriptures after the covenant between God and humanity: "The Old Testament" and "The New Testament." "Testament" is another word for "covenant." Now, a covenant is a relationship between two parties–in this case, God and humanity. And if we follow the biblical narrative, we see that God is continually making and renewing covenants with humanity. For example (emphasis added in all cases): God made a covenant with Noah: