My grandparents used to cover their entry way carpets with a vinyl carpet protector in the winter. The nice thing about this is that you can roll it up for storage when you aren't using it. 

There's a nice gear calculator at Sheldon's site. I did a quick calculation for you, and at 50/12, at 90 RPM, you should be going 47.4 km/h. If you upgraded your front chainring to a 54, and your back cassette to go down to 11, at the same RPM you could go 55.8 km/h, which is a significant increase. You can play around with different options on the calculator to see how much it would help to get different gearing combinations. You might find that you won't get much extra speed out of bigger gears as your bike has a somewhat upright posture and therefore you'll be quite limited in what kind of speed you can get. I think that 50 km/h is plenty fast for a bike and that you should just focus more on going faster on the flats and uphills. 

The main thing I don't like about the fixie you linked to is that it doesn't look like it can accommodate a rear rack. This can be very useful for commuting. Although you have a very short commute so it probably isn't that much of an issue. I'm the kind of person who would much rather have a rear rack than have a back pack on, but that's just personal preference. 

622 is the ISO naming scheme for 700c wheels. Since the choices given to you don't list 700x15 I would think you'd have to enter a custom setting. I don't imagine any of the 26 inch measurements would apply to you either. Mountain bikes have a bead seat distance of 559 mm, meaning you would need a tire that is 622+15 - 559 = 78 mm, or about 3 inches on a 26 inch rim to come up to the same radius. This is based on the information I was able to obtain from the Sheldon Brown tire sizing page. This assumes that you have 15c tires on the bike, which would be quite narrow, but not unheard of. If you can supply the numbers from the side of the tire wall then we could provide you with a more specific answer. 

If you often have people coming at you from the side, you need to make yourself more visible from the side. Many front and back lights don't actually illuminate much to the side. To make yourself more visible, especially at night, add reflectors to your bike. You can go for the basic wheel reflectors, and you can also put white reflective tape along your forks, and red reflective tape along your seat stays (It's mandatory where I live, not that anybody does it). This will help you to be illuminated from the car headlights or street lights. Also consider getting a reflective vest for riding at night. 

I would say that based on the two riding schedules, even ignoring the winter aspect, and simply from your perspective of keeping toned, the trainer is going to beat commuting in most circumstances. Firstly, an hour on the trainer is quite an intense workout. You don't stop pedaling for that entire hour. With commuting there's usually a lot of obstacles and distractions that cause you to stop pedaling such as traffic lights, traffic, and road conditions. On a trainer, it's much more feasible to maintain a hard effort as you don't have things getting in your way. You can also maintain much harder efforts because you don't have to worry about falling off the bike and watching where you are going. Getting that last 30 seconds of a hard effort can sometimes only be achieved by putting your head down, closing your eyes, and pushing through the pain/exhaustion. I commute as much as possible, as long as there is no snow. However, even adding extra miles into my morning commute, I find it hard to get a really good workout in. Even a 40 minute ride only yields maybe 20 minutes of quality riding at a good heart rate and effort. I definitely enjoy riding on the road more, but if your goal is "decent tone and shape", then you will see much more results sitting on a trainer for 3 hours a week than by commuting, especially if you aren't pushing the limit during the commute. 

I would suggest that if Ken and Barbie want to continue biking together that Ken should learn that not every bike ride has to be about getting a work out or training. I mean, what happens when little sister Kelly visits and wants to go for a bike ride with them? Is Ken going to just leave them in the dust? Alternatively if Ken really insists on trying to get a workout on what is obviously a recreational ride, he could try things like doing one legged drills, going the whole way without sitting down (this will tire your legs out), or always leaving it in the lowest/hardest gear, except when descending down a big hill at which point he should put the bike in the easiest gear and see if he can set a new high score on his cadence meter. 

I don't think it's possible to tell from the picture, but if it's a decal, you should be able to tell as it would probably be slightly raised from the surface of the rest of the frame. If you want a decal of similar style, contact a print or advertising company in your area (or find one online), many of them are able to make custom decals. My highschool even had the machinery for cutting custom vinyl decals, so you might want to check with local highschools or college (preferably one with a graphic design programme) to see if you can get one done by a student for cheaper. If it's painted on, this basic method for accomplishing this is to apply the different colours in layers. Since the frame is black, they would most likely apply the black first. Then they would apply a mask that would block out all the parts they want to remain black, and put on the next color. The same would be done for all subsequent colours. Then they would apply a clear coat on top for protecting the paint. 

The Timing chain helps keep the front and back riders pedals rotating at the same time. Depending on your preferences you can set them as "in phase" where both the front and back cranks are at the same point in the rotation, or as "out of phase" where the front and back cranks are offset by 90 degrees. This is advantageous as when one of the riders reaches the dead point (where the cranks are vertical), the other set of cranks is at horizontal allowing good power transfer. You can set up different levels of out of phase. You can set it up so that one rider is only a few teeth ahead of the other rider, so that both riders aren't in a dead zone, but the pedals are more or less aligned. 

Probably best to start with something mild and work to more harsh until you find something that works. It's probably also best to test in a non-conspicuous area on the same wall just in case something unexpected happens. You can start with just soap and water, and see how that does.Then try dish soap. If that doesn't work, you could try the magic eraser things. They do sell generic ones which people claim to work (never tried them) which could save money if you need to do this a lot. I think these actually remove a thin layer of paint, so you should probably be careful with these. 

So I took it back to the shop. Turns out that something got messed up at the factory/supplier, and the left hand cups on a bunch of their English bottom brackets was actually Italian, which means they were larger and wouldn't fit.. There were able to find the proper size cup from a bottom bracket with a difference spindle length. But they opened 2 or 3 other boxes and they all had the same problem. They were quite thankful to me to alerting them to the problem. 

You could remove the chain from the sprockets while it's not being used. If you have quick release wheels removing it and putting it back on should take no longer than 5 minutes. Removed the back wheel, disengage the chain, and wrap it up around the seat post. If you have a single speed or fixed gear bike, this will be easy but it gets more complicated with derailleurs, but depending on their design it still might be possible with about 10 minutes of work. But it probably doesn't flood every day, so you should watch your weather forecast and only do this if you think there's a chance of a flood. I would second @Daniel's recommendation of getting the bike up off the ground. If you have a derrailleur, yoo will at least have part of that sitting in the water along with the chain, and depending on the depth of the water, your bottom bracket and wheel hubs also. You can also purchase a stainless steel or nickel plated chain which might hold up to the water a bit better. If your spokes and wheels aren't rusted out then a stainless chain might be an easy solution. 

Does anybody have recommendations for clipless pedals that can be used with regular shoes? I only have 1 bike, but I use it enough that I think clipless pedals would offer a nice advantage. However, I want to be able to just hop on my bike with any shoes, in the event that I'm just biking a short distance, and going to be walking around a lot. I suppose I could get shoes that are more walking friendly, but I think it would suit me more to have pedals which accomodate both clipless and regular shoes. 

It would require replacing your brake cable housing (and you may want to replace the cable at the same time) but there are brake cables with inline barrel adjusters. In these, the barrel adjuster is usually situated somewhere between the brake lever, and the braze-on at the front of the bike. They look something like this and are sold by themselves, or often included with the cable housing. As your local bike shop and they should be able to get you something that will work. 

"Inches of travel" refers to how much the shocks can compress before hitting their limit. The more inches of travel the shocks have, the large an impact they can absorb. More travel does not automatically mean that one bike is better than another. Different riding styles and different trail conditions will require different amounts of travel. 

According to Sheldon Brown's handlebar dimension page, older steel drop bars have the same clamp and grip size measurements as most newer upright bars. You should be able to find an old pair of steel drops that will be able to fit your shifters. 

It matters in many ways where you buy the bike from. If you're buying online, then the parts will most likely be the same, although you should be careful to read the specs. Some online (brick and mortar as well) shops will have overstock bikes from previous years and the parts will be different from the current model year. If you buy from a local bike store, then it starts to make more of a difference where you shop. Many shops will offer free tune-ups for a year or two, and some others will offer free tune-ups for life. What's included in a "tune-up" can vary from store to store. Some shops will include a free fitting of the bike to make sure it's properly set up. Every actual bike shop, and dedicated sporting goods store that I have been to has, at the minimum, given the bike a the bike a safety check before they actually hand it over to you. I even got this once for a coaster bike (the kind with no pedals/drivetrain) when I bought one for my 3 year old. This is to ensure that the bike is in safe operating condition and to ensure that things are working well. Problems can arise between the initial assembly and when you purchase the bike and they want to ensure that you will be safe and have a good experience. Stuff like this often isn't done at places like Walmart or Amazon. Often they will assemble the bike and not even give it a test ride to ensure things are actually working properly. 

You might be able to rig something up with a USB hot plate and a battery powered USB Charger. This probably wouldn't work for cooking, as it only gets to 50-60 degrees but might work pretty well for heating food which has already been cooked. You could also use the battery pack for other things too, like charging USB bike lights. 

My pump exhibits similar behaviour if I don't put the valve far enough into the pump head. I find that I have to put the pump quite far in, and that sometimes even though I hear air coming out before I lock the pump on, it's still not on far enough. Luckily I've found a way to tell if the head is on correctly before I start pumping. My pump has a "button" that you can press that will release the air from the tire (which is useful if you pump the tires up a bit too much). After attaching the pump head to the valve, I press this button for a few seconds. If the air flows freely out, I know that the valve is properly connected, and I will be easily able to pump up my tires. 

Many grocery stores do deliveries. There's also taxis. Living without a car and having to get groceries for my family has taught me that bicycles aren't always the best solution. About once a month plan a big trip and get a list of all the heavy, non-perishables items you will need. This will include canned goods, frozen meats and vegetables, dried goods like pasta or rice, and other non food items like laundry soap. The other stuff you need to bet fresh doesn't weigh that much. Exceptions are things like milk, but sometimes I make a special trip just for that. It's an excuse to ride my bike more, and I just go to the corner store because it's only a short trip, and it's the same price everywhere. Also, learn to shop light. Don't buy liquids like pop or juice. Water is healthier anyway and comes right out of a pipe fed into your house. If you want juice, try frozen concentrate. You'll spend money on deliveries, about $8 a shot here, but you won't have to buy a trailer, and surely your bike will appreciate not having to tow heavy loads.