This is a question of liberty, not philosophical freedom. Philosophical freedom (free will) is the ability to make choices, rather than having your choices made for you by an omnipotent force. Liberty is still a worthy topic of discussion, however, since it has a lot of tasty ethical problems wound up in it. This discussion is too broad to deal with in any meaningful way, but I'll give you a word: Utilitarianism. Governments are pretty much all Utilitarian entities. They are allowed to exist because they make sure that the majority of people are allowed to live lives of acceptable utility. If they fail in that duty, they tend to get overthrown. This can be via an election, in a democratic society, or a revolution in an autocratic society. Doesn't really matter. The take away here, is that the government governs at the sufferance of the plurality of the people. That same plurality is the one that takes away your rights, imposes the privileges, duties, and laws of your society. The existentialists would point out (rightly) that those rules are falsely internalized by most people, and given the status of natural law ("Thou shalt pay thine taxes"), but the simple fact remains: if you choose not to be so bound, society will quickly bind your ass, one way, or the other. 

I interpret that the intended question, when accurately stated, is "how has He chosen ONLY the earth", because otherwise it does not make sense. Thus understood, the question is equivalent to "Why did God create so many billions of galaxies if He was going to create life in only one planet of one galaxy?" This can be answered on a strictly scientific basis, encompassing the fields of biology, astrophysics and relativistic cosmology. From biology we know that life requires a certain concentration of heavy chemical elements. From astrophysics we know that present heavy chemical elements were produced by past supernovae and neutron star mergers. From the previous two points, the appearance of a planet with a chemical composition which is suitable for the development of life requires that the time elapsed from Big Bang be greater than some minimum value, since Big Bang Nucleosynthesis produced only hydrogen, helium and lithium. From astrophysics we know that both ultra high energy (> 10^18 eV) cosmic rays and gamma ray bursts have extra-galactic origin. Therefore, a higher large scale matter density, since it means closer distances between galaxies, would imply a higher incidence on Earth of these highly dangerous particles and radiation. Thus, the good of living beings requires that, at the time of their appearance, large scale matter density should not be higher than some maximum value, which we can safely take to be the current value. From the Friedmann equations of relativistic cosmology, assuming a closed (i.e. finite) universe with cosmological constant whose expansion starts to accelerate at t=ta, we derive the following inequality, where Rho_m(t) is the combined density of dark and baryonic matter and a(t) the scale factor: Rho_m(ta) a(ta)^2 > c^2 / (4 pi G) In general, at any time, if large scale matter density cannot be higher than a certain value, then the scale factor cannot be lower than a certain value. If we add the requirement that the scale factor at time t_life when intelligent beings live is 1,78 the scale factor at time ta when the expansion started to accelerate, so as to enable those intelligent beings to conclusively discard cyclic cosmologies when they become scientifically and technologically advanced [4] [5], we eventually derive this inequality: a(t_life) > 1.18 a(to) sqrt[-Wk(to)] Where a(to) and Wk(to) are the current actual scale factor and curvature density parameter. Thus, for Wk(to) = -0.001 (Planck 2013): a(t_life) > a(to) / 27 And for Wk(to) = -0.0001, the smaller magnitude which can in principle be observationally distinguished from zero (Planck 2015): a(t_life) > a(to) / 85 So, you cannot even in principle say if the universe is actually more than 85 times larger than the minimum size it must have so that: 

I think this is an interesting argument, and even an interesting form of argument, even if the conclusion is unsound. For instance, if you say that one person is taller than another, then it seems logically necessary to infer that there must be something like distance for two heights to be comparable in this way. But I don't know of anything in formal logic that allows for such an inference. Is this logical inference valid? 

I've been interested in philosophical skepticism lately as I've just recently learned about the close relationship between certain schools of ancient skepticism and fallibilism, which I'm told is the most common epistemology of modern science. I've also learned about one particular philosopher among the ancient skeptics, Carneades, who originated the modern concept of probability. According to, for instance, The Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy Carneades made use of the concept of probability, or in his tongue to pithanon, as the answer to the common response to skeptics that it is simply impractical to live while denying the existence of knowledge. While neither reason, ideas, nor perception can form the basis of knowledge, they all grant us probabilities that we can use to investigate our other impressions of reason or the senses, at least enough to get along with our practical affairs. Am I paraphrasing his philosophy wrong? So while I used to see philosophical skepticism as entirely different than scientific skepticism, or our modern scientific worldview in general, now I wonder if they are perhaps much more alike than I realized. Maybe it is simply that the concept of "knowledge" has changed over the centuries. For instance, whereas before maybe knowledge was identical with certainty and absolute truth, and now days our concept of knowledge is so infused with fallibilism and pragmatism, that in the ancient context we would find ourselves far more at home in the skeptic school than in any of the others. Basically, from the position of modern science, were the ancient skeptics right all along? Would it make sense to begin our epistemology of science with them? 

Either postulate can be described with just two words: fanciful thinking. Answering now the rest of your questions: 

A consequence of this redefinition will be that the vacuum permeability or magnetic constant mu_0 will no longer be exactly 4 x pi x 10^(-7) H/m. So, the actual case is that a physical constant will no longer be trascendental. References [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

It is not just that "it seems", it is indeed the case that Russell's Paradox starts with something logically invalid in the first place, namely a logically inconsistent universe, as seen after (3). An alternative way to perceive it is by noting that Russell's Paradox is plainly incompatible with the axioms of a logically self-consistent universe. A logically self-consistent one-tidy-and-respectful-barber universe is based on these two axioms: 

Yes, the Son of God could also assume an instance of the nature of another rational species living on another planet. Which, for a Christian, is an argument for the unlikelihood of the existence of such species, on grounds of economy of Incarnations (and of Passions, if the members of that species have sinned). 

It's not quite correct to think that deriving a contradiction implies all propositions. What deriving a contradiction does is prove a modal realm to have arbitrary truth values. It says that, in order for your argument to be valid, you have to live in an alternate, crazy, universe, where anything is possible. If an argument leads you to ~A==A, it doesn't break the world. It breaks your argument. The solution is to fix your argument. This is the whole point of Paraconsistent Logic: to force people to abandon flawed arguments. There are a great many questions in philosophy that are considered important, but which rely on apparent contradictions: "Do I exist?", "Can god create a stone heavier than he can lift", "This sentence is not provable". It's an interesting feature of human linguistic ability that we can create seemingly meaningful sentences like those. HOWEVER, to then spend hundreds (thousands) of years arguing about them is viewed as counterproductive by many philosophers. We could afford to sit by the fire and sip sherry and indulge ourselves back when philosophy included all science. Now? Not so much. 

I'm not going to go on. But the more I think about this problem, the more I worry that our intuitions might compose most, if not all, of our understanding of reality. A good example of a non-optical illusion would be the way we hear voices. I have heard my name being called before when it was only the wind, so why should I believe that someone is actually speaking to me if it is really my intuition that is putting words the noises? Lastly, if our immediate understanding of the world is wholly determined by our intuitions, and nothing of our phenomena exists in itself, how do we distinguish reality from appearances? If we say that the magician isn't really flying, even though our intuition says he is flying, then our intuitions can be wrong. So how do we determine if an intuition is true or false? If I measure an apple with a ruler, why should I trust this intuition, but not the flying magician? It seems that there are several distinctions that need to be made here, but I think we should be choosy on finding the right ones. A good answer would avoid any ad hoc hypotheses, as my question isn't about any particular illusion, but about the phenomenon at large. A good answer may also give me a good reference if this topic has already been discussed in depth. 

No, because it is inconsistent with the conclusively established finding that the expansion of the universe has been accelerating during the second half of its history [2] [3]. Taking into account this finding, anyone postulating a cyclic cosmology must necessarily also postulate: 

"Discover" in both flavors of Platonism and "build" in fictionalism is just the same activity viewed in different perspectives. Everyone agrees that mathematicians can develop only those self-consistent formal systems that can exist, and in that sense they may be said to "discover" them. However, for an atheist those formal systems existed nowhere in any way before being "discovered", and therefore they are strictly "built" by mathematicians. Further, both Platonism and fictionalism can be "plenitudinous" [1], meaning that all self-consistent formal systems are on an equal standing, so that 

Jesus Christ, according to Christianity, is the Son of God Who assumed a created, finite, human nature. Before and after assuming that human nature, the Son of God Is eternally the same and only Subsistent Being as God the Father Is. So the Incarnation has nothing to do with anthropomorphism.