In simple terms, this is an opinion. We have opinions (mental formations) of everything we see. We like to label them, categorize them and generalize them. Have I met a fun loving Buddhist? No. But when I do, an opinion such as the one you mentioned will change. So I would take that with a pinch of salt. It cannot be canon. Having said this, I think when people try to follow precepts, there is definitely a sort of "unnaturality" to it, either because they are not used to it, or because they have a fear of breaking it, or a combination of both. This does not limit itself to Buddhism. It happens with other religions also. And it also happens within any social club/community which have some strict rules. This may come off as "uptight" or opinionated. As much as possible, I would try to be aware of such opinions though sometimes I cannot help judging something. Healthy skepticism is encouraged whenever you catch your mind making assumptions or generalizations about someone. But I do however strongly feel that we need not concern ourselves with how others are. We could guide people the right way if that is what the situation requires. OR we could even learn from them if they know better about something. About opinions, well, they are always there, but don't cling to them. 

If you mean Isvara, a personal creator like Jehovah, Allah, Shiva or other such deity which exist forever and creates the world from nothing, the answer is no. If you mean a god in the sense of Hinduism, again the answer is no. Buddhism refers to the same gods by name, but the Buddhist concept of a god (deva) are heavenly beings who are limited in existence and power. Not something we want to aspire to since they are still caught in samsara. Buddha refered to Brahma, but his interpretation of this word is simply a state of existence, the uncreated. Similar to the concept of the Tao. If you are looking for something similar to Christianity, then Pureland somes close. Amitabha Buddha is not a god, but you can be reborn in his pureland. And there is the story of Kuanyin (a manifestation of Amitabha) who was born as Miao Shan. Miao Shan was killed, descended into hell, rose from the dead, and rescues those who call her name. 

I look at apologizing like confession. Buddha clearly taught that confession eradicates karma. How much karma is another question. A simple apology probably does not eradicate much. Better to recite a confession. Better still through meditation. 

When you don't have "scattered thoughts" whenever you are doing something, you're doing it fully immersed. Everybody has had periods of absolute involvement. Obviously everybody has thoughts, it's just a matter of Distance from them. As a matter of tradition and to set an example to everyone, everybody sits. I think even the founder Dōgen Zenji, sat till the very end. I'd even go so far as to say, if some people sit and some don't need to, then there's something wrong with the tradition and has some biases. Also some accomplished masters just sit peacefully/blissfully. Let's say you have mastered a good amount of distance between yourself and thoughts, you will be able to sit peacefully. And that would be a pleasure (not the material pleasure, just bliss). Hence you would just sit naturally. I hope I made myself clear. 

Not quite sure what you're looking for. The I will know nothing has positive effects in the sense that it will allow us to lead life in a more common sense fashion. It also jogs our spiritual side in the sense that we observe ourselves and our surroundings more. We tend to quieten ourselves a bit more and be more humble with regard to the vast expanse that is the universe and us being the tiniest of tiny specks in it. We get back to the basics. When we realize we don't know something we automatically start asking questions about it. To try to know what we don't know is in our nature. We are curious. A background process starts running in our mind questioning existence and everything in it. This aids our practice. Or rather our life becomes some sort of practice in itself. We tend to just feel this moment a bit more. 

It mostly depends upon your state of mind at death. However, it is also said that your karma comes to weigh heavy on you at that time. When a good person dies, he dies with goodness and light karma. When a bad person dies, he dies with a disturbed mind and heavy karma. There are six possible state of rebirth in samsara: hell, animal, preta, asura, deva, and human. They correspond to hate, ignorance, craving, jealousy, pride, and humans have not to much of any of these. So, this person you describe would be reborn as a preta. A preta is a craving monster who's appetite cannot be satisfied. A horrible fate. Likewise, a good moral person who is born in the heavens of the devas gets to enjoy the heavenly life. I would say that the good person is luckier. Even though that existence, like all such in samsara, is limited. Better to be reborn in the pureland of a Buddha. But you have to take refuge in that Buddha and end these mental deficiencies. It is the training ground of bodhisattvas who can eventually transcend samsara. 

My understanding is that the reason for no meal after noon was two fold. First, it was inconvenient for people to have monks come begging at that time of day, and people had leftovers in the morning from the previous day. Second, monks who spend a lot of time meditating do not require as much food (calories) as the average person. Buddha said that we should eat according to the needs of the body. That means not only when you eat, but also what you eat. Not a problem in ancient times, but consider modern times when monks are given junk food. Many of them now have diabetes. 

In this case I think we can associate "human" with "higher power or morality" - be that suttas, kamma, laws, or whatever. 

You don't have to defend Buddhism. There is no deity to offend. Sure, pay your respects to Buddha as a great teacher, but you should do the same for everyone anyway. But I digress. So to sum it up: No, Buddha doesn't shelter you from offence. Offence doesn't exist, only your perception of it. If you choose that something will be offensive it will be offensive. Only you have the control over that, never the person "being" offensive. Buddha doesn't shelter you. He handed us the tools and an instruction manual. It is up to us to use them to the best of our abilities. "Taking refuge" in the Buddha doesn't mean hiding under his arm. It means trying what he taught and discovering reality for the first time. 

Also that you take offence with/at something? Offence is only ever taken, never given. In other words, it is your choice to be offended by something or someone. Most offence is "taken" when someone talks about something about yourself that you aren't comfortable with or disparages a view our belief that you hold and aren't necessarily OK with and you feel the need to violently defend it. The offence comes from your own insecurities, not the malice of the other person. That's not to say they may not have intended malice, but the offence you take comes from you not them. If you truly accept who and what you are it is impossible for anyone to offend you. It is often said it is impossible to offend a Buddhist. And it's true. Not through any great stoicism, but because they know exactly who and what they are. And they choose not to take offence. People say I'm fat, and I am. I know that, and I accept that. I have tried losing weight, but it hasn't worked. Many times. But that's fine. I am what I am, and no one can offend or upset me by calling me fat. They're just stating the obvious. The best way, if someone intends malice, of completely removing that malice is to turn it into a joke and completely reverse it. If you accept yourself for who you are you can laugh at yourself with impunity. And in laughing at yourself any malice intended is instantly gone. So much suffering in this world is caused by people's insecurities. Mostly their religious insecurities. Wars are fought over inconsequentialities. And all because religious views are so tenuous and fragile and easy to offend. That's why there has never been a holy war in the name of Buddhism. We are comfortable with what we are. You can't threaten our beliefs because they aren't based on faith in some beard in the sky. And that's what sets Buddhism apart from every other religion in the world. Buddha basically said (and I'm paraphrasing here): 

Precepts are originally designed for monks. So, a monk would totally abstain from sex. However, for the laity Buddha simply said that the average person should avoid sexual misbehavior. Sexual misbehavior is simply sexual conduct which is socially unacceptable. One example is adultery. Another might be beastiality. Another might be homosexuality. It largely depends on the culture. 

If all of the humans become enlightened you still have other sentient creatures who would become humans. At that point those would be saved by buddhas and bodhisattvas. But even then there is not a finite number of sentient beings since there is no transmigration, just rebirth of sankharas which is not strictly limited to one entity. So, I don't see an end of sentient beings reborn on earth. Whether humans evolve into something else is unknown. And eventually the earth will be destroyed by the sun and disintegrate with the rest of the universe. 

Ideally, sexual pleasure should be avoided since it is craving. But Buddha knew that this was difficult for the laity. Therefore, he suggested that the laity should avoid sexual misconduct. Sexual misconduct is simply sexual behavior which is outside social acceptance. And you can interpret that according to your own society. 

I guess the biggest difference is imposed by those that aren't either a beggar or a monk: "I see you as a monk, therefore you are allowed here. I see you as a dropout from society as therefore you aren't allowed here." The monk may have more knowledge of the Dhamma, and may live his life according to it, but who's to say the homeless person doesn't? He may be a devout Buddhist, which is why he was drawn to stay in the temple. The label of "homeless person" comes associated with a whole host of negative connotations. A monk is a "homeless person". He chooses to gather (as Buddha suggested) with others of the right mind (Right Association). By coming to the temple, is not this other "homeless" person merely enacting Right Association? Kudos to him/her, I say. 

You should have at least a copy of the Dhammapada. I would also recommend "In the Buddha's Words" (978-0-86171-491-9). I'd also recommend subscribing to BSWA (Buddhist Society of Western Australia) on Youtube. They broadcast all their dhamma talks and sutta classes, as well as guided meditations. A brilliant resource for the beginner and more advanced alike (as long as you don't mind Ajahn Brahm's corny jokes). 

Its very simple. If your goal is the spiritual path, you must do well to not harm yourself, or other people mindlessly. Alcohol used for intoxication is not good for this purpose. If you're looking for a good time just generally, socially, it is okay in small amounts. You won't do much wrong because it is moderate. In this regard, I also have something to say about abstaining from alcohol. You can still have a nice time without it and don't need to depend on it unless it is a social stigma. This includes things like excess of love or lustful feelings. If you are mindful of what you want to do, you will understand what to do. :) With alcohol/drugs, there is a tendency to go mindless and do "weird" things. Without alcohol/drugs, you have your senses firmly with you and you can control your actions well. Which part of this did you not understand? Its not a rule. It is a basic understanding or reasoning of what your goal is, and what your action should be. Thus, it very clearly depends on which path you are taking, either spiritual or material. The path is the goal. PS: I see NUMEROUS questions about the precepts on this site. Don't get too technical about what is mentioned and what is not mentioned in the texts. That will become endless interpretation. Measure yourself and your goal and you will automatically know the actions you need to take up. 

The bodhisattva precepts forbid the killing of "sentient beings". Bacteria is not sentient so I see no problem with using antibacterial soap. It is also rather difficult to avoid killing bacteria through daily living. So, it would be extreme, if not impossible, to try to kill all bacteria around you. 

There are many sutras which claim that it is merit to copy them. So, even if you did not own the copy of the sutra I would think it was okay to copy it. The problem arises when deciding what to do with that copy. Copyright is a modern concept used to protect commerce. To avoid breaking the law you should own a copy. But, I think the original meritorious idea was to spread the teaching of the sutras. Spreading the dharma is not always without cost. The dharma is free, but the media may not be without cost. You also have the issue of the clergy charging money in place of accepting donations. Donations is acceptable in the right place and time, but some societies are not accustomed to that practice. 

If you are having trouble with anger, hatred, resentment etc. then there is a couple of methods I could suggest. Sakyamuni Buddha taught the four brahmavihara (love, sympathy, joy, equanimity) for countering the type of thoughts you are having. This is good for whatever type of Buddhism you follow. Personally, I am a Pureland Buddhist and we chant the nembutsu in faith of Amitabha Buddha. By faith I mean trusting in the Buddha's power, and don't worry about things outside of yourself. I have found that this inward reflection on Buddha's power makes me more loving and compassionate to others. 

What is this ? Define that clearly. For yourself. Ask yourself. Then worry about authors of books or something else. 

Did Gautama Buddha make any statements about the justices or injustices of the world? I would like to elucidate the right view to a person who has undergone a certain injustice. The person in question has not got a particular position she rightfully deserved due to a conspiracy of people blocking said person from achieving it. I would also like a parallel to the contemporary world so that it is more practical when reaching this society's person. 

The Buddha came up with some theories, the basics of which are common sense to me. He cultivated a practice and figured some things out. There are stories and practices about how and what he found. Sure he may be the Blessed one. But then maybe I have missed out something here. I can't help but think he may not have gone through his thought process completely ? When he talks about the five aggregates and consequences and hindrances, that is all fine. But how do I truly know for myself? So I may have a different method to figure that out. What I am saying is that, the Buddha may have had "his experience". But a combination of many people translating and propounding some theories and giving explanations, they may have taken away some of the aspects of the beauty of the process for "our own individual experiences". The Buddha himself didn't make the "religion" as it is now. I hope this message is clear. Each individual needs to question for himself/herself, the procedure to achieve something or why they are here. Sure you may go by faith, but I am afraid that might be a hindrance to true experience. I'd like to add that I sense some amount of might creep in when we try to understand the Buddhist philosophy and actually practice that.