I have a Vango Hurricane Alpha tent (made in Scotland) which I have owned since new in the early 1990s. I have recently noticed that there are irregular white patches on the inside of the flysheet which appears to be the inner coating beginning to delaminate. Is there any way of repairing this coating other than as a temporary repair or must I just accept that this tent, otherwise still in excellent condition, is just reaching the end of its useful life? 

You could also have a look at the "Reflect Wedge" setup for the ALPKIT.COM Rig 3.5 Tarp in this PDF document on ALPKIT.COM. Although they show a bike and its wheel being used to support the tarp, you could of course so the same thing with trekking poles or similar. bearbonesbikepacking.blogspot.co.uk also has some examples of how you can setup the Rig 3.5 tarp, and they also sell lightweight poles to use if you don't take or have trekking poles. 

I suppose the two main factors are how comfortable the location is and how likely the location is to have problems should the weather play an influence. For comfort, the best location will be flat, free from bumps, and objects such as sharp rocks or sticks which can damage the groundsheet. Even with a decent sleeping pad or mattress, it isn't very nice when the ground is sloping and you slide about all night. Regarding weather, the best location would provide shelter from strong winds, be unlikely to flood in heavy rain (not in a dip or near a river which is likely to rise), not be exposed to possible rockfall if camping near cliffs, etc. and not be in a dangerous location when lightning threatens, such as near a tree. Also it's best not to camp under trees as a branch could fall off (or worse, the tree itself may fall) and even though they provide some shelter from rain, they will drip on the tent for hours after the rain has stopped. It is always handy of you can find a decent location near a good water source as this will help avoid having to carry water too far. Obviously strong winds could be a problem in that there could be damage to the tent if the wind is strong enough, but even with moderate winds, it can be difficult to get a good night's sleep with the noise of the tent material flapping in the wind. You may also have to consider whether you need to ask permission to pitch your tent at your chosen location. 

Make the trip short and easy. Better to have them wishing for something longer than regretting that they're stuck on the trail. Just spend one night on the trail, in good weather if you can arrange it. The four most important things for comfort are sufficient water, good shoes, a comfortable pack, and a warm, dry place to sleep. On a short trip, you don't even need much food. Make a suggested gear list for the new people. Make it fairly detailed (x pounds/calories of food, x liters of water, waterproof tent (Test it!), a well fitted pack (Try it first!) specifics items of clothing). Tell them to practice walking around with the weighted pack beforehand, in whatever shoes they want to wear. If possible, go on day hikes with them carrying a weighted pack to ensure that they do this. Newbies make mistakes, and a one night trip minimizes the consequences. Plan to cover less distance than you think you should. Five miles is plenty for day 1, or just 2-3 miles if it's steep. It'll let you get a late start and still be feeling good when you make camp. The second day can be longer because you'll end up at home in your own bed, but still keep it to under 10 miles if it's flat, or under 5 if it's steep. You're with people who aren't used to hiking with weight. It's very different than walking around carrying nothing. This answer is based on my experience not following these guidelines. I went on a 3 day hike with two people who regularly run marathons, but had never been on more than short day hikes. They're used to suffering for the sake of fun, so it worked out, but they had a lot of trouble despite a high level of fitness. One of them had borrowed a pack the day before from someone who was 8 inches taller, their tent leaked badly, they carried about a week's worth of food and lots of unused gear, and we ran short of water (I carry a filter, but it was a dry summer. It took a while to find a stream that hadn't dried up). At least their shoes fit. But running 26 miles non-stop in under 4 hours turned out to be poor preparation for hiking 8 miles carrying 40 pounds on your back. And if a newbie hasn't tried hiking with 40 pounds, they won't realize why they should try cutting that down to 20-30 until it's too late. 

Well, urine has a strong smell, and rabbits are very sensitive to smells. Too sensitive, in fact - human urine will repel, not attract rabbits and is sometimes even suggested as a means to keep them out of gardens. Rabbit urine, on the other hand, could definitely work, there's a good chance that rabbits in the vicinity would come to inspect what strange other rabbit has invaded their territory. 

I think there have to be two parts to the answer: If you are in an immediately life-threatening situation where you have to act in order to survive, then the only thing that can save you when you are mentally shaken is training and routine. You can train dangerous situations in a safe environment so that when they occur for real, you know what you have to do and can do it almost on autopilot, without having to think about it. This is an important part of what the training of firefighters, police officers and soldiers tries to achieve. On the other hand, if you are in a reasonably safe place (or can get to one without effort), then the most important thing to do is to stop, calm down and think. There's an aphorism in wilderness survival that says, very aptly, 

If you're not using the device to find your way, it is useless as far as the GPS functionality is concerned, no matter whether it's switched on or off. 

The first thing you need to answer this question is to know who will be responding when your beacon goes off. The beacon manufacturer should be able to provide you with this information. Then you can find out what their policies are in regards to false alarms. The responsder may vary depending on where you are traveling. Often, the very first response is to contact an emergency contact phone number you provide when you register the unit, to find out whether it is a false alarm or not. In this case, you tell them it was an accident, and the case is closed with no more trouble. But if you do set it off accidently, and know that it happened, your best option is to make sure everyone knows it was an accident as quickly as possible. If it happens at home, immediately contact the responders, and let them know what happened. If it happens somewhere remote, you may still be able to call and let them know what’s happened. If you can’t, stay put until the rescuers come. You’ll need to apologize, and depending on their policies, maybe pay for their time and expense. But by staying in your last known location, you will have minimized their time and trouble to reach you. You may be facing fines and rescue costs for a false alarm, but at least you minimized the rescue costs. Also, a lot of agencies won’t fine you for an accident, because they don’t want to discourage people from carrying beacons. If it happens somewhere remote, and you don’t know that it’s happened, your rescuers will be relying on the plans you left before heading out (you did leave detailed written plans, right?). This will still let them find you fairly easily because they know where you expect to be. In either of these two cases, some agencies will charge you for the rescue, some won’t. If no one knows where you might be, except for a last known point, and a rescue has to start a serious search, it could get expensive, and a lot more groups will charge you because their expense was high, and you failed to follow the good practices that would help them minimize the cost (not setting off the beacon in the first place, and not letting someone at home know where you were going). All the models I’ve seen are very hard to set off accidentally, and if you store it and pack it with reasonably care, it won’t happen. My experience is in the US. Rescue policy is determined very regionally, often on a park by park, or at most state by state basis. I’ve got no idea how it would be handled in Australia. 

The only thing this 30+ years old piece of climbing history should be connected to is a fixture to mount it in a frame or display case. 

The job of a spotter is to prevent the climber from landing on their head and (if possible) ensure they land on their feet and on the crashpad. This may involve moving the crashpad (which should coincide with the climber having a secure hold or position. The job of a spotter is not to "catch" the climber! That's something they're simply not going to be able to do and attempting so can only lead to injury. Consequently, the spotter should not be standing directly below the climber. They should stand so that they can push/guide the climber towards the crashpad and keep them upright / keep their head away from the ground. This is usually best achieved by keeping their arms mostly extended, the heel of the hands towards the climber, fingers slightly bent backwards and the thumbs lying against the palm, not extended. 

Most importantly: be prepared. Always bring sufficient warm and waterproof clothing to make the worst possible weather for the area and time of year survivable. An emergency bivouac sack, a warm hat and gloves weigh very little, and can save your life. Also, something to start a fire (a lighter is not ideal as it could fail in very cold conditions), which can keep you warm and increase your chances of getting found by a search party. Here's a report written by a guy who lost a friend and barely survived himself when they were caught in a storm while climbing in Yosemite valley, with insufficent clothing. 

This answer assumes that either land ownership is not an issue, or that you have permission from the owner. Please read Olin Lanthrop's answer for a discussion of the ethical issues of whether you SHOULD do this. A lot of the details of trail obfuscation depend on the local ecosystem. For instance, a general rule is to put branches in front of the trail head, to block it and obscure it. This is very effective in dense woodland, and moderately effective in sparse woodland or dense grasslands, where fallen branches are reasonably common. In a barren area, it simply calls attention to the trailhead, and a new entrance will quickly appear beside the original entrance. In a rocky area, placing small boulders at the trailhead may help hide it. Soil compaction is the main thing that distinguishes a trail from the surrounding land. The tramped down soil makes it harder for seeds to take root, as well as providing the ground with a distinctive appearance. If you loosen the first few inches of soil with a rock rake or other tool, it will only take a few months or years for the land to look more like the surrounding area without any interference. To speed this up, you can plant some of the fast growing plants (weeds, probably) common to the park. Disguise the ground cover: If the land around the trailhead is loose-fallen leaves, rake some of the leaves over the trail. If it's all dead grass, lay some dead grass on it, and be prepared to replace it as it blows away. Loosening the soil also changes the appearance significantly, but it gets tramped down very easily. In this case, what I would do would be to scatter some mid-size branches along the first 2-4 meters of the trail, and rake some of the surrounding land cover over the trail for the same distance. This provides immediate cover. If the trail is wide enough to be narrowed, rake the ground cover a few inches deep to allow plants to grow easily, and toss out some seeds for common, fast-growing plants that are already in the lot. It will take very little use to compact the soil again, so the last step may not be worth the trouble on a trail you'll be using frequently. 

The more common term is "mining bees". As the name says, they build nests underground, usually in sandy ground. The other big difference between them and regular honey bees, is that they are so-called solitary bees, so they do not form hives. The nest is built by a single female, who lays eggs in several chambers and provides each with pollen and nectar. So since they do not form hives, they never really become a nuisance, and they provide good pollination for plants. Here's an article: $URL$ 

Obviously, the 100% figure is incorrect as there have been individual people who survived higher falls. In any case, the height alone is not decisive. It makes a huge difference what surface you fall on and in what position. You'd have a pretty good chance to survive a 20 meter fall legs-first onto half a meter of snow on top of grassy ground, while a 5 meter drop head first onto concrete or rock is almost certainly fatal. 

What signal? The GPS signal is sent by satellites, GPS devices receive this signal, they don't send out anything. A phone might send out a GSM/UMTS/LTE/whatever signal when trying to contact a base station, but that has nothing to do with GPS, and I'm not sure whether rescue services can use those signals to detect a phone; typically they use information from the base station to find the location of phones, but in your situation there would not be a base station in reach.