The dominant ideology of the Republican Party is known as American conservatism, and it was developed by William F. Buckley and his magazine National Review starting in the 1950's. The founding mission statement of National Review (see "The Magazine's Credenda" at the end) is a good elucidation of this philosophy. It is formed from two strands: 

Knowledge is traditionally defined as justified true belief: in order for S to know P, S must believe P, P must be true, and S must be justified in believing P. Now this definition has been criticized by invoking various "Gettier cases", supposed examples of justified true belief which are not knowledge. The defenders of a "justified true belief" understanding of knowledge have responded by showing that these Gettier cases are not really cases of justified true belief, by clarifying exactly what constitutes a justification. Here is the philosopher Robert Nozick's theory of justification, according to this Wikipedia article: 

Causality is essentially the relationship between cause and effect. Specific definitions depend on the context. For example, in physics, and in particular thermodynamics, we define an arrow of time. In the philosophy of science, one might talk about causality in special relativity. For example, special relativity does not allow communication faster than the speed of light, since this would violate causality because to some inertial observers, information would travel backward in time. In quantum mechanics, one could say that virtual particles (particle-antiparticle pairs) violate causality because they essentially borrow energy from nothing (the vacuum) but this is allow by the time-energy uncertainty principle. In logic, or mathematics we have sufficient and necessary conditions (causes), if satisfied, yield some results (effects or consequences). There are many questions a philosopher could ask. Can two events be causally connected? Is there free will? What is determinism? Is our universe determinist as Laplace thought, or does it just seem that way? Can we rely on science to answer these questions? Hume's answer to the last question would be -- no, due to the problem of induction. 

If your definition of revolution is conflict between classes, then a hypothetical ideal communist society would be classless, so the notion of revolution would be meaningless. Of course, actual regimes which call themselves communist are generally saying that they subscribe to Marx's ideology and that their (ostensible) goal is to achieve Marx's ideal communist society, not that their society at the present has attained that status yet. For one thing, Marx envisioned a stateless utopia, whereas those countries have governments and thus have a political class, so insofar as there is still class distinction in those countries, you could still have a revolution in your sense. 

It's obvious that relative wonder is compatible with a scientific perspective. My first instinct was to say that Dawkins only feels relative wonder, while Keats feels absolute wonder. But I don't think that has to be true. There's a way in which the scientist's rainbow is no longer absolutely wonderful. One of the great things about rainbows is that they don't require any analysis; just look at them and you'll feel joy. The experience is sort of unmediated. But then look at the rainbow through the eyes of a physicist. The rainbow is no longer mysterious and no longer experienced unmediated. That's not to say a physicist can't enjoy rainbows; they can, but not in the same way as usual while they are investigating its electromagnetic properties. But I think Keats goes too far if he says that science must destroy miracles. Instead it can defer them. The miraculous thing is no longer: Look, a rainbow!, but: Look, the amazing intricacies of refraction and wave motion! This may well be the wonder Dawkins is describing. I know some mathematicians who feel the same way. To your last thought: On what principled grounds can we say rainbows are wonderful but the US tax code is not? I'm not sure that any exist, but do we need them? It doesn't seem to me that there's an exact science of wonder. Nor should there be. Part of the wonder of wonders is their fuzziness, the way they appeal to me, not some lifeless objective standard. 

To be honest, it is hard to recommend a single book. If you really want to understand philosophy, you must read many books. So you might want to start with Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, Descartes' Meditations and Discourse on the Method, as well as Kant's Critique of Pure Reason and Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals. These are by far the best epistemology/metaphysics books I have ever read. It might seem obvious recommending such well-known books, but they are well-known because they are truly phenomenal. Also, if you are interested in the development of mathematics, and in particular analysis, I would recommend The Analyst by Berkeley -- a remarkable book. If however, you do not have time to read them all, start with Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding and Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, and avoid Kant' Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals, and any of Kant's books because they are very difficult to read. You need to read each book at least twice to understand Kant. 

Roughly, the text means we have to put some faith into our sense-data. I'll translate what I take to be the best reading into plainer terms. 

EDIT: For any future readers: I've picked virmaior's answer as I think it answers the question fullest but Patrick R's answer is also great and gives some very useful context about the translation. 

In Three Dialogues, Berkeley advances a theory of subjective idealism. Things only exist as experiences of individual consciousnesses. These things are static and themselves unthinking, as they are pure ideas. And they persist even when we are not looking at them because God is looking at them all the time. Here's the thing, though---if esse est percipi, how do we exist? We aren't always perceiving ourselves. We sleep, for instance. And our actual selves are not just pure ideas. We are active and thinking. So we can't exist in God's mind in the same way that, for instance, a tree does. If only unthinking substances can be perceived, and only that which is perceived can exist, how does anything exist to do the perceiving? 

Traditionalism, the philosophy of Edmund Burke which states that there is great wisdom embedded in our social institutions and culture, so we should be careful before we try to tamper with them Libertarianism, the philosophy of John Locke which says that people have fundamental negative rights that the government should not infringe 

If something has a natural desire for something, then that desire cannot be in vain, i.e. it must in principle be possible to fulfill that desire. All things have a natural desire to exist. Humans have knowledge of eternal truths about existence. Thus humans have a natural desire to exist forever. Therefore, humans exist forever. 

The answer to the question you ask in your title is no---that's actually a formal fallacy called denying the antecedent. But I think you're asking about the contrapositive instead. The argument presented looks like this: 

Now I haven't read Sartre, and I'm not in a position to do so any time soon, so I can't check this, but this statement seems very wrong. If only and all human beings lack essence, doesn't that mean our lack of essence is essential to us? That we do have an essence, and that essence is a lack of itself? The problem is obvious, I hope. And I find it hard to believe Sartre didn't see it. So: 

Descartes a priori assumptions were: mathematical statements are valid and God is not a deceiver (note that the latter implies the former). The reason why God is not a deceiver is because God is a perfect being (according to Descartes), and cannot deceive us in anyway. If God is not a deceiver then God gave us senses which are not totally unreliable. This means we can tell when we are dreaming. 

You must at least understand logic, especially symbolic logic because it underpins many areas of philosophy, not to mention mathematics. For example, Kant would not have written such great books if he was not interested in logic. He even studied mathematics in his spare time. He also played around with many natural sciences like physics. I doubt he ever published anything, but I know he actually explained why galaxies and solar systems lie in planes using conservation of angular momentum. Some people like Russell and Godel start by studying philosophy but then realize that they are much more interested in logic, paradoxes, proofs, etc. You must also understand that there is not just propositional logic, there are things like modal logic for example. Overall, many great mathematicians were also philosophers, and vice versa. For instance, Leibniz and Descartes are among many. 

You should ask yourself two kinds of questions: First, are humans in fact naturally immoral? Why would those statements be true? Does the lived experience of men tell you anything about how they necessarily view people of other genders? Where would such behavior even come about, and is it not more plausible that it is inculcated in us by society? (Consider the motives of those who say such things. If somebody is telling you that "it is men's nature to be misogynists" my guess is they aren't doing it out of a spirit of honest intellectual inquiry.) And second, are humans in fact naturally anything? The idea that humans have free will is not a new one. If that's the case, then while there are biological requirements of humanity, there are no behavioral requirements. The idea that we "have" to act in some way is false, so there is no conflict between our "natural" obligations and our moral obligations.