Is mereological nihilism, the metaphysical doctrine that objects with proper parts do not exist, the same as atomism? If not, what are the differences? How can mereological nihilism work without assuming that there are at some point only objects which do not contain parts, i.e. philosophical atoms (things that are not composed, which means undividable)? If philosophical atoms do not exist, it would follow from mereological nihilism that nothing does exist, because everything has proper parts. 

… now everything hinges on what we mean by “evidence”. In science the meaning of “evidence” depends on the field of inquiry. But more troubling, methodological naturalism is a required assumption for the scientific method, so in principle there cannot be any scientific evidence for God, who is conceived as a supernatural being. Dawkins disagrees, stating that “the existence of God is a scientific hypothesis like any other”, but he surely owes us a good argument how this can be squared with methodological naturalism. It does not suffice to just list some examples how he thinks that science can tackle the God-question. He actually has to explain, why the mainstream conception of the scientific method, as stated by the National Academy of Sciences 

Our actions (choices) are completely free. (I must first make a disclaimer that I'm not interested in the topic of "unobservable determinism", that is when I feel my action is free while "in fact" - from God's or physic's p.o.v. - it was predetermined by atoms or such disposition. Only the case of determinism-in-my-consciousness, i.e. the cause appears to me, presents itself in the setting of my choice - so I blame things for my choice, - can bother me. I must keep agnostic about things bypassing consciousness but claiming that they cause my consciousness. Reasons or causes can exist only for consciousness.) They are free - which is alias to say that I'm the only author of my choice - because consciousness automatically rejects (negates) the circumstances at the moment of choice. If an armed man points a gun onto you and commands "step back", he and his gun are precisely what your consciousness excludes from determinants when it selects to obey. You will say afterwards in excuse that the gun forced you to step back (i.e. here's a cause), but at the moment of your decision to move back the gun was just the thing you took not to meddle. It was here, pending and frozen, as you did your free decision. The gun was as if waiting for your free decision on the theme of the gun incident. While the gun was kept in nonbeing, the consciousness chose among 2+ possibilities of itself (yourself). One choice was made, it was spontaneous (it itself wasn't rational, despite that thinking could be included "around" the decision). A possibility exists by mode of nonbeing and thus cannot draw you to it; the gun is also deactivated. Here is complete nothing which decides - and you feel yourself for a moment drifting free in empty space where any side is nobody else's side. Suddenly you're aware of the choice having been just made, from now on the gun is threatening, the man is not joking, and you find yourself doing step back. Nothing forced you, except yourself who was nothing at the decision of choice among some possibilities apparent to the consciousness. Conditions and thinking can bring forward or conceal possibilities, but there will always be 2+ ones, equally "weight" because they are not, just opportunities of "towards". If you say not the gun, but rather your instinct of life pushed you back, I'd say, hmm, if the instinct is an unconscious structure (so the action was pure reflex) - see the disclaimer. Else the instinct is for consciousness (and there exists no instinct except consciousness of the instinct) and by this it could be an object like gun, to be disarmed by it in rejection, like gun, or it could be in a form of taste for living, making plans etc. - one of possibilities, to be dim. So choice of any action is an adventure on your own. Covering oneself with causes or reasons or fleeing from the feeling of disappointment about own past decision are self-deceptions. We are free, which isn't the same as to say we have free "will". The view expressed here is different from what @FirstLastname has written in their answer: "My choice might have been influenced by preexisting events and motivations: I don't like tuna, maybe I've got a coupon for my favorite restaurant I'd like to use instead, maybe I'm a vegetarian.... But, even though that choice was deterministic, it was still a choice". To my mind, a choice cannot be deterministic. The thing is that the actual choice I've made - to take tuna, for example - was made free of my own predispositions or customs, and that my preference for tuna is used only as explanation, moreover, it appears as real motive (seen as cause or reason) only thanks to the choice just already done: it is reconstructed here and now from scratch. Motivations cannot preexist. 

One definition of “essentialism” would be that it is a kind of realism of universals with the additional claim that every particular p instantiates a certain universal E which determines its existence. That is: “p exists” can only be true as long as p exemplifies E. But then someone like EJ Lowe claims: 

There is a lot of radical criticism of “intellectual property” which makes arguments similar to your thoughts. Take a look at 

In which works did the authors mentioned by J. R. Searle present their “more realistic definitions of computation”? I searched for it, but if they're hidden in monographs, it will be difficult to find them. 

Was there some criticism of the "aether theory" along those lines by Aristotle's contemporaries? Did Aristotle try to give justifications how this counter-evidence is reconcilable with his theory? 

For Sartre, essence of a man is everything he can currently know or judge about himself, it is "who/what/how I am", it is simply (current) self-concept or self-awareness - a reflective understanding. Existence for Sartre is the current choice (of a possibility, which brings in meanings and attaches it to the essence) made by a man pre-reflectively, plus the immediately following reflective opening that (by virtue of the choice) he has broken away from his essence and is no longer what he "is"; it is the intuition that what I am is actually what was, and that this my essence is a pursueing demander, not a sanctuary. Here Anxiety stems from. It also stems from the fact that the freely selected choice does not be, it is only about a possibility, therefore it isn't a sanctuary either. That's Sartre's structure of existence as what always runs a step ahead of essence. That advancing is what produces true time, i.e. temporalizes one's experience. (True or "primeval" time shouldn't be confused with psychological time, of which objective physical time is only a logically "rectified" subtype.) So, in short, and how I understand Sartre, existence is the process of how I appear not what I am, or turn out to be unequal to myself. As we know, the lack of identity with any state/status (being) in man was Sartre's principal idea. See also Sartre on essence question. 

A reductio ad absurdum is a correct way to argue. An argument by lack of imagination is an informal fallacy. But if a reductio ad absurdum is applied outside of a highly formalized setting like mathematics, how do we distinguish it from an argument by lack of imagination? Isn't stating that something is absurd the same as stating that you can't imagine it to be true? 

Finally, he argues, the emotional reaction we observe, when people accept the subjectivity of values, is evidence that they were pretty convinced of the objectivity of values: 

The observer knows the time t, or to be more precise, it was stipulated and the observer knows it because the definition of grue is well-known. Otherwise the paradox wouldn't even work. The whole point of the paradox is that by using induction, the observer arrives at nonsensical propositions like "Grass is grue."; if he didn't knew the meaning of grue, including the exact time t, this would not be possible. The formulation "arbitrary but fixed time t" is just to emphasize that nothing interesting needs to happen at time t, it can be any time in the future. 

In Critique of Dialectical Reason, vol. 1, Sartre wrote (translation from the Russian translation into English is mine) 

Ftn. In Sartre's novel Reprieve, there are several outstanding pages towards the end of the book describing Mathieu's opening to himself that he is free and is an everlasting immortal moment, which is, like light skimming the beach, could never be buried by this sand and stones and is always to be an exile from them all. 

A good question. The defining property of free will, i.e. freedom in choices, is the "feeling" or consciousness of the own authorship of the choice being made. Even if/when I'm forced to comply I cannot escape the glimpse, at the moment, that nothing actually is selecting the way for me, except that "foolish" me (who is, actually, nobody/anonymous this minute) who agrees with the offered. Thus, every human choice is a free choice, and responsibility is implied automatically. That would be Sartre's account. Moreover, even when I stumble and fall down, I immediately and promptly react and interpret the occasion (e.g. by the fear to break an arm and not be able to paint anymore through that). By application of a free interpretation/meaning I emerge responsible for my incident though I didn't choose to stumble. I selected to be thus fallen, instead. Freedom is spontaneous choice (of meaning and action) accompanied by the awareness of own authorship / resposibility. Or to put it differently, the apprehension that there is nobody/nothing specific is to blame except myself. The key point here, @HWalters, is that ownership belongs to (is felt by) faceless me, the Nothing, and not to I, the Something. If nothing is the decision maker, the decision is, logically, not motivated by any preexisting structure, i.e. it is not determined (subjectively) by any cause. It is motivated by no cause, a pure gap in causational chain. (It is but later that we can attribute a cause to our decision, to "excuse" it.) Thus, freedom is human (i.e. conscious) randomness (conditioned upon given circumstances). Within the scope of possible alternatives the circumstance can support, it is non-determined. A man is an entity whereby randomness becomes own while determinism gets broken. Whenever consciousness comes to play, whenever something comes to being through consciousness, determinism is canceled. Even conceived/planned decision without instant action is not your "will", it is spontaneous. It was spontaneous when it first occured to you, and it is again spontaneous when you start to act according to it: you re-invent it one more time, using your knowledge of the plan as the circumstance, and act. So, free will is freedom. Specifically "will" is a redundant word, and people do not do things by "will" as some tension or effort. It is when I reflect back on the thing done or on the difficulty to overcome to do it, I might see that "labour" of my Ego involved and start to think of (free) "will" as my instrument. "Will" is always an artefact of reflection ("I decided and did it myself", "I must decide to do it"). No "will" is actually used in real, here-and-now decision makings. Also to say: curiously, non-human (out there, universal) randomness is close, in eyes of a human, to determinism (or doom) and not to indeterminism. Both random and predetermined appear to us as contingency which is a characteristic of facticity to where we are "abandoned". Marooned for making free choices in the flight from facticity towards meaningful world.