There are a few 'blatant' differences that are obvious when reading both the books. Most of these aren't that difficult to spot once you read both the books. The blatant differences: Firstly, Atticus has changed. In "Mockingbird," Atticus Finch, Scout and Jem's father, is an honorable lawyer and perhaps better father who somberly defends African-American Tom Robinson at Robinson's rape trial."Mockingbird's" Atticus is so renowned that the ABA Journal headlined an article "The 25 Greatest Fictional Lawyers (Who Are Not Atticus Finch)." He tries to bear no ill will towards anybody, regardless of color. A member of a mob "is still a man." "I do my best to love everyone," he tells Scout in "Mockingbird." So it's a shock to encounter "Watchman's" Atticus, who serves on the local citizens' council and remembers his defense of Tom Robinson -- which, in "Watchman," concludes with a not guilty verdict -- with "an instinctive distaste." He's also a former Klan member, though he went "to find out exactly what men in town were behind the masks." (The Klan is alluded to in one "Mockingbird" line as a "political organization.") It's a challenge envisioning Gregory Peck -- who played Atticus in the 1962 "Mockingbird" movie -- playing this version of the attorney. He certainly would have given it a layer of darkness. However, this Atticus still loves his daughter. It's the question of whether his daughter can love him that forms the crux of the book. Secondly, Jean Louise is fully grown In 'Mockingbird': 

In this chapter Atticus talks to the children and tells Scout to be more ladylike and Jem to become more of a gentlemen. The children (being their age) do not properly grasp the context Atticus talks about and Scout begins to cry. When Atticus says 

Perhaps he has no conscience. Eventually he even becomes mayor. Could he simply have manipulated the perceptions of the ten people in the cafe? Perhaps for example they were in two groups and during the crucial few minutes he ensured that each group believed he was in the company of the other? 

This combination causes her to feel as though "she were going insane". There is clearly something wrong with him mentally that sadly his adoptive mother's efforts to reach out to him cannot help him get through: 

It was almost certainly the orphan who killed his adoptive mother. Why did he do it? For her assets, for his inheritance. The question then arises why did it even occur to him to murder the woman who raised him, cared for him, bought him the books he enjoyed studying, and who loved him? Because he was evil. It is probable that Guy de Maupassant expected his readers to believe that personality characteristics could be physically inherited, and that since the young man in this story was an orphan he may have come from "bad stock". We know that his birth mother, widowed just before he was born, died penniless, and it was common among the privileged classes who enjoy private incomes to associate poverty with moral degeneracy. If he is the murderer, he is extremely ungrateful to the woman who raised him, a trait almost universally considered to be deeply unpleasant and sociopathic. He requests money from her several times and receives it. After obtaining on one occasion a large sum, he asks for more only a few days later. When she says no he appears to be "satisfied with her decision". But we realise he is exceptionally committed to giving a false appearance. The nasty selfishness of his character is shown in that 

Its clear to see in To Killing A Mockingbird that Atticus cares for his children. Aunt Alexandra comes to visit the children because she feels they need some 

after all they have no mother. Aunt Alexandra is shocked by Jem's description of Cousin Joshua and asks Atticus to speak to his children about their 

The pants-wearing Jean Louise Finch of "Watchman" is more ladylike than the overalls-wearing Scout, but she still doesn't fit in with the demure women of Maycomb. She dislikes the town "Coffees" and obviously prefers the freedom of New York. "Good Lord, Aunty," she tells Atticus' sister, Alexandra, at one point. "Maycomb knows I didn't wear anything but overalls till I started having the Curse." The coming of age of "Watchman's" Jean Louise is starker. There are passages of her as a teenager, going on a date and defending her adopted Manhattan. Gone is the wonder of young Scout. Lastly, the timelines of the plot. Though "Watchman" dates from about 1957, its plot -- pitting the locals' defense of the South's old ways against Jean Louise's distaste for them -- is surprisingly topical given the recent controversy over the Confederate flag. The N-word is used with some abandon and Uncle Jack, in particular, tries to explain the region to Jean Louise as "a separate nation" that fought the Civil War "to preserve their identity." "Watchman" also has a distinctly modern feel compared to the Depression-set "Mockingbird." The roads are now paved, there are mentions of television and the city is coping with the strivings of returning veterans. It's a far cry from the sleepy village of the'30s. Source/Read more: $URL$ 

This does not occur to him simply as a possibility: he believes this is what "must" have happened". Why? The reader is probably meant to infer that the reason for the postman's notion is that the body was found close to a drinking establishment. And the only such place we know about is the cafe at which the orphan spent time that evening. If it was nearby then he would only have had to leave it for a few moments when he heard the coach and then return. Although the young man appears to have a firm alibi, how firm is it really? If he was in the cafe all the time, then he could not have personally committed the murder and it would be unlikely that the villagers would believe otherwise. There is no suggestion that they believe he paid another party to carry it out or used supernatural means. If the cafe was a drinking establishment, then many patrons there may get drunk, perhaps even early on in the evening. And the orphan is, or at least he becomes, effective at causing those who believe he is guilty to change their minds about him: 

After Madame Source's death, he weeps from morning to night, yet Maupassant comments that his state was one of violent grief "at least to all appearance". How did he do it? We know that Madame Source's last coach journey was from her new house to her old house. At least this is strongly implied by her body being found by the village postman, whereas her new house is in the suburbs. When the postman notices a splash of blood, he first thinks that