Matt, this has got to be one of the most asked questions on here, have you searched through previous questions yet? That should give you some decent ideas. All I will add is that you mention insurance. Your insurance company will likely have a list of approved locks - I'd suggest its going to be far more worth your while to consult that list than to ask a question on SE (much as the advice here is generally very good!). My betting is that the insurance co's list will contain big, heavy, hardened chains, so yes, the chain would probably be worth the weight (and the cost) if it means the difference between your insurance paying out or not. Also your insurance will probably stipluate that the bike gets locked to something "immovable" - might be worth seeing if you have anything that might fit the bill in your basement, if not seeing if you can get permission to sink an anchor. I have heard stories of people locking their bikes to a bike rack, only for thieves to unbolt the bike rack from the floor! You may also want to find out whether your basement is considered a "public place", from the ins co's perspective, because they may place limits on the amount of time a bike could be left there. And, if its left inside, whether that would change things. The sad fact is that if someone decides they really want your bike there's probably not a lot you can do about it - try not to get too attached to it, it's just a chunk of metal after all, and make sure you take sufficient steps that you will be compensated in the event of theft. I suggest you go read some policy requirements. 

Here's my experience: The biggest problem in starting to ride fixed is that my brain would forget I was riding fixed, I'd come across a decent stretch of road (or a corner), and would attempt to coast. All totally subconsciously. With flat pedals, provided I was doing a decent enough speed/cadence, I'd end up having to take my feet off the pedals until such time as I'd slowed the bike enough to get my feet back on and essentially regain control of the bike. Timeframe possibly 10 seconds during which the only real control I had was to steer and brake. In clipless pedals, however, because my feet are attached to the pedals, as soon as my brain says "coast", my feet say "whoaaaaa". My brain then kicks back in and because I am still attached to the pedals I can just recover, easy as. And the timeframe here is just a fraction of a second. So for my money, and assuming you do have a traffic-free environment in which to hone your skills, I'd go clipless straight away. In traffic, I prefer flat pedals, just because I might want to put my foot down, like, now. But this of course is a preference thing rather than a technique thing. btw, even though I've had a fixie for a couple of years now I still fall into this trap. Right now I'm probably only getting the fixie out once a month (compared to riding geared bikes several times per week), so there's an element of readjustment every time I take it out. 

Imagine two right-angled triangles sharing a common side (the red-dashed line). The hypotenuse of the left triangle (non-drive side) is longer than the hypotenuse of the right triangle (drive side). Generally only by a couple of mm, but it makes a difference. Failure to observe this will mean in the first place that you might not be able to attach all the spokes to the rim. Even if you manage this, you'll likely not get the wheel in dish. Assuming that you asked the question because you've actually done this, my advice is to undo it and to start building the wheel again. On the plus side it is likely you won't make this mistake again ;-) 

There's one last variable, unfortunately. This is how the bottom bracket attaches to the frame. It screws in, but there are two different types of thread in common use, English and Italian. The type of threading used depends on the manufacturer of your bike. As a generalisation, Italian threads are (surprisingly) used mostly by Italian makers, the rest of the world pretty much uses English. So, most likely you'll want an English thread, but you should check this (do you know the manufacturer of the frame?) before buying as the two threads are most definitely not compatible. NB as always there's a page on Sheldon Brown's website with good information on BBs. 

If you imagine a cassette, will have a bunch of sprockets on it. The current 105 range (which came out last year) will have 11 sprockets, the earlier 105 had 10 sprockets. The notation you've noticed simply means that for one of these cassettes, the smallest sprocket has 11 teeth, the largest has 32 teeth. And the second cassette has smallest sprocket 12 teeth, largest sprocket 25 teeth. So these numbers are basically the "range" of gears covered by a cassette. You might imagine that a large range (e.g. 11-32) is good, as it would give you lots of teeth to climb steep hills, but also a small cog which you can use to power downhill. And this is correct, but there is also a flip-side. A larger range of sprockets means that there can sometimes be a jump of a few teeth between each sprocket, which can be less smooth when changing gear. Hence, if you don't actually need the large range, a smaller range would give you a smoother ride. As regards which one you should choose, it's not really down to whether you're a beginner or not, more to do with how good a climber you are. If you feel you might struggle going uphill, a 32-tooth sprocket is probably going to be a good choice for you. The other thing to remember is that, when you're thinking about gears, the cassette is only half of the story, the other half being the cranks. The number of chainrings, and the number of teeth on each chainring, will also affect the gear range and smoothness. But that's probably a different question... 

I see no exact match for "AirPro" on the Boardman website, (the Pro Carbon possibly?) but certainly every model that is listed has a "spec" tab in which the chain is listed. By and large the groupsets seem to be Shimano with a couple of SRAMs, and lots of the chains coming out of the factory appear to be KMC. So, as regards what chain to get you should be able to look it up. If you can't find your bike (old model?) on the site do you know what groupset it has? Certainly Shimano offer a chain for each of their ranges (105, Ultegra etc.) so you should be able to identify the chain that way. But check the number of cogs on your rear cassette because the chain will be dependent on this. So as regards what chain to get, that should be straightforward. There are some good answers on here regarding how to tell whether your chain actually needs replacing, I would simply add that if you look at the cost of replacing the chain on its own is not too expensive. The most recent chain I bought was for my fixie (a KMC at less than 10GBP, which also happens to be less than the cost of a bottle of Park chain cleaner!) a couple of months ago but I think even the top of the range Shimano Dura Ace chains are only something like 25GBP. So if you have your doubts, I would say just do it. But as other people have said, you sometimes need a new cassette as well and these can be more expensive - I bought a new wheel in the summer and put an Ultegra cassette on it, think it cost about 50GBP. 

For the question you actually ask, about team riders, the answer is that its a personal thing. Keep in mind, though, with a pro rider (any sponsored rider, in fact) that there may be contractual things which require/prevent them from wearing certain things. The range of kit available to them will depend on the depth of the sponsor's pockets. Someone like Santini, for example, produce lots of different clothing products (they have a catalogue online) and so getting each and every product made up in team colours will be prohibitive for the smaller teams. (I suspect non-team clothing is not an option for the riders, and you do hear stories from way back about riders sewing their sponsor's labels into their preferred clothing, so as to "appear" compliant - a bit like footballers and their boots.) As for the rest of us....the general rules are (a) to wear your layers many, thin and wicking, so as to prevent getting sweaty (and therefore damp); (b) not to allow yourself to overheat during the ride - in practise this can mean starting off cold and relying on the exercise to get you warmed up. Those two are good for the dry. In the wet, bear in mind that the more waterproof you go, the less you will wick, so it is a sliding scale. My personal preference is to accept that you're going to get wet, but to concentrate on wearing clothing that will dry quickly once the rain stops. But this rule doesn't work very well though for e.g. winter socks (and shoes for that matter) - the combination of cold and wet is always difficult to overcome. 

What are the factor(s) that would make the brake lever of a hydraulic brake become stiffer over time? By stiffer, I mean that the lever becomes more difficult to pull, it offers more resistance and I need to exert more force in order to apply the brake. By time, I am thinking a month or so following a service, with only moderate riding in the meantime. 

Will you be planning your route beforehand, or will it all be on an ad hoc basis? I suspect if you're going to do everything ad-hoc, then you will need an array of maps. I guess the most difficult thing here will be translating a path on the map into a daily rideable distance. However I have gone touring with a pre-planned route so I can certainly say what worked for me. This was basically spending time on the web beforehand, and on the road using a cycle computer and having a smartphone for backup. Preparation: I use a site called BikeRouteToaster to plan routes. I don't know how well-known this site is, and I'm certainly aware of other sites that offer this, but I like this one. You get a Google Maps interface which allows you to create routes. Having created your route you get things like distances and elevation profiles there and then, so you can fit your route to what you want to ride for the day. The end result is a file containing your route - GPX is an standard format which has been around forever, it also export TCX files for newer devices. Cycle Computer: Central to my planning was a Garmin 800 (I see there is now a new one out, so you may get a bargain). This is quite a high-end computer so you will pay accordingly. However it contains a GPS and will take in suck in the courses from BikeRouteToaster. The big thing about this is that it has a micro SD card on which you can put maps. Now, don't get me wrong, the display on this unit can make map-reading quite painful, but in terms of showing your immediate vicinity and indicating which way you should go, it works well. You're not going to get lost. The maps, unfortunately, have to be in a proprietary format, and this again is reflected in the price. However the good news is that there are various resources on the web which will convert Open Source Maps into the format required by the device. I bought a 16GB card and have pretty much all of Europe on mine, at no cost. I used $URL$ to do this, but there are others I guess. The good thing about using a computer is battery life - my 800 will quite happily run all day with power to spare, and will recharge via USB. And this is the big win over something like a smartphone, which will drain pretty quickly if you're using its GPS all the time. Mobile Phone Having said that, a smartphone is great to have as a backup. Most of the time it just sat dormant in my pocket, but every now and then I would get it out just to use its GPS/maps. I have an application called Memory Map, which offers high-quality commercial maps (Ordnance Survey in the UK, IGN in France etc.), but again which come at a price. I've been using this app for years and have built up a collection of maps... Alternatively of course you have freebies like Google Maps (although bear in mind it is worth caching maps beforehand since you won't necessarily have a phone signal when you need it). Having the smartphone was my alternative to carrying paper maps, and a 5" screen may not work for everyone. Like I say this setup worked for me, but I do think it is dependent on how much you want to prepare your route in advance. I realise that overplanning could potentially spoil this kind of holiday if you're not careful. 

A lot. But before you go out and buy anything shiny and new, why not try a short term investment in some 26" Conti Gatorskins at 1.25" for your mtb? (You'll probably need a new pair of innertubes as well) Try commuting on these and I bet you'll notice a big improvement on 1.95" tyres, just by making this relatively inexpensive change. (Then go out and spend a few thousand dollars on a carbon road bike and it'll be better still!) 

Here's a photograph of a professional rider (Matt Goss) that I took during a time trial at the Tour de France a couple of weeks ago. 

You could always go to a triple chainring at the front. That'll take you down to 30. But it'll cost you - you're talking the rings themselves, maybe the front derailleur, likely a new BB, and certainly a new left shifter. You can always do both what I suggest and what @Batman suggests - as long as you keep the chain width consistent you can pretty much treat the front and rear mechs as independent. Again though the limiting factor is depth of pockets. 

The number of comments to your question is becoming quite large, so I thought I'd roll my comments up into an answer (of sorts). You ask whether the seat postures could cause back pains, and whilst I have no specialist knowledge in this area, I'd have to say from a purely empirical viewpoint that the answer must be "no". A lot of people ride a lot of miles on a lot of days, without suffering long-term pain. But it's not a blanket "no", there are caveats. For example, if you have a badly-fitting bike, this can quickly cause pain. Plus don't forget, under the large umbrellas of "road bikes" or "mountain bikes", there are many different frame geometries which offer many levels of comfort. For example with road bikes, at one extreme there are bikes designed to be ridden by professional racers, whose geometry will sacrifice comfort for efficiency/performance. At the other extreme there are, for example, touring bikes which are designed with a more relaxed geometry, so as to be comfortable for riding all day, over several days, and carrying a load. There are a gozillion bikes in between, and the story is repeated for mountain bikes. Example: two different road bikes (same manufacturer). The first (left/top?) photo shows a bike from their "road" [i.e. racing] range, the other from their "touring" range. You can see the different frame shapes involved. (The two bikes look pretty much to be on the same scale, certainly they both run 700 tyres.) But if you look at both the vertical and horizontal distances between the saddle and handlebar, hopefully you can envisage that the rider of the left bike would have their back more horizontal (efficient but uncomfortable), the rider of the right bike will have their back at maybe 45° (give or take), a far more comfortable position.