There is a few methods the hero can take, I will outline as best I can tl;dr - basically when defending the hero wants to use the counter of the magic the necromancer has used so less energy is wasted (wood > fire, fire > earth kind of thing) hit-and-run tatics would be best as the hero can attack without being attack (at least not easily done right) Defensive Scenario 1 - Hero has the advantage In this situation the hero has the upper hand of a supprise "attack" Now I know you are wanting defensive approaches however @dot_Sp0T "A Good Defense is a Good Offense" would likely be the best way for your hero regardless of how the fight comes to be. But In the willing of the question I shall explain how a supprise "attack" can bt used for defensive means. A stun/paralysis attack, this could be an eletrical attack or a gas based attack. If the necromance cannot do anything then your hero (and party if he has one) will be unscathed, no better out come in my opinion. Defensive Scenario 2 - Hero and Necromancer meet head-on In this case the Hero and Necromancer will have a nice chat, realise they cant come to an agreement and then begin throwing magic at each other. At this point it becomes vital we know what arsenal the hero and necro have, if there is too large a gap in their power the fight becomes one sided but for arguments sake lets say they evenly matched (with the hero slightly less powerful but is willing to go further to save humanity or whatever he is doing). So the hero is fighting an upwards battle, best thing he can do is use guerrilla tatics/hit-and-run, conserve his own energy and make the necro waste his. For his defensive magic if it is just manipulating real world material (Wood/stone/water/fire/air etc etc) then he will need to know each elements counter, IE dont use wood agaisnt fire, he can then either deflect the attack away from himself (or back to the necro if possible) using the least amount of energy possible. Once the necro is sufficently worn our then the hero can move in for the "finishing blow" Defensive Scenario 3.1 - The hero is caught off guard The evil necro has used a underhanded, sly and cheap technique and the hero is in a ... well lets call is a bad situation. So the hero is wounded, its not fatal but he could have done without the injury agaisnt such a foe. 

Then that is what happens. You are talking about a fictional device with fictional properties. You have not specified how your forcefield works, what mechanism it uses (and you can't, because its fictional). That means you can hand-wave it however you want. If the force field does not conduct heat, then the lava flows hot and fluid. But if no energy passes the forcefield (no heat), then how would light pass through it? Ah, simply say that it does. If the force field acts more like an actual, physical barrier, it will conduct heat. it will be hot on the outside of the forcefield (where no lava is), but this process that carries heat away will allow the lava to cool down. 

You would have absolutely no seasons whatsoever, and thus - depending on the output of your star - either a lush evergreen jungle or a desert, or anything in between, but no changing environment that has different behavior depending on seasons. Also, lack of moonlight being reflected means pitch dark nights, which would influence predators. Better night vision is necessary, while other species might prefer to stay in sheltered locations during the night. Fire (or another light source) will be very important for an intelligent species that does not have night vision. Sun dials as clocks will not be possible, so time has to be kept track of in another way. Similarly, animals need to have some kind of "sixth sense" to tell time and to go to shelter in time. How they do that without any apparent way to tell the time? No idea, honestly. Plantlife would probably develop differently, since trees will now completely block the light. So no plants underneath trees anymore (with a rising/setting sun, those get at least some sunlight, if the sun is fixed, they do not). For an intelligent species, navigation would be difficult without a way to tell cardinal directions by watching the sun. There will be lots of small but noticeable differences, listing them all would prove futile. 

So, after a few places try to setup their own supermarkets and they disappear people would rely on either food only shops(Butchers and the like) to get food/get food directly from a supplier/looting from other people (Doubt that this would happen but some people may do it) The initial shock would have worn off by then and people would start going back to work (most would do this reluctantly as they need money). The disapperance of supermarkets wouldnt impact too many jobs, but if you are working in a supermarket you better fire up that CV as you are going to need it. (I was going to list a % of the job in the UK that are directly related to supermarkets but a quick search brought nothing up, if anyone has this please link in the comments) A week after the event (maybe a bit longer, its your time scale) People are resigned to the fact they no longer have supermarkets for convenience. The Government would have issued a statment (several of them proberly) stating what is going on and how people can get food/clothing and all manner of items supplied by suppermarkets. Suppliers would have a huge increase price (their demand would be abount the same but it would be thousands of individual orders rather than 1 big one, their logistics will have a headache for a while) 

Im looking to make my world half Earth gravity but I would also like the natives to be strong than an average human (Acording to google) Would it be possible to have a species stronger than a human in lower gravity? FYI - Would prefer to be twice as strong but Im not going to nitpick every detail If it isnt possible you can also make that an answer 

Whatever suits your needs. The job is dangerous. If the rewards are high enough, people will do that job. This can go either way. High one-off payments (high bounties on the monsters, for examples) will motivate risky behavior. everyone hopes to slay enough monsters to get enough saving so that he/she can retire. This opens possibilities for broke ex-hunters who have spent all their savings. Or you provide other benefits. maybe the guilds have insurances and pay their members. If the insurance is good, then its just a job like every other, even if riskier. 

Does the axis of rotation change with it? Because if the axis of rotation stays fixed wrt. to the sun, then you'd have one half of the planet bathed in sunlight for half a year, and the other half in complete darkness for half a year. Pretty hostile. If the axis of rotation also changes, not much would be different. The sun is almost completely a perfect sphere (one of the most perfect spheres we have yet found in nature), so I suspect that radiation emitted is quite uniform. many features of the sun are equally found at the poles and at the equator (e.g. coronal holes). But our ability to reach other planets would be drastically dimished, because plane changes are very, very expensive. You have to spend $\Delta v = v_0 \cdot sin \left( \frac \theta 2 \right)$ m/s just to change the plane. In case of the earth, the mean orbital speed is ~30km/s, so you would need another 21km/s delta-v for the plane change. This is pretty prohibitive (say goodbye to space travel to anything else then the moon). And you'd have to explain how that came to be, since conservation of angular momentum dictates that all bodies should (roughly) orbit in the same plane. So such a solar system could only evolve if the planet got pulled there by another big source of gravity, e.g. a big rogue planet passing through. I sadly don't have good information on the suns radiation from the poles. But the suns magnetosphere does not seem to be much of a concern for your planet. A much greater concern would be the stability of the orbit. Jupiter and the other bodies perturb the earths orbit, but since we are in the same plane, the system is quite stable for the forseeable (million of years) future. but with Earth being heavily inclined, I could imagine the system to be a lot less stable. Maybe you plug it into Universe Sandbox or similar see the results. 

After it all life would continue as normal, we have lived for a few thousand years without them, if they just change form it wouldnt cause any long lasting damage (suppermarket to Supplier) 

I'll break this down a bit as there will be stages to an event like this happening. I will be placing this in the UK as no country was specified A few hours after the supermarkets disappear Media cover would be all over the place, when people see this they will rush to the nearest place that sells food (go for the canned food, it lasts longer) and raid it, nearly all small stores would be looted and a large amount of damaged caused to the store in the process. The public services, Police/NHS (possibly fire brigade but unlikely, they are more likely to help with helping locals with minor issues) will be bombarded with calls, either about "why this is happening?", "Where can I get food/supplies?" etc etc. A day after the event The Government would do nothing for a few days till people came banging on their doors pitch-fork-in-hand likely have local police (possibly the army if things get real bad) handing out rations and to keep peace best they can. Police would have to be more lenient with people as the lost of an immediate food souce would scare people and they wouldnt be thinking straite. There would be a few deaths but they would be few and most wouldnt be caused directly by the supermarkets disappearing A few more days after the event Google defines a supermarket as: 

Why would we want to join their empire? We just met them. We don't know anything about them. We only know that they are technological advanced. We don't know if their morals/ethics are compatible with us. We don't know if they would even want us to join their empire, even if we were as far developed as they are. There is multiple ways this can go. They might be conquerors and simply might want to take our resources. Look at Independence day. Not necessarily the most interesting story to tell. Lets say they aren't outright hostile. But they aren't a charity, either. So make them interested in information. They probably want to study us, want to learn about us and the creatures living on our planet. After some negotiations, it is decided that they create an embassy on Earth, and that we keep an open communication channel with them. They send some scientists as well to study Earth. We will want to do the same with them. Maybe they won't hand us their technology, but information about their social structures, their home planet, their political landscape etc. are all very valuable. This process will also yield information about what we have and they want and vice-versa. The first thing that happens is trade. Art in particular. Life will have developed differently on different planets, so there will be plants, tress etc. They don't know about. Those can be used as material in art they might be interested in. Music and instruments are another thing we might have to offer that they might want to import. So at first, the relationship will be based on information interchange, then more and more trade. While art and entertainment always work, you could always make some resources restricted for them. They might live on a quite barren planet and consider large bodies of water to be quite are. Earth could become a place of interest for tourism for them. At that point we'd have a pretty good relationship with them. We interchange information and we trade. So we revisit the question I posed earlier: Why would we want to join their empire? On earth, nations trade and exchange information. Yet they rarely want to merge. Maybe trading could be made easier if we were part of their empire. This isn't a problem we could negotiate a free trading agreement with them (think TTIP). As long as there isn't an outside force / a threat, there would be no reason for us to want to join them in the first place. And even if there was another civilization that indeed was hostile, we still wouldn't necessarily want to join them. They could agree to protect us if they think relations are good, and might even try to ally with us (think NATO), because they might be interested in their enemy conquering a nearby star-system and would like the heads-up and warning. So much like NATO has less powerful members as buffer-zones, we could be a buffer zone for them and be under their protection. In order for us to want to join their empire, there has to be a sense of common shared identity. Which needs to evolve over time, possibly generations. Nations on Earth form because of a long history and a common shared identity, the sense of "belonging together". This sense isn't just there. So the question isn#t really what we can offer them in forms of trade/tech/knowledge, but the question is what can we experience together with them / what events might transpire to form a bond of trust, understanding and to create a shared identity so that we and them would want to merge into one empire. Its an interesting thing to explore.