Of course, if that misapprehension was true, nobody would ever die, for if so, somebody would be alive, and then not be alive. But the actual text is, 

ETA: an alternative - and less apologetic of conservatives - terminology from the same period, called the "left" "mountain" (for its members sat in the backbenches, which are in a higher position in an amphitheatre-like chamber) and the "right" "swamp". 

Well, I am going to say it, and I am going to say it, now. "God" is defined as an omnipotent and omnibenevolent entity that created the world. The world is full of violence and cruelty. Ergo, if any entity actually created the world, it is either not omnibenevolent (it doesn't care that its creatures kill and torture each others routinely, out of necessity rather than out of caprice) or not omnipotent (it could not create a world where cruelty and violence were not necessary). If so, any entity that eventually created the world is not God, for it would lack at least one of the two other properties that define God. If there is any entity that is either omnibenevolent or omnipotent, then it is also not God, because it did not create the world. Ergo, God, as defined by theists, does not exist. Quod erat demonstrandum. I cannot prove that Tash didn't create the world, if for no other reason, because the world is quite Tash-like in style, as much as Kleine Nachtmusik is very Mozart-like. But Tash is not what theists would call God; the moment when anyone starts seriously arguing that we should worship or appease Tash, I will be concerned with refuting Tash's existence. As of now, it does not seem necessary. I also cannot prove that a clockmaker god didn't create the world. But again this is not what theists would call God, nor the reason why they would burn me at the stake while I am alive or tell me I am going to hell when I die. People who believe in a clockmaker god - deists - are perfectly comfortable with me not worshipping any god; their god doesn't require worship and is similarly quite comfortable with my lack of worship. And so again I see no point in refuting the existence of such god, except perhaps as a fun philosophical exercise. Agnostics fall for theists' favourite fallacy, that of moving the goal posts. They confuse not being able to prove that Tash or the Great Clocksmith created the world with not being able to prove that the omnipotent/omnibenevolent theist God of the Bible/Quran created the world. That's the reason why I am not an agnostic, but an atheist: because atheism is by far a more rational position than agnosticism. 

Dawkins talks about replicants, and he seems to fluctuate between two very different, and not obviously compatible, versions of his "theory": 1) memes are selected according to their ability to help their "hosts" to reproduce (for instance, religions that forbid reproductive control tend to spread because they make their faithful reproduce more), and 2) memes are selected according to their ability to reproduce themselves (for instance, religions that bid their faithful to actively proselitise tend to spread because those ideas reproduce more). But anyway his emphasys is on reproduction. Now, I haven't read Stirner, but I doubt very much he puts any emphasys on reproduction - at least not on the reproduction of ideas qua ideas or on the reproduction of human individuals. It is more likely that his "spooks" are instrumental to the cohesion of societies (which by the way is by far a more reasonable idea than Dawkins' - to quote himself - "amateur sociology"). 

So, the problem is, B already agrees that people who are mature enough to drink should be able to drink legally; what she disagrees is that 18-year-olds are mature enough to drink. Unless she can be convinced of the latter, this begs the question, "but why do you think 18-year-olds are mature enough to drink"? (So, another argument, like for instance, "driving age is 18; don't you think that driving requires more maturity than drinking?" is necessary to sway B.) Notice that the "context" could be different: 

Rosa Luxemburg. Trotsky's theory of Permanent Revolution. Roman Rosdolsky. A very in depth analysis of Das Kapital and its relations to the Grundrisse and Theories of Surplus Value. Wilhelm Reich. A failed but still very radical and interesting attempt to bring together Marx and Freud's contributions. Piero Sraffa. A definitive refutation of the hocus pocus school of marginalist economics. Moshe Postone, the Krisis/Exit groups, particularly Robert Kurz and Roswitha Scholz. The most radical reading of Marx that I know of, albeit probably unilateral and leading to a political cul-de-sac. Several English Marxist historians, most prominently (although many times in opposite ways) Perry Anderson and E. P. Thompson. 

There are two big problems with formalisation, though. First is that, as implied in jobermark's comment to the question, atomic facts do not exist, and consequently atomic propositions don't exist either. So the formalisations are going to be either incomplete or circular. Second problem is context: 

Each disjunction serves different purposes, but the first one plays a secondary role within Marxist theory, and is more or less consensual among Marxists and non-Marxists. The second one, on the other hand, is central to Marxist theory, but its significance would be, I suppose, disputed by non-Marxists. Luxemburg claims that Smith confuses the distinctions, making fixed capital = constant capital, and she might be correct about that. Thence "for [Smith], fixed capital is the same as constant capital in [M]arx; but [L]ux[emburg] claims that [Smith's] analysis makes constant capital disappear". If I correctly remember, she does make that exact claim, but I am not sure it is in the context of the confusion between fixed capital and constant capital. The argument would rather be that Smith enters into a kind of unwarranted regression, in trying to establish the principle that all value is a product of labour: instead of considering, like Marx, that constant capital is dead labour, and that its value is merely transferred into the new products, he attempts to explain that the items consisting in constant capital are themselves the product of labour, so that the value created by them is also indirectly produced by labour. In this way, he annuls the concept of constant capital; all capital is variable because all capital is ultima ratio reducible to labour. And, with even more reason, "capital" becomes an a-historical entity; the fact that fixed capital, at some point in the past, consisted in goods that were not produced within capitalist relations is lost, as is the distinction that Marx underlines in his critique of the Gotha program: value is not wealth, and wealth is not value, even though they largely intersect in a capitalist society. That might be related to Smith's confusion of constant and fixed capital (if he misses fixed capital's specificity, which is to transfer its value to new products only gradually and along the duration of several sucessive production cycles, he might think of facilities and machineries as merely another kind of raw material in production, and this might be tied to his confusion between dead labour and live labour - in reducing all capital to labour, the specificities of each kind of capital are possibly lost). But then I am no specialist in Smith, and might be getting the finer distinctions wrong here. 

I would say that some forms of sarcasm that have the superficial structure of a statement are not actual statements, but commands, questions, fatic sentences, metalinguistic sentences, etc. Other kinds are mostly attempts to dispute the truth of some claims, based on what the consequences of that claims would be, if taken to their logical consequences. 

So suppose that someone goes on an manages to prove that G is true within T theory. But since G states the opposite, ie, that it cannot be proved within T theory, if it is proved true, it is proven... false. So it is contradictory, as it is simultaneously true and false. It is a variant of the Epimenides paradhox ("Everything that I say is a lie...", which is true only if it is untrue). 

What would be a theory of Justice? Marx would not speculate on an abstract "justice" unconnected to material practice. A properly Marxist theory of Law or of Right - which can in some contexts be taken as synonym to a "theory of justice" - would be possible, but I am not sure this is what you intend. If so, I would say that Marx's Critique of Hegel’s Philosophy of Right would be a point of departure. But I see your professor puts forth the following, and more specific, question: 

It is not like that. Science starts with conclusions (theories) and only then seeks for evidence. The difference is, science seeks for evidence that contradicts its "conclusions" (ie, theories), and only sticks to conclusions that resist such trial. Religion does not seek evidence at all, and tends to reject (or misinterpret) evidence that contradicts its conclusions. 

I don't think this is true. Science - in the limited scope you meant here - only deals with things that can be demonstrated by reproducible experiments. It can't deal with what is, by design or nature, not subject to such requirements. Are there invisible fairies in my garden? We cannot know, because the claim is unverifiable by design: the fairies are invisible, and so we cannot see them. Can we communicate with the dead, if we have faith? We can't know, bucause the claim is unverifiable by nature: if we were to make an experiment, we would already lack the necessary faith. It doesn't follow that those things don't exist. It follows that science cannot reach to conclusions regarding them. Collaterally, there is a "belief", which can not experimented in a "scientific", reproductible way, that things that have inbuilt unverificability clauses, such as invisible fairies or any phenomenon dependent on faith, are either not important, or so rare that they cannot be accounted for in any meaningful way. On the other hand, scientists seem to believe in the Big Bang, the existence of dinossaurs, or dark matter, all of which are unsusceptible of repeatable experimentation. So, while repeatable experimentation is certainly an important part of science, it cannot be all that is in science. 

Apart from the similar intent to deal with human lives as exchange value, both fall under what Karl Marx chastises here: 

What it does is to change the pragmatic value of the sentence: what would be interpreted in a Logic class as a proposition about a fact is indeed a veiled command ("Go and brush your teeth now!"), and commands have no truth value (1). Another ample use of sarcasm is a kind of shortened reduction ad absurdum: 

It did, but that due to certain particularities of the Abrahamic faiths, which imply the inerrancy (at a least to some level) of given, dated, sacred texts - sacred texts that make several assertions about existing or past states of the universe. It is worse for literalists, such as a few fundamentalist Protestant sects, and less of a problem for non-literalists, such as the Catholic ortodoxy, or rabinic Judaism, that can always fall back into an alegorical interpretation (yes, the Bible says God created the world in six days, but who says that a billion years is not just a day for God?) From Philosopher3's answer: 

But, besides the technical question of Engels not being Marx, nor conversely, the above is absolutely not synonymous to "Engels clearly sees the gender divide as the first class divide", as jobermark puts it. "Coincides" is by no means the same as "equates". What Engels says is that the opposition between classes coincides, historically, with the antagonism between man and woman in monogamous marriage. Of course, it does not exclude the possibility that men and women could have been in antagonic relations within other forms of family organisation; for all we know such antagonism could have been present in clanic group marriage; it just wouldn't be historically contemporary to class oppression. True, Engels then goes to say that the first class oppression coincides with that of the female sex by the male. This still doesn't mean that sexual oppression is tantamount to class oppression, much less that the first social classes were the sexes, male and female. It only means that sexual oppression is absolutely necessary for the reproduction of class relations, through reasonably clear rules of inheritance. No monogamous marriage, no possible straightforward inheritance rules, consequently no solid base for property and no smooth reproduction of social inequality. (Also, it is not true that the gender division is inscribed into the human body. Sex is, but "gender", to the extent that it is a significant category, is a social construct, the sum of socially expected/accepted attidudes and characteristics of males and females, and as such, strictly cultural, not biological.) 

Did Heraclitus believe in the identity of opposites? I do not think so. He is popularly quoted as having said, 

C is false, and E is true. 16 pupils practice one of the given three sports (because 9 pupils got less than 8, and, as all practicioners of the given sports got either 8 or 9, those 9 pupils must not practice any of the given sports). But no pupil practices all of the three sports. In order to that be true, we need that only three people practice both swimming and ski, so that we would have: 

As for modern Marxists, I suppose they vary, but what I have most often found regarding returns of value from capital to labour is to think of them as "indirect wages". If the State provides the workers with something, then the direct wages do not need to cover such expense (and can be, political expediency apart, be lowered accordingly). 

Pelican is not really contrary to black. There is nothing that turns black if you move in one direction, and pelican if you move contrarywise. As they are not in the same category, they are different, but not opposite. 

If someone tells us that black swanns don't exist, we will usually tell them that they can be easily found in zoologics, or show them a picture of black swanns. If someone tells us that Finland does not exist, we may show them a map, or a travel agency's fares for travels to Helsinki. Is someone doubts the existence of emerging properties, we might point to the fact that while a plane can fly, no separate piece of a plane can. Or that while Boris Johnson is for Brexit, the cells on his liver, toe, or even brain, do not know anything about the issue. We would, in fewer words, propose a "verificationist" approach to the subject: "you think X doesn't exist? Here is an instance of X: a black swan, a post card just coming from Finland, the emerging property of Mr. Johnson's support for Brexit." Things get more complicated if someone tells us that ghosts or unicorns do exist. A verificationist approach seems insufficient, because we would have to search for either ghosts or unicorns in the whole universe. "Proving" in a verificationist way that there are no unicorns in the Isle of Man may be not too difficult, but our interlocutor may argue that "perhaps they exist in Alpha Centauri system, who knows". The obvious retort is that the burden of proof lies on the person making such claim. But this is not a very good answer; the person may well tell us that "I am not making any claim at all, except the very limited one that you cannot prove that unicorns do not exist in Alpha Centauri, or, indeed, in any place that you cannot directly inspect." A better line of argument is to show that unicorns are material impossibilities: horses have evolved in certain ways, that preclude the existence of horned horses; and the evolution of horses in other planets is even more impossible, for the natural history of another planet is necessarily different from Earth's own natural history. But things get complicated again if we allow the interlocutor to move the goal posts (for instance, if he points us to a rhynoceros, and tells us "here, the unicorn; I told you it existed". Of course, the rhynoceros is not a horned horse, and the definition of unicorn requires exactly this). This is relevant for the discussion of the existence of God, for one of the argumentative tactics of theists is to get their interlocutors into admitting that they cannot prove that some "superior" entity doesn't exist (that is what the traditional arguments for the existence of God do), and then trying to confuse us into a quite different idea - that this "superior" entity, a) created the world, b) is omnipotent, c) is omniscient, and d) is benevolent towards humans (or even more, maintains a "personal relationship" with some or even all humans). The goal post is moved; while the theist originally intends to make us believe in a being with all the properties from a) to d), he then gets us to admit that we cannot prove the inexistence of a being that has at most the property a). The proper response, of course, is that property d) is incompatible with property b), or at least with properties b) and c) combined. Anyway, what we seem to be discussing is a property independent of the person, or people, talking about it. If black swans exist, they exist whether or not I believe in them, see them, like them, and whether I am looking at them, awake, aware of their "existence", or even alive. This independence we use to call, rightly or - more probably - wrongly, "objectivity". Existence is "objective". Which brings up the issue of