To optimize your effort, I suggest you take the no response as a lack of interest on your profile and move on. If you really want to show interest in the company/position, give a call before applying and ask some questions about the role. In this way when they see your CV they will already have you in their mind, and you will be "oh, this is that candidate who called me...". 

Large company based in continental Europe. How to handle a project lead who refuses to use English in meetings, even though there are engineers in the meeting who are known to not speak the local language and have been hired with the only language requirement of "good knowledge of English, both oral and written"? Making explicit local language is not spoken and explicit requests to use English have been made and ignored. Addendum: Project Lead is able to properly speak English, and when asked why not using English answered that "using local language is more effective" (though somebody else has then to translate the content of the meeting) Edit: this is not a duplicate of colleagues not talking english, as the person having this behavior is in an higher hierarchical position. UPDATE Made aware of the issue, management has sent an e-mail to remind all employees that meetings shall be held in English. Reaction of the PL has been to move discussions from meetings to coffee machine stand up talks, still in local language. 

First of all, act professionally and treat all members of the team with respect, regardless of their place on the age spectrum. Being a good team player can cover a lot of differences. It is very important that all members of the team recognize that Baby Boomers, Generation X and Millenials grew up in different times with different formative events driving the development of their philosophies on work and life. If all team members think a little about these differences in background, you can avoid a lot of problems. If these differences are respected, this can create a effective diverse team. My company hires recent graduates all of the time and we have plenty of more experienced employees without this creating any issues. HR even has an internal training class to help employees work across generational differences. Last year, one of our new hires happened to be a young man who is a good friend of my son's and someone I coached in little league. I treat him as any other employee and to him I am now Mr. P instead of Coach P. Age only matters if you make it matter. 

Goes along well with stating you agree with him. Stating that you are not contradicting him is a rather convolute way to express "I agree with you" and can surely take longer to be understood. 

Luckily enough, there is still no way to suck away knowledge from your head when you leave a job (mandatory Dilbert reference). The certification for each training has your name on it, and you have also the related knowledge. The only thing the company can do is to request a partial refund of the training cost (where I work it is normal for generic training to be due a reimbursement upon leaving the job in the 3 years following the training), but this has to be specified upon signing up for the training or in the employment contract. For company specific trainings I doubt the training itself can be valuable outside that company, so I wouldn't bother asking twice about the certificate (i.e. some companies enforce a sneezing policy in their factories, which you probably won't need to have a certificate when you go working somewhere else) In all cases you should have already access to the certifications. Just print an hard copy as long as you have access rights (if it wasn't given to you upon completion) and use it. 

The same way you would discuss any other sensitive subject. Ask for a private meeting. Honestly and professionally express your concerns and desires and be willing to accept the companies decision. Accepting may mean you are better off leaving, but that is business. 

I think this does impact your performance, although there is a legitimate reason and possible ways to work around it. Taking longer to review documentation, missing parts of the documentation and possibly having to redo work, and taking longer to write your own documentation are all examples of lower performance. If you say it doesn't impact your performance and they compare you to others, you may come up lacking. Instead of saying it doesn't impact your performance, explain why and show how you would like help on improving performance in those areas. Now they will be in a position to fairly evaluate you. If your coding and problem solving skills are good, they can work on the other aspects with you. A company that will not hire you if you are up front about this is probably not a company that will react well if they find out on their own. You're better off knowing how they react right from the beginning. 

you don't really have to fill in the time with "inane" topics just for the sake of using the entire hour. As additional benefit, you won't risk being perceived as a person who needs to be micromanaged. Based on my experience in most of the cases half an hour is more than enough for a weekly face to face. 

I have been in your same situation. While working in a small start up as tester, I have found a major bug in their code just one month before a fair where they wanted to present it. The bug was so severe that all the work done in the 4 months before to validate the software was just garbage. The CEO/manager blamed me in front of all the colleagues for the thing, and claimed I was being too slow in reprocessing the data (even though he said I was 25% faster than the previous tester), and pushed me to come earlier, leave later and even skip lunch breaks (at least 10 hours/day). Long story short, after few months I took the decision to quit that job and with no regrets started looking for a better position. But what helped while I was still engaged in the job and had to get through every single day was seeking (and finding) support from my colleagues. During our lunch breaks we usually had a fair share of "discussion" on the actions of the "pointy haired boss", which basically became the subject of our jokes. After building up this solidarity among us, we managed to stitch to the 8 hours/day, by leaving all when the 8 hours were due. To answer your question: try to build a safety net with your colleagues, share the burden and let out some of the stress. Meanwhile keep searching and be confident in your skills. 

What is Software Engineer III for this company? Do you know? Job titles are not some universal standard from some sanctioning body. They are an HR construct to manage the organization and each organization does its own thing. Maybe they only have three levels that equate to junior, senior and principal, but they use numbers instead of different names to make things simpler for them. If you don't know their full organizational structure, you may be reading too much into this. If the money meets your needs/desires and the job description is appealing to you, why would you get hung up on a title? I'll speak for myself, but I've never cared much about titles while I was recruiting new staff. I care infinitely more about your skills and what you can do for my company than I do about some label some other company has attached to your job. 

Well, if they keep asking and they keep getting the info they want (with the added value of not having to pay a dime), why should they stop bothering you? Politely answer that 

I don't think you have to fill the entire hour. Managers are normally very busy, and usually glad to cut some meeting short if possible. Therefore, once you have 

No, it's generally not a good idea. In most legislation there is a difference between resigning and being laid off, in terms of access to benefits. For those I am aware of, being laid off entitles the worker to access social benefits such as unemployment subsidy, while this is not the case for resignation. And when interviewing for another job it is a different story having to explain a lay off or a resignation. Also for the company it can made a difference reporting workers have been laid off or resigned. Again, in my experience certain public funding or tax exemptions are not accessible to companies with a high lay off rate. Under this premises, you asking your company to lay you off sounds like a you are asking them to play the bad guys while you look like the good guy. Some may even take it as an insult to their intelligence and knowledge. 

You are certainly entitled to ask for recognition, and hopefully the will respond favorably, but you should not approach it like you are owed something. Many companies expect you to prove you can do the job before they will give you the title/promotion. Having worked in the engineering/IT field for 25 years now, every job/company situation I have been in required me to do the new job or level of responsibility for some amount of time to prove myself before I got the promotion. 6 months is definitely a reasonable amount of time for you to use as a basis for asking for recognition, but understand their position. They aren't going to give you the promotion because they think you can do the job, they will give it to you because they know you can do the job. 

Yes, you do have free will with respect to who you ask for a reference. But the company also has the right to decide who speaks on their behalf, and that supercedes your right to ask. If the company is linked in any way to the reference, than the person providing the reference is speaking as a representative of the company, whether they intended to or not. You can check to confirm if that really is the policy, but I'm not sure what you will gain. If it is the policy, you are stuck with the CEO (who you don't want) and if it is not, then what does that say about your relationship with the person you asked? 

It simply says that you check your mailbox on Sunday. Executives in most of the companies are not bound to Monday-Friday 9-17 work schedule, so I think it is normal for them to send mail whenever they feel like doing it. It's up to you to set the boundaries on how you deal with those mails. You don't mention the executive ever pointed out a delayed answer to weekend mail, so it's not a big deal. 

First of all, check what is the company policy for applicants. Some companies do not allow multiple applications, for the sake of reducing load on HR (in big companies each HR can receive hundreds of CV in a day, do not expect them to do your job of matching CV and positions for you). If the company has no policy forbidding multiple applications, I would still advice you to narrow down your selection in any case. Multiple applications can convey the message your simply firing in the group or that you are indecisive, and you don't want to be labeled as the serial applicant. Set some criteria to evaluate the position, rank them and go for the top one. 

If you want to build the systems and processes that make this happen (as opposed to managing the people who do it), you're probably talking about being a System Reliability Engineer (SRE). This role exists based on the idea that reliable software requires solid testing and repeatable behavior based on the tools and processes you describe. I'm not sure it makes sense to put the building of this methodology in the hands of the person who is responsible for making others use it. Separation of concerns can apply to people as well as software. Also "I also want to be able to make people follow the new practices" may not be the best way to create a good work culture. Show people why it makes sense to do it this way instead of trying to force them to do it this way. 

If the bill sent out by you (or your company) is based on hours worked, then it is at least unethical. IANAL, but I believe in some jurisdictions this is also illegal, deemed to be fraud. If your contract is to deliver a product or finished project and the tracking of hours is for internal use, that is a different situation and is an internal matter. Let's take your example, suppose you are so good that it takes you 30 minutes to what would take someone else 2 hours. So you take the extra 1.5 hours and do the same amount of work for 3 other clients. If you bill them all for 2 hours based on your theory, you will bill for 8 hours. If you extend that thought, you will bill for 160 hours that week. Interesting, since there are only 168 hours in a 7 day period. Hopefully, this will demonstrate why this practice should not happen. As your skillset and expertise grows, you or your company should adjust your billing rate to reflect that. tl;dr Part of your question is asking us whether you should lie to your clients. Hopefully looking at it in that light will give you some direction. 

A company usually thinks of its employees like "progressing". Therefore wanting to stay in the same position is already kind of strange and sometimes not well perceived. Even more weird can be the will to step down, so the crucial point here is how you motivate the question which you will get: with your experience, why are you applying for a junior position? If you are able to tell a convincing story there would be no big issues. 

If your mind is really made up for leaving, there is no reason in playing with the fire and risking your perspective employer to doubt your commitment. If, as you say, it's the company tune that motivates you to leave, it is not an higher salary that will accommodate that. You are wasting time (yours, your current manager's, your future manager's) just to fiddle. If this comes to surface it won't praise your attitude.