A crime comprises 2 elements: 3. Actus reus, 4. Mens rea. I understand that 2 is separate from 3; whether or not the defendant deserves leniency, changes not the defendant's actions. I also understand that 1 and 2 reference separate stages of the Criminal Trial: 1 the Judgement, and 2 the Sentencing after the defendant has been convicted. But is not it possible that 2 can affect and connect with 1? If 4 is absent, then a jury may treat the defendant with leniency by deciding to find the defendant NOT GUILTY (innocent)? Then the defendant would not be convicted? 

Source: p 132, Philosophy: A Complete Introduction (2012) by Prof. Sharon Kaye MA PhD in Philosophy (U. Toronto) 

I know that no child exists before insemination. Instead, why can't a human reproduce for a potential child's sake? To wit, why can't 1 and 2 be true for potential children? 

There are many disasters that would take humanity "off-line" and machines surely can help mitigate or totally prevent them. 

The analogy from real life: Let's say you have simulated a world in the computer. If you are tracking what happens there it already is changing you. Because that generates new memories in you thus changing your mind. If you're just watching, it is interaction in our world, but as I said may be not the case outside of it. Conscious changes indeed require some kind of tracking thus if you are consciously changing that world, you (as mind) are changing. And many faiths (probably all) declare that god[s] is/are conscious. 

This depends on the definition of sanity. There surely are people who would incessantly use drugs or will just be so bored that they'd commit a suicide. But majority of people wants automation not for these purposes. I don't see any problems why should automation be banned. 

I conjecture the 3 wants above mean different desires: 1 and 2 mean primitive superficial urges or John Stuart Mill's phrase 'lower pleasures' (eg:chocolate, guilty pleasures, etc...); but 3 means John Stuart Mill's phrase 'higher pleasures' or second-order virtuous aretes. Did I neglect anything? 

A novice in philosophy, I cannot imagine or conjecture how physical parts CAN constitute a mental whole. But I must not appeal to ignorance and assert that it CANNOT. So why does Thomas Nagel opine the 3 sentences after 1 so decisively? 

Source: 6 minutes 8 seconds juncture, Lecture 12-2 (transcription), ... How to Reason and Argue, by Prof Ram Neta (PhD in Philosophy) 

I realise that this is a broad abstract question, so please allow this example, from which I hope to learn the general lesson and bigger picture. 

Source: p 50, What Does It All Mean? A Very Short Introduction to Philosophy (1987) by Prof. Thomas Nagel 

"This statement" would have to include the transitive closure of all of the supporting theorems and axioms, i.e. a suitable propositional calculus, definitions of all the terms used, etc. Coherence can be difficult to establish when one's claim involves the incoherence (non-absoluteness or relativism) of all other things. We can arrive at a contradiction by introducing a new statement, built using the axioms and calculus in response 1, that simply refers externally to your original statement and claims it is true. Then the original statement implies that the external statement (which is not itself) is not absolute. If it is not absolute, then it follows that the self-referential version, which must have an equivalent truth value, is not absolute either. We could therefore extend our original "This statement" to include the infinite set of all things consequent from it according to its axioms and calculus. How to ensure that an unseen result is not eventually consequent from one's initial axioms may be difficult to prove. There exists an identical statement built on a similar stack of calculus and definitions, but different only nominally, that is, that "This Statement" #2 versus your original "This Statement" #1. Thus it would be possible to build numerous such claims in parallel. However, if any one of them is true, then all the others are false. There is no fundamental distinction among the reasoning applied or the truth value assigned to each of them, and so if any is true, all are false, leading to a contradiction. Therefore the worldview in question is incoherent. A coherent worldview cannot assume that there are no absolutes not already contained in the set of one's own limited claims. On the contrary, it must continually assimilate other absolutes which are perceptible and/or consequent from the initial statement. 

You presuppose one thing here. You say being/existence come into it. But what is the ground behind it? From my point the question itself is not valid. Our mind and, probably, universe is constrained by some rules. And you may understand these constraints by looking the difference between our language and our thoughts. Our languages has a hugr amount of words and there are dictionaries showing their meaning. But then, let we look for definition of "definition". We will use the words used there, look for their definition and so on up until infinity. This problem may be solved only if we have some basis, words that do not require definition. But how do we understand their meaning? Through common sense, of course. Now you may see that language is much less expressive and more constrained than our mind. But our minds themselves are costrained. We think in yes/no logic. We use notions to think. But like language is weaker than mind, our mind is weaker than what you call "existence". And it may turn out so that our logic does not work for the whole existence. You may see analogy in mathematics. Mathematics uses some axioms (constraints) to work. It is said without constraints it is nothing to think of. And same might apply to existence. For sure, there are no reasons to say everything has constraints. Thus, constraints are not universal and our words, our notions and logic do not apply there. But if so, we cannot say anything about unconstrained part of existence. We cannot even call it somehow. And can't say it comes into itself. So, your mistake is to apply our constrained logic to unconstrained. And your question loses it's senses. 

1 appears too extreme and unconditional; hypothetically, why can reports of an Event never ? For example, imagine a island where all residents excel in philosophy, always are benevolent and tell the truth. Then their reporting of a miracle CAN overpower? I ask out of curiosity; realistically, I know that reports cannot be this strong and that my imagined island does not exist. 

pp 207-208 of this book explains briefly Dewey's opinions of Tools. The answer key on p 220 states (d), but I do not understand how beaver dams are NOT Tools for beavers? 

How do you achieve or realise 1 (this new method of thought and perception for daily life)? The above translation and Blackburn do not exemplify or advise how to try it in practice. 

But how does the green argument logically equal the red? One problem is the arguments' difference in conclusions: 3 does not equal 6. 

Why yes? Ask any human whether they consider group sex, promiscuity or other unconventional sexual practices good. With higher than 50% probability answer will be "no". Of course this is the result of Christian faith at least in Western world (as Conifold pointed out). But I'd say it had global influences due to colonization by West (pre-20th century) and globalization. Of course you will point out that I'm saying about unconventional sexual practices. But that's what the question is: it asks not about sex in marriage, but about sex in itself. Since of that and the feeling that minors can be involved in such sexual practices it is considered good to censure sex in society. Obviously, we can't ignore the fact that laws censoring sex may try to reduce teen births as well. But in my experience they are not really effective as the vast majority of 13 year olds (my country laws suggest 16 year old age for sexual consent and right as everywhere 18 year old age for watching porn) know what sex is and even have masturbated. Not surprising at all, is it? 

There is no such thing as a paradox in nature. Paradoxes in logic often arise from removing the temporal element from reality, attempting to flatten the universe into a time-invariant model of truth. In so doing, time-varying phenomena which are possible in nature become impossible, i.e. paradoxical in our model. The limitations are in the model of using a flat logic to model higher-dimensional realities. Contradictions of this sort can be visualized in similar fashion as the impossibility of non-overlapping arcs in a K-connected planar or N-dimensional graph for certain infinite set combinations of K and N. Regarding whether a purported AI could achieve this same capability, it would have to rely on a model fully adequate to overcoming the shortsightedness of painting itself rationally into a corner using an insufficient model of reality. However, as we try to get a machine to approximate limitless human creativity, I believe it would be impossible to impute all of the wisdom and introspection regarding such blind spots without constant human intervention, model correction, and introduction of algorithms for handling such inconsistencies as they arise and become humanly detectable.