I think you are confused between tubular and tubeless. Tubular tires are "all in one" tire where the inner tube is sewed inside the tire. Tubeless tires look like regular clincher tire and hooks in specially designed rims; these tubeless tire and rim provide an airtight seal so they can be inflated without an inner tube. Regular clincher tires are very similar, but require an inner tube to contain the air. So a tubeless tire does require a hooked rim, but they are not tubular tires. Additional detail : clincher tires can be installed in tubeless rims with no problems. 

One option would be to use PlastiDip or something similar. It's not paint it's some kind of rubber coating, but I hear that it's really easy to spray on, gives a good finish (with a few applications) and doesn't require a lot of preparation (no sanding, it's removed easily if you spray at the wrong place). A lot of people use these products for car parts. 

Almost all stems (aside from a few very expensive carbon ones!) are designed to be mounted either way around. The pressures are in the same direction regardless of which way up it is. (they're just reversed) They are designed to be used either way up, otherwise manufacturers would need to produce double the number of stems to create positive and negatively angled setups. Out of curiosity I've just looked through a range of carbon stems online, and the vast majority of them are of an identical construction to their less exotic counterparts (complete with writing on both sides) There were a couple of stems that integral mounts for computers that didn't seem to be reversible. But by and large, they all appear to be designed to be used either way around. 

All these are hard for a car to keep up, sure you might annoy some pedestrians and might be illegal in some places, but it's still better than having the crap beat out of you. 

All else being equal (power output, weather, wind resistance, etc.), how much faster will I be if I lose 10kg (going from 100kg to 90kg) while riding? Acceleration and climbing might be much different, but while riding steadily on a flatish road outputting the same power as before, how will my cruising speed change ? 

So you might check those dedicated lanes. An other option would be to use Strava's Global Heatmap where you can see where people are cycling the most. You can't really see what you want exactly (dedicated lanes), but coupled with Google's map, I find it's a good start to plan a ride. 

I think this is the tip of a major crime wave. We will look back on this as the very first instance of The Great Tube thief. With her cunning and guile she will continue to evade detection as she travels the world stealing inner tubes, willy, and quite literally, nilly. Whether they are beautifully crafted, lightweight sleek handcrafted latex tubes, with long, elegant, smooth presta valves. Or fat, dumpy and heavy butyl ones with dented capless, Schrader valve. She won't care, she'll have the lot. We'll never know what she does with them all, it will be the eternal unsolved mystery of cycling. Just be careful the next time you pull up at the lights, watch out for her ninja like skills. Or before you have chance to pull off before that rogue BMW, your tubes will gone forever... P.S. I do apologise! it seems the urge to write something stupid in this place just overcame me ;) 

It's a little more than 100$, but you could have a Garmin Edge 20 for 130$. Maybe wait a little for a special or something*. According to the post it's a good little computer and I personnaly enjoy using their Edge lineup. (* the website has a 10% anything coupon with their partner, might be worth a look, that would bring the Edge 20 to 117$, might not work for everything thought) 

I thankfully never was in that situation, but if the driver doesn't let you go or is getting out of the car, use the bike's advantages over the car : 

Maybe you can use a shipping service from the US to re-ship the new keys to you, but I'm assuming that you have to send the lock in, and have them ship it back ? If that's the case, a new lock would probably be cheaper. 

The claimed advantage of BB30 is an increase in stiffness and a 4% increase in drivetrain efficiency, achieved through an increase in size allowing larger diameter frame tubes. (according to Cannondale - I don't have the rep to comment!) The Caad10 uses 110 BCD 5 arm chainring, if you put that into your favourite search engine there are a large selection of chainrings that will be compatible. You don't specifically need to replace them with the same size chainring, you can change them depending on your requirements. The Shimano 105 chainrings should be a direct replacement, and are relatively inexpensive. Personally I wouldn't try to straighten an old chainring, as the metal would have stretched and you are unlikely to get it back to being entirely flat. 

The big thing is : you have a very subjective human riding the bicycle. Even if a study shows that for X leg length you need Y crank length, if the person riding the bike think that Z cranks feel better or feel faster, what can you do? That is mostly why there is so much debate, because everybody is different. Also people want different things from their bike, some want minimum maintenance, while other want minimum friction. Some people want light wheels, other want stiffer wheels. Some people don't mind lubing the chain after each ride, while other will do it one a season. 

In almost every slope you will hit a speed "sweet spot" where the gravity pull and drag from the wind will cancel each other out, this can be at 70 km/h for a 8% slope in aero position or 15 km/h for a 2% slope on an hybrid bike. 

BB30 is Cannondale's (now open) standard for how the crankset fits into the frame. Cannondale invented the BB30 bottom bracket in 2000 and debuted it at the Tour De France (I couldn't find any information about how they faired) in 2006 the BB30 became an free international standard allowing any cycle manufacturer to use it. 

I recently had a cycle stolen, the copper (I'm in England!) who came to take the statement, wasn't at all interested in taking the serial number, he reckoned they're never recovered / returned that way and a photo of it was far more useful. When it was initially stolen, I couldn't find the booklet I'd written the serial number in, so I called the supplier (one of the big online places) and they told me they didn't track serial numbers and there was no way to find it out if I didn't make a note of it. I think they have a lot more to do with security theatre than actual security. It makes us feel like they're less likely to be stolen, without providing any real protection against. 

If you can afford gears, buy them. Having an uphill section at the end you will want to shift up in order to make it easier. Going the oposite direction you will also like the ability to go to a smaller gear to get a little more speed downhill. Looking at the pictures linked, it seemed the that the single speed have a rather small rear cog compared to the geared bike. If you can't handle shifting rapidly you can always leave it your geared bike in one speed, but at least you'll have the option of chaing it for those morning where you feel weaker or have less energy.