In that wonderful book of Fulton, the more general result is at the bottom of page 223, where it says that for r pure dimensional schemes in P^n, whose codimensions add to at most n, the product of their degrees is at least as great as the sum of the degrees of the irreducible components of their intersection. Thus for instance, if three quadric hypersurfaces in P^4 have a common curve of degree 8, their intersection has no further components. 

I don't seem to have the option to edit my answer, but I wanted to correct myself: it is the scheme structure of the limit that determines the possible nearby varieties in the family, not vice versa. The question of whether the nearby varieties determine the limit is that of Hausdorfness of the parameter space. One has to restrict the nature of the possible limits to get uniqueness of the limit. This arises in deciding just how complicated the limit should be when trying to construct a nice compactification of a given family of nice varieties. It is a wonderful fact that for smooth curves one can compactify them without introducing non varieties. All one needs is some simple singular curves. This was first noticed by Alan Mayer and David Mumford in their talks at the Woods Hole conference 1964, whose notes appear on James Milne's webpage at Michigan, (and mine at UGA). I am roy smith, and have been using mathwonk as alias for so many years online I have forgotten it is not my name. Is it sufficient to register and add it to my profile, or do I need to sign posts here as roy smith? That would apparently unlink me from all my mathwonk activity so far. 

From another point of view, the isomorphism classes of first order deformations of the pair (X,D) are isomorphic to the 1st hypercohomology group of the 2 step complex from the tangent sheaf of X to the normal sheaf of D in X. The 1st order deformations of just D are given by the 1st hypercohomology group of the 2 step complex from the restriction of the tangent sheaf of X to D, to the same normal sheaf of D in X. By the long exact sequence induced by the natural map of these complexes, the forgetful map from T^1(X,D) to T^1(D) is an isomorphism whenever the first 2 hypercohomology groups vanish for the 2 step complex from the ideal sheaf of D in X times the tangent sheaf of X, to zero. This happens for instance if X is a principally polarized abelian variety of dimension 3 or more, and D is the theta divisor, by Kodaira (or abstractly Mumford) vanishing. ref: Compositio Math 76(1990) pp. 367-398. 

I like George Kempf's succinct description in that same textbook, of the splitting of vector bundles on P^1 as a theorem "last proved by Grothendieck". I never forgot Dieudonne's opinion in Foundations of modern analysis chapter 8, that defining a derivative as a number instead of a linear form, is "slavish subservience to the shibboleth of numerical interpretation at any cost." In the section entitled "Woffle" of Miles Reid's Undergraduate algebraic geometry, he states delightfully that in the prerequisite algebraic chapter II, "the student who is prone to headaches could perhaps take some of the proofs for granted here, since the material is standard, and the author is a professional algebraic geometer of the highest moral fibre." 

Arrgh, I wish to delete this, but do not know how. So i will make it into a question. Georges' nice answer is a presheaf that violates the existence axiom s2 on every nbhd of a point. Is there an example that violates the uniqueness axiom s1 on every nbhd of some point? 

I agree this question is interesting, but only in a psychological rather than mathematical sense, i.e. the only reason the jordan curve theorem seems obvious is that we do not appreciate the generality of the definition of "continuous", rather taking our simplest intuitive examples as typical. Indeed the proof for smooth functions is pretty easy (cf. Guillemin and Pollack), and how many of us distinguish intuitively between (piecewise) smooth and continuous functions? For instance young students assume the intermediate value theorem is obvious because they do not appreciate the local nature of the definition of continuity, i.e. they intuitively assume that the intermediate value theorem is the definition of continuity, as indeed it was in a less rigorous time. Of course the proof of the IVT is a justification of the reasonableness of the definition of continuity. As Moishezon remarked to us as students: " even if it is obvious, you still have to prove it". Or as Tate said after giving an irresistible pictorial argument in first year honors calc. for the continuity of a composition of continuous functions; :"Of course this is NOT a proof! I have merely rendered it intuitively plausible!" (a statement i did not believe at the time.) Problems in freshman calculus: 1) Give a characterization of a function g such that g is a primitive of a given Riemann integrable function f. Is it enough to assume that g is continuous and differentiable wherever f is continuous, and that g has derivative equal to f at such points? E.g. is a continuous function which is differentiable with derivative zero a.e. a constant function? If not, what assumptions do you have to add? 2) Give an intrinsic characterization of a function g that is a primitive of some unknown Riemann integrable function on [a,b]. Is it enough to assume that g is Lipschitz continuous? I guess i would give more credence to this if it concerned say theorems that have physically compelling arguments that are hard to make mathematically rigorous, such as Riemann's arguments for the existence of meromorphic functions of second kind with arbitrary poles. When someone says it is "obvious" that Euclidean space R^n has dimension n, they are really saying that any definition for which this is false is a bad definition, not that it is easy to give an appropriate definition, nor that it is easy to prove the theorem even for a good definition. So this is just an imprecise use of language. Let me pose a little fun question: Since everyone knows that if n < m, there can be a continuous surjection, but no homeomorphism from R^n to R^m, what about a continuous injection from R^m to R^n? What is the obvious answer? Is it also the correct answer? How much does your response draw on some non obvious mathematical reasoning? My best idea in the direction of the original question is: "why is a straight line the shortest smooth curve joining two points?" 

when you read a little further, page 8 or so, you will find that the derivative of a smooth map is a linear map defined only on vectors tangent to the manifold. it will turn out that all extensions of the smooth function act the same on vectors tangent to the manifold. In your example both extensions y and 0 act as the zero map on vectors tangent to the axis. so it works out ok. – roy smith 2 days ago 

To define a map f from the plane curve C into 3 space P^3, one can choose a linear family spanned by 4 auxiliary plane curves more general than lines, such as any 4 independent conics passing through two specific points p,q of the plane not on C. This will map the entire plane, except the two points p,q where the map f is not defined, to a surface Q in P^3, and maps C onto this surface. Since the linear coordinate functions on P^3 pull back under f to the quadratic polynomials defining the family of plane conics, a plane in P^3 meets f(C) in a set of points which pull back to the 6 common points of the cubic C with one of these conics. Thus f(C) is a sextic curve in P^3. Rational functions a/b on P^3 which are regular at f(x) pull back via substitution to rational functions a(f)/b(f) on C which are regular at x. Indeed all morphisms of plane curves can be given by rational functions. Given a surface S of degree d, and a line L in P^3, one can define an algebraic projection map π from S to L by choosing an auxiliary line M, and considering all planes passing through M. Given a point x of S, π(x) = the point where L meets the plane spanned by x and M. Then for a point y of L, the fiber π^-1(y) is the intersection curve of S with the plane spanned by y and M. As this family of planes revolves around M, they sweep out on S the pencil of curve fibers of π. Since the line L also meets S in a finite set of d points, the map π is not defined at those d points. Except for these base points, an algebraic map of S to a line again amounts to fibering the source S into a linear family of algebraic subsets of codimension one, i.e. into a linear family of “divisors”. If L is the z axis, and S is defined by a polynomial G(x,y,z) = 0, the fiber π^-1(z) is the plane curve of solutions of G=0 in x,y obtained by fixing z. Again rational functions of z regular at π(p), pull back to rational functions regular at p on S, away from the d points common to L and S. 

Here is an excerpt from my class notes, inspired by the discussion in Joe Harris' book on desingularizing curves as an application of Bezout in space. The degree of a curve is the number of intersections with a general hyperplane. The projection of a spanning curve still spans. The degree of a rational map ƒ:D--->E of curves, is the common number of preimages of most points of the image curve E, and in characteristic zero, a map of geometric degree one is birational. Strong Bezout Theorem in space: If E is an irreducible curve of degree d spanning P^n, and p is a singular point of E, then a general hyperplane H of Pn passing through p, meets E away from p in at most d-2 points. Corollary: If an irreducible curve E of degree d spanning P^n is projected into P^(n-1) from a singular point of E, then the product of the degree of the projected curve by the degree of the projection map on E, is ≤ d-2. Corollary: An irreducible curve in P^n of degree < n cannot span P^n. Proof: Otherwise can project down eventually to a line spanning P^m, with m ≥ 2, contradiction. Corollary: The projection map from a point of itself, of an irreducible curve of degree < 2n from P^n to P^(n-1), is birational. Theorem. If D is any irreducible plane curve of degree ≥ 3, then D is isomorphic to a curve in P^n of degree d < 2n, and any such curve is birational to a non singular curve. Proof: The Veronese map :D-->P^N by homogeneous polynomials of degree d-2, where N = [d(d-1)/2] - 1, is an embedding of D as a curve spanning P^N and having degree d(d-2). But 2N = > d(d-2), precisely when d > 2, which holds by hypothesis. If the re - embedded curve D has a singular point, we project from it and lower the degree by at least 2, and the dimension of the ambient space by exactly one. We continue as long as the curve has singularities. Since the projected curve always spans, the degree can never drop below the dimension of the space, so the projection map always has degree one on the curve, i.e. the projected curve is always birational to the original curve. As long as there are singularities, the degree goes down at least twice as fast as the dimension, so the projected curve always has degree less than twice the dimension of the ambient space. Eventually then we either get to a point where the projected curve has no more singularities, or we get to a singular curve of degree 3 spanning P^2, and one more projection is birational to P^1. QED.