Secondly when I removed the sendy-newsletter configuration from and folders, as expected I could restart the nginx server successfully but strangely when I ran I get the same error message as before but the server works!? 

We are running the site on Nginx & HHVM. I checked the /var/log/nginx/error.log and I see this error: 

I discovered if I changed the name of this file to I stopped getting the 404 error on it, and when I removed the below block from NGINX it loaded fine with it's origional name, so it must of had something to do with the dots at the end of the file name. 

I'm trying to allow another developer to connect to a our ubuntu server and they are getting the below error in FileZilla. 

Also I tried running the syntax test after removing the configuration file I am not using $ sudo rm default-staging $ sudo rm ../sites-enabled/default-staging $ sudo nginx -c /etc/nginx/sites-available/sendy-newsletter -t nginx: [emerg] "server" directive is not allowed here in /etc/nginx/sites-available/sendy:1 nginx: configuration file /etc/nginx/sites-available/sendy test failed 

We have a dozen meeting rooms, are looking to get rid of some of them, if we can prove that the remaining meeting rooms will cover our needs. We use an Exchange server. Is there any way I can query Exchange, with SQL or by other means, for how many percent occupied each room is during a period of time? Or does anyone have other good approaches to how to aid this decision? Note: Meeting rooms are registered as users on our Exchange server, and they are added as "Resources" when booking meeting. This may be a non-standard way to do this, but that's how it is at the moment. 

Does Windows Server 2012 support OCR-ing of PDF documents, so that Windows users connected to a shared disk on the Windows Server can use the built-in search functionality in Windows Explorer to find PDFs containing certain words? Alternatively, if there are plug-ins or 3rd party solutions that enable this? 

How do I ensure we are using the correct protocol & SHA? Is this something I change in the new nginx configuration file? 

And then updating /etc/sudoers so that the ubuntu user must give their password when running a command. To edit this file you must run and add: 

It's also strange as it does not begin with , also her private key is called mags_private.ppk, I think this is because she is using windows & putty. I'm used to adding keys which are called Is their a problem with her public key or do I need to add something to the authorised_keys file. Other devs have been able to ssh in before but they had a . 

Also I notice that in the browser address bar the public DNS I entered changes back to the old Public DNS we had before, even on machines I never accessed the our app from before. I can access the site if I add a host entry to my local PC with the public IP address. Any idea what could be causing this? UPDATE I tried rebooting and got a 502 bad gateway error but once I restarted the NGINX server it went away but I still get the connection time out. 

Is there any file system - or monitoring tool - which logs which users have read and written which files? Something like this: 

On a KVM-based VPS I am using to run Ubuntu and various Web services, and I am experiencing spikes a few times a day when database access seems to be much slower than normal. Is there any way I can check if other VPS on the same hardware are suddenly using a lot of resources that affects my VPS? Or is my VPS totally oblivious of its external environment, so that it is impossible to detect what's going on there and how it's affecting my VPS? 

How do I set up postfix so that only and are allowed to send email to the address ? I've seen some guides that do a similar thing, but not quite for this example. Also, the postfix manual is complex, so I'd appreciate an example snippet that does the job. Thanks! 

We're trying to access Foxpro file-based database files via MSSQL Server's linked server feature, using Foxpro ODBC driver. For this, we've 

Both machines run Windows Server 2008 R2 now and have 10Gbit Supermicro AOC-STGN-i2S (actually they are Intel 82599 bearing Supermicro logo) in PCIe x4 slots- with a SFP+ direct attached twin axial cable between them. The second server is for testing only. First I installed ESXi on the 2nd and used the 1st as a datastore. I noticed that according to CrystalDiskMark, a VM on ESX only got 325 MB/s seq transfer rate (tried with both NFS and ISCSI). I ran the same test on the first server locally and got ~1000 MB/s. I wondered if the network link really kills 2/3 of speed, so I replaced 2nd's hard drive and installed Windows Server 2008 R2 and tried Jperf and NTTtcp. Jperf showed 400 MB/s and NTttcp showed 4300-4600Mbit/s. Windows Task Manager showed some 600 000 000 bytes per interval which translates to 4.47 Gigabits. I verified that both ends had full duplex and tried toggling jumbo frames on and off both ends but the difference was only 580 000 000 vs 600 000 000 bytes per interval. Why the throughput I'm seeing is only about half the theoretical maximum of 10 gigabits? ADDENDUM NTTtcp command lines: 

Our webserver is on AWS running on Ubuntu 14.04.3 LTS. When I ssh into the server I see this message. 

Now I'm asked for a password but the one which I set does not work! Luckily I created an AMI before I started any of this. Could the issue be that I don't have a password set for the user, I should I have run rather than . 

I had one nginx configuration set up and working fine in . Today I've tried to add another for the sendy email marketing app based on this configuration. After running the command failed I checked online and found that should highlight any sytax errors, it gave the following result. 

I'm moving a site to a new server running on NGINX. The old site's Apache2 VirtualHost has configured that I want to replicate in the NGINX configuration. From what I've read on the NGINX Docs this seems to be simply achieved with . I just want to make sure what I have is correct. From APACHE2 

I am managing a company with 150 Windows machines. I would like to manage a central list of Favorites (hyperlinks with a text description) which is automatically synced with each Internet Explorer instllation on each machine. Either under a dedicated submenu in the Favorites list called "Company Links" or something, or under some toolbar button or similar mechanism. Is this possibly at all? Can it be done via an Exchange server, which we are running? 

We have a shared network drive running Windows Server at work. One of the folders contains sensitive information that should only be visible to a small group of people. The problem is that if one of those people copy and paste a folder that has read permissions for everyone into the sensitive folder, anyone will be able to access that folder if they go directly to the full path. If there any way to set up the file server to make 100% sure that all files and folders created or copied anywhere in the tree under x:\sensitive will have the same restricted rights as x:\sensitive? 

Two way Intel E5504 @ 2GHz, 24GB RAM, 12x32GB Intel X25-E SSDs in RAID10. Intel Core2 6400 @ 2.12GHz, 3GB RAM, simple 80GB SATA drive. 

I have a 2.7 TB virtual disk (LSI MegaRAID controller with ten 600GB SAS drives configured in RAID10) under Linux. I am sharing this disk to a remote ESX host via ISCSI. Unfortunately ESX will only make a 740GB VMFS partition if you present it LUN greater than 2TB. I could make a 6 disk RAID10 (which would be smaller than 2TB) but I really don't want to lose spindles (IOPS). Is there a way to split this big RAID10 virtual disk up (for ESX) in Linux? 

So it is not exactly broken. Com port is correct because otherwise it would not respond at all. There is a configuration utility with the pole but it is either the wrong version (it says it's for VFD660_460 but the documentation at $URL$ says that VFD860 uses software which installs itself to Start menu > Programs > VFD-660_460) or there is some other problem because whatever choice I make there, after clicking Accept I always get Device Time Out error (even though I see another garbage character appearing onto the display the second I click Accept). How to fix that?