Sweating is your body's way of cooling down and it has nothing to do with burning calories. If you wanted to measure that you'd look for how much and hard you're panting – that's the fat oxidising away. The amount of sweat can very a lot from person to person and not sweating during a workout is of course okay but I'd question if you'd really gone as hard as you could have. 

It will, up to a point. If you can only do 5-10 straight reps before having to break then it's still heavy enough to build decent muscle for you. Once you can do around fifteen or more in a row, however, it'll start to become decreasingly effective. 

To get better, you need to put a training load on your system. As you get more fit, this becomes harder to do. After a certain point, an 80% effort will not put enough stress on your system, and you will stop improving. To keep improving, you need short efforts at higher exertion. In other word, intervals. There are tons of resources out there that can give you programs for intervals. 

You are really asking two questions. Your first question is "what kind of training plan should I be using to improve my 5K running times?" There are a lot of different plans online; they will prescribe heart rate ranges, typically based on your age. Those aren't particularly accurate, but they are a decent place to start. It is also possible to set training ranges using a field test - where you go out, run a prescribed stress test, and measure your heart rate - but it's not something that I would recommend for somebody who has just started running. I recommend finding a good running-specific forum, and asking them your question. 

Stretch jeans! Also has the added benefit of highlighting the results of your leg work. ;) Other than that, get a pair that fits your upper legs and take them to a tailor for adjustments. 

Interesting challenge! I have no experience with deadlifting for disabled, so take this for what it is – pure speculation. Judging by the video though, it looks just fine. Maybe in the lockout she's struggling a bit with her right side but from what I can tell it's due to the strap being a centimeter or two too long. I wouldn't worry too much about this injuring your spine or shoulder. One risk could be that it slides off mid-lift. But with a proper harness I'm sure you could fix that too. Just be mindful, with or without two arms, should it start hurting. I'd look for something strapped around your torso. Two way and maybe connected to a belt? As long as the attachment point is where your arm would be it should mimic the motion. Don't know of any such harnesses though and I couldn't find anything when googling. Hope that helps a little! 

The ratios do not change based on duration, the ratios change based on the intensity of the exercise. At low intensities, you can get nearly all of your energy from fat, but the amount of power that can be generated by fat is limited, so as you increase your intensity, you will need to start burning more carbohydrate, and therefore the ratio of carbohydrate to fat will increase. It might help to think of fat metabolism as a furnace that is very efficient but can't put out much heat; if you need to get the house warmer you might need to turn on the electric heater (carb metabolism) to produce extra heat. This is somewhat related to duration because long-duration events are generally at a lower intensity than short-duration events, and therefore will depend more on fat as an energy source. 

Hard to say anything definite without seeing a video or pictures but I'm thinking it could be a combination of a weak core and faulty technique. Try doing the plank and back raises, without and with added weight, and see how it feels. Does it hurt similarly? As for diagnosing your form: look in a mirror to see the curvature of your back, as you're pressing. It should be pretty straight – otherwise you risk overextending and hurting your back. You can also try laying down on your back and having someone put their hand under the small of your back. Tighten your core and press down against the hand – that's the form you want to press from. If the pain is located very high up, you could experiment with your grip width. Does wider feel better than smaller? Also try to push your elbows out, so you're not pressing in front of yourself as much as straight from the sides. Hope that helps! Else please upload a video so we can check your form. Of course, if it keeps hurting I would strongly recommend also seeing a proper physio in person. 

Climbing steps will raise the heart rate more than walking. Generally, that is a good thing; you get more of a workout, burn more calories, and improve your aerobic fitness. If you are generally good help, the more stairs the better. 

There is a concept known as "training stress". When you put stress on your system and then give your body time to recover, you will improve. When you started, it was easy for you to put stress on your system, but over time, your body adapted, and now you only put enough stress on your system to stay where you are. The solution is to change up what you are doing, to once again provide training stress. To do this, you will need to increase the intensity of the work that you are doing. You can't do this with your current workout, so you will need to change your workout to be harder (during the high-intensity parts) and then easier during the rest of the workout. I'd also start by reducing the number of workouts back to twice a week. You can find lots of good running interval workouts online. I would also suggest that you consider fartlek workouts; they will likely to be more interesting. Do the interval workouts for a couple of weeks, do one easy workout to make sure you're well-rested, and then retest the runs you are doing now. You will see an improvement. 

Great question! Especially coming before actually having had bail out (that's the terminology) of a squat. I'm guessing you're back squatting. When failing to stand up during a rep you'll at least have some power left to slow the weight down on the way back down. Use this opportunity and don't hesitate. Release your hands, sit up so the moves backwards, and jump forward. All on one fluid motion. That should give you plenty of room for the bar to fall to the ground while securing yourself. Be sure to check that the bar doesn't keep rolling away and over someone else. With a front squat, make sure your elbows are clear of the knees and simply lean forward, sort of just letting the bar drop to the ground. If you have bumper plates and are in a gym that can tolerate it, I'd suggest actually practicing bailing a couple of times. When lifting heavy enough you will eventually have to bail out and then you'll be happy you can do so instinctively. 

I've cracked ribs four times. The amount of time that it takes for the bones to knit does not depend on whether you are taking painkillers or not; it takes about 6 weeks either way (for me, at least). Advice from my physician with cracked ribs (broken ribs are different) is "you can do whatever you can tolerate. Try to breathe deeply a few times an hour (helps prevent pneumonia)". When I was healing, I would take a pain reliever at bedtime to help me sleep, and gut it out during the day. Panadol (Paracetamol (international name) or acetaminophen (US name)) is a good pain reliever, but you should be careful not to exceed the dosing guidelines, which can lead to liver failure. 

Generally it's much easier to, for example, skip eating a banana than to go out jogging for fifteen minutes. Personally I feel it's even more so when your caloric deficiency is more than 500 kcal per day. This is all just anecdotal, so I'd try it out myself if I were you. But for myself I'd just do some heavy lifting to maintain muscle and then cut the bulk of the calories at the intake instead. 

I would suggest you skip the DVDs and get the StrongLifts app. It's a beginners strength program and the app makes it super easy to follow. If you're just switching to strength training I'm certain you'll see some really nice gains the coming months. Should you also want to keep your metcon up while using SL, then just throw in the odd Tabata workouts. Five minutes of intensive interval sprints will be more than enough. 

Yes, it's possible to get faster. Initially, all you have to do is just keep riding, and you will improve, and that is what I recommend to start. Also make sure that you know how to use your gears effectively. Many beginners ride in a gear that is very hard to push and get tired easily. Generally, you want to be turning your feet at 80-90 RPM. 

I'm in the middle of dealing with my lordosis (also known as "anterior pelvic tilt" - you can find some good references if you search on that). For exercises, dead bug variations and hip raises have been good. You need to be very good to make sure your back is flat during all of them. Oh, and the standing exercise where you have a band at your feet and step back and forth - that is a great glute exercise. But for me, the big winners have been the deadlift and suitcase carry. You need to be very careful to start with light weight and to be very careful with your form, especially on deadlift. I have also found that it's hard to tell the difference between exercises that aggravate my back and those that are just making the muscles tired. You will probably have to play around with things a bit.