The main difference in the 4-3 and 3-4 defenses are the gap responsibilities. There are also many variations of each defense. The Eagles were known to run a variation of the 4-3 under Andy Reid called the "wide 9" referring to the 9 gap the players would line up on. With the 3-4 the defense ends have to be able to stop the run as well as rush the passer. The reason is that they control most of the middle of the field along with the two inside linebackers. Usually one outside linebacker will rush the passer and the other will be responsible in coverage (zone or man). In the 4-3 defense, the defense ends have less run stopping responsibility and more pass rushing responsibility. The 2 defensive tackles and usually 1 or two of the linebackers will be responsible for the run depending on the situation. Either way, players will be lined up and responsible for certain gaps. In the 4-3 defensive ends have the wide gaps, where in a 3-4 linebackers have the wide gaps (with wide 9 being more like a 3-4). There is a good article that covers the gaps and responsibilities more, the link is at the bottom. I think the main idea is that offense and defense will continue to evolve and players will fit differently in different schemes. The 3-4 linebacker may fit in as a 4-3 end or a 4-3 linebacker and vice versa. Depends on the player and the scheme. 4-3 vs 3-4 pass rush 

There are many different ways to define an "ace". He is the best starting pitcher on a pitching staff. "Ace" being a common nickname for the number 1. A team's number 1 starter is often called their ace even if he isn't as dominant as other pitchers. A player that wears the number 1 may be referred to as "Ace" as a nickname regardless of his position. The term ace is also referred to as a dominant pitcher in the league period. Where he may not be the best pitcher on his staff, but on most others he would be the number 1. A good example of this is the LA Dodgers pitching staff. Zack Greinke and Clayton Kershaw are both seen as aces on the same staff, even though Kershaw was the number 1 starter to being the season and Greinke was the number 2. As far as seeing a pitcher as dominant, it changes from person to person and team to team. Some teams will value pitchers that throw a lot of innings (200+). Some will value a guy that has many quality starts. With the addition of sabermetrics there are many other ways to quantify a pitcher's value. A big emphasis has been placed on WAR (Wins Against Replacement) with the use of sabermetrics. Here is a WAR Chart that may help you see how players are statistically valued. The only other thing I'd add is that baseball is very developmental. There is a large minor league system for development. Many pitchers may be valued at a young age because of the potential, but don't end up panning out. Some pitchers may become an ace for a short period of time due to age, injury, or any other factors. 

Since there is a soft salary cap in the NBA, things can get very tricky. There are many exceptions for players and ways to get around the luxury tax. If the NBA salary cap as a whole is of interest, more information is posted on this FAQ: NBA CBA Salary Cap FAQ 

Notes: I stated in a comment on @Coach-D's post that I played NCAA baseball and we used to scrimmage the women basketball team at our school. They had some players that were taller than our players, and they were more fundamentally sound than we were. We would regularly beat them, and beat them easily. The thought that Mo'ne Davis could compete in the MLB with a normal skill set (by which I mean a fastball and two off-speed pitches) is absurd. Unless she developed a devastating knuckle ball she wouldn't stand a chance. This is purely physiological, females mature earlier than males and most likely we saw the best pure athlete that she will ever be. Don't get me wrong she could refine mechanics and control, but the likelihood she throws over 85 MPH ever is slim. If she were able to do that, then she would join the club of thousands of males in the minor leagues and independent leagues that can do so also. 

Rushing yards are an official stat. When a player receives a hand off or a backwards pass, he then advances the ball by running forward or "rushing". Most often you see this stat in the NFL for running backs. However quarterbacks and receivers may also have rushing yards in a game. You may see updates during a game with a rushing yard total for players, it is the total rushing yards to that point in the game. Rushing the Football Wiki Yard run usually refers to what happens on a certain play. I.e. "The player X had a 12 yard run". This means he would get 12 rushing yards also. Announcers may refer to a yard run after a receiver catches the ball also. These yards after the catch are added onto his receiving yard total and the quarterback's passing yard total. Yards after catch (YAC) Both Rushing yards and "yard run" will be measured from the line of scrimmage with a loss of yards being a negative yard run and subtracting from the rushing yard total. If the quarterback passes the ball, he will not get credit for any yards that he has run prior to the pass (Pass meaning legal forward pass). 

A force out in which no runs that previously scored will count. A tag out where any runs that score prior to the out will count. 

Now if you have them seeded you would want the four highest seeds to have the possibility of meeting up in the two semi final games. Using the PDF for the 21 team tournament the match ups should be (the number corresponds to the game number on the sheet): 

Basically, the lower the number of next to the letter is, the faster the race is. The letter distinguishes the race type (distance) and the distance is of course the actual distance of the race. 

If I am interpreting your question to mean can two players cross the plate during play and only one run count, the answer is no. Now obviously a player could cross home after a tag out as @ipso has noted. If you are talking about during the actual play, this has no application. It is not necessarily clear if you mean during play or simply crossing the plate, because many players could cross home and not count if we don't limit the situation to during play. We can get into little things such as base runner interference which when simplified will basically boil down to the two above scenarios. 

I think it is a good idea to get clubs fitted. It shouldn't matter where you buy them unless you want to get clubs fully designed for your game. It really depends on how well you play, how much you want your clubs to fit your game, and how much money you are willing to spend. Golf club fitting is beneficial because the shaft will be cut to the right height. It would be rare to see them come right out of the box and fit someone. Depending on your height, arm length, knee bend, etc. There are a lot of factors that go into a swing, and a club that is the right length will really improve your game, especially the consistency. If you are a talented golfer I would look for a blade style iron head. These will take a few yards off of each club, but allow for you work the ball a lot more. If you are a good golfer these are highly recommended. If you are an average golfer then I think the clubs you have picked out would be right. Going into a shop, they will fit you for clubs and shafts based on your swing speed and your ability to hit it consistently. There are many sets that will be forgiving, but not be ideal for a good golfer. Also you should be looking for extra stiff shafts with your driver swing speed. Link with some explaining 

Basically if there was a scenario where everyone could catch a fly ball, the list of precedence would be as follows: 

A player may be contracted by the NHL parent franchise and move between the clubs as you would see in the MLB, or the player may be on contract with the AHL team specifically. A third scenario also exists where they could be paid for in some combination by the NHL and AHL teams. There are different NHL contracts that allow for different situations: 

I don't not consider baseball a sport where you play the ball and not the man, as hitting versus a pitcher that throws in the 90's vs the 70's is a significant difference. A sport that could fit into that is golf. The ball lies the same no matter whom is playing it. This leads to Annika Sorenstam who played with the men on the PGA tour and missed the cut in the Bank of America Colonial tournament. During the same year she was able to win on the LPGA tour, leading me to believe that even for a woman to make the cut on the PGA tour would be a significant accomplishment. 

The center fielder has precedence over the corner outfielders The middle infielders (SS and 2B) have precedence over the corner infielders (1B and 3B) The short stop has precedence over the second baseman 

To answer this question concerning the most popular sports in the US (Baseball, Basketball, Football, Hockey, and Soccer) it can largely be view by size and athletic ability. This answer assumes the average woman to be smaller than the average man and the athletic abilities to correspond. It also applies to only these 5 sports. Of the sports listed, Basketball and Football are most reliant on size. This chart shows the average size of players from various sports. In those two sports, women would have basically no chance because of their limited size combined with the superior athletic ability of men. Except for a possible long shot of kicker/punter as @Joe explains. This leaves us with the other three sports: 

There are 4 divisions in each conference. So when the inter-conference divisions play each other, there can be a maximum of 2 undefeated teams in a conference. This also (obviously) means they didn't play each other in the 2 remaining games. As an add on, there could be a total of 4 undefeated regular season teams in one year. 2 in each conference. 

6.02 b) begins by saying while the pitcher is in the set position or in the windup. If this is not the case and there is a delay in the action, ie between pitches the batter may step out (in the comments part of 6.02 b). Also the batter is allowed to take time to receive signs from the coach. If the umpire chooses to ask the player to step in the box, then 6.02 c) may be applied. The MLB differs from most other levels of play on this rule. In the MLB there is little to no concern over pace of play. It is rare to see an umpire warn a batter for taking his time between pitches. One thing to consider about baseball is most calls are judgement calls. The rule book is vague. Things from the strike zone to what constitutes a delay are at the umpires discretion. The MLB ran into this earlier in 2014 with the "transfer" rule (2.0). The are no penalties or fouls in baseball so it is often understood that umpires are seen as moderators instead of officials. If teams play slow, they play slow and vice verse for fast paced teams. The Yankees and Red Sox are notorious for playing slow, and when they meet up games may exceed 4 hours. In lower levels there is much more emphasis on this rule. Often at the high school levels and below, hitters are asked to keep one foot in the box while receiving signs from the coach. In college (NCAA) there is a time limit or pitch clock between innings and pitches. 

I play quite a bit with my friends and we keep track of our handicaps, and only use them to bet on final score for dinner or beers. The biggest use of a handicap is for amateur tournaments where you would be grouped with players of the same level. In other tournaments like a team scramble or team best ball, they use your handicap to figure out a final score compared to the other teams and their handicaps. Link on Handicaps Good Wiki Link on Calculating and Using Handicaps 

Is it correct that once a pitch has been made, the player cannot be sent back to first? What would be the official scoring for this? A stolen base? If someone does notice in time, is there any precedence or rule for punishment to the offense? If not, why wouldn't more teams try this, especially at levels lower than professional baseball? Does anyone know of this actually happening in a major event? Say Professional or Major College baseball?