The consensus is that there is no best time to workout, but rather that the best time is the one which will allow you to be committed to your training program. The reason for this is that exercising consistently gives long term benefits which outweigh the difference between a morning and evening workout. Your preference for morning versus evening training will depend in part on your body's circadian rhythm, which is something like your body's own metabolic clock. If you feel lethargic and out of energy when you wake up then you probably won't want to go on a 10K run in the middle of winter. To answer your question, if you feel exhausted after leaving the office, then your body may be telling you to train in the morning. Perhaps you can find time during lunch for a workout? There are some differences between a morning and evening workout. Working out hard late in the evening can cause insomnia. Normally in the late evening your brain increases its production of melatonin, and your body's metabolism slows down. This is all supposed to get you ready to sleep, but a hard workout can prevent this. I can personally attest that late night workouts can cause big insomnia. And I have paid the price for this many times, as I often had to wake up early the next morning to train again. There is an excellent article on BodyBuilding.com which compares many exercise parameters during morning, noon, and evening. Other sources: American Heart Association WebMD 

For this one, consult a doctor. Why would you trust the opinion of some random person on the internet vs a medical professional who can physically examine your foot. We see this on the Ultra list (a mailing list filled with ultra runners) all the time. The general response is go find a good doctor who has a clue about running. 

I've run shoes for 1000km before replacement and I'm an ultrarunner. There are ultra runners I know that don't start to like a pair of shoes until they've done 100km in them. The normal advice is by distance. I've never seen any actual evidence to back it up - except that the shoe manufacturers would rather you replace your shoes often. I would suggest that you listen to your body and figure it out from there. You will notice when your lower legs start to complain - you'll get shin pain, calf pain or similar. That's a good guide for when your shoes need replacements. 

Your feet are sliding when you forefoot strike? That's the biggest clue. I don't heel strike going down hill because it hurts. It also seems very strange to put all that force into the heel and stop my motion when I can forefoot strike and keep things moving forward. I think what's happening is that you're moving a bit too quickly for the traction offered by your shoes. I'd consider checking the tread on the ball of your shoe to make sure it's not too worn. To control traction downhill you can use techniques like: 

I have a bicep that is thick at the insertion point near the elbow and thin closer to the shoulder. When I did various dumbbell​ and barbell curls and experienced soreness, the sore area was the thick part of my biceps closer to the elbow. I recently tried an exercise which I am not sure how it's called. The starting point resembles the German muscle up (or Hefesto) and Korean dips, set the bar to waist heights, you hand from the bar with hands stretched behind your back, holding the bar with a false grip (overhand), and using the biceps pull yourself up untill your back touches the bar. Chris Heiro from Thenex refers to it as a "reverse Australian pull up". The hand movement somewhat reminds the drag curl. The soreness I felt afterwards was in the thin part of my biceps close to the shoulder. Notice that during conventional curls the load on the muscle decreases towards the end of the repetition as your palms are getting closer to your shoulders. To the contrary, During the drag curl the load increases towards the end of the repetition. This raises the following question: Does the load distribution during an exercise affects the loaded portion of the muscle lengthwise? 

I recently returned to strength training after years of only cardio. Today I mostly exercise with bodyweight and TRX, trying to avoid the muscle isolation method of classic free weigh exercises. Back in the day when I did free weight training at the gym, I remember always having thin biceps, unproportioinal to a well developed triceps and upper body muscles. Now I seem to be facing the same problem again, my biceps are not developing well and are visibly thin and unproportional to the rest of my body. For the back and biceps I do Pull-Ups, TRX High Row and TRX Bicep Curl (without twisting motion until now). After some research I found out that the inner, short head of the bicep is responsible for twisting the forearm clockwise (from POV). I added a twist motion to the TRX Bicep Curl, and I added Dumbbell Curls. Are there any other methods or exercises to "thicken" your biceps? 

Firstly, congratulations on your first marathon - that's a handy time to have. Secondly, spend a week or two just doing what you please and recovering. It takes a fair bit of mental energy and time to train for a marathon and most people feel a little deflated afterwards. Take the time to recharge a little. As to what to do: I would run what and when you please until about 4 months before the next marathon when you would start the training again. You won't need all 4 months to train to finish so you could start a little later if you wanted. The what and when you please thing is crucial. You're now very fit and can run any distance up to 42.2km. If you care about entering a shorter race then do that. You could then do some short race specific training (i.e. fast, short intervals) for a few weeks and see what time you get. Or you could just link up with friends and go running during the week. I recommend trying to keep some form of weekly long run going. It keeps a nice base of fitness that you can work from without having to build up again. 

Remember the standard advice for all things running: we are an experiment of one and you need to find what works best for you. You haven't said what distance you're warming up for or if you're talking about racing or merely training. Stretching Yes, the research on this is discouraging or, at best, mixed. However, a great many health professionals will advocate for it - based on experience. Personally, I know my body and I know that if I do a certain stretch before I run then I don't get calf tightness. I ignore most other stretching directly before or after running. I do, however, stretch most mornings to keep my back loose. Racing If you are preparing to race then the length of your warmup is inversely proportional to the length of the race. So, if you're about to race 5km you might do a 1-2km light run as a warmup. This is so your muscles are in operating condition right at the start and you don't have to wait a minute or two before they're at full speed. However, on an ultra you've got plenty of time for things to get going so nobody bothers. Training If you are out to do a speed training session then generally you would want a few kms of a light run first so that your legs are operating at peak. You're speed training to run fast when your legs are in that state so you need to get into that state first. 

I understood that people who train for mass (a.k.a bodybuilders) have a different muscle composition then people who train for strength (a.k.a powerlifters). Bodybuilders have more non-contractive tissue in their muscles. I was wondering, if a both will stop exercising, will a bodybuilder loose muscle mass faster than powerlifter? 

Some background: I have been working out in the gym for more than a year now after previous experience of 3 years during high-school. Also I have been running for 9 years, used to run half a marathon some 5 years back from now. I am 29, 1.83 meter (6 foot), 86 kg (200 pound), about 15 percent body fat. I started with free weights in the 18+ rep range (due to an injury) and gradually moved to the 4-8 rep range, also I incorporate a lot of body-weight exercises. Now I do strength training for 2-3 times a week for about 90 min (including warm-up and stretching), everything is in super-sets, and run 2-3 times a week for 30 min, mostly high intensity interval running. My goal is strength, calisthenics skill, and overall fitness and health. I do not take any supplements except from an sports drink (Isostar). So far I improved strength and physique and mastered some difficult calisthenics exercises, added about 8 kg (~17 pounds) while remaining lean, and I am happy with my progress. The problem I am facing: I am consuming large and growing amounts of food. I am not stuffing myself forcefully, I actually have an insane appetite, and it takes a lot of food to satisfy it. I eat healthy whole foods most of the time. This has literally became a time and energy consuming issue, I have to cook a lot, when I take food with me during the day it usually wont suffice and I buy some extra. And when I finally feel full I usually consumed so much that it makes me tired and heavy. Preparing and eating lots of small meals isn't an option due to time shortage. Also my metabolism send's me to the bathroom after each meal I consume, so you can understand why I am not excited about eating many small meals. I am sure that this appetite is a result of training, because it usually lasts 3 days after the last workout. If I stop training, after about 5 days my appetite decreases and I eat half the food I usually do. The question: Will supplementing some of my food intake with a workout supplement allow me to decrease the amount of food I have to consume daily? Would you advice to do so? I would like to drink something that has high nutritional value and eat reasonable amounts of food. Also, will I have to drink it for a few days after exercising, or just after my workout? 

So you're primarily a lifter but want to compete in a half-marathon. It sounds like you're control but here's what I would suggest. 

I've just reviewed Tim Noakes, Lore of Running, 4th ed (2001) - specifically the section on Base Training (pp303-317). This book is very well regarded as the authority on the science of running. I can find nothing in that section which refers to a peer-reviewed study. All the advice is the collated advice from some very well regarded coaches - e.g. Arthur Lydiard. I will note that Lydiard had his athletes running long but fairly fast and on a hilly course. If you really want Dr Noakes does respond to email. 

Probably not - unless they're restrictively tight and are cutting blood circulation. You haven't described what the pain is so it's hard to tell. I would point out that 1000km a year isn't all that much. You might have some form of overuse injury from upping your training or changing your motion because of snow or ice conditions. 

I would eat and drink normally the day before the race and the day of the race. Do exactly what you've done during training. If you need to stop eating a certain time before training then stop eating at the same time before the race. A 5km is not going to dehydrate you. It's basically just a really long sprint.