Ensure a good start. The first couple of weeks are likely to be where someone is getting initially set up and so after that could be the time to check-in and see how things are going and make sure the next month or so is where things get done. High Performance option. Perhaps you were identified as someone that may be put onto a track for management or leadership positions. Could be grooming being done in this case. Performance Improvement Process. This is similarly to 1 except that there are some specific concerns to be worked over the next month and a half or so. 

To get it in writing, I'd probably consider the idea of an e-mail after the in-person discussion as not everyone will want to openly discuss everything in a form that is electronically tracked. Thus, it may be useful to send an e-mail, have a meeting where some ideas may be discussed but not written out as they were used to lead the discussion towards a conclusion and then either send or have sent an e-mail stating the agreed upon conclusions from the meeting. While you could quote the section in the handbook, I'd consider what kind of relationship you have with your manager as this could be seen as trying to correct someone that may not go over well. In some cases this is useful as a starting point and in other cases it is possibly seen as childish. "Look, I can do this! It says so right here if you let me!" would be how I could see this being taken in a negative light. 

Most companies will have an existing framework of how you are to score their work. If you want to get more into management then it could be useful to consider what are the big contributions from various people and what kinds of issues held the team back. At the same time, if you are doing 360 feedback the questions will already be there most likely. If there isn't an existing framework then I'd probably suggest looking at how someone is doing on a weekly basis in various areas. 

He might as a way to get a reference from your current supervisor. Course you do realize that your current employer could sabotage your chances of getting the job if your supervisor decides to bad mouth you to the new company which is quite possible. While you may think this could work in your favor, there is also the potential for backfire here here. 

In my experience, this would be fine as long as someone's performance is good overall. I could see cases where someone who has had poor performance reviews may be subject to more scrutiny and thus this could be frowned upon as they are seen as wasting that time instead of working. Another factor is whether or not you'd be available for calls or emergencies should something come up. If you don't have a cell number that could be called, then there may be an issue if you are seen as the "on-call" person to handle production issues ASAP. However, if someone is known for doing good work then there is a greater chance is being given the leeway to take those breaks. This would be part of the meritocracy that can exist within techies from what I've seen. There is something to be said for marking one's calendar and making sure it is known when these breaks are being taken so that there isn't the issue of, "Where's Bob?" that gets met with, "I don't know," from everyone else on the team. 

My second paragraph isn't about gaining anything as much as explaining things. To rephrase the second paragraph, could someone think that the sales are coming from friends and family out to help your site grow? If it helps, imagine the sales of a child at a lemonade stand that sells to his family at a reunion to make money. The sales are coming out of a duty and thus aren't that impressive. 

As much as the transcript shows a fail, the key is what did you learn from this situation. Do you have a better idea of what kind of manager you want to have? Did you learn about behaviors in the workplace? This is the more important point than just a fail. The falling asleep is something I wouldn't mention unless you want things to be more awkward in an interview. I've had issues with sleeping at work though I have sleep apnea where my therapies at home aren't 100% effective so I do have to let employers know this may happen yet I tend to leave this until the offer stage as it isn't really useful until that point where the company is giving me an offer. While it may look like a bad mark, this is why I started my answer with explaining what you learned in that experience as that may mean a lot to an employer. 

Next, consider what kind of structure would be desired for your company? Is trying to get a deliverable product in 24 hours reasonable? Would it be better to let the people have a few months to get the project into a state to show to other employees? Would it be best for each person to be their own independent army in getting something done or could people work on personal projects together? There are several details to work out though my suggestion would be when you pitch this is to have several questions so that management can make some choices and feel like they have some ownership in this program rather than just rubber-stamping the idea. In previous positions I could carve out some time for personal things that I could then pitch as ways to change process or add something new to how the company functioned. My current work as a Research Assistant does give me some latitude to find new project ideas and bounce them off of others. 

Yes, though you may want to see if there are snippets to pull out that may be more useful if the papers are long, e.g. pulling out a few key paragraphs out of a 20 page paper could be helpful. 

No, this is about communication of expectations. They thought you'd take a week to learn this new stuff and have something to show after a few weeks while you thought you could just study for that whole time. Do you not see this as a basic communication issue? 

In my experience, I'd submit the application and let the chips fall where they may. My first job out of university had the job interview 2 days before Christmas in the CEO's parents' house. So, it can work out just fine in some cases. I'd apply and see what happens. Something to consider about on-line applications though is that you may be in a wave of other applications at times which could make it challenging to stand out from the rest. In another situation, I had applied to a company more than a handful of times before I finally found them at a career fair and physically handed my resume to get an interview and position at that company. 

Consider asking each one privately how they think you are doing and how do they evaluate your work. Each manager may have their biases that color things more than a bit here. For example, in a previous position, I'd have an administrative manager and project managers to work on completing various IT projects where I was a developer. In a sense the project managers were my boss as they would be the ones to assign me work on the projects they were running. Based on how the projects were going would determine how they would view my work which may or may not be reasonable if my administrative manager pulls me from projects which could happen. Thus, it is worth knowing what perspective people have here. Don't focus too much on the past here as it is more the future that you want to know what has to be done and if there is something special to focus on getting it done well. 

On the bright side, only 2 weeks is an extremely short period of time and thus may not be seen as bad as if you had been working there for many months. At least this would be based from what I've seen in Canada and the U.S. that may or may not be common in other parts of the world. 

Know your background. Know what you want. Communicate what is expected of each side moving forward,i.e. what are you doing, what are they doing and when would communications be sent. 

While the jobs may have had a short duration, what kind of impact did you have in each position? That's the question I'd ask as the point of a resume is to get a job interview and not be a complete biography. While it may be nice to drop the months, it may appear somewhat misleading which could cause more problems. If you want to maintain your integrity, you need to have answers for what you did in various positions and why you are no longer in that position. I'm not sure you have enough evidence for the lasting long at a job to really cover that angle of your last question. I'd be more tempted to argue that the important point is what kind of results did you bring in each of your positions, what did you learn from them so that as you find prospective employers you can educate them on how even if a position was short, there was still value there for both you and the former employer. While you can't erase the past, you can certainly mine it and understand there are various ways to frame a situation. Consider what kind of value are you offering by listing these positions: Is it just because this is a common rule with resumes or do you have some goods to back up why each former position was useful? What kind of positions are you trying to get that experience is such a big issue? Are you trying to get senior positions with only a couple of years experience? Are you rejecting junior positions merely because you'd spent a few years in the field? Just something to ponder. 

If there is a crisis, sure. Otherwise, I'd likely consider having periodic chats with my supervisor to see what kind of style they want: E-mail updates, quick in-person chats or something else? The key point here is to have the conversation so that each of you knows the expectations. 

These could help you as some places may be rather lax in the rules and others could be quite militant in some cases. 

Have you asked the company what is their policy? Junior positions can range from 2 months to 20 years depending on how one wants to view things as the term itself isn't quantitative. The company should have a specific plan of how you'd get promoted and what it would take. If the company has regular performance reviews, then that is the time to bring this up. "What would be take for me to be considered an Intermediate Software Engineer" here? If the company doesn't have those reviews, then I'd probably suggest asking management what are the rules on being promoted is something to discuss in a private meeting. As for your specific questions: 

What kind of dream role do you want? What are some other kinds of jobs you could want to be applied? For some interviews I've had a company may have multiple openings and thus some of these issues can happen in that case as well. My general advice here: 

Would it be possible for other team members or management to focus on a team member's weaknesses? Get picked on for something not being done fast enough or high quality? 

Edited to add: It isn't necessarily that there is an extension of the workplace just by befriending a co-worker. I'd like to think it isn't always the case that I'm an ambassador of the company and thus there may be those off times though this is where one has to be very careful with privacy. Publicly posting things on Facebook that could be led back to the company can be tricky territory. While you may not state your employer in the post, if someone looks at your profile and can find the employer easily enough, this could be seen as defaming the employer though I'd imagine lawyers could determine to what financial damage this could be. If one is using company equipment for social media posts, these could be recorded and one may be questioned about how loyal is one to the company that could lead to various punishments I'd think. Other examples of an extension of the workplace would include: 

Do you feel that you have agreed to something here already? If so then it is a renegotiation, otherwise it would be a negotiation of how should this stuff be handled. Is just being on-call when nothing happens enough to warrant taking some other time off, a pay raise or something else? Depending on where the company is in terms of profitability and a few other things I could see trying to get some kind of overtime rate while at the other end is just doing it in good faith that you'll be remembered at some point in the future. 

First of all, everyone will have varying degrees of dedication to work so that is a fact. Some people will work nearly round the clock to get stuff done and others may avoid work as much as possible. As for your case where a co-worker went for breakfast, did you convey what kind of importance this was? Did he know what time you wanted him to show up? Did he know what important part he would play in this saving the world moment, which while it may be a stretch is kind of how you are framing this from what I'm reading? Bear in mind that what you may see as important may not be that important to others. Was the entire fate of the company at stake for that precious hour that the person went to have breakfast? In skipping meals you do realize that could backfire on you right? As for your claim that "it is not a rant" that I really doubt. Are you sure this isn't talking in an excited manner? Rant does have this as part of the first definition looking at Merriam-Webster. If you have a different definition please confirm as language can be something to note here as while you may think you understand some of the concepts here, I'm not sure you have had enough experience to know the context here. 

How relevant would that experience be for the jobs you are applying? If the experience isn't that relevant then it may well be better leaving it off altogether obviously. On the flip side though, you could have an awkward moment in an interview if you want to use that work as an example of a difficult work situation or conflict or other situations that may have happened there that didn't happen in other experiences you'd want to list. This is something else to consider here. 

If you don't follow-up, then you are someone that will say one thing and not do it. This would be a dangerous precedent. Thus, it may make sense to follow-up and see if there is an updated timeline for when you'd hear something. If you do follow-up now, then there may be little for the company to tell you. Thus, they are going to say, "It's in process. We'll update you when we have something." While you may be seen as a pest, at least you did follow through. If you wait 10 days and follow-up then, it may a way to split the difference between when you said you'd follow-up and the timing in the process overall at this point. This could be a useful compromise though it is a week and a half later than when you said you'd contact them so that blow could still apply. You could retort that because the deadline changed, you figured that you'd update when you would contact for a follow-up by that same time period. 

Are you sure you have free time? There may be the expectation that in your new position there would be setting up your computer and other basic things that you'd do and then come ask for something to work. Alternatively, there may be systems that assign tasks that you aren't looking to see what is being given to you. I'd talk to the manager about how to find what to work and what kinds of expectations are had as this seems like a very dangerous path to have for an extended period of time more than a day or two. I have had situations where in a new position that I didn't have anything to do for most of my first day while my computer was put together and initial software configured but to have an entire week with nothing being given I'd suspect there could be some miscommunication here.