You may want to look into getting something like a Trail Gator which can be used to tow a child's bike behind a standard bike. I don't think that weight would be a problem as most children's bikes are actually Bike Shaped Objects. I think my kids' bike weights more than most road bikes. Might take some adjustments to get the front wheel off the ground on a full size bike but you may be able to make it work. 

Reflective tape works well on the sides of your bike where you might not have lights. On the side of the forks helps people to see you coming out of an intersection. I've also seen it wrapped around two spokes. the movement helps catch peoples attention. 

I don't have an e-bike, but here's my view of them. The major problems that I see with e-bikes is that, in many jurisdictions, they limit the speed to a speed which is too slow. In my province it's 28 km/h. After you're going 28 km/h, the motor stops working. On a decent road bike, if you are physically fit, it doesn't take much effort to maintain 28 km/h anyway. I'm constantly passing people on e-bikes with my road/touring bike, and I'm not that fast. So the electric bike won't help you get to your destination any faster, and may actually slow you down because of the extra weight added by the battery and motor. 15 miles is a little far for many people, especially for a commute ride. It will probably take an hour or more. If the distance is too long for you to pedal the whole way, you might want to look into other options for shortening your journey. Many cities have bikes racks on the bus that you can use. This would shorten the amount of riding you would have to do. I had a 25 km/15 mile commute for a while, and the only thing I didn't like about it was that it took too long. I was spending 2-2.5 hours a day just to get to work and back. But it took the same amount of time (+/- 10 minutes) whether I was riding my bike or getting a ride in a car from a co-worker. 

Check the radar weather maps. They can give you a pretty good indication of which specific area is being affected by rain and lightning. If it's possible with your job, you can leave early/late to avoid storms. When they forecast storms, they are usually forecasting for quite a large area. Often when they "Get the weather wrong" it's because the storm just happened to travel 10 miles south of you, and you just got lucky that day. 

I think that you should only take such drastic measures if you really required them. What tires are you currently using that are getting so many punctures? I would try for something like GatorSkins or Schwalbe Marathons by themselves to see if that fixes the issue. Only once you determine that a good tire by itself isn't sufficient should you go further and add tire liners. Sealant should be a last resort just because it's messy to deal with if you get a larger puncture that the sealant can't fill. Make sure your tires are always filled to the correct pressure in order to prevent pinch flats. A good track pump makes it easy to top up your tires a couple times a week. 

You might want to try to get some Pogies. These cover your hands and the bars, and can help a lot in keeping your hands warm. 

I see suspension stems making a comeback. If you do some searching you can find lots of examples. However, they aren't usually found on mountain bikes because they provide nowhere close to the amount of of travel that today's mountain bikers demand. Most of them provide under 20mm of travel, while mountain bike forks usually provide at a minimum 80mm of travel. However, the suspension stems are getting somewhat popular with the gravel grinding trend that is gaining popularity, or even in places where the quality of asphalt leaves something to be desired. 

You should see this page about installing and adjusting caliper brakes. As others mentioned, look out for the reach. Also, pay attention to whether you need recessed or traditional nutted mounts. 

There are locks that can be unlocked with your cell phone, but none of them lock your bike automatically. I'm pretty sure the product you are looking for doesn't exist. The reason this doesn't exist is because it wouldn't be possible. You could build a lock that would automatically lock the wheels based on a proximity detector linked to your cell phone. But the bike wouldn't actually be locked to anything. It would be trivially easy for a thief to pickup up the bike and walk away with it, or throw it in the back of a truck and drive away. They could then break the lock with any number of tools once they had it in their own garage, even it it required destroying the wheels. Even the best of locks when used properly don't completely guarantee that you bike won't be stolen. Thieves have been known to use portable angle grinders to cut locks which can cut any lock ever made like it's butter. The easiest kind of lock you could get would be a wheel lock. It's permanently attached to your frame so that you can't forget it. It does require that you use the key to lock it, because if it locked and you didn't have your key on you, you would have to walk home. It is very susceptible to the "pick up and walk away" theft method, and therefore I would not use it on a bike of much value, but it does have the convenience of always being there, and being very easy to deploy. 

Interestingly enough, in Ontario you technically are only required to have 1 brake, and as far as it states on the MTO site, it must be on the rear wheel. I couldn't find any reliable information about whether a fixed gear drive train qualifies as a rear wheel braking system. It does fit the criteria of , providing you have strong enough legs and the right gearing. I think only requiring 1 brake is done so that you can have children's bikes with only a coaster brake. Of course you could have a coaster brake and a front hand brake, but most kids lack the hand strength to use them anyway, so they turn out to be pointless. On my fixie I have both front and rear brakes. The gearing is high enough that I don't feel that I can stop the bike in a short enough distance without brakes. I would recommend that you have at least 1 brake, for redundancies sake. 

I'm also a Windows Phone user but I'm still on Windows 8.1 until my phone gets the update. The app I use for recording my rides is Straza Mate, which is another unofficial Strava connected app. As far as I know, it doesn't support heart rate or cadence/speed sensors. I mostly using it for logging miles on commutes as I'm not really concerned about performance for those rides and it's more convenient to upload rides from my phone than to upload rides from my GPS which requires hooking it up to the computer. Personally I recommend not using a phone as a GPS unless you want to use it for basically logging miles like I do. However, at the price range you are looking at with the Edge 25, I'd recommend looking at the non-cycling specific GPS as many of them have support for ANT+ cadence and heart rate sensors. Look at the eTrex, Dakota, and Oregon models from Garmin. You should be able to find one in your price range. It's hard to tell exactly which models support heart rate and cadence, and Garmin doesn't advertise these features heavily. They will be a little more bulky than a biking specific GPS, but more than make up for it in their functionality. Mapping and routing is basically non-existent on the edge 25. You'll be able to use it on and off the bike for things like hiking if you are interested in any other outdoor sports. One final note is that the outdoor line of GPS units will always use the GPS for calculating speed and will ignore the speed sensor on your wheel. This isn't as accurate as using the wheel sensor, but has been plenty sufficient for my needs. You'll have to do some research on compatibility as some people have reported problems with certain speed/cadence sensors. I'm using the Oregon 450 I picked up a generic Ant+ speed/cadence sensor and the older Garmin heart rate monitor with the hard strap and they both work great. 

One could possibly look up the route on Strava. They break things up into segments so it might take some work to figure out your whole route. Also remember that most people on Strava are trying for best times and not commuting. However it still might offer a good starting point. 

The size of the tube is usually written on the box. Tubes stretch a bit so they fit a variety of sizes. For a 27 x 1 1/4 tire you would need one that says 700x32 which is the equivalent new size of tube, although both the old system and new system are usually written on the packaging. This size is very common and you should be able to purchase the tube at any cycling store, or sports store that sells bikes. If you don't have any in your area, you should also be able to purchase tubes at any department store that sells bikes. Also make sure that you get the right valve type. Schrader is the same valve that is used on cars, while Presta is the only found on bikes. An older 27 inch wheel will almost certainly use a Schrader valve. You should be able to see the difference quite easily. Also, there are different lengths of valves, although those are usually only found on Presta Valves. This can be a concern if you have deep rims. I try not to use valves that are too long for my rims because its sometimes difficult to attach the pump in these circumstances. Although having too short of a valves can make it impossible to attach a pump. Here is a picture of a box showing the sizes of tires that the tube is designed for. This tube will fit tires from size 700x25 to 700x32, or in the case where you have older wheels like yourself, will fit 27 x 1.00 to 27 x 1 1/4. It has a presta Valve. 

Archimedes figured this trick out a long time ago. Place it in a measuring cup submerged in water to determine it's volume. Convert the volume to cm^3. Then weigh it, and covert to grams. Divide the weight by the volume to obtain the density. The density of steel is about 7.8 g/cm^3, while the density of titanium is about 4.5 g/cm^3. You don't have to be that accurate since the density of the two materials is so different. Ok, after doing a little bit of research, here is what I found. On this site it lists the Titanium rotor, but when you read the description, it says: 

A quick Google brought up This article. It shows a list of prices for bike sharing rates in 10 cities around the world. It shows prices for various lengths of time that you can rent/borrow the bike for. In most places, the first 30 minutes (sometimes 45 minutes) are free, if you pay for a small yearly membership.