The notion of all secessionist efforts succeeding isn't really coherent because one movement would impact others and the levels of seriousness of some of the efforts vary greatly. But, some useful background data is here: Quebec in Canada, has made secessionist bids (and failed). There have also been discussions at times about the maritime provinces of Canada forming a separate dominion. Nunavut which was part of the Northwest Territories in Canada until 1999 received a semi-sovereign status as the equivalent of an Indian Reservation in the U.S. 

Storing and preserving food should be one of the easier tasks for merfolk. There are some places undersea that are excellent environments for preserving organic matter. For example, cold, low oxygen parts of the bottom of the Black Sea, Per National Geographic: 

It could be habitable. A planet without a satellite that was otherwise like Earth would be pretty much identical except that it would lack tides and the phases of the moon would not be available as a measure of time and it would be darker at night (like a new moon all the time). In the absence of tectonic plates, there would be craters but not mountains and the planet overall would be flatter with less elevation differences (which would also disfavor deep oceans and would cause any rivers to be shorter or flow much more slowly; water would tend to be in ice or in ponds or crater lakes caused by impacts from space). It would also lack volcanos and geysers (which were critical to the evolution of life in the first place but for which substitutes in the formation of the first life could probably be found, for example, in solar heated ponds). It might also have a colder interior because tectonic plates are associated with a liquid magma core caused in substantial part by nuclear fission of elements within the planet. And, it would probably have less background radiation. But, none of these things are terribly essential to habitability. For example, people in Kansas manage tolerably well without mountains or oceans or volcanos or geysers. UPDATE: A comment helpfully notes the example of Venus which is tectonically active (it has volcanos, for example) but not tectonic plates, a distinction that I had not focused on previously. The differences between a world with tectonic activity that lacks tectonic plates and one with tectonic plates is even smaller. The way that this plays out on Venus illustrates how small of an impact a lack of tectonic plates would have on its habitability. This also illustrates the fact the some of the major features of Earth's topography, like the Pacific Ocean are a consequence of the event that formed the Moon, so the lack of a satellite would also possibly mean it was more likely to be flatter. 

This is not only possible, but extremely likely. And, indeed, discovery of a perfectly correct theory of quantum gravity is an area of active research that could easily happen in our lifetimes. Einstein's theory of general relativity is extremely accurate over a wide domain of applicability. A theory of quantum gravity would reproduce and explain the successes of general relativity in this domain of applicability, but would not materially change it in circumstances where it works and certainly in all circumstances where it has engineering relevance (e.g. GPS satellites). There are basically only two areas where a quantum gravity theory would differ in its phenomenology (i.e. predictions for the real world) from general relativity: 

The Challenger Deep of the Mariana Trench is 11 km deep, and that is just a small fraction of the depth you want to explore (the tallest mountains on Earth are all less than 9 km above sea level), so you'd be three to five times the total elevation range on Earth. This is very, very deep. A Dredge System Won't Work Even a 60km to 100km cable or chain reaching from the surface to the bottom would require a lot of material and weigh a lot, and would have to be of a material that would be function at every combination of pressures and temperature from the surface to the bottom. This would be on the same order of magnitude as a cable for a space elevator (low Earth orbit is about 100 km up), and is basically impossible (Pugno 2006) to do so, even with state of the art materials, technology and resources (one estimate cited in the linked paper was $10 billion for an approach that it determined wouldn't come close to working), so there is no way your folks could build that. What About A Robotic Mining Submarine? As noted in the comments, there is also no sensible reason to maintain a low pressure part of submarine to retrieve materials from this depth, which makes the engineering problem much greater than one in which an incompressible fluid inside the cavities in the submarine can counterbalance the exterior pressure. But, you would still need to have a control system (either wirelessly remote controlled - possibly with intermediate depth relay buoys, or AI), a power system, a propulsion system, and something to sift through the sediment to distinguish useless material from the materials needed (a non-trival task for materials you can't grab with a magnet). Mining Sediment Would Be Very Challenging Any sediment to sift through would tightly packed and might very quicky become sandstone at such high pressures, with a minimal sandy layer, in which case you'd need to break up the sandstone. And, before you got to the sandstone which might have minerals in it, you'd probably have to clear away slushy near ice and organic mud on the bottom. So, you'd need a slush shovel, then a sand mover/sifter, then a sandstone breaker that would make bits fine enough to analyze, and then something to analyze the content. And, it is entirely possible and indeed, likely that the metals would be tens to thousands of meters under the sea floor, so you might need some underground mining of the sea floor as well to get at the good stuff. Then, once you segregated out the good stuff, you'd need to bundle it up somehow and have enough propulsion to get it back to the surface (perhaps some sort of compressed air could adjust boyancy and float it up). Also, the good stuff in all likelihood wouldn't be pure elements. It would be, at best, rich ores or oxidates or something like that which would require further processing once you obtained it. The materials you used would have to not corrode in cold salt water, would have to withstand sometimes strong currents, would have to be big enough to carry an appreciable amount of mined material plus everything you brought to mine it, so even if you unmanned mining sub is barely bigger than a backhoe attached to a small oceanic submarine, you'd probably need something on the order of 10,000-100,000 kg at a minimum. Air independent propulsion rather than nuclear propulsion could probably work, as the total distance travelled wouldn't have to be very great between refueling. A big investment mining submarine concentrates limited resources in a few high risk projects But, this is still a major engineering undertaking, and you only get one or two major mistakes and your efforts end up at the bottom on the unthinkably deep ocean. This is a big problem in an environment where there are necessarily lots of unknown unknowns. What About Filtering Water For Trace Useful Elements? On the whole, sieving low concentrations of materials dissolved in water (perhaps using a pump to get water from deeper parts of the ocean where mineral concentrations might be greater) seems like a better plan. For example, on Earth, typical seawater contains the following: Seawater composition (by mass) (salinity = 3.5%) Oxygen 85.84 Hydrogen 10.82 Chloride 1.94 Sodium 1.08 Magnesium 0.1292 Sulfur 0.091 Calcium 0.04 Potassium 0.04 Bromide 0.0067 Carbon 0.0028 Vanadium 1.5 × 10−11 – 3.3 × 10−11 All sorts of goodies are present in sea water in more trace concentrations. Filtering Water Is Much Simpler And Disperses Risk Across Many Filters A system that filters impurities from cold high pressure water would have a lot less moving parts and would be easier to set up in multiple small units that could be planted in a line, and could be floated at different depths for different materials. With a water filtering strategy, it wouldn't be important to land your filters right where rich deposits were found in the sediment the way that it would if you were digging for it. A filter might have five or ten bins each, fitted with balloons that would inflate with something a bit less dense than the surrounding water and float up to the surface (or at least to a manageable retrieval depth like 1-5 km from the surface), that would return collected material as it was gathered. Then, the entire filter system would float itself back up when it ran out of fuel and retrieval bins. A distributed approach would also make occasional failure of a particular filter system or retrieval bin (even say 20%) tolerable in a way that it wouldn't if you put all your eggs in one basket building a massive and complex sea floor mining system where one fail could exhaust all available resources. The Sea Floor Might Be A Good Place For Simple Filter Systems, Or Not Indeed, maybe rather than digging in the sediment, you set up an osmosis filter on the sea floor (on the same concept as an industrial strength reverse osmosis seawater filter except that you'd be after the contaminants rather than the filtered water itself) on the theory that mineral concentrations are greater at the interface of sediment and water, rather than actually digging at all. If you wanted, you could even deliberately fill an area of the seabottom with lots of contaminants by dropping bombs on the sea floor to turn sediment into fine grained debris and then filter out that debris. But, actually this intuition isn't all that sound. Empirically, all sorts of different trace elements are found at different depths and in different conditions. Lots of elements are most common near the surface, iron seems to be common at mid-depths, and other elements (e.g. lead) tend to favor the bottom of the ocean. So actually, you'd want filter systems at all sorts of depths after first running probes at different depths and locations to figure out where the elements you want are at the highest concetrations. 

Lots of animals, e.g. dogs, can hear sounds beyond the frequencies that humans can hear. Would it be realistic to have a basically humanoid species which had two sets of vocal cords - one similar to a human's and another that created high frequency sounds in the frequency range of a dog whistle in the nasal passage, together with an expanded frequency range of hearing? The notion is that an ability to use a nasal dog whistle-like voice box to communicate at frequencies that humans can't hear would look like telepathy to a casual human observer. A related question. If a humanoid like creature had this second voice box and range of hearing adaptations, would it need further adaptations (e.g. an additional set of ears or an ability to focus individual ears on different frequencies) to communicate in both the ordinary and ultrasonic channels simultaneously? Or, would the second voice box and additional range of frequency sensitivity be sufficient by themselves to carry on two simultaneous channels of communication? 

A Little Goes A Long Way Don't overtax your reader. By its very nature, your language will not have much of literary, poetic, or philosophical content. You want to give the reader a flavor without actually teaching them a new language. Pick two to five words that have meanings that don't have good English approximates that really capture the essence of what you want to convey with your language and come up with specific, phonetically translated words to use in your text for those. Devote a lengthy scene or even a subplot to the process of discovering the meaning of one or two of those words, and a decent amount of coverage to the meaning of each other new word that is introduced. A good example of how this is done in literary form would be Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land in which just a handful of words such as "Grok" are introduced but those words are used repeatedly and their deeper true meaning and fundamental foreign-ness as concepts is really explored. A good example of how not to do this would be Frank Herbert's novel Dune which introduces so much foreign vocabulary so soon that it overwhelmed a lot of readers who weren't really determined. Ultimately, even that book had a fairly modest vocabulary set, but the book would have been much more accessible if the new vocabulary had been introduced at a more leisurely pace. Not All Words Are Created Equal Also, for these purposes, not all words are created equal. Introducing a new common noun that describes some kind of thing that doesn't exist in our world (e.g. the name of a snail that you suck into your nose to clear out your mucus) doesn't impose that much of a burden on a reader, and a proper name that isn't too hard to pronounce or remember imposes even less of a burden. But, it is much more demanding on a reader to introduce words that convey more intangible concepts (e.g. a word that means hunger and pain and loneliness and fear or any of the above as context demands). So is a word that breaks the boundaries of our existing word categories (e.g. maybe instead of a verb for a particular kind of action like throwing something and an independent noun to describe what is thrown, there is a completely different word for every combination of an action like throwing and the thing that is thrown, a bit like irregular collective nouns in English such as a "murder of crows"). Show Don't Tell Also, show don't tell. Use Multiple Perspectives Have a character try to communicate an idea that the more primitive language can't handle (like the future tense) express frustration over their repeated inability to get the idea across. But, perhaps using an eye of god narrator, portray in English an elaborate and cogent and fun conversation of some complexity within this simple language's boundaries between native speakers, to illustrate that it is not as simple minded as one might think. Use Multiple Perspectives On The Same Conversation Another interesting possibility comes to mind based upon an episode of This American Life on NPR about deaf people's cognitive experienced before and after learning sign language. Before learning sign language, they had a tough time remembering things and mostly expressed this when they did by re-enacting events that happened mime style. Only after they learned sign language did a more conventional memory emerge. In your case I could imagine an outsider telling a story to someone with this primitive language that we hear from the teller's perspective with all its nuances, and then repeat the scene in a dream sequence of this native listener in a sequence that only repeats the greatly slimmed down version of the story that the listener was actually able to comprehend because the listener hadn't acquired all of the concepts that were communicated to the listener. An Alien Language May Differ Not Just In How Ideas Are Communicated, But In What It Is That People Talk About Another example of a real life proto-language would be dolphin communication which we are now starting to decipher. It turns out that dolphin communication involves a much higher proportion of proper nouns than human communication. It isn't that there aren't other words in dolphin language or that there aren't varied connotations of this basic core of what is said as in the "I am Groot" example in another answer. But, the core conversational content might be much smaller and might focus on two or three major subject areas like naming everyone and touching base with them in some way, identifying flora and fauna seen since the last discussion, and describing how to get from point A to point B, with not much discussion of other topics. In the same vein, early written languages started out as a shorthand for keeping accounting records and wasn't intended as a complete reproduction over every idea or emotion that someone could have inside of you. You probably couldn't have written an emotional soliloquy about a teenagers feeling about their day in Linear A script or early Chinese characters any more than you could with the vocabulary in a set of baseball box scores. Maybe that is a kind of feeling expressed by these beings not with language but by touching and cuddling and stroking and crying and shrieking and eye rolling. Pronunciation Through Font Effects One good way to convey a novel kind of pronunciation is to convey it in writing with font effects. Perhaps some words are spoken with a throat voice and others are spoken with a nasal voice. If the throat voice is conveyed with Courier type, and the first couple of times that throat voice is used that pronunciation method is identified, you visually convey the idea that non-English pronunciation is being used without actually having to transcribe the actually sounds made using the International Phonetic Alphabet (which may not even include sounds that aliens can make but humans cannot like sounds outside of our range of hearing or colors that we can't see with eyes built like ours). Your ability, or a reader's ability to actually pronounce the words in the way that they would sound with this phonetic speech effect doesn't matter. The idea came come across even when the reader can't actually reproduce it. Primitive Doesn't Mean Simple Maybe you even add a feature normally considered "sophisticated" that is not present in English. Just because a language is overall simpler than English doesn't mean that it needs to be simpler in every single respect. Navajo Source Of Information Tenses For example, you could give this language the grammatical modes in Navajo that distinguish, for instance, between information obtained first hand and information that you know only through a hearsay account from someone else. Topic Matter Noun Modes Many African, Dravidian and Australian languages have different grammatical structures based upon the type of thing that you are discussing. There is one tense for talking about trees, another for talking about animals, and a third for talking about rocks. Word Order Another easy way to make a foreign language seem very different from English with minimal substantive difference or much of a learning curve is to follow the example of Yoda in Star Wars - use plain vanilla English but deviate from the SVO word order of English. There are even some studies that suggest that SOV is actually more "natural" if one is creating a language from scratch. Complex Root Words Are Actually More Primitive I would also deviate from other commenters regarding word complexity. Complex inflections and compound words may indeed reflect complexity and generalization and abstractification of a language. But, complex root words and many irregular forms can actually signal a more primitive languages. Regularity and short efficient words are natural products of societies where people use lots of words on a regular basis with lots of variety in a society that is more seeped in culture in its essence. A less developed language would be less systematic, more idiosyncratic, and more clunky except for the most basic and universal concepts (mama, danger) the need to be expressed by even young children quickly. A lot of complicated roots suggests that no one has analytically categorized words by type yet. Don't Overdo It Grammatically Whatever you do, however, you need to not stray too far from the concept that a little goes a long way. Non-vocabulary language concepts are more of a burden on a reader than vocabulary based ones. Two to five actual foreign words and one or two foreign grammatical concepts are more than enough. Translate everything else, adjusting point of view to do so if necessary.