So looking at the Victory's history it can be seen that she was only in active service for 18 years of her long life. An insignificant amount compared to the time she spent in harbor service, in the reserve and in dry-dock. Given the amount of repairs and reconstruction work throughout its life, its hard to determine if the vessel now sitting in No2 Dock in Portsmouth is truely the same ship that was launched in 1765. As for the lifespan of wooden warships in general: 

The most obvious candidate that leaps to mind is the Falklands War. I can't remember there being any allegations of major sexual violence from either side. 

It would be very difficult to isolate the impact of the additional scurvy "survivors" given that it would be swamped by the overall growth of urban populations in Britain in the same period (thanks to general improvements in public health and wealth). However, it's possible to look at the general points raised in the question. It's probably a mistake to assume that the large navy ports provided the bulk of the service's seamen. A table[1] of the men 'recruited' by the Impress Service during the American Revolutionary War shows that just over a third of those recruited were from London (at a time when London held almost 10% of the country's population) but the rest were drawn from towns right across the nation. In fact, the second largest number of sailors was provided by Dublin, which provided twice as many men as Liverpool (whose contribution was almost matched by Cork). In addition a significant proportion of the crews were drawn from "foreigners" recruited from the British colonies and overseas territories (and from other European powers). Of course, not everyone on a navy ship was necessarily a sailor. Most of the warship's crew were there to man the guns (and provide the power for pumps, capstans and pulling on ropes) which didn't require skilled sailors, just able bodies. So these "landsmen" could be drawn from all walks of life. If we look[2] at the losses of sailors in 1755 (which is about the time that Lind published his treatise) and compare it to the losses in 1812 (by which time scurvy prevention was practised thoughtout the fleet), we see that there is a notable drop in deaths as a percentage of those in service. However, the actual number of deaths is higher due to the much larger number of men in service. 

I don't know about London to Nottingham in particular, but the fastest mail was transported on dedicated mail coaches. These saw improvements in speed thanks to better roads... The following is from Her Majesty's Mails, William Lewins, (London, 1865), pg 145 

This suggests that a wheellock pistol was 50% more expensive than an equivalent flintlock pistol. However, cost wasn't the only consideration in the transition to the new lock. There were practical advantages too: 

I'm going to guess it was named due to it's proximity to Cemetery Hill which, itself, was named after the Evergreen Cemetery. Both of which pre-date the battle and the National Cemetary. 

Addressing the broader question of how long wooden ships could stay in active service is a tricky one because of the nature of the beast. 

Unless someone is fortunate enough to come across the ships plans for the Nadezhda immediately prior to this voyage, I think that any answer is going to be largely speculation. There are few surviving merchant ship plans so it's difficult to determine reliable averages for measurements such as cabin sizes. In addition, cabin partitions were considered fittings (which could be moved, removed and replaced as necessary) and so are often not rendered on ship's construction plans. An analysis of 18th Century merchant ship interiors, gives an average of 202 square feet for the captain's cabin (with the largest example being 365sq.ft) while accomodation for the other officers gives cabin (if that's not too grand a word for them) sizes of 25-40 sq.ft. Let's assume that the Nadezhda was overly generous in her captain's accomodation and that this was maximized for the voyage then we could guess that the total cabin space was ~400sq.ft. split equally between the captain (and his officers) and the ambassador (and his staff). In the case of Ambassador Rezanov, this would mean 7 men working (if not necessarily sleeping) in an area of ~200sq.ft. (10ftx20ft). That might seem large enough as an individual bedroom but as your working space for a long voyage that would start to seem pretty cramped. 

It's always going to be difficult to get exact attendances for very large open-air gatherings as these are rarely all-ticket and often spread over a large area. So you're always going to have guestimates. At very large events, the crowds often move about and people come and go at different times, which makes counting more difficult. If counts are made at different points in the event, the estimates may very well differ due to the movement of people. A further complication for very large events is deciding where one crowd stops and another starts. For example, the London VE day celebrations may well have had 8 million on the streets, but they were at street parties located all over London, so can they all be considered as attending a single event or not? The BBC estimate for the "millenium" fireworks show (January 2000) along the Thames in London was 3 million. Since they were all watching the same display, I would say that was the largest attendance for a single event. 

The boats of a Napoleonic warship were a very important part of the ship's equipment. They were the main means (and often the only means) of moving men, goods and communications to and from the ship. The number of boats carried and their size would be dependent on the rate of warship. A ship-of-the-line could have as many as 7 boats, while an unrated sloop-of-war would still have 3-4. The larger boats would often have a mast and rigging allowing them to be sailed as well as being rowed. This gave them some independence from the ship itself and they were fairly seaworthy (Captain Bligh managed to navigate his ship's launch over 3,600 miles after the mutiny). Until the wide-spread adoption of the davit (which only started to be introduced at the start of the French Revolutionary war), lowering and raising the ship's boats involved tackle suspended from the fore and main yardarms. This could be a very tricky operation to perform in the midst of a battle. Therefore, in addition to keeping the spar deck clear (as noted in CGCampbell's answer), it made sense to tow some or all of the ship's boats as this allowed them to be available for action much more readily. In action, the ship's boats would be used for a number of purposes - as lifeboats (to rescue any seamen of either side who fell into the sea), as weapons (boarding actions of the period usually used the boats rather than bring the ships together) and for communications (transferring orders too complex to send via the flags). 

*Some details omitted for clarity (Table III, pg.45) So while it was possible to become an officer from a working class background, your chances of making it to become a Post-Captain were not that good compared to the almost certainty of commanding your own ship if you were the son of a Peer. As an explanation of how the promotion mechanism favoured the upper classes, we need to look at how men became commissioned officers and how they were then promoted. In order to join the lowest ranks of commissioned officers, a candidate would need to pass the lieutenant's exam. In order to qualify for the exam, the candidate was required to have six years of service at sea. This meant that a midshipman joining a ship at 13 could take the exam at 19 (assuming continuous sea service). However, it was not unknown for young gentlemen to be entered onto a ship's books before they ever went to sea. In this manner they could accrue some of their six years "sea service" while safe at home and still be able to take the exam at the earliest opportunity. In contrast a boy from a lower class background would have to join the ship as a 'boy' and work his way into the warrant officer ranks (which required their own exams) before he could qualify to take the lieutenant's exam. As a result, he was likely to taking the exam later in life than his upper class shipmates. The reason that this is important is that promotion above Post-rank was based on seniority (i.e. the number of years in the role). The sooner you qualified as a Post-Captain, the sooner you would become an Admiral. Also younger, well connected men were more likely to be selected as active commanders than older, less influential ones. This is becomes very important when the service shrinks (as it did dramatically at the end of the Napoleonic Wars). Officers who were not on active service were only provided with half-pay. For an officer from a poorer background this could mean that they could not afford to remain in the Navy (rates of pay in the merchant service were generally higher anyway). I should note that the figures in the tables do not cover every officer in the RN during the period but a (hopefully representative) sample where the officer's background could be established. Source: A Social History of the Navy 1793-1815, Michael Lewis (Chatham Publishing, 1960) 

I can't read more than a few words in German, so I'll apologise in advance if this is wrong but this appears to be the text of Kurt Sethe's work about the Pyramid Texts (edition published in 1922): Die altaegyptischen Pyramidentexte nach den Papierabdrucken und Photographien des Berliner Museums 

A Naval chaplain would serve his 'flock' in the same manner as the chaplain of a town would serve the townspeople. That is he'd oversee the religious aspects of their lives; confession, leading religious services, providing spiritual guidance and providing comfort to the sick and dying. With the exception of taking confession, Protestant chaplains had the same duties on their ships. If they were assigned to a ship they would provide these services at sea during the voyages. A large warship could have a crew of up to a thousand men, so just taking confession (and keeping track of those who did/didn't) would be quite time consuming. Likewise, a chaplain assigned to a port would provide these same services to those people staffing the port.