UCI time trials are a class race contested in the tiny fractions of a percent, tiny differences in equipment become very important. Riders practice in wind tunnels to tweak everything from clothing to pedalling style, because a shift that gives an overall gain of 0.01% in speed can result in a win. Considering more than just the top gear, the jump from 50/11 - 50/12 (the two highest gears) and 54/12 - 54/13 is noticeably bigger (9% vs 8%). That may well explain the change, even if it results is slightly lower peak speed, since it means that on slight slopes the rider has better gear options available. Note that on downhill sections the 54/12 rider has the 54/11 ratio available, where the 50/11 rider has no choice but to spin faster. The difference between gearing 50/11 and 54/12 is about 1% (4.545454... vs 4.5). The larger chainring is bigger and heavier so it has more aero drag but lower mechanical losses (especially the loss difference between 11T and 12T is significant... but that loss should be less than 2% of the total power output). I suspect the human power output difference between those two at a given speed is less important than the comfort factor of being able to choose a gear that feels right. It does not even have to translate directly into better average or total power output from the rider, as long as it gives a better time. Also possible is that it makes the rider feel faster, and that directly affects performance. 

The first time I was involved in a lighting give-away was when the Critical Mass fund I kept had more than a thousand dollar surplus and I decided I should do something with it. Critical Mass is an anarchy, so it really was my decision. While chatting with the owner of a bike shop at Mass we came up with the idea of buying a bunch of cheap-but-reasonable lights and giving them away. We talked to the local cycling promotion bureacrazy and they agreed that given 6-12 months to get themselves organised they could help promote it. We declined. I handed over the cash (my $1000, about $500 from the shop for lights that wholesaled at ~$5/pair when bought by the boxful), the shop ordered some of boxes of lights, I printed up a few posters and we put them up in the shop and along the bike route we were targeting. Then one winter night we set up a stall on the footpath next to the bike route, got 3-4 people to man it, and gave away about 300 sets of lights over 3 nights. We explicitly didn't stop people getting more than one set, but we did refuse a couple of people who were obviously going "free stuff, give me everything". That was very popular, and was sufficiently effective at promoting the bike shop that the owner went "I can spend $500 on a 1/4 page ad in bike magazine, or $500 on free lights... the lights work much better". Even people who didn't need or want the free lights thought better of the shop for the give-away. So a couple of years later the shop owner did a deal with the cycling promotion unit in the local council or state government or somewhere (I wasn't involved with that bit). The promotion people advertised it and put in half the light fund, the shop ditto, and we/they gave away another few hundred lights (I helped with this bit). The location was picked to suit the promotion people, but it was busy and also the site of a new cycle route. Again, very popular and effective. The difference is that we had an official-looking banner and multiple people, plus the signage/people were known entities. People will take a free gift from a local businessman, or "that guy from Critical Mass" who they see regularly, much more willingly that someone they've never seen before. It's about attributing motivation. "it's a bike shop promotion" or "that guy is nuts about bike community" is easy and people will just run with it. Having to think about why you're trying to press lights on them is hard. 

A lot depends on how strong you are, as trikes are not particularly light and those carriers require you to life the trike some distance onto the car. With a roof rack you can (carefully) roll the trike up over the windscreen. If you have a station wagon with split rear seats you can very likely fit a trike in there with the rear wheel poking through one of the folded down seats, but you'll probably have to pull the "bottom bracket" out of the trike to close the rear door, which is a bit of a hassle (but since that's where you adjust the trike for size, it's something that's designed to be easy-ish to do). If the car is slightly larger you can probably stack two trikes then roll them into the car this way. With something like a Suburb you could probably remove the rear row of seats and stack three trikes across the back on their sides. 

The load limit is determined by the stand rather than the clamp in all but the cheapest setups. If you look at what bike shops use they tend to have great big chunks of steel with clamp arms bolted to those. But those clamps, even the really good ones, cost about the same as a cheap clamp with stand. So the question to ask right at the very start is whether you're better off buying the proper tool right at the start. In both these photos (search for "bike mechanic" rather than "bicycle workstand") the key point IMO is that there's a nice solid bit of steel pipe holding the clamp up, and if you look around that pipe is normally bolted to the floor. Where I worked we used slightly thicker square tube with a clamp each side (two mechanics per pole). (via Boston News) (via JobMonkey) That setup will be more expensive that a cheap portable stand, but a lot more effective. Find a local steel fabrication business, tell them what you want, say you're willing to wait until they have time to put one together, and it shouldn't cost too much. Most places will be able to make it from offcuts, and it's an easy welding job. What you want is thick wall mild steel square tube somewhere between 70mm and 120mm on a side and 5-10mm wall thickness, between 1.5 and 2m long. Weld that to a bit of plate about 400-600mm square and 8mm-15mm thick. The reason for the loose dimensions is that you are aiming for "what spare bits do they have", if you specify it exactly they will cut it for you and charge accordingly. So that post will cost between "some beer" and "$300 plus tax", depending. I used to use a simple length of square tube with the clamp on it, and I'd put that in the vice on my workbench. But that was a 6" engineering vice that weighed 30kg, bolted to a 100kg steel framed workbench. If you have a bench like that it's a great way to get an easily moved out of the way stand. (via Mσᶎ's awesome Paint skills) A stand like that will hold an electric assist loadbike without problems once it's bolted to the floor. With a bigger plate you can avoid bolting it down, but it might fall over if you don't pay attention (and it's heavy enough that if it falls on your bike it will seriously damge the bike, or you). Lifting a heavy bike into the stand, on the other hand, will be a hassle. My local eBike shop uses powered hoists for that reason. A cheap stand will be very flexible, and even if it doesn't actually collapse, it will feel as though it's about to even with a lightweight road bike in it. When you want to apply any real force to the bike you will need to brace the bike against that force as well as applying it. Which is a huge pain. That said, they do work for most minor repairs and adjustments. 

Summary: very few. Somewhere between 20% and 90% of crashes involve a motor vehicle approaching a cyclist side-on (guess ~50%), and somewhere between 30% and 90% occur during darkness (guess ~50%). Unfortunately 40% or more are the result of drug-impaired driving or riding. So perhaps 60% of that 50% of 50% = 15% could be avoided if the cyclist had bright side lighting. The wide ranges are a result of small numbers and inconsistent statistics collection. As with anything that is quite variable and happens infrequently, random variation makes it difficult to see trends. First, modern usage is to talk about "crashes" or "incidents", partly because that allows us to talk about who was at fault. 99% of crashes are caused by people who intended to do what they did but failed to do so safely. New Zealand publishes something close to what you seem to be after: Cyclist-Crash-facts-2012.1.pdf (pdf link) that includes this summary: 

look for someone who owns one who is nearby. With recumbents and tandems this is often easier as there are clubs and online forums for people who own them. For unusual-but-not-too-unusual bikes you may have to ask questions on local cycling forums and hope for the best. With fora like strava encouraging people to list their toys this can be easier than it might sound. Most people are fine being approached with "that's a great bike you've got, I'm interesting in buying one and would like you to rave at me for a while about why you bought it". When I want to test ride something very specific, I'll ask the importer or manufacturer for help. Often they can say "we shipped exactly what you want to shop X", so at least you have some chance of finding it by ringing the shop. Or they may have one available that they're willing to ship to a local shop for you to try. if it's just sizing, I find measuring myself, getting the measurements of the bike I'm interested in, then comparing the bike I want to a bike I have works ok most of the time. Even if the geometry is a bit different I can at least assure myself that the bike I'm ordering is close to the right size. If you want to get really keen, find a shop with a bike fit jig and set that up to exactly match the bike you're buying. It'll take time and you'll probably have to pay for it, but if it's worth it to you, do it. 

The extra material at the top of this pic lets you fold the "flap" down to stop tools falling out when it's packed up. A reasonable sized roll will also let you lay out parts if you need somewhere less dirty than the floor. And it can be roughly rolled up with tools and parts loose inside it if you want to carry it a short distance, or just to make it less inviting to thieves. Make the first one any old how, because there's a bit of a learning curve in what works for you. 

(italics mine) Which incidentally means you should be able to get a complete refund for your current wheel if they can't fix it. When we had this problem with a customer at the bike shop I worked at we first re-tensioned their existing wheel, but it broke more spokes the same day he got the bike back. Luckily he came back, because we were at least the third bike shop he'd been to, and even though I said "look, this probably won't work but I think it's worth trying" I wouldn't have been surprised to have him disappear. So we put together the heaviest duty rear wheel we could find, a downhill MTB hub we had in the shop with a 36 hole Chukker and somewhat oversize spokes (3mm straight gauge instead of butted just so it looked stronger). When I built it I took extra time to get it exactly right, and ran over it again after a test ride. He rang a few months later to say he hadn't had any more problems and just wanted to tell us. (editing in some comments) My feeling is that you can spend a lot of time and money trying to avoid just paying for something that will work. The derailleur wheel is dished it's not as strong, as Rohloff discuss here and this Rohloff fan page might help :). Use a 26" wheel in whatever frame you have as you will be using disk brakes so it's easy. A slightly smaller wheel is slightly stronger. Also, look closely at the rear wheel of this thing. That's a 9 speed 20"/406 wheel with 36 spokes that I threw together the night before I left on that ride. Normally it had four large panniers plus stuff on the rack, but a band is more interesting to look at. It was still going strong several years later when it was stolen. Smaller wheels make everything easier. If I could suggest a 406 wheel bike for you I would 

We have had much more success advertising it and doing it through a local bike shop or bike group. Once each, so far, that I've done. I think the psychology behind refusing a gift from a stranger is much as Criggie says. You're some random dude approaching people at night offering second hand lights of unknown provenance. Why are you doing that? What's going on? Especially because you're also criticising them "you, the idiot without lights, stop and let me tell you how to do it properly". Yeah, nah. FWIW, I have your same issue with chain lube. Occasionally I'll ride up behind someone whose bike is in mortal agony and say "I have chain lube in my pannier, wanna stop and let me fix that noise for you" and hardly anyone will accept. 

If your problem is just that you're heavy, remember that things have changed significantly in the last 10 years. Bike manufacturing has taken up new materials and technologies now, so we have high-strength alloys (of steel as well as aluminium) and a lot of parts are stronger or lighter than they used to be. It's likely that 14mm 10 years ago is no stronger than 12mm now. What you could easily do is a custom frame using MTB through axles and disk mounts with matching MTB hubs (singlespeed hubs, of course) laced into 406 wheels. It might end up being a $US2000 BMX, but it could definitely be done (I build my own bikes as a hobby because I end up in this position - what I want isn't on the market, so I build it myself). It would be cheaper if you could buy a trials bike with disks, but that might not be strong enough for you. Disk hubs are very common and available in a variety of hub/axle sizes, as well as being fairly straightforward to make if you have a CNC milling machine (so many machine shops will be able do it for you). The question then becomes how much you're willing to pay. Unusual sizes and combinations are likely to be more expensive. Custom framebuilders make and sell disk caliper mounts to be welded or brazed on, they're not expensive and buying some will save you a bit of hassle. But I suggest getting one that includes the dropout to simplify alignment and position. 14mm hubs with disk brakes are something I don't think I've seen, 14mm strikes me as more a flatland thing for people putting huge loads on the axle-mounted foot pegs rather than being needed for the actual wheel. So you may never find a disk+footpeg hub. Is 12mm an option? I'm pretty sure I've seen 12mm axle hubs with disks. Sites like BikeRadar have opinions that might help you decide what's worth looking for Also, I don't think you'll find bolt-on adapters to do what you want. I'm not sure they could even be made as the forces are quite large by bicycle standards and things have to be made specifically to deal with them. I suggest looking at trials bikes because they use small frames, 406 wheels and disks for the most part. You could almost certainly get a 406 size front fork and fit that to your frame, for example, but you'd likely end up spending more money that way than just tweaking a trials bike for BMX.