Sometimes at a crossing, when one wants to turn right for example, the "new" street has a different surface and there is a small step (2-4 cm) to get there. These kind of steps are already unconfortable to apprehend when getting the from the front but when one's turning right, even getting a 45 degrees angle is not always easy. How should one proceed? How big a step can a wheel handle? should I stand up? hop somehow? And when one is facing the obstacle, how to proceed? angle is not a problem, but should one ride slowly towards it? or as fast as possible? What is the safest way? 

You could maybe cut it where it is not frayed and put a cap if the slack is long enough. Or you could put a piece of duct tape just to avoid the fraying from reaching a place interfere with the derailleur. Or you could try to gather the frayed-out strings and put a cap anyway Or if you really don't like it, you can change the cable completely though it is overkill. 

Don't know if it helps,... but I use Sora shifters for Alivio rear derailleur (switched bars from straight to drops). So I would think they are compatible. 

I have a Mavic Open Pro rim in 700 diameter. The manufacturer recommends tire widths between 19 and 28 mm : $URL$ How strict is this recommendation? Could I fit a 30mm wide tire on that rim despite the fact that 30 > 28? 

I am currently riding Conti GP4000S tyres, in 700x23mm version, inflated at 115 psi. The grip is great, the (light)weight is amazing. I have punctured twice with them (in 1500 km) which is more that I would hope, but I can live with that. Still, when I look at my tyres, I see minor cuts on the tread. Nothing major but let's just say that any time I am stopped at traffic lights, and I look down, I can see at least a "wound". Do I run the risk of increasing the number of punctures? are those tires really too road-training-oriented to use them for commuting? I like Continental, I like the 23mm format, I like this (lack of) weight. So I was considering 4Seasons which are a few grams heavier but offer an extra layer of protection against puncture. I have plans for a long ride (~150 km) and would want to avoid more than 1 puncture in the day. 

Compare their peripherials (suspension, drivetrain, brakes etc). Check what their manufacturer made them for and the warranty provided. If you have two bikes having drivetrain from the same manufacturer, it is wise you choose the one that might have a better series on (why get sram x9 if you can have xx for example). What is the frame warranty from the manufacturer? Make sure you know what are you spending your money to. Both bikes you are looking at are expensive xc bikes with some top peripherials. What discipline do you really want to ride? Do you need something that expensive? Are you a competitor, or just a fan of mtb? What is your experience level? Beginner or pro? Spending a huge amount of money on a bike as a beginner is wrong. Learning and evolving on a reliable, yet not top of the class bike, will make you a better rider. 

These are protective stickers for the chainstay, bottom end and some spots on your frame where the brake and speed cables cause frictions with the frame, scratching the colour. 

There will definitely be some geometry differences compared to what the manufacturer made the frame you will choose for. Unless of course you want to make an enduro bike with 180mm front suspension, so its not enduro anymore! If I wanted to build something nice and strong from the beginning, I would start with an enduro frame. Both frame options can get any peripherials we want - fine! As far as suspensios are concerned though, we need to bee ccautious, cause their size affects geometry. Bigger suspensions up to 20mm are acceptable to most frames and geometries. I wouldn't personally risk go lower though. DH bikes are made for 180-200mm and putting a 160mm enduro fork would mean bad behaviour from the frame and the fork in trails, bacuse geometry is ruined. But an enduro frame upgraded from 160 to 180mm is not that terrible. Actually is not terrible at all, its awesome and its predictable both by manufacturers and riders! 

Yes I know it is mid-August and Winter is not here yet, far from it. I am just thinking way forward on how I will be able to do my daily 18 km commute in the Winter weather of Paris (yes, it's not a very harsh winter, but there will be some negative temperatures some ice etc,...). I ride on a trekking bike tranformed into a touring one (Trek FX 7.2) with skinny tires (23 mm) which I love for their reactivity when starting and their speed thanks to their low weight (I know skinny tires are debatable but that what I do and love it). What should I do to ride all winter long? I'm pretty sure I will need spiked tires for ice and snow, however little of it there is in here, but still,.. And since they do those only in fat version (which completely makes sense, obv.) I will need a new set of wheels. I think I will go cheap on that part, a fully built set of 700c wheels for trekking (which will fit my 135mm axle on the rear). Remaining wonderings are following: 

Of course, when in trouble, when you have no spare tube, and you have a flat, patch it no matter what. That is a no-brainer. A properly patched area might be stronger than the intact area since it fixes the hole, but apart from the hole, it adds some thickness to the tube so puncture resistance. You will (almost) never puncture a patched area: the patch might fail, but you will not puncture the patch. That downside of the patch is that it does not expand (or just very little) compared to the intact tube (try to inflate a patched tube outside of the tire, you will see the diameter is smaller in patched areas). So an overly patched tube will be less expandable in the tire than an intact one. This causes the whole physics of the tube inside a tire to be less perfect than it is conceived for; which is why you must not over-patch a tube (and solves the apparent contradiction). 

I suppose you are a beginner. If you are not oriented to racing xc, get a cheaper bike. Once you have learned technical stuff and have concluded to the ride discipline you prefer, get a serious bike. 

First and foremost... Yes, you can definitely ride trails on a hardtail and it will help you get lots of technical skills that a full suspension bike wouldn't give you, unless you jumped class (enduro) on a trail bike. Plus, it will be way more comfortable riding in the city. Secondly, given your budget, i would suggest you didn't make a custom one. Buy a new one. There are lots of good ones on that budget. 

Apart from setting up his suspension and his tyre pressure (around 27-29psi if talking about downhill bikes, tubes and tyres), he can't do much... It's all about his skills. He can only practice. Bikes don't make riders. Lack of brains does (always with the good meaning ). I have found myself riding faster than guys with serious downhill bikes, on a 120mm full suspension trail bike. Push your friend to go harder. Ride hard, ride free 

Before outnumbering some key points I usually look when I want to buy a bike, I will tell you this: Ride them both. Form an opinion for each one and buy the one you think that comes better to you. 

Gloves are pretty handy. First of all, they offer better grip with the handlebar, without causing skin loosening or similar symptoms. Secondly, they help avoid scratches and injuries in case of fall or passing through trails with thick bushes (mtb). They are also a good piece of fabric to absorb sweat and clean your googles. Last, but not least, they might be great when theres cold/wind/rain.