Biblical slavery is very different from slavery as it was known in the 19th century. For example: Biblically, male Hebrew slaves can only be held for 6 years: 

I was having a chat about science with a manager in my office. We were talking about water and he said "you shouldn't boil water from the hot tap because cold water boils faster". I know about the Mpemba effect which sometimes makes hot water freeze faster than colder water. But I disagreed and said it didn't work to other way. Does cold water boil faster than hot water? 

Non - Native Animals: Horses: Around 20 people a year die from horse riding accidents (source 1). Or 40 over 6 years (source 8) Cows and Bulls: 20 in 6 years or 3 per year. (source 8) Bees: Around 2-10 people per year in Australia die from European Honey Bee stings after going into anaphylactic shock. Domesticated Dogs: 12 over 6 years or 2 per year. (source 8) 

TLDR: The Christian Bible never says slavery is good but it doesn't explicitly forbid it. The commandments concerning slavery define minimum working conditions for slaves which makes them very close to what we would call employees, at least for Hebrew males. 

As you can see Peter Joseph has a tendency to make long lists that conform to his theory, but few of the items on the list are true or real evidence of anything. Conspiracy Science has a full accounting of the Zeitgeist movie and related subjects. It's well worth checking out, even if navigation of the site is a little tricky. More generally, did the literary Jesus take on attributes from previous savior characters? Absolutely. That's a natural process. Does this mean Jesus didn't exist as a historical person? I'd say no. Around the same time similar supernatural acts were attributed to many Roman emperors and even the mathematician Pythagoras, and we don't use that as evidence that they were fictional. When it comes to that long list of saviors, it helps to remember that much of what we know about other religions has been distorted by the lens of Christianity. Even if it's not on purpose, we tend to highlight those attributes of other religions that resemble our preconceived notions, and downplay those that are different. Most of those on the list don't resemble Jesus's story nearly so closely as Joseph would have you think, especially the ones from non-European cultures. 

I cut myself recently and used superglue to seal the wound. I thought it was normal but when I tell people that act like I'm crazy. Then I tell them this story: Superglue was invented during the Vietnam war to quickly seal bullet wounds without bandages. That's why it's in an "injector" shape and a single bullet hole serving. 

I've been telling the story so long I don't even know if its true anymore and I can't remember where I first heard it. But I'm pretty sure it's based on fact. 

There a lot of differing views reports on pH levels and cancer. Some say that cancer only grows in acidic bodies. Some say that an alkaline body can prevent or cure cancer. Many others disagree calling it a "myth". What this question is: Is there a link between pH levels and cancer? What this question isn't: This question isn't about alkaline diets, ash diets or any other diets or whether they work or not. Also I'm aware that the body is naturally slightly alkaline. I mean average pH. 

I've been around the internet a few times and I'm fairly sure this technology doesn't exist. Is this video fake? 

He goes on to suggest using activated charcoal, though I would add that activated charcoal is much more expensive and should be disposed of more carefully. So while the baking soda may not work quite as well as advertised, it may still be the best option for most people. 

I'd like to offer an answer from a slightly different perspective. If the claim is that the QWERTY keyboard was designed to make typists slower, who were these typists who were so fast that they were causing problems with mechanical typewriters? Presumably on typewriters not using a QWERTY keyboard? In fact, there were no fast typists that predate the QWERTY keyboard. What we consider the first commercially viable typewriter was the Sholes & Glidden typewriter, produced and sold by Remington & Sons. It was not a huge success. As noted in American Heritage magazine: 

As the Citypaper goes on to document there could be no doubt that the situation at Camp Van Dorn was terrible and there certainly was violence. 

Every month I peruse magazines like Fate and Atlantis Rising, and over the last few month there's been a lot of self-congratulatory chatter about the fact that Nobel Prize winner Luc Montagnier has supposedly done experiments that show some of the underpinnings of homeopathy have some validity. The Huffington Post wrote: 

The Independent has video excerpt where Putin is speaking (in Russian). There is an english translation overlaid in the audio that matches (almost) word for word. I do not speak Russian so I cannot say anything as to the correctness of the translation, but other outlets (also Newsweek) state pretty much the same thing. From the Newsweek source: 

For the more general question, yes, planned obsolescence is a thing and not just because companies want to make money (though that can be a motivating factor). For some products, making a cheap, disposable model is more economically feasible than making a rugged one that would last a lifetime. The general example for this is a laser pen that etches writings into paper (which would be prohibitively expensive the first time you misplaced it) versus a stick of wood with a graphite core. 

A reddit thread has attributed as a source for this graphic to this link. The numbers for Trump are sourced from individual news stories, the numbers for Obama are sourced from composite numbers released for entire years, one year reported by ICE (2016), the rest directly from the Washington Examiner stories (some or all of which are currently unavailable). Looking through a few of the sourced news links, I believe what the people behind the graphic have done is change the definition of "human trafficking" to include any arrest for soliciting prostitution / running a brothel under Trump (e.g. these 10 arrests in NC and these 2 arrests of women, aged 61 and 52 in OH). I say I believe because I cannot find any data from the ICE source for Obama's 2016 numbers to determine if those also include arrests for ("willful") prostitution. It should also be noted that, according to the source, just about half of the arrests under the Trump administration was the result of 4 operations conducted by the DoJ, one of them in conjunction with Europol and two of them resulting in over 2,000 individuals arrested combined. One of those operations was conducted late January 2017 that resulted in almost 500 arrests, and it is arguable that it was likely planned/coordinated under the Obama administration rather than Trump. As far as the underlying message of the graphic, I can find it easy to attribute to Trump an increase in these numbers due to his administration's increased attention to immigration enforcement. I also find it easy to believe that what the graphic is portraying is an apples to oranges comparison to paint Trump more favorably than Obama. 

Last night (August 9th) was census night in Australia. Conveniently, the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) have a website where you can enter your household's statistical information. If you work in IT, you can probably see the potential issue of an entire country logging on to a website at the same time (I had predicted it). And not surprisingly the website went down. 

I have recently been bitten by a tick. Obviously I don't want to catch some disease (or infection). In my search for how to remove it, I discovered this page: Center for Disease Control and Prevention's How to Remove a Tick 

Formaldehyde Formaldehyde is a preservative used in cotton textiles as a preservative. It also causes cancer. It's restricted or controlled in many jurisdictions. Pesticides Are pesticides dangerous? The question has been asked many times. Regardless, there is plenty of legislation regarding the types and volumes permissible in clothing. In the EU. In the USA. And are being researched in Australia. 

I was at lunch today and the conversation turned to almonds and their cyanide content. One co-worker said almonds contain a lot of cyancide and the number of almonds that can kill you surprisingly low. 

But when you get right down to it the only real evidence of the alleged mass killing is Case's account of being told about the incident by one person, now dead. In the ten years since this was first brought up has any other evidence of a massacre been found? 

As near as I can tell most of the people competing with McGurrin were using the only other major typewriter at the time, the Caligraph. From The Phonographic World, Vol. 3, #12 (August, 1888): 

Montagnier won his Nobel for work in the field of virology, so this stuff doesn't sound entirely within his wheelhouse... but it's close. I don't think it would be right to dismiss his claims out of hand. Has this research been published? Has any peer review been done, or has anyone attempted to replicate his results? 

I guess the question is really if the film (not video, it was shot on 16MM) shows an actual unknown primate. Probably not. From a credibility standpoint the film has always been difficult, if only because the original film has apparently been lost. Therefore, we only know what's in those few seconds of footage. I'd love to know what's on the reel before the famous sequence. As to the internal evidence you can garner from the film, I'd point to this frame from a later portion of the footage than you usually see. I'm not sure what's up with the sole of the Bigfoot's foot, but it doesn't look organic to me. 

Is a school with a regular police presence or armed security less likely to be involved in a school shooting incident? 

(7) Policy: Crop Experimentation On the communes, a number of radical and controversial agricultural innovations were promoted at the behest of Mao. The policies included close cropping, whereby seeds were sown far more densely than normal on the incorrect assumption that seeds of the same class would not compete with each other. Deep plowing (up to 2 m deep) was encouraged on the mistaken belief that this would yield plants with extra large root systems. Moderately productive land was left unplanted with the belief that concentrating manure and effort on the most fertile land would lead to large per-acre productivity gains. Altogether, these untested innovations generally led to decreases in grain production rather than increases. (8) Policy: Export and Food Aid During the period of the Great Leap Forward, China continued to be a net exporter of grain, despite the widespread famine experienced in the countryside, as Mao sought to maintain face and convince the outside world of the success of his plans. Foreign aid was refused. When the Japanese foreign minister told his Chinese counterpart Chen Yi of an offer of 100,000 tonnes of wheat to be shipped out of public view, he was rebuffed. (9) Conclusion The Great Leap Forward was a series of political blunders that either exacerbated or caused the "worst famine in the history of the world" (10). The exact figures of the dead will never be known, but with the decimation of the agricultural industry, mistreatment of the rural workforce, rejection of food aid and continued export of grain during a time of widespread famine, it would be entirely possible that 2-8% of the population may starve. Despite the risks to their careers, some Communist Party members openly laid blame for the disaster at the feet of the Party leadership. Liu Shaoqi made a speech in 1962 at Seven Thousand Cadres Conference criticizing that "The economic disaster was 30% fault of nature, 70% human error." (11) 

2010 happens to be the same year as the spy swap that landed Skripal in the United Kingdom, so the context surrounding the exchange in question could be related but it's not clear. I have not been able to find an exact date the footage was recorded. From The NYTimes, it looks as if the statement was made after the swap: 

The quote (in English) however doesn't directly imply anything beyond holding a grudge, and is not exactly an overt threat. It could be interpreted to be an implied threat, but that point is quite subjective. 

Snopes covers this study quite well, which points out it produces no actual evidence that Apple is doing anything of the sort. What the study has proven is that people may generally be a bit more sensitive to the perceived 'slowness' of current generation Apple devices whenever Apple announces a new release. The study (also featured in the NYTimes) looked at no source code nor did it study any technical feature. Rather it looked at Google Search trends related to specific keywords (e.g. "iPhone slow") and found a correlating increase in searches around Apple product launches. 

Is superglue safe for sealing wounds? Was invented specifically for this purpose? Has it ever been used as such? 

Potential Dangers Mercury The potential dangers associated with clothing dyes and conditioners that have been know for centuries. Mad hatter syndrome is one such danger and was first documented for nearly 2 centuries ago. It primarily affected milliners and not consumers. The cause being mercury being used in the felt making process. Azo dye From wikipedia: 

On this Saint Patrick's Day, I was pondering on this thought: It's a common belief that Saint Patrick rid Ireland of snakes - by chasing them into the sea. It's true that Ireland doesn't have native snakes. But snakes are renown for being cold blooded and Ireland is renown for being cold - making them incompatible (I would have thought). It's likely that Ireland never had snakes to begin with. Is there any physical evidence that Ireland ever had snakes? 

Gráda, Cormac Ó (2011). Great Leap into Famine. UCD Centre For Economic Research Working Paper Series. p. 9 Dikötter, Frank. Mao's Great Famine: The History of China's Most Devastating Catastrophe, 1958-62. Walker & Company, 2010 p. 12 & 333 Shapiro, Judith Rae (2001). Mao's War Against Nature: Politics and the Environment in Revolutionary China. Cambridge University Press. $URL$ Lardy and Fairbank (1987) Cook, Ian G.; Geoffrey Murray (2001). China's Third Revolution: Tensions in the Transition Towards a Post-Communist China. The memoirs of Jiang Weiqing Jiangsu renmin chubanshe. p.421. Shenfan: The Continuing Revolution in a Chinese Village. Dikötter, Frank (1991). pp.114-115. Ashton, Hill, Piazza, and Zeitz (1984). Famine in China, 1958-61. Population and Development Review, Vol. 10, No. 4 (Dec., 1984). p.614 Twentieth Century China: Third Volume. Beijing, 1994. p.430 

The half-sibling in question is George Obama, who has lived at various times in Kenya and South Korea. (He also never knew his father, who died in a car accident shortly after he was born.) A few months after the Italian Vanity Fair piece saying he lived in abject poverty he was interviewed by CNN. 

VC is also convinced that Lady Gaga is constantly revealing the Illuminati's plans in great detail to those who know how to read her videos, which is perhaps why Rihanna chose to be the princess of the group, not the queen. While VC takes Illuminati conspiracy theories to a silly new place, that's not to say there isn't a kernel of truth in the claim that there's occult imagery in some hip hop music. There certainly is. The influential artist Jay-Z has been including occult imagery in his music for years. As Mitch Horowitz told NPR: 

Here's the source of the article, from Denmark's national channel. That is as close to any official word on the commercial I've found. It seems to me it would be easy to film the player shooting the shots and have a digitally removed person throwing different balls back to simulate the catches. That would also explain why the ball does come back to him a bit quickly. So if the video was trickery to start with, there'd be little point in anyone trying to replicate it without trickery. (And WOW... The new contextual translating Google does is pretty amazing. There are still some rough spots, but... WOW.)