The current answers correctly point out that financing the government via the printing press would generate inflation. Since inflation is bad, this would be a bad policy. However, these answers miss out on several advantages of an inflation tax. Firstly, there would be substantial productivity gains since the entire government revenue system, tax advisors, firm employees dealing with tax reports, etc. would not be necessary. The bureaucratic burden from current taxation systems are substantial. Secondly, the disadvantages of higher inflation no longer seem as severe as in the past. Under proper regulatory control (we will come to that), inflation rates could be increased by several percentage points without the risk of hyperinflation or inflation volatility. A higher average inflation rate may even make it less likely that we would hit zero interest bounds which central banks currently struggle with. A moderate increase in inflation may therefore not be bad. Unfortunately, even in the most favorable scenario where inflation comes at no costs it would be a bad idea to switch the government revenue to inflation: 

Let me turn my comment into a quick answer: Using the notation of the article you quoted $A(c)$ is the absolute risk aversion and $c A(c)$ the relative risk aversion. If $A(c)$ is decreasing, the preferences fulfill DARA. If $c A(c)$ is constant, the preferences fulfill CRRA. If CRRA holds, then $A(c)$ must be decreasing in $c$. If we take any $A(c)$ such that $c A(c)$ is decreasing and $A(c)$ is positive, then $A(c)$ will also be decreasing. In this case, the preferences are both DARA and DRRA. You asked whether DARA implies CRRA in almost all cases. From this analysis, it seems to be rather the case that CRRA is the exceptional case. 

It seems that you misunderstood the concept of marginal propensity to consume. The marginal propensity is only valid for an infinitesimal increase in income. As soon as you move away from the original starting point where the marginal propensity was 1, there may be a different marginal propensity. The multiplier however assumes that the marginal propensity to consume remains the same at all income levels (since it is essentially an infinitely repeated application of the marginal propensity to consume). The above problem with such analyses is why economists switched to models with so-called microfoundations in which the firm and consumer behavior is explicitly modeled via profit/utility maximization. In a model with fixed resources it would quickly become clear that a marginal propensity to consume of 1 for all income levels would violate market clearing conditions. 

When obtaining the Marshallian demand from a utility maximization problem we have a classification of normal goods, inferior goods, Giffen-goods, etc.. These are related to the first derivative of the Marshallian demand function with respect to prices or income. My question is whether a similar classification exists for compensated demand functions of the expenditure minimization problem or whether the (same) goods classification can be derived via the compensated demand. 

The following answer is based mostly on gut-feeling and I urge you to read some of the papers found in the last section to base your decision on something quantifiable. Coursework (-) Having an additional degree in math will be completely irrelevant in the coursework, where your current courses will be sufficient preparation. Indeed, a game theory/advanced econometrics summer course may be more useful as preparation. Thesis Advisor (+) The degree will make it easier for you to find an advisor who is willing to invest time in working with you. If you move from a philosophy/math/economics undergrad degree into a top-school economics Ph.D. you will most likely compete for the attention of supervisors with students from Europe and Asia who already have Master's degrees in some field. Some research from the last section of my answer suggests that in most departments a lot of resources are spent on the very best students. Research (+++) The math degree will be helpful in your research. From the fields you listed as your interests a Master's degree in math does not seem like a bad idea. All fields mentioned are very math-heavy and often use math that is not taught at undergraduate level. However, if you later decide to work in other fields such as macroeconomics, your math Master's will not help you much. Job Market (+) Your decision will also affect your job market prospects. The fields you have outlined have a fairly small job market compared to let's say applied econometrics or macroeconomics. If you do not stand out from the crowd it may be difficult to find a position as assistant professor. Thus, having a math master's may help you write an outstanding job market paper. However, you will be older when you enter the market. For very few employers, this may be a secondary criterion. Tenure (+) When you obtain an assistant professor position after your Ph.D., you will need to write a number of strong papers within several years. If you at that point need to acquire additional math skills this will slow down your research in this crucial time. Lifetime income (--) You will most likely lose at least one year of income from doing the degree. If your degree is two years or 1.5 years, you may at most be able to make up for one year via a shorter Ph.D. by being more productive. It is not unlikely that you will lose 2 years of income. However, doing the Master's may allow you to enter better Ph.D. programs, write better papers, and achieve a better job placement, earning you more money. But this effect is hard to estimate. Readings Be sure to check this website to make the right strategic decisions. There is a lot of research on what makes Ph.D. students in economics successful. 

I do not know of any theory of repeated games without a beginning. However, some formalization may help regarding your question about stationary equilibria. I will answer your question with respect to the simple Nash equilibrium, but my remarks should also apply to more refined equilibrium concepts. Note first that we do not need to change our definition of a Nash equilibrium, as it is abstractly defined for any strategy space. A Nash equilibrium in a repeated game with a starting point does not need to be stationary. For example, an infinitely repeated prisoners dilemma can have any sequence of "cooperate" and "defect" for both players given players do not discount future payoffs too much. This is the same for a game without a starting point. Suppose that the players have access to a binary randomization device to coordinate their strategies. Suppose they both play "cooperate" if the randomization device is 1 and "defect" otherwise. Any player deviating from this, will be punished with the other player playing "defect" for the remainder of the game. Now set the randomization device to probability $\frac{t^2}{t^2-1}$ of being 1 in period t. Clearly, the equilibrium strategies are non-stationary. However, players have no incentive to deviate as long as their time discounting is not too high.