NO! Wittgenstein, Whitehead and other process-oriented strategies surely do not put the foundation in the will. Everything is one big feedback loop, and choices are part of the loop. Will can have application only given meaningful things to want, meaning is dependent upon usage, and usage is dependent upon the composite of all the moves people make, which may express their will, but, as noted, that will can act only based upon meaning. 

I don't think you can address this from a Utilitarian point of view, because utility is not well-defined for those who do not have a consistent view of the world, and whose world-view is continually evolving or shifting to a great degree, such as children and the mentally ill. You need to be more conservative, and work from the 'limited interchangeability of individuals'. The clearest picture of that is from Kant. From a Kantian perspective, the deduction that renders the "Universalizable" version of the Categorical Imperative to the "Ends-Means" version gives us the clue. We cannot universally approved of manipulation based on superior agency, or we all become puppets of the brightest sociopath among us. Instead, we need to find a way of negotiating that respects limited agency. To me, that question has to come down to the possibility of reciprocal agreement. An unconscious person cannot agree, and someone like a child cannot agree with an adult in a way that is truly reciprocal: the child's stated agreement is based on a more limited understanding of consequences, and what they are agreeing to is not really the same thing as what the adult is agreeing to. So the question is whether continuous working memory is necessary for reciprocal agreement, or whether agreement can be based on the facts present in the moment. I think that the answer is not the same in all cases, but I would argue it depends upon the nature of the facts, and that the unimpaired individual is competent to know the difference. We are ourselves both in the moment, in that we have a personality of a certain character, and across time, in that our decisions reflect what is going on around us, and we can change that character. Agreement that is in accord with the stable character of the person making it can be accepted even when that person is impaired. If you do not have adequate exposure to the individual when lucid, you may not be competent to make that judgement, and in that case, expecting consent is out of order. Also, if recent changes which the disabled person may not have processed correctly have taken place that might have real bearing to bias the decision in a negative direction, it is not safe to accept positive consent that has significant potential negative consequences that the individual has not already faced. But uniformly deciding that someone who was once competent to initiate sexual relationships no longer is, is insulting and punitive. So it is not a good idea to assume the impossibility of consent without analysis of the individual case. 

This seems to roll all life up into a single 'energy'. And if the ending of lives is all the same ethical 'currency' or 'cost', no doubt threats to do so should be, and thus so should the suffering and fear which is the biological marker of the threat that your life might end. I do not know in detail how Schweitzer attempted to weigh lives against one another. But it seems that criteria could be evolved from the single general principle of responsibility to balance death against suffering, resulting in a Utilitarian computation. Taken 'neet', this principle seems to defy some ordinary aspects of Utility, since it accords a positive value to a life without pleasure, and some Utilitarianisms would accord that a negative value. 

Deduction does not necessarily mean classical logic, but something more basic, which does not necessarily embody the rule of non-contradiction. We use deduction rules in Universal Algebra or Category Theory for instance, which have little to do with classical logic, but help us to keep formal operations in order. The result does not necessarily establish truth or falsehood, but helps us decide when two items in a formal system are equivalent under a certain set of transformations. You can look at these as logics with whole mathematical models like groups or rings or algorithms or other categories as truth values. But you don't have to. An application that is perhaps a bit broad is that of abstract semantics of computer type systems. In that sense, some variant of deduction has to apply if you have grammar and sequences. An anti-realist might easily imagine we live in a reality where grammar or time are not reliable touchpoints, don't behave consistently, or lack real meaning. This makes deduction still possible, but not trustworthy. In fact many theories of meaning like those of Desaussure and Lacan insist all grammar is only approximate and not fully shareable between people, or is relatively constructed. And some philosophical approaches to physics question whether time is real or only an aspect of perception -- most famously, Kant, and one version of the theories of Boltzmann. 

If all that exists is mind, then Nature is an emanation of mind, and its apparent order is the order of our minds. All useful forms of idealism assume our internal intuition is at base fully in tune with the nature of the physical world, or the physical world could not exist. From that point of view, of course mental models of Nature work. In fact, it is harder for idealists to make reasons why our intuition is not just perfect, why science does not just pour out of us logically complete, without effort. And they explain the distance in terms of indirection: Intuitions are compromised as they combine across individuals (a la Leibniz), or reflected off God (a la Berkeley), or diluted via 'participation' (a la Plato), or emanate into physical reality in a way that loses information (a la Kant), or ... This is clearly a very cogent explanation of the success of abstraction and the basic approach of science via mathematical models, if one that has a hard time explaining anything else, or remaining internally consistent. It is the first reasonable philosophical explanation of this, going back to Plato, and explaining why earlier thinkers are defined in terms of him, being consigned to the category of 'pre-Socratic'. It may be the only one: The real difficulty in explaining the success of abstraction is met only by empiricists and other physicalists. Hume is not wrong. You can cast the success of intuition back on evolutionary theory, but explaining success with success is simply circular. And statistical/sociological theories from the philosophy of science, while vastly elucidating the process of succeeding, are not a solution. They do help convince us that sheer environmental adaptation "simply works" for mathematically sound reasons. But they ultimately do nothing to address the real difficulties any form of observation has with causality. 

Since Will is a primary aspect of the notion of (a) God (since being obligated, or necessarily bound to obey said will pretty much defines a deistic religion), we can define (a) God in terms of His(/its) will. Consider a logic, and apply a mode to it, like 'necessity', 'obligation', or 'is believed under Aristotelian philosophy'. That mode has a dual, the mode that is true of things that are not forbidden buy the original mode. For 'necessity', the dual is 'possibility', things are possible if is is not necessary for them to be absent. Things are permissible if it is not obligatory to avoid them. Things are considered under Aristotelian philosophy if there is not a belief in the philosophy that they are false... I would propose that 'the will of (a) God (about a reality instantiating that logic)' is the(/a) maximal self-dual mode. We want God(s) to be consistent, but as powerful as possible. (If you have multiple gods, a 'God' is their perfect combination. Cultures that split God up in to multiple entities, generally still want the composite order of the universe to be consistent, complete and for the union of all gods to be sovereign over it.) (Whether this mode is nontrivial or unique relative to any proposed system of thought, describing our reality or another, is a question to be established.) 

If you fall far enough back down the scale of 'bundle theories', you are reduced to a place where existence is, in fact, not only a property, but an accident. Philosophically, we do not like this notion, but it has become inescapable. Both in quantum physics, and in many psychodynamic theories in psychology, only the 'tendency to exist' can actually exist. (And I will not play the word game about whether the tendency then exists or only tends to exist. We are already well beyond the point where language will help make any of this clearer.) The probability of a particle being in a location can only be determined when another particle interacts with it. You need two complex vectors to have a positive dot-product. Otherwise the particle may, in fact, never need to exist, in order to have its effects on the universe. It might only increase the odds of other particles existing, or influence them to be in a slightly different location. Physics, forced into this corner, does fall back on the wave equation, which makes intuitive sense only if you adopt a notion like the tendency toward existence as a pervasive substance. The probabilities accumulate as complex potentials, so in the absence of true existence, the particles can still accumulate and have influence, as a field effect might, which is basically an immaterial substance. We can get patterns of interference that create multiple photons at once, quite close together, even though until they had a reason to interact, they did not actually exist as photons, but only as potential photons. At the same time, object-relational entities that are based in intersubjective communication can only 'tend to be' part of a person's thinking or motivation. You need aspects of the environment to draw them out, and they may lie dormant forever, and only be expressed by other bearers of the same complexes. That does not mean their presence in one individual who does not communicate them is irrelevant to the person who does. Like the particle, the odds accumulate even when they don't exist, and when precipitated, will be composite. The panic in a crowd may be precipitated by one individual's action, but is already incipient in the crowd itself, and might not have come to the point of precipitation if the set of individuals present were not the same, or did not at least contain tendencies toward the same fears. Of course, this is not the level of reality where most of us dwell mentally, so the billion-to-one chance that existence actually acts like an accident is not worthy of ordinary consideration. But in an absolute sense, we can no longer deny that this is the case. Of course, strictly taken , examples do not answer your question. But I would contend that this model of a subtle substance correlating to the tendency to exist is not too accidental, and that we are driven to it by the structure of our inquiry.