If you can show the hiring manager that your skills are relevant, they're less likely to care that they don't personally support your charity. If the skills you use are not relevant to that specific job, leave it off your CV. Now, on to the tricky part - what to do if the employer is opposed to the particular charity? Firstly, unless your charity has a really bad reputation, they're unlikely to care much. The majority of people aren't anti-immigration and - to be blunt - you probably don't want to work for someone like that. Secondly, show that it is a legitimate charity and briefly explain its mission. 

The best advice I can give you is to start a portfolio. When I look at hiring developers, the first thing I want to do is play with their apps. That speaks more to me about you than your age and background. 

I would agree with the notion of "sabbatical" but there are other options. In my country (UK) it's very easy to set up a company. Consider creating a corporate entity and doing odd jobs through that. This allows you to write on your CV... CEO - MyCorp - February 2015 to Current 

Your Union Rep. They should be able to explain to you your legal rights in this situation - and whether they can offer any assistance. The HR department. Talk to them about the company's policy on pay and performance. It is entirely reasonable for them to say that your pay is related to performance - but it has to be contractual and legal. 

Unlikely. At some point, your employer or co-workers will probably find out. How do you think they will feel about your deception? You lied to get the job, and you hid a significant part of yourself from them. Ultimately, you wouldn't ask this question if you didn't think it was ethically sketchy. Any decent employer will not reject you because of your qualifications. And, do you want to work for someone who feels threatened by your education? 

The question isn't just "Why do you want to work here?" - there's an unspoken second part to the question "rather than somewhere else?" As per this excellent comic, the reason you want a job is that you are willing to exchange your labour in return for money. So, why do you want to work at Burger King rather than McDonalds? Consider these answers - what do they tell you about the candidate? Who would you hire? 

I am not a lawyer and this is not legal advice. You need to be aware of the UK's Minimum Wage Legislation. There is an exemption for volunteers - but it is also tightly regulated. 

A CV / Resume is an advert for yourself. You don't see a chocolate bar advertising itself as "Entered in the 2013 Best Candy Bar Awards", do you? So, how do you turn this lack of award into a net positive? Something recruiters will find interesting? Firstly - is any of the project work still available? Can you point to a website? Or any tangible results? Secondly - working well as a team member is a valuable skill. Can you say "lead a team of X people to create a Y in only Z days"? Thirdly - think of relevance. If you're applying to be a fry-cook, do I care that you took 5th place in a Chess competition? No. It may be important to you but it's not relevant to your job application. Finally - think about what you want to show the recruiter. Team leadership? Specific skills? Ability to cope under pressure? Highlight those aspects carefully. They could be what a recruiter is looking for. 

Most jobs have a probation period. This allows the both the employee and employer to assess whether they have made the right decision and terminate the contract with no penalties and, often, very little notice. You should check your contract to see if it includes wording about a probation period. It is totally acceptable to quit a job after a short period of time. Sometimes these things just don't work out. Will it cause some bad feelings and resentment? Possibly. Here is what I would do. 

Echoing Julia, it's not usual to impose a tight deadline like that. If, however, you like the job - verbally accept it on provision of a satisfactory contract. Once you have the contract you can take your time reading it, negotiate pay and benefit, and research the company more thoroughly. If they're desperate to hire you, it should put you in an advantageous position. 

You're not a "full time" programmer, and you want to be. The answer is quite simple - GitHub. You need to do the following things. 

Just to add something here - never mention your salary. Instead, mention your total compensation. Let's assume your salary is £30,000. Your employer also gives you 

Yes. Ok - a little more detail :-) I work with interns. It's quite usual that what they want to work on and what we want them to work on are very different. You should be having regular meetings with your boss - it's at one of these that you should explain why you want to change. You'll need to deliver a robust "business case" why you want to. Before going any further - let's look at some of the reasons a manager will reasonably say "no." This is to help you counter these objections in advance. 

Can you still complete your course? Many universities will let you transfer credits from other institutions. Look at what it will take to get your degree. Instead of listing your credits - list the courses you took and completed. As an employer, I don't know what 225 credits means - but I can understand what "Advanced Economics", "Introduction to Algorithms", etc means. 

That's what the assignment is testing. Can you solve the task? If not, how do you recover from an error? Imagine that you're at work and there's an emergency. You don't get credit for realising the solution 1 minute after the deadline. I don't work for Google, so I can't give you advice on why they've scheduled a telephone interview. Don't make excuses for yourself during the interview - but do take the opportunity to explain how you will deal with being under pressure in the future. 

Only include it if it will demonstrate skills which are relevant to the job for which you are applying. For example, if the job requires strong financial skills, talk about how you collected members' fees, complied with audits etc. If you want to demonstrate leadership, give clear examples of how you tackled and solved a problem, what the upshot was, how many people benefited from your decision. Don't necessarily talk about the beer-pong mixer you organised ;-) One thing to note about diversity requirements - all the policies in the world won't protect you from an incompetent interviewer. At some point you'll sit in front of someone and your gender/race/disability/etc will become pretty obvious. Generally speaking, you don't want to work for the people who won't respect you. There is a trend in some organisations to remove all protected characteristics from applications - your name becomes your initials, graduating dates are removed, that sort of thing. I don't know how a recruiter / HR department would deal with a fundamental part of your CV which references a protected characteristic like race. If you are worried, I would recommend that you contact the HR department before sending in an application and checking whether it falls foul of any of their policies. Best of luck! 

In the first, you're inviting the other person to respond however they see fit. They can move the conversation on, moan about the snow, confess that they spent the day building a snow man. In the second, you're directly challenging the person and asking for a specific response about their competence. It could be seen as aggressive, or even rude. So - on to your question. What to do if they live in a conflict zone. First of all, you don't know this person's politics. They may be in favour of the war, they may have friends who took part in a recent newsworthy event, they may have lost loved ones. 

This is perfectly normal. If you signed an agreement with Burger King, and then went off to work for MacDonald's - it's possible that your new employer could face legal repercussions. The new company wants to make sure that they're not going to get sued for hiring you. If the two companies are completely unrelated, you don't have anything to worry about. The company is just doing due diligence. 

Finally - don't give up! I know hitting 30 feels like the middle of your life - but in reality, you're likely to be working for another 30 years. You're barely a quarter of the way through your working life. Good luck! 

It's never a nice feeling, but there are several things that you can do to prepare. These are what I have done when I knew a company was planning to let a lot of people go. 

It's acceptable to tailor your CV for each job you apply for. I would suggest that you look at the role you want, and use a job title which closely matches both your experience and the new job. If you need something generic, I would suggest: 

You should certainly put on your CV that you are willing to relocate. If possible, list which visas / permits / qualifications you already have in order to facilitate a relocation. (E.g. EU Citizenship, licensed to practice in States X,Y,Z, etc). This shows that you're prepared to relocate and thought about some of the practicalities. I don't think it is necessary to say "I really don't want to work in Kansas City." 

As you've discovered, it's hard to get hired when you've never had a job before. There are three routes that I can suggest. 

Buy it and read it. If you don't get the job, you've wasted some money. Read the online version. If they ask - say that you bought it, or borrowed it from a friend, or your last workplace had a copy, or it was in a library, or - if you want to be radically honest - tell them you found a copy online. 

Firstly, yes, they supply the uniform and it can be second hand. As long as the uniform isn't dirty or broken, you have no option but to wear it. That said, depending on your contract, you may be able to wash it yourself if you are particularly worried that it isn't clean enough for your personal preferences. The next issue is one of size. You should absolutely (and politely) ask your manager when you can get a uniform that fits. It doesn't need to be a confrontation - just "Hi, I just thought you should know that my uniform doesn't fit properly. Can you tell me how I get a size 14?" The only UK laws I know of regarding employer provided clothing is with regard to safety clothing. For example protective boots, gloves, lab coats, etc. It is unlikely that your uniform falls into this category. If your manager is unable or unwilling to provide you with a suitably sized uniform, I would strongly suggest that you join a trade union and ask them for help. 

It's always worth reminding people how they know you. I think the email you've drafted looks good, but I'd start it with: 

Some of this is highly dependent on your country - and how litigious people are. You taking his email address is almost certainly a breach of your country's data protection laws. You're taking personal, private information, and using it in a manner for which it was not intended. DO NOT DO THIS! If your emails says - or implies - "You weren't hired because they thought you were autistic." Congratulations you've opened your company up for a massive disability discrimination lawsuit! Here's what you should do IMO 

If you're comfortable, write to the HR teams at your previous employers and let them know what your new name is and that you would appreciate them responding to reference checks in your new name. For new companies, write a covering letter for the HR department to say that prior to date X you were known by a different name, that reference checks should be conducted in that name, and that you appreciation their discretion in this matter. 

Yes, that's right. I've seen people with degrees who couldn't program their way out of a wet paper bag. Otherwise, you'd just show up with a degree certificate and be given a job without an interview. People without degrees get hired all the time - people who lie about their degrees get fired. 

And list your responsibilities. A CV is an advert. Everything on there should go to helping the next employer choose you. The particular agency you worked through does not fall into that category. If the new employer wants to take up references, that's the appropriate time to give them the name of the agencies. 

I interview and hire developers. This is my experience of looking at (recent) graduates. A good school is a useful indicator of how rigorous your education is - but it is only an indicator. I've spoken to people from top flight universities who couldn't explain how HTTP requests work! A much better indicator of competence - in my opinion - is your portfolio. What open source projects have you contributed to? Which conferences have you presented at? What hackdays have you attended? Have you won any prizes? Do you have a start-up you run on the side? That said, some employers will only take people from specific universities. The higher ranked, the better. Additionally, the quality of teaching is likely to be significantly better at Goldsmiths. My advice is not to concern yourself so much with the absolute rank - but what you can achieve at each institution. Best of luck! 

You are probably worrying over nothing. Large organisations often take far to long to get the basics sorted out. I assume that you've got some form of written confirmation from them? Even just an email saying "looking forward to seeing you on Monday" will do. If you are worried, drop the HR department an email saying something like: 

No. This is the Sin of Omission. Regardless of whether you're religious or not, it's a falsehood. If you want to downplay it, don't title your CV as "Doctor John Lennon Ph.D" - simply use your name without any prefixes or suffixes. Place your education towards the bottom, if you have to. But don't leave it off. 

It's dangerous to be right when everyone around you is wrong. Let's look at it from their perspective. With this simple script you have...