The Franco-Belgian Accord, which lasted from 1920 until October 1936 when Belgium declared itself neutral, included an article which 'discussed greater integration of frontier defenses' (according to Wikipedia). The Maginot line was started in 1929 and covered only the France-Germany border. The Ardennes forest was considered impenetrable and was thus not protected. The reasons why the French didn't extend the line (initially at least) along the France-Belgium border are clear enough (they didn't want to offend their allies the Belgians). The belief was that the French army could defend the shorter (non-Maginot) area, but this seems to be contradicted by the extension of the line after the Franco-Belgian accord fell apart (though the extended section was not of the same strength as the original section). Prior to Belgium's withdrawal from the accord, was there ever a plan to extend the line along the Belgium-Netherlands border as part of the aforementioned discussion of 'greater integration of frontier defenses'? If not, was this because of the cost? Or was it because the Belgians (especially the Flemish population) didn't want too much French influence? Or was it because the Belgians didn't want to offend the Dutch? Or perhaps a combination of all three? 

Source: Plaster As the sources agree that the Tyroleans used them, this must have been mostly in 1789 at the Battle of Focșani and/or the Battle of Rymnik and/or the Siege of Belgrade. The latter seems most probable for the air rifle proved to be effective at sieges. Despite some successes, though, the air gun was destined for use in specialist operations only 

At first glance, five sources seems to be evidence of some substance. However, none of them cite a specific source for this story. Further, two of the above are by the same author (Denton), one (Greatest Nations) dates from 1914, while another (Rough Guide) is not a historical source. Mad Monarchs seems the most credible and gives a list of sources at the end (but no specific citations), even though it was not written by a professional historian. There are other problems with four of the above sources (make that three as the texts in Denton's two books are identical). For example, Rough Guide implies that Osman II was "crazed" while Denton says that he was almost as deranged as his uncle Mustafa I. None of the sources by professional historians cited below (see list) back up this assertion of madness, and many of them go into far more detail on the life and reign Osman II than any of sources claiming he used prisoners and pages for target practice. In fact, the picture that emerges of Osman II is one of a young sultan with a clear agenda and definite ideas on how to revive Ottoman fortunes, but whose plans threatened too many vested interests, leading to his overthrow and death by strangulation. Also, Greatest Historians on Osman II is highly critical in every respect, perhaps reflecting the view of most Ottoman historians of the time who did not approve of the young sultan's radical plans to revive Ottoman fortunes. None of this is to say that Osman II wasn't ruthless on occasion; he did have one of his brothers murdered (fratricide was a practice which was not without precedence among the Ottomans - see this and this), and who is to say that he didn't loose an arrow in anger at some point, but that is a long way from saying he used people for target practice. 

Quite apart from the problem of determining an exact date for this period (as Oldcat metioned in his comment), the details of the events concerning the suppression of the uprising led by Hunold (or Chunoald) are sketchy and probably spread out over a period of a few weeks at least. The suppression of the revolt in Aquitaine was Charlemagne's first solo military action following the death of his father in September 768. We know that Charlemagne spent Easter 769 at Rouen on the way to Aquitaine. He requested the assistance of his brother Carloman to put down the uprising but the brothers fell out when they met up at Duasdives (Moncontour de Poitou, between Angers and Poitou) so Charlemagne continued alone and does not seem to have had much trouble dealing with the revolt. According to Roger Collins in 'Charlemage' Charlemagne took Angouleme and established a fortress at Veronicas on a tributary of the Dordogne. As 

EDIT As requested by LangLangC, I've worked on the picture a bit but not sure if it's much help (click on the image for full size). 

Source: Michael Prestwick, Edward I The announcing of the baby Edward (the future Edward II) as 'Prince of Wales' can thus be seen as an important symbol. By making his son Prince of Wales, Edward I was effectively 'taking over' the title which had been held by Welsh leaders i.e. no need for anyone else. The granting of a title to the heir to the throne was nothing new, even if the term 'Prince of Wales' was. At the time of his birth, the young Edward was only 2nd in line, behind his brother Alphonso who was 'styled' as the Earl of Chester. 

Among the non-British pilots, at least 141 were Polish, 84 Czech and 28 Belgian, but only 13 were French and none were Dutch, Norwegian or Danish. The reasons why there were many Polish, Czech and Commonwealth pilots are clear enough, as are the reasons for the relatively low number of Australian pilots. The reasons for the lack of Norwegian and Danish pilots can also perhaps be explained: there weren’t many of them in the first place, and reaching England was probably more difficult for them than the French, Belgian, Polish and Czech pilots who fled at the fall of France. France, however, had Europe’s largest allied air force at the time of the Battle of France (764 fighters), which presumably means they also had far more pilots, yet only 13 or 14 French pilots fought in the Battle of Britain, compared to 28 pilots from Belgium (81 fighters). And what happened to the Dutch (up to 76 fighters)? Of course, some were killed in action before the Battle of Britain, but that was also true for the Poles (about 280 fighters in Set. 1939) and Czechs. I’m wondering if the formation of Free French Forces destined for North Africa had anything to do with the lack of French fighter pilots in the Battle of Britain. However, given that the RAF had more planes than pilots, that surviving French pilots had invaluable combat experience (as did the Poles and Czechs), and that the fall of Britain would have been catastrophic for the allies, surely the Battle of Britain had to take priority over anything else? Note: All the figures cited for fighter planes refer to operational planes. It seems fair to assume that the number of operational fighters was not hugely different from the number of available pilots. 

At the local level, the BPP and the NOI were at least pulling in the same direction on some issues. In Corona, Queens (New York): 

I also found this Rainbow Roundtable site with several references to Africans in Britain and around Britain but am wondering as to its credibility. There are quite a number of references to Africans in Britain during Roman times and from the early modern period onwards (e.g. Moors in the court of James IV of Scotland, Elizabeth I of England expelling Moors), but I am curious about the period in between (i.e. the middle ages). Are there any references in medieval chronicles, or is there any other evidence of Africans or Asians living in (or just visiting) medieval Britain? I’m especially interested in Asians and Africans who were in Britain not as slaves but for other reasons. 

Source: Lotroo / R. Botek; Изработено от Потребител:Lotroo (Own work) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons The Roman road network,on the other hand, would have been evident: 

DETAILS As Pieter Geerkens emphasized in his comment, Melies’ films were not melted down for the silver. In her biography Georges Méliès, Elizabeth Ezra states: 

One can refer to 25 December as Apollo's 'birthday' but he certainly didn't have a monopoly on the day. Apollo, being associated with (among many other things) the sun / light, was one of many pagan gods who was linked to December 25th. This is connected to the winter solstice and the rebirth of the sun (hence the date being after December 21st - at one point December 23rd was celebrated but this was later changed to December 25th). For the Romans, though, Apollo was less important than he was for the Greeks. The Romans already had a deity for the sun (although Apollo became more popular at some point) and thus there was an 

Source: Joe Moran, Armchair Nation Meanwhile, in the US, General Electric (W2XB) began broadcasting in January 1928. In May 1928, an article appeared in The Washington Post informing the public of broadcasts "three afternoons weekly" on General Electric's "Radio Picture Service", and announcing "Opera stars to sing". There is also a reference "For the benefit of those who wish to experiment with television reception",: the context seems indicate potential viewers trying out the service. Then, in September, came the first TV drama The Queen's Messenger, but sources do not indicate whether this was in any way experimental; at any rate, only 4 television sets were 'tuned in'. Also in the US, Charles Francis Jenkins started the first commercially licensed TV broadcasting station (W3XK) on the 2nd of July, 1928, and made his first broadcast on the same day: 

it's hard to see what specific date the question might be referring to. Next, according to Einhard, a Frankish scholar and courtier, Charlemagne forced Hunold 

A late Roman-Republican banquet scene in a fresco from Herculaneum, Italy. 59 x 53 cm. The woman wears a transparent silk gown while the man to the left raises a rhyton drinking vessel. For Vikings and Anglo-Saxons, the horn would be emptied, for example, when it was passed around at feasts, in friendship and in peace: 

How much did Pliny exaggerate? For the Theatre of Pompey, it would seem his number is between 3 and 4 times the actual. If this scale of exaggeration is also true for the temporary theatre, we arrive at a figure of between 20,000 and 26,600. In summary, discounting the temporary theatre mentioned by Pliny, it would appear that (based on modern estimates) Ephesus may well shade all the others in terms of seating capacity. 

Portuguese ships carried more slaves to the Americas than any other flag carrier, but the numbers cited include Brazilian carriers Although the time periods for the two sources cited are different, both include the years when the large majority of slaves were transported Number of slaves Embarked (E) & Disembarked (D), 1501 to 1866 

Source: Gabriel Galvez-Behar but determined lobbying by the Société des inventions et des découvertes ensured that the first law was backed up by a second law in May 1791. The evidence suggests that the main motives for the new patents law were to end the abuses of the previous system and to protect inventors, in part so that France would benefit from their ideas becoming public; note that inventors who applied for patents in other countries would be 'punished' by losing their French patent. The initial impact of the law was minimal in terms of the number of patents (or 'brevets d'invention' as they were now called) granted - there was initially (until 1824 onwards) no increase in the number granted. Financially, the state benefited very little (if at all); obtaining a brevet d'invention was very expensive, one reason why there were so few applications. Nonetheless, brevets d'invention for financial methods raised concerns; financial speculation was a major issue at the time, especially in relation to the government-issued assignats (a kind of paper money supposedly secured by assets and land confiscated from the church and the nobility) which, largely due to over-issuing, were decreasing in value, thereby creating unrest and undermining the government's efforts to raise money. As financial speculation tends to concentrate money in the hands of a few, it is hardly surprising that the more revolutionary elements of the government were looking for ways to discourage it, even if the issuing of financial patents was not a significant factor with regards to assignats. Revisions were proposed in 1792. The Archives Parlementaires for 20 September 1792 has a summary of the debate on financial patents. The motion to abolish them was proposed by M. Raignoux and supported by M. Jollivet.