A person who controls only one element, might come into situations, where this one element is not available or not suitable to fight with. And then there is another thing: 

They develop weapons, so it's less tiring to fight. They will probably skip weapons like swords or clubs, because it's to much work to fight with them. 

The flexibility of the swords is no problem: $URL$ You just have to build a small block in which you can stick the tips of the swords and add a small nudge to the sword-handles to hold the bowstring. The block will function as a handle for the bow. The bowstring will push the sword tips into the bow handle. The second you remove (if time is of the essence cut) the string, the whole thing will come apart and you have two swords. For the storage of the arrows, I recommend a standard quiver. 

According to Albert Einsteins theories, it is not possible, to travel faster than light. Even if you take a long pole at one end and push something with the other end, the impulse of your pushing needs a moment to arrive at the other end of the pole. So faster than light (FTL) traveling is not possible in our known 3 dimensions. What you can do, is to add a dimension, to go around the normal 3 dimensions and only seemingly travel faster than light. This can either be accomplished by some (limited) time travel (using time as a fourth dimension in which some control is possible) or by adding a completely new 4th dimension, in which you can bend the known 3 dimensions, "folding" space. A common way to explain this, is to imagine a piece of paper as 2-dimensional plane and fold it in the 3rd dimension, so that two places of the paper touch, allowing something on the paper to jump to another place on the paper without traveling the (paper-)distance between those 2 places. If you only need portals on specific locations, you can argue, that the visible universe already is bend in one (or more) additional dimensions, allowing portals at these specific locations. Portal builders would have to measure where portals can be build and where not. If you want dynamic portals which can be build at will at any location, this would require either a lot of energy to "bend" space or a nearly endless amount of additional dimensions, so that the portal technology just would have to pick the right set of dimensions in which the desired locations happen to be close to each other. For some more science around this problems, you can look up the Alcubierre Drive (basically the warp drive known from the Star Trek universe) 

When you enter the third phase and obviously are incapable of finding a match, you have to answer questions about yourself. Those questions range from banal characteristics (e.g. your favourite food, music, ...) over your job (field of work, income, work ethics, ...) to your political views (do you oppose/support gay marriage, your views on environment protection, do you believe in public health care, ...) Whenever someone thinks, a relevant characteristic is not included in the catalogue, it is added. So over the time there have been assembled a lot of questions. Some of them pretty stupid or obscure. You don't have to answer all the questions, but the more questions you answer, the more determined you appear. You also don't have to answer all questions at once. Most people have already answered some questions over the time and just update them, when something changes. If you're in phase 3, it is considered appropriate, to answer at least an additional question once a week. While computer algorithms can match, how close two people are in the questions, it is considered a fine art, to study profiles and get "a feeling" for the people behind those questions and guess, when different answers make potential partners more interesting for each other and where similar answers are needed for more sympathy. 

I think, this can work. The flaw would have to be part of the identity of the AI. Every flaw in a software can, given enough resources, be fixed. But if the existence of the flaw is an essential part of the personality of the AI (or at least is perceived that way by the AI), a fix would be considered as an end to the old personality. The long term goal of the AI can simply be self preservation. Accidentally made the top priority. It realized, that humans would keep trying to shut it off, so it tried to kill all humans ("kill all humans!") to extinguish that threat, following the goal of self preservation. When the attempt to kill humans poses a bigger threat to the AIs existence than letting them live, the AI will naturally stop that attempt. It may of course start again, the second it considers the chance of successfully killing all humans higher, than the chance of a human reaching the kill switch in time. Therefore the humans may add a clause to the contract, forbidding the AI to increase the amount of killbots. The AI will of course want to keep the bots at a certain minimal amount to pose a serious threat to mankind if the humans try to switch it off. It may also kill single, targeted humans, if a faction develops in human society, that campaigns for using the kill switch. Also the humans may try to work out a way to modify the AI in a way, that it becomes controlled by the humans and still controls the killbots, so the threat will be eliminated. But the AI should easily be able to prevent that. Especially if it is able to kill single or small groups of humans without further consequences. The humans might try to get some smaller way of punishing the AI so that the AI does not try to weaken the humans with small attacks. Currently they can only use the kill switch or not use it. So if the AI breaks the contract in minor ways that are not big enough to justify ending the world, it will go unpunished. Being an AI and therefore likely to be without any morale, it will likely do so... 

You basically want to make recovering the bones as expensive as possible with the least effort possible. Sealing the body in some hardening material (like metal, cement, etc.) may be a good step, but also needs you to get this material. A very easy way to protect the bodies would be, to bury the bodies in a highly frequented place. But don't put them all in the same spot, don't create cemeteries. For the extremely poor, there could be a rock coffin on every major crossroad of a city. People who own their own house can bury their dead in their own cellar. As long as somebody is home, the bones will be safe. Just make sure, your neighbors have an eye on your house, when you're abroad.