In the context of dynamic epistemic logic, the binary operator 'M | φ' takes a model M and a formula φ and 'updates' M, by removing from M all the worlds where φ is false ([Holliday], Lecture 13, Slide 7; [van Benthem], Chapter 15, Definition 15.2.1): 

This means that p with any number of primes is a formula, ¬φ is a formula if φ is a formula, and so on. To interpret this language we define Carnapian modal models (later we'll refine these; cf. Definition 6): 

For concreteness, let's consider a particular analytically (with respect to Peano Axioms) impossible sentence, say: (0 = 1). It's impossible because it means that 0 is equal to the successor of some number, and Peano's Axioms exclude that possibility. The question, more concretely is, can a valid argument Γ &vdash; φ with consistent Γ be such that φ ≡ (0 = 1)? The consistency condition is meant to rule-out a trivial 'yes', because if Γ is inconsistent, then Γ &vdash; φ is valid for all sentences φ. Answer. Let Γ be the singleton set {(0 = 1)}. Since (0 = 1) is satisfiable (e.g. assign '0' and '1' both to some element a in the domain of interpretation), Γ is consistent. We already agreed that (0 = 1) is analytically impossible (with respect to PA), so what remains is to show that {(0 = 1)} &vdash; (0 = 1) is a valid argument. It's obvious that any interpretation that makes all sentences in {(0 = 1)} true, makes (0 = 1). So yes, a valid argument with consistent premises can have an analytically impossible conclusion. 

Can anyone one provide counterexamples to the following: The assumption that all human behavioral level activity (i.e. no sub-personal or subconscious processes) can be bifurcated into two kinds of routines (activities, tasks, processes)- those that are representational and those that are non-representational; and that all activity is a combination or ratio of the two. By “non-representational routines” I mean causally efficacious or mechanically productive environmental interactivity. Examples are: making a cup of coffee, cooking an egg, walking your dog, riding your bike, driving your car, throwing a ball, taking a bath, mowing the lawn, building a house, etc. By “representational routine” I mean activity that consists in (linguistically mediated) thought and its communication (production) and or interpretation (consumption). Examples are: armchair rumination, inner mumblings, judging, thinking, believing, realizing, remembering, prediction, expecting, deeming, suspecting, surmising, assuming, conjecturing, planning, goal setting, reasoning, calculating, inferring, imagining, fantasizing, understanding, comprehending, (philosophizing!) etc. Inscription/enunciation: writing, texting, scrawling, sketching, illustrating, blogging, speaking/talking, discussing, debating, lecturing, miming, acting, etc. Reading/interpreting: speech, text, icons, symbols, signs, maps, (technical) drawings, diagrams, graphs, tables, etc. 

there is an x such that x is the creator of the universe: ∃x[CU(x)] for any x and y, if x is the creator of the universe and y is the creator of the universe, then x=y (i.e. there is at most one thing which is the creator of the universe): ∀x∀y[[CU(x) & CU(y)] → y=x] for every x that is the creator of the universe, x is subject to logic: ∀x[CU(x) → SL(x)]. More briefly put, the claim is that "God is subject to logic" says that some x is such that x is the creator of the universe, and that any y is the creator of the universe only if y = x, and that x is subject to logic: ∃x[CU(x) & ∀y[CU(y) → y=x] & SL(x)] 

In other words: nothingness-in-general is a higher-order concept, and it holds of objects that can have members but for one reason or another do not. 

With these we can define what it means for a formula φ of propositional modal language to be true in a Kripke model with respect to a world of evaluation: 

If you have the diamond as primitive, you can define the box in the same way. Now, suppose we take the box as a primitive. Then the above definition gives us a notion of possibility that differs from what has since Aristotle, at least, been called contingency and can then be defined as follows: 

In (1) we have a binary operator →, whose semantics is: (φ → ψ) is false if φ is true and ψ is false, otherwise it's true. As this standard semantics makes clear, nothing more than the truth-values of φ and ψ are needed to settle the truth-value of (φ → ψ). That means that (φ formally implies ψ in L) is a truth-functional operator. In (2) we have a binary operator Analytic, whose semantics depends on one's particular view of what it means for a sentence to be analytic. There is no standard semantics to which we can appeal to settle the question. But, following Carnap, we can define a sentence φ to be analytic just in case φ is logically implied by a set of meaning postulates Π, which can be thought of as a giant conjunction of sentences that capture the meanings of terms relevant to us. For example, all bachelors (B) are unmarried men (U ∧ M), so Π will include a sentence like this: ∀x(Bx → (Ux ∧ Mx)). We can then ask: is it analytically true that if someone is a bachelor, he is a man, i.e., is Analytic(Bx, Mx) true? With our Carnapian semantics for Analytic, the problem reduces to checking whether: [(Π ∧ Bx) → Mx] is logically true. Without going into the precise semantics of 'logically true', to check that, we consider a model that satisfies Π and suppose that an arbitrary object is a bachelor. The sentence will be false if that object is not a man, otherwise it will be true. But since the model satisfies Π, which forces all bachelors to be unmarried men, the sentence will be evaluated to true. The moral of this long excursion is this: analyticity relies on the meanings of the terms occurring in the formula, so simply knowing the truth-values of the component sentential symbols doesn't allow us to conclude whether the compound formula is true or false. So Analytic is not truth-functional. In (3), like in (2), we have a binary operator that depends on information other than the truth-values of φ and ψ. I should say that, (3) is ambiguous, because you didn't specify whether the modal auxiliary is a 'might' or a 'would'; if it's a 'would', we have a universal operator, if 'might, an existential one. Whichever may be the case, to evaluate the truth-value of (3), we need to know the similarity ordering between the possible worlds. The truth-values of φ and ψ aren't enough to determine the truth-value of the compound expression. So Counterfactual is not truth-functional. In (4) we have a unary operator standardly defined as follows: Contradiction(φ) is true just in case Tautology(¬φ) is true. And Tautology(φ) is true iff all truth-assignments to the sentential symbols occurring in φ make φ true. Since to determine whether a formula is a tautology it's necessary and sufficient to know the truth-values of the component sentences, Contradiction is truth-functional. In (5) we have a disguised identity operator because (&bot; → φ) is equivalent to (&top; ∨ φ), which is equivalent to φ. So the operator in (5) takes a sentence φ and returns true if φ is true, and false if φ is false. We have there a trivial case: the truth-value of the compound formula (φ) is not only dependent on the truth-value of the component formula φ, but is the truth-value of that component. 

One gets the distinct impression that consensus is anathema to philosophy. Eric Dietrich gives a good account of Philosophy’s antinomic character: $URL$ Also David Chalmers has had a crack at the whip, but I find it a tad pretentious and dishonest. And by that I mean, if you were going to be brutally honest about philosophical consensus, your conclusions would be very much like that of Wittgenstein’s: (4th paper under 2014) $URL$ 

Consider the following: S1: The assumption that “the chair has certain affordances (weathered, rickety, sturdy, available, etc.)” is a non-arbitrary subroutine in an operant or respondent activity (sitting, avoiding sitting, using as an improvised ladder/a shelf, hanging my coat, burning for heat, etc.) that couples an agent x to the (chair). S2: The assumption that “the patient has advanced artery disease” is a non-arbitrary subroutine in an operant or respondent activity (the administration of statin, nitro-glycerine, ACE inhibitors, advice about radical dietary changes, etc.) that couples the surgeon x to the (patient’s heart/cardiovascular system). S3: The assumption that “consciousness has the property P (physicality, non-physicality, non- localness, universally distributed, etc.)” is a non-arbitrary subroutine in an operant or respondent activity that couples an agent x to the (phenomena of consciousness). There’s obviously nothing controversial about S1 and S2. But, the glaring issue about S3 is precisely what ‘activity’ or ‘operation’ are we talking about here? What is it that you couldn’t actually do (and not just talk about doing) if you weren’t working with the assumption that “consciousness has whatever property P”? 

I have taken the liberty of editing the original question to reflect what, after multiple readings, I took to be OP's main question. The idea is to begin with a couple of reasonable assumptions (premises 1–3), presented at a very general level (not digging too deep into the possible interpretations of the words 'music', 'sound', 'noise', or the representability of music via sequences of sounds, etc), and then to consider the plausibility, given those assumptions, of conclusions (1—2). The edit should make the problem apparent, but I'll take the opportunity to describe what it is exactly. The problem is a logical one, so let's look at the logical structure of the premises:    P1. ∀x : Music(x) → SoundSequence(x),    P2. ∀x : Noise(x) → SoundSequence(x),    P3. ∀x : SoundSequence(x) → Music(x); and that of the conclusions:    C1. ∃x : SoundSequence(x) ∧ Noise(x),    C2. ∀x : SoundSequence(x) → Noise(x). The three premises seem reasonable: (P1) every piece of music is a sequence of sounds, (P2) the same goes for noise, and (P3) any sequence of sounds is music. This third assumption is rather controversial, but we're interested in logical consequence rather than the truth of particular assumptions. Granted those assumptions, do conclusions (C1) and (C2) follow? The first says that there is some sequence of sounds that is noise; the second says that all sound sequences are noise. Neither conclusion follows, of course. From purely universal premises no existential conclusion could ever be expected. For any empty universe satisfies them, but won't satisfy any existential conclusions. But even if the existence of a sound sequence followed from the premises by some additional assumption, there is no reason to conclude that that sequence of sounds would be noise. Now, conclusion (C2) says exactly that: all sequences of sound are noise. It doesn't follow from the premises, but what if we added it to the premises? Here is what we would get:    (P1 ∧ P3) ∀x : Music(x) ↔ SoundSequence(x),    (P2 ∧ P4) ∀x : Noise(x) ↔ SoundSequence(x), where the new premise (P4) is the old conclusion (C2). Conclusion (C1), now simply the conclusion, would still not follow because of the existential import problem mentioned above. We would need a fifth premise to the effect that there exists a sequence of sounds. If that were granted, then the conclusion would follow, but a lot would still be left to desire as regards the soundness of the argument, given the very strong assumption (P4 ≡ C2), which, by the way, also renders the following conclusion valid:    ∀x : Music(x) ↔ Noise(x). This post should have been a lot shorter, for the point is simple. I'll try to compress it soon. 

One can use the information contained in a map to assist in navigational activities within the territory the map is assumed to be a reliable representation of. One can use assembly instructions for the guidance required to piece together flat packed furniture. One makes a shopping list to alleviate the need to remember and to optimise expenditure. One uses signage to help find the location of the toilets in an unfamiliar shopping precinct. One uses the step-by-step procedure in the auto workshop manual to facilitate a coolant/oil/filter change on the car. One uses a recipe to cook an unfamiliar meal- the list is endless. Generally speaking, If a representation R contains genuine and useful information about some target system E, then R can be used to ‘leverage’ (inform/guide/coordinate/instruct/organise/regulate/navigate/anticipate/prepare/etc.) one’s interactions with E (R is used to guide or correct for minor ‘cognitive deficits’ pertaining to E-interactions). If R doesn’t provide this, then R is redundant or worst impedimental. Metaphysics has no utility in this sense and I challenge anyone on this site to provide an obvious counter example that doesn’t trot out some clap trap about ‘understanding’. Pace Logical Positivism, I think the significance of what you might call “the social utility of representation” is however, hopelessly over looked. Metaphysics seems to consist in little more than a pretence to ‘reality tracking’ when the only thing that’s really going on is ‘social coordination’ among only those privileged and versed enough to occupy the upper/inner echelons (much like the Catholic church for example). Think of the notion of ‘latent vs. manifest’ function from sociology. The manifest function here would be to get a grip on what reality is and does and to have that adequately communicated amongst ones interlocutors. The latent function is to reap the residual (perlocutionary, J.L. Austin) social benefits- to get along with this philosopher (camp), make each other feel good, solidarity, trust, inclusion, etc.; or the opposite -to antagonise, show defiance, annoy, exclusion, etc., tenure, grants, publishing notoriety and so on. This ‘social’ phenomenon is rather ubiquitous. We’re all guilty of using a pretence to (or assumption of) reality tracking as a way (mode) of subserving social interaction on a quotidian basis: conversations involving putative topics, news, anecdotes, fables, hot and cold gossip, rumour/hearsay, jokes/comedy, conspiracy, propaganda, errant or extreme values, myths, superstition, religion, mysticism, spirituality, misconception, bigotry, ignorance, white lies, sub cultural norms…, much of what counts as philosophy, etc. It’s a group based (pragmatic) strategy that gets you access to all the latent goodies that come with being socially hooked up with people who are supposedly ‘on the same page’ and separated from those that aren’t. “…, a merely random groping, and, what is worst of all, a groping among mere concepts.”- Immanuel Kant, (Critique of Pure reason). 

In the sections leading up to that claim Carnap discusses a first class of what he calls 'pseudo-statements', which are all sentences characterized by having in them some 'meaningless' word. The sentence "kjdfho is great" is a pseudo-statement of that first class, because it includes the presumably meaningless expression 'kjdfho'. Then, in §4 Carnap turns his attention to a second class of 'pseudo-statements', which includes sentences that while grammatically meaningful, are still not acceptable. As examples he considers the following ungrammatical sentence (1) and the grammatical sentence (2): 

Here's one way of analyzing it. Consider the predicate 'Thinks(α, φ)', which is true just in case agent α thinks that φ is true. Let A be the Archivist, and A Sonmi 541. Let's begin by looking at what A says: 

This is an important question and you make a number of points worth thinking about more deeply. I offer the following not as an answer, but as a formal prelude to more worthy answers. We start with relations:                                                 §1. n-ary Relations as Sets of n-tuples According to the standard set-theoretic account of relations, an n-ary relation R is nothing more or less than a set SR consisting of n-tuples of elements from n underlying domains. Some examples: 

Looking for specific term to describe those ideas which are commonly held without proper justification or questioning? What about "putative"? 

Is agentive activity included in every representation (intension)? If so the extension of every representation includes some information about the interactivity between the representing agent and the thing being represented. For example: iconic, visual concepts (what a dog looks like) presupposes the activity of visual perception; namely looking at a dog, paying attention to certain salient features, committing this to long term memory and so on. Or to put it another way, you can’t have information about some x, without some amount of interactivity (A1,A2,…,An) relating agent y to x. vis., [A1->n(x,y)]. Does this not imply that there is no such thing as objective knowledge? 

If I told you the chair is rickety and unstable due to excessive weathering you would have something to work with regarding the ‘affordances’ (J.J.Gibson) of the chair; namely that you should be wary of sitting on it; using it as a shelf to place a weighty object; as an improvised ladder; a door stop, etc. Alternatively if I told you I’ve just finished applying a coat of clear exterior oil based varnish on it you would know not to touch or use it in the ways mentioned above. Again if I told you the chair is sturdy, clean and available for use, you could then appropriate it in the above mentioned ways. Now image if I told you the chair is physical. Precisely what difference does that make to any potential interactions you might have with the chair? None whatsoever. What difference would it make to assume consciousness is non-physical? - Basically the same; namely nothing. The physical/non-physical distinction is bogus. I’ve found P.W. Bridgman’s ‘operationalism’ (not a term he coined) to be helpful when thinking about such things: $URL$ 

We read G(φ) as it "henceforth φ" and H(φ) as "hitherto φ"; the rest of the operators are familiar. For everyday research purposes you would then define the semantics of this language on what are called flows of time and prove things about the logic. Here we're concerned with defining things only, so let's define the operators that we need in order to express (1) and (2): 

i.e. if Ns are Ms, and some Xs are not Ms, then we may conclude that some Xs are not Ns. I don't want to claim that Bocardo has no direct proof (by means of axioms and conversion rules), but merely to demonstrate how its indirect proof might proceed using this interpretation. 

It's certainly valid. Your derivation doesn't seem exactly right, but it can be modified to become correct. 

¬(A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) ≡ &bot; [ Goal ] (A ∨ ¬(A ∧ B)) ≡ &top; (A ∨ (¬A ∨ ¬B)) ≡ &top; [ De Morgan ] (A ∨ ¬A ∨ ¬B) ≡ &top; [ Associativity ] (&top; ∨ ¬B) ≡ &top; &top; ≡ &top;. 

The last, relativization condition is a bit more involved and hard to express without TeX, but here's a try. 

Vlasits goes on to give a proof-theoretic definition of reductio in a similar way, but for our purposes, the definition of direct derivability will be sufficient. Let's now prove that Bocardo isn't directly derivable within the aforementioned proof system, i.e., that (Fact 3) is true. 

To describe something you’re holding in your hand such as an ‘apparent’ apple as either “real” or “unreal” is a question of genuineness or authenticity. Either way you have a genuine apple or a genuine fake (representation). In this context you have useful information regarding affordances (J.J. Gibson) - a genuine apple is edible a fake one not. To describe “everything” (The universe as a whole) as either “real” or “unreal” seems to me like a categorical error. Statements like “we cannot prove that there is a reality”, smack of folly, since they suggest that there is a ‘standard reality’ by which you can differentiate. If there is no benchmark reality by which to make a comparison, then I’d say the concept has no extension. Also the existence of just about everything (apart from what is normative/conventional or artificial) is not contingent upon whether you have a conception/notion of it or not. Either way the [Real(apple) V –Real(apple)] makes pretty good [Real(cider) V –Real (cider)], which gets me [Real(soused) V –Real (soused)], or better yet {Realy[Real(soused)]} V –{Realy[Real (soused)]}! 

If we apply Russell’s theory of (definite) descriptions (“On Denoting” 1905) to the sentence “God is subject to logic”, it can be analysed into a conjunction of the following three: