Silver was extracted mainly from large, deep mines. The largest of these was at Potosi in modern day Bolivia. It employed nearly 60,000 people. Rain was not much of a problem because it was located in high, arid mountains. Two things made the system work. The first was a system of forced, tribute labor. These laborers (less than 10%) of the work force, had the unpleasant, dangerous jobs of transporting the ore to the surface. The other, relatively "safe" jobs of digging the ore were filled mainly by wage workers. The second was the concurrent discovery of the Patio process, the first "amalgamation" process, for extracting ore, that was a major improvement over existing processes. 

The question I might have asked is, "Is the U.S. a Superpower today because of World War ONE?" And that's the question I'll answer. In 1914, the U.S. probably was not the strongest country in the world (perhaps third or fourth, no weaker than fifth). By 1918, the U.S. was the strongest country in the world, with Germany, Britain, France, and Russia having knocked themselves out of contention. The U.S. fought in the war, but entered when it was about two thirds over, meaning that it was spared most of the damage. The only comparable event in U.S. history was "1991," with a victory in the Persian Gulf War and the collapse of the Soviet Union, the rival superpower. During the 1920s, the U.S. controlled something like 50 percent of the world's gold reserves, a result of the trade and money flows to the U.S. during and after World War I. It's true that the U.S. emerged from World War II with something like 50 percent of the world's industrial capacity, versus 40 percent before World War II, according to Paul Kennedy in "Imperial Overstretch." But the stage had been set during and after World War I. 

In general, the treatment of Jewish POWs was at the "low end" of what it was for others of their "nationality." POWs who were Soviet Jews were treated very badly--because they were Soviets. Things were a bit worse for men who were both Soviets and Jews, but it was basically "Soviet" that determined their treatment. POWs who were American or British were often segregated from non Jewish compatriots. They were then given unpleasant tasks that others of their nationality were spared, but still not treated as badly as Soviets or other "easterners," Jewish or not. In the back of their minds, the Germans thought of them as e.g. "Americans." Put another way, the Nazis considered their POWs "Americans" (or "Soviets") first, Jews second. 

No. The whole point of repealing Glass Steagall was to allow financial institutions to engage in the risky (and initially profitable) practices depicted in the Big Short. This, after decades of lobbying by the banks. It may not be a coincidence that the two sets of events happened over 70 years apart, after everyone who had a personal recollection of Glass Steagall went to "the big trading floor" in the sky. (Today's "old people" like Alan Greenspan and Warren Buffett were young children when Glass-Steagall was passed in 1932.) I am writing as the author of "A Modern Approach to Graham and Dodd Investing," a (Wiley, 2004) book that warned of the 2008 crash. 

Columbus is credited with discovering "America" (the "Indies," actually), because he SET OUT to do so. He had been trying to find a trade route west, to India, and thought that he had done so; i.e., that what later became the "Americas" was "India" to him, which is why he called the locals "Indians." Other peoples, the Vikings, the Chinese, and others probably encountered "America," but only by "accident." They did not write home to their sovereigns to tell them that they had discovered a "new world" for their country to settle. Hence, there were no permanent settlements by the Vikings, Chinese, or others. The one exception was the "Indians" or what we now call "native Americans." But they elected to STAY, rather than "write home" for "reinforcements. So Columbus not only discovered "America" (from the outside, Europe), but did so in a "official" capacity, on behalf of Her Majesty Queen Isabella of Spain, pursuant to a plan of his own devising. 

Japan thought highly of its hypergrowth as "stable and unstoppable." One major reason was because it was directed from the top, by the "government," specifically the Ministry of Trade and Industry (MITI) that told major corporations what to produce, and how to price it (low, to penetrate foreign export markets). This actually led to the illegal trade practice of "dumping" (selling goods more cheaply abroad than at home). The Japanese (and other Asians) knew that American business cycles waxed and waned but felt that this was because they were driven by private sector initiatives. The Japanese thought that the "government" would know better, if only because it had access to all the data in the country, and was staffed by graduates of the best schools. This feeling is akin to many Americans' faith in the Fed(eral Reserve Bank). But even the Japanese "government" could go wrong, particularly if it was encouraging practices that would invite retaliation. And its export-oriented strategy meant that it did not have nearly as much access to the global data set as it might have for Japan alone. Source: Hugh Patrick, Asia's New Giant: How the Japanese Economy Works $URL$ 

According to General Vasili Chuikov in "The Battle For Stalingrad," Khruschev was the political commisar overseeing the generals for the critical Volga region. When Chuikov was appointed to the command at Stalingrad, Khruschev asked him, "How do you see your task?" Chuikov replied, "We cannot retreat across the Volga. We will defend the city or die in the attempt." Khruschev told him that was the correct answer and confirmed his appointment. Basically Khruschev was a senior Communist Party member making sure that the generals were on a sound political footing. During the battle, Khruschev called Chuikov several times to "check up" on him, see how he was doing, and ask what was needed most (answer: ammunition, even more than food or vodka.) Contrary to the movie, Khruschev was not directly in charge of military operations, which, by 1942, were left to the experts. 

Marriages of royal and noble children were not consummated at the time of marriage. Instead, a date was designated for the consummation when both children were in their adolescence, typically with the younger being about 14. That met the "standards" of the time, although not modern standards. Many of these child brides/grooms died before adolescence and consummation. That was taken in stride because the real purpose of the marriage had been served; an alliance between two powerful families, who used their children as pawns to further their own ends. 

A more "normal" ratio of military to population might be something like 1%. That ratio would imply 17,000 men for the Norman conquerers instead of 7,000. There was one other factor in the Normans' favor. In modern times, guns are a great "equalizer." Not "everyone," but a large part of the population can be taught to use a gun in a short period of time. During World War II, the Russians (and later the Germans) sent teenaged boys into battle with only a few days' training in basic weapons management. The "hand" weapons of the time took years, not days, to master. One trained man with armor and skill with a "regulation" weapon was easily the match of five or even ten untrained men with crude weapons and no armor. This inequality meant that the Normans could maintain control with even less than 1% of the population. And it was also true that the Normans were better and more heavily armed than Harold's "Anglo-Saxons" that they had just defeated. 

The development that enabled the crossing of the oceans was the caravel with its so-called Lateen sail, running fore to aft, that enabled a ship to sail by catching practically any wind. Prior to that, ships were largely at the mercy of currents. For instance, it's quite easy to sail from the west coast of South America to Tahiti using prevailing currents, but very difficult to in the opposite direction. Prior to the development of the caravel, it might have been possible to sail far in one direction, and not return. Of course, we only hear about the ships that made it back, which is why successful one-way voyages don't "count." It was the lateen sail that made "round trips" possible (over long distances). Rowers don't change the equation much, unless you have a lot of them, in which case you'd have a different problem of having a ship large enough to hold of all of them, plus sufficient food and water. By using sails, the caravel struck a good balance between ship size, crew size, and power. As it turned out, caravels that were large and strong enough to hold sails were also large and strong enough to withstand the rough waters of the ocean (with the sails doing a lot of the "withstanding.") 

Much of America was founded on the principle of religious freedom. That is, Puritans in New England, Dutch Reformers in New York, Quakers in Pennsylvania, Catholics in Maryland, etc.(among others in the original "13 Colonies.") This ethos carried over into "America" after independence. Jews found the principle of religious freedom more attractive than many other groups, and the resulting "America" more accommodative of such than England itself, Canada, Australia, or New Zealand. 

The "great divide" in early America was between Federalists and anti-Federalists. That is between people who favored a strong central federal government and weak state governments (basically what we have); and those who favored a weak central government that managed only defense, foreign policy and the legal system, while strong state governments managed everything else, a model practiced by Switzerland. Much as they hated political parties, anti-Federalists like Jefferson and Monroe formed the Republican party (later retroactively called the Democratic Republicans to oppose the Federalists. There were links to international affairs, insofar as most Federalists were pro-British and anti-French, while most anti-Federalists were pro-French and anti-British. 

"Late medieval" (as the OP defines it up to "…; Briasson; 1737") French education was not "recalcitrant" to math. France produced a noted mathematician, Rene Descartes in the seventeenth century, and later, Joseph Louis Lagrange in the eighteenth. What may be true is that French mathematics education was "relativized" by other, more pressing concerns such as theology. For instance, of France's "Three Estates," the first estate is the clergy. The nobility is "only" second, and the people, third. 

I am trying to understand Japanese punitive expeditions in China such as the Three Alls Campaign and retaliation for the Doolittle Raid on Tokyo. In each case, the Japanese largely retaliated against Chinese civilians. In order to understand these actions, I need to understand the nature of the Japanese occupation of China better than I do. Specifically, I have come up with three different occupation models, and I need to know which one(s) best describes what the Japanese were actually doing in China. 1) Japan nominally occupied and ruled large chunks of China, but with numerous "leaks." The above provocations and retaliations represented some of these "leaks" and attempts to plug them. The nearest equivalent might be German anti-Soviet partisan actions. 2) Japan's control of China was basically, limited to a few large cities, roads, and railways, but they had the ability to invade or roam the countryside when provoked. Although the punitive actions were brutal, they did not lead to a meaningful expansion of Japanese control of China over time, and were more "destructive" than "constructive" (conquering) actions. 3) The Japanese were engaged in a "creeping" takeover of China. The above provocations merely reprioritized conquests that the Japanese had planned to undertake anyway, perhaps somewhat later. Unlike the previous case, Japanese "raids" succeeded in not only taking, but holding large territories formerly under Chinese control. What (if any) military reasons caused the Japanese to undertake punitive expeditions in China, and which of the above occupation models (or others I may have overlooked) best describes the context in which they occurred? 

Yes, one of the functions of monasteries (and convents) were as places to care for sick and disabled people, as part of their religious mission. This function helped set the precedent for today's hospitals. 

It's true that most settlers were tough, but some were tougher than others. The more legally minded among the tougher ones became sheriffs and "lawmen," while the ones with "illicit" inclinations became horse and cattle thieves, sometimes murdering those who got in their way. One famous fight between the two types took place near (not at) OK Corral in Tombstone, Arizona. So there were documented instances of gangs of criminals terrorizing small, western towns in the nineteenth century. These incidents took place in "frontier" towns that were too far away from population centers to be eaisly protected by the army, or conventional police. And while many knew how to shoot, most men in such towns were more interested in "civilian" pursuits such as mining or cattle raising than defending themselves. What is true was that when "real" lawmen (dedicated fighters) came around, a few civilians like "Doc" Holliday would augment their ranks. 

In order to attack China, "European" powers had to send armies "halfway" around the world. That is a difficult way to "project" power even today, let alone in the 19th or early 20th centuries. It's fairly easy to send a "punitive" expedition, but much harder to conquer and control a country under those circumstances even with a large technological advantage. Think of the U.S. vs. Vietnam, and imagine how much easier it would be for the U.S. to conquer nearby Canada, it's technological equal. Another thing was the relative populations. The Qing population of perhaps 300 million was about ten times that of most European states. Even with a technological advantage, it may be easy to "beat" but hard to "hold" a more populous country. Britain did it with India, but just barely. China is larger, further away, and more organized. On the other hand, the indigenous populations of China's "colonies" in Tibet and Sinkiang were in the millions, so the Chinese to indigenous population was on order of 100 to 1. Couple that with the fact that China is "just across the border" from them, and can move settlers in behind the troops to pacify them. In short, one can see why it was easier for China to hold onto nearby sparsely populated colonies than "Europe" with densely populated distant colonies. 

The U.S. Constitution makes reference to the fact that it represented only "free persons." (See for instance Article 1, Section 2.) This meant that the Bill of Rights did not fully apply to slaves. This idea is further elaborated on in Federalist Paper No. 54, in which slaves were considered a hybrid of persons and property. This was the idea of the Three-Fifths Compromise, under which a slave was considered "three-fifths" of a person. In theory, it meant that free Blacks did have these rights. In actual practice, free blacks were often conflated with slaves because of their skin color, "accidentally on purpose." Further court cases in the 19th century "clarified" matters by limiting the rights of even free blacks, particularly in the 1850s. It took the 13th, 14th, 15th Amendments, plus the civil rights legislation of the 1960s to finally put an end to this. 

For many years, the Extremadura region was the border region between Christian and Moorish Spain. As a result, their inhabitants were quite literally "living at the edge." Hence they produced the largest number of "desperado" type conquerors. It's like saying that America's most renowned Indian fighters (e.g. Buffalo Bill Cody or George A. Custer) were products of the American frontier, rather than the Atlantic seaboard. Or that the most renowned Mexico fighters like Davy Crockett were Texans. 

Spain's feeling was that this was another instance of meddling in "internal affairs" by the expansionist American Colossus. Yes, Spain declared war to "preserve her honor," but Spain really had no reason to hope for success. By about 1900, America had nearly four times the population and eight times the GDP of Spain. (This was a near-reversal from the relationship in 1800.) Moreover, the Americans had been the first to build ironclads, and by 1900, only Britain and Germany had stronger navies than the Americans (France had about the same). The current thinking is that the blowing up of the Maine, the official casus belli, was accidental. At the time, both sides accused the other of "manufacturing" an incident. While probably neither occurred, Spain had less cause to do such a thing than America. Spain had spent the previous two and half centuries "losing" her empire. This was just the latest in a string of losses that showed how much the rest of the world, including the American "newcomer," had passed Spain by. The country swallowed this with resignation. 

Because Hitler was a horrible "traffic cop." One version of Fall Blau called for the Germans to advance east to Stalingrad, then along a broad front south on a line from that city, and Rostov on the Don. While Army Group South would have been advancing into "two" directions, it would have been one at a time, rather than two different directions. Hitler wrongly believed that the "cork in the bottle" was Rostov on the Don. So he diverted part of Army Group B (Hoth's Fourth Panzer Army), to help Army Group A (under Kleist) to capture this key city. In fact, Kleist did not need this help (and Hoth's Panzer were actually in the way), as evidenced by the fact that Kleist advanced 300 miles to Maikop in about a month. Where Kleist needed help was further east, toward Grozny, and Hoth could have provided this leverage by moving south parallel to Kleist, on the east. In effect, Hitler's view became self-fulfilling as he created a bottleneck at Rostov, and wasted a month of campaigning from Hoth that might have made the difference around Stalingrad. Subsequent events showed that the narrow corridor through Rostov was insufficient to supply both Kleist and Hoth, whereas the subsequent campaign showed that it was (barely) possible to supply both Hoth and Kleist if Hoth's starting point was Stalingrad. Additional Source: Gordon Corrigan, "The Second World War: A Military History."