It depends totally on the design of the cycle way. Here are three examples, all from the same intersection in Christchurch, New Zealand. Note, we ride/drive on the left side of the road. Satellite View $URL$ 

Personal stories - I've done a 100 km ride called Le Race. $URL$ It has over 2km of climbs too, and while the first half was great, the last half turned into an endurance ride instead of a race. I had one stop at a red light before leaving town (despite roads being "closed") and one long stop with a puncture. After halfway I stopped at every water station because I went through 12 full bottles of water, but was only carrying 2. Separately, I did a road ride by myself for 146 km that was a "great loop" around Christchurch, Rangiora, Oxford, and back via the Waimakarerei Gorge. $URL$ I had one big stop in the middle of that at my Nana's house at about 75 km. The takeaway is, can you sit on your bike for 5-6 hours solid ? 

So my best time ever was a shade over 15 minutes. My worst time was 27+ minutes. Note this route has ~20 sets of traffic lights, so getting a green wave is incredibly unlikely. My "average" time on this segment is around 19min 45seconds. 

I've just found that a freewheel internal thread is left-handed. This is the access for the guts of the freewheel's insides, so pawls and little bearings inside, and generally not user serviceable. 

FINAL ANSWER You'd be best off using puncture-resistant tyres and tubes if reliability is your top priority, and suffer the weight penalty. Still carry spares+tools. 

Your main breakages will be spokes and punctures. So as the need arises you will have to learn to patch tubes and change spokes, and true a wheel. Certainly a bike shop will take money off you for doing this work, but its not hard and in the long run buying the tools will be cheaper than shop fees. High spoke count wheels would be the single best thing you can find. MTB wheels tend to be 32 spokes, with some 24 or 28. Ideally you'd use a wheel with 36 or 40 or even 48 spokes purely to increase the load abilities. Double-walled rims with eyelets for spokes are a great idea too. Wheels built for tandems would work well on your bike, if they are the same size. Heck you can even ride a tandem solo! If you prefer to buy new, I'd avoid buying on-line for this - you would benefit from a conversation with your local bike shop. Whereas a $50 or $100 used bike is usable and disposable once you've worn it out and ready to buy a better bike for your new weight. If your weight is unlikely to decrease (perhaps medical reasons) then you might need to look at a trike purely for the increased carrying capacity of two rear wheels. But they're less fun to ride and not cheap. Don't take offence, I'm not trying to be harsh here - I started at over 110 kilos thanks to a sedentary office job and too many pies. 

I've had two slip and slides this year, one on a downhill corner and one turning on ice. The first wasn't bad. but the ice fall was a lot of bruising. The bike was okay both times, a wheel true and brake levers back into position. 

If the load is very heavy I'll use my trailer but that limits the overall length. Last resort is simply pay extra for delivery. Its not that unusual, and getting an item delivered means someone else owns the risk while its in transit. 

Spokes - a "steelo" or other brand of pot scrub. Use warm soapy water, because the dirt is generally dirt not oils. Its hard to get up in by the hub where the spokes cross - you might find a toothbrush useful. If its a rear wheel, remove the freewheel/cassette first, and for either wheel try to not flood the bearings. Use clean water to rinse. You may need to check the truing of your wheel after cleaning too, the flexing may move a nipple or two. If the rust doesn't move, you can upgrade to a brass wire brush, similar to what is used to clean barbeques. Brass is softer than steel so it won't damage your spokes, but it may damage the alumunium rim or hub. Prevent rust returning by brushing on a rust-fixative solution and letting it reoxidise the rust to white/black iron oxide instead of red/brown rust. Then coat with some grey spray primer. All this is easier to do if the wheel is disassembled, but that's a massive undertaking on its own. If the rust is anything deeper than a surface skim, you'd be better off with new spokes. Examine the bend at the hub for rust and wear too - that's a common place to break. Remove anything electronic before cleaning, lights and computers etc. For the rest of the bike, wash it with another bucket of warm soapy water. Use a rag for the big areas, and a 1 inch twist of rag to pull through tighter areas. That toothbrush can be used in fiddly areas like derailerus. An old dish scrubbing brush can be good for getting dirt out of tyre treads. Don't wash the brake pad surfaces directly, and do remember to rinse any soap off the braking rims. If you have disk brakes, your last step should be to clean the rotors with Isopropyl Alcohol. Finally for the pedantic, you can use tyre/tire black on the tyres (again mind the braking rims) and a suitable leather or "car interior" treatment on a saddle. If you're still making it better, consider a paint touchup on any part that needs it. A flick of black spray paint on the handlebars does wonders for the look. Put the bike to dry (both water and paint) and when its dried, re-lubricate your chain and any pivot points. Do use the opportuinity to look for anything wrong on the bike - preventative maintance then follows. 

Chain skip sounds like worn sprockets on the rear wheel, an elongated chain, and possibly impacted dirt between the sprockets stopping the chain sitting on the teeth properly. Consider posting clear and well lit closeup photos of the parts, which may help others answer more accurately. 

Dumping is possible, but dump it somewhere useful rather than into a landfill. I suggest a bicycle cooperative, who will use your parts to refurb other bikes, or if the parts are completely unserviceable then they will separate and recycle the different metals A quick google returns these coops in New York, in no order: 

Based on the photo in your other question about painting, I wonder if the front fork is bent. It may be an illusion from the camera, but it looks bent backward. 

Windage This thing folds flat which helps, but when fully assembled its presenting at least a square metre of frontage area. That's roughly the same as a sail the size of a bath towel. That's a good-sized sail and will increase the effect of normal winds and draughts from passing vehicles. Weight Empty this trailer weighs about 8 kilos. So its half the bike weight again. I've had it loaded up with 50 kilos of tools and bike parts, and while its manageable, I can feel it dropping into any holes through the trailer coupling and the bike's frame. Rolling Resistance You're now hauling two or more additional contact points with the ground. It adds resistance Momentum This is proportional to weight. If you get the whole rig up to 20 km/h then on the same brakes you'll have additional stopping distance. In addition, the trailer will push you while you're braking. 

For completeness - There is no cleat system that has as little wear as no cleat system. So it may be worth considering toe straps, or plain old flats instead if durability is your top requirement. Personally I use flats on a wet-day MTB for safety, and on a tandem for convenience, and Look Keo on a road bike to go-fast. However they wear out in 3-6 months or 3-4 thousand km. I loathe toestraps after an accident with an exposed root. 

I find that using my primary hand (my writing hand) is better than the other one. Keep eyes on the road, you should not have to look to find your bottle. I use my teeth to open the sippy valve, breathe in and then take a small drink and hold it for a sec before swallowing. Sometimes I hold the bottle over the bars for 5-10 seconds to let the first mouthful have an effect, and then take a second drink. When done I use my chest or my index finger to close the valve, and then put the bottle back in an empty cage (yes once I tried to push a bottle in where the other already was) You should be able to put the bottle down into the cage without looking, although sometimes I take a quick glance if it doesn't go straight in. 

You don't say how long your rides are or how much water is needed per hour. Going by my personal experience, you'll want 1 bike bottle (also known as a bidon) per hour in neutral/comfortable temperatures, and more if it gets hot. I did a 12 hour ride and ended up sucking down 8-9 litres of water over the period (a bottle and a 2 litre pack, filled up three times) and that is consistent with a bottle an hour. Locations: You can have two bottles inside the main frame triangle. a couple on the bars in holders, and two more aft of your seat. You can also put stuff in panniers or on a bike rack on the back. Bottles are available in up to ~800 mL sizes too - don't bother with the little ones. Don't bother with insulated ones either - they plain don't work at keeping the water cool. Instead you can add ice cubes to both bottles add the hydration bladder before topping it off with water. Liquid - hydration bladders are terribly hard to clean and dry, but if you don't they will go mouldy. Only put water in a water bladder, as per the instructions. Anything with sugar should not be in the hydration bladder. If you want to carry electrolyte drinks, use a normal water bottle for them. I've tried them but they taint the plastic, so I can still faintly taste the electrolyte powder flavour several rides later. I tried using the hydration pack on my MTB frame, but there was a long way to lift the water up the hose to drink it. I found the pack to be good on the back, and because it was 2/3 ice helped keep me cool for the first few hours of my trip. 

This is a car bearing but the concept is the same. This example is terminal, but your bike may have the mearest hint of a lump or hole. BTW: The click will be adding drag, but sound takes very little energy so its not enough to notice. 

Generally weight alone won't tell you, because there's only 20-50 grammes of sealant in a tube, when a tube weighs 5 times that. 

Once you have a wider hub, you can fit a wider cassette (don't bother buying a hub that takes a freewheel - that way lies bent axles and wallet-tears) So you need a cassette, which will require a new chain. Generally speaking 6/7/8 speed chains all use close to the same width, but you want an unworn chain to help prolong the life of your cassette. Then check out the front chainrings for wear. They wear slower than the cassette, but if the chain is making bad contact it could be time for new chainrings. You will very likely need a new right-hand shifter too. Your six-speed unit will have 6 indents/positions, and it won't handle the extra gears. If you have a friction shifter it might work, or it might not. While changing all this stuff you may as well install new cable inner wires and outer tubes too. A cheap set costs about a happy meal. Once that's all done, you need to reindex your gears, and might find that the 6 speed rear derailleur doesn't have enough range. First try backing out the limit screws, but if you still can't get the chain to reach the biggest and smallest cogs then you're up for a new rear mech. SUMMARY