Frederick II. was in opposition to the popes. Stories presenting him in bad light are nowadays attributed to the popes' propaganda. 

Germany was perceived as the aggressor and cause of World War I by the Allied powers. It gave a "carte blanche" to its ally Austria, which was about to declare war on Serbia just because the Austrian successor to the throne was killed by a Bosnian Serb. The Germans attacked France executing their "Schlieffen-Plan" which required they march through Belgium which was Allies with Great Britain. The German situation in late 1918 was rather hopeless on the front - Germany had no ways to counter the tanks, which made trench warfare obsolete, and the United States had brought fresh troops to the war. 

Jesus of Nazareth was a historical figure, by all which is known today. He was a Galilean jew, born in Nazareth. His father was a carpenter, and Jesus possibly had the same occupation, because it was customary to learn one's fathers profession. He probably did not rise much above his father economically. From spending time outside beneath the Middle Eastern sun, his skin could have become dark. There is no reason to call him dark-skinned, apart from what the sun did. Since his parents were Galilean jews, probability theory says that they were like most Galilean jews. And the majority did not look African. 

To answer the second part of your question: William is indeed called "bastardus" in contemporary sources. However, this refers to the fact that his parents were not married. "Bastard" is not used as a term of abuse until the 19th century. 

In the title to your question you asked about what happens to countries that split up, but in the body of the question you ask also about countries that got united (or reunited) and specifically about Germany. Perhaps I can answer this part. After the second World War West Germany retained the old nationalist Deutschlandlied (“Deutschland, Deutschland über alles”), which had been the German National Anthem since 1922, with a text by Hoffmann von Fallersleben (1841), reusing a melody composed by Josef Hayden for the Austrian Imperial anthem in 1797. However, in West Germany usually only the last of the three stanzas was publicly performed. The German Democratic Republic (East Germany) had a new national anthem, “Auferstanden aus Ruinen”, with a melody by the famous composer Hanns Eisler (1949). When East Germany was reunited with (or rather: annexed by) West Germany in 1990 the Deutschlandlied became the anthem of the whole country. 

You are correct. According to this site (unfortunately in German) about the Roman Empire there were many different types of dice in use by the Romans. Apart from the 6-sided cubes we know today there were also rod-shaped dice with four or six sides. The website reports: 

Apart from Jews only Sinti and Roma have suffered worst from the Holocaust ($URL$ I can't think of any other ethnic group which endured anything similar under the Nazis. The holocaust was extended to include them. There was a plan for the Holocaust at least starting with the Wannsee-Conference in 1942 ($URL$ One can argue that it had always been Hitler's intention. 

The Germans changed the gauge from Russian to German and could then use their own equipment. $URL$ shows Wehrmacht railroad engineers (the military sort of engineer) changing the gauge. Reichsbahn personnel, civilians and forced laborers were also used to change the gauge. 

The two officers behind the man in red look like they are wearing French Gendarmerie uniforms. Also, are those mountains in the back? I'm not sure the guy is English, despite his red jacket. The soldier in the far back wears a heat with a red hackle. The French Garde Republicaine wears similar hats with red hackles. $URL$ 

The preferred tactic of the so-called Assassins (or, as they called themselves, the Fida’iyyun) was to come up close to a public figure and kill him with a sword. It is difficult to see how they could have could have got so near to their victims, unchallenged, if they were wearing a distinctive uniform. The whole point was that they blended in to the crowd. 

A large portion of the (ex-)Crusaders married local Christian women and stayed behind in the Levant after the demise of the Crusader states. The largest Christian community in present-day Palestine are the Latin-rite Catholics, generally believed to be descendants of Crusaders, though now they speak Arabic and are integrated in Palestinian society. 

You are certainly right to say “that the history of WW1 as taught after WW2 was strongly coloured by WW2”, or perhaps better: “as taught in the former allies”. At the outbreak of WW1 the allies consisted of the three biggest imperial and colonial powers (Britain, France, Russia) and a number of middle-sized imperial powers (Belgium, Japan etc.) Together these powers ruled over the majority of the world’s population, plundered their economies, and deprived their inhabitants of any democratic rights to self-determination. Germany entered the war in the hope of expanding its own rather meagre colonial possessions at the expense of Britain, France and Russia and of hindering further advances of the allies at the expense of the Ottoman and Austro-Hungarian empires. WW1 was an unjust war on both sides, a war for the perpetuation of the imperialist system and the rejigging of imperial spheres of influence. This was the position of the left wing of the Socialist International, a position which gained strong support among the men in the trenches on both sides, ending with the collapse of the war effort in both Germany and Russia. It also explains the strong pro-German feeling in many of the subject nations, especially India and Ireland. 

This is one man's subjective view, albeit a professional's. And the guy was riding in a Tiger tank with an 88mm gun (or was it a "Jagdtiger" with a 128mm main gun?). And then he might just have faced infantry or inexperienced fresh units. At the beginning of the war in the Soviet Union, the Germans captured hundreds of thousands of soldiers, until the Red Army adapted it's tactics and training. 

Terminal train stations were built in continental Europe because many railroads connected only two cities in the early to mid 19th century. There were not many rail lines, and the stations built were terminal stations. As the railroad network increased, the terminal stations could not be converted to passthrough anymore. 

The Hague Convention of 1907 on the rules of land warfare, ratified by the US a few years later, prohibits the following (Section II - Hostilities): "To declare that no quarter will be given" (quarter is the military term for mercy). On the treatment of prisoners of war, the following is said: "Prisoners of war shall be subject to the laws, regulations, and orders in force in the army of the State in whose power they are. Any act of insubordination justifies the adoption towards them of such measures of severity as may be considered necessary." This implicitly refers to the Lieber code. Compare this to the administrative document mentioned by Pieter Geerkens, the Lieber code. If the Lieber code mentions "no quarter will be given under such and such circumstances", then this section should not be binding. Source: $URL$ 

“Europe” and “Asia” as distinct cultural units are defined by Herodotus almost at the beginning of his histories.(1.4.4: τὴν γὰρ Ἀσίην καὶ τὰ ἐνοικέοντα ἔθνεα βάρβαρα οἰκηιεῦνται οἱ Πέρσαι, τὴν δὲ Εὐρώπην καὶ τὸ Ἑλληνικόν ἥγηνται κεχωρίσθαι. ) Herodotus lived in the 5th century BC. 

This question is very vague, but I assume you are asking about the Middle Ages in Western Europe, though there is no reason why it should not be about Byzantium, Islam, India, China or any other mediaeval civilisation. But let us stick to Western Europe. In Western Christendom (and also in Byzantium) the universal system of time-keeping was the Julian calendar. You have asked specifically about “townspeople”. Unlike other respondents to this question, I am not convinced that the majority of the population in mediaeval European towns were illiterate. But literate or not, there is no reason to doubt that they knew what the date was according to the Julian calendar. Merchants (for example) needed to know this. But also in the countryside people needed to know the date so as to plant their crops at the correct time of year. Calendars are very much part of popular culture in all civilisations. And this has nothing to do with newspapers. 

Over the centuries, the equipment has looked like this (there is also World War I British equipment displayed): 

Germany lost an army of 200.000 to 300.000 in Stalingrad, 6th Army, part of "Heeresgruppe Süd". The German field army had 4.000.000 personnel in 1942 [Creveld, Fighting Power, German and US Army Performance, 1939-1945], which made this a loss of manpower of 5%. 

Germany and Austria are to mainly blame for the outbreak of World War I. The reasons are: (1) The "carte blanche" Germany gave to Austria for attacking Serbia. (2) The German "Schlieffen-Plan" - attacking France via neutral Belgium and Luxemburg, without declaring war on Belgium. (3) The German long-term economical and political aims that were to be achieved by the war. Austria is to blame for taking the murder of the successor to its throne by a Bosnian Serb as a welcome occasion to end the undermining of the multinational Austro-Hungarian state by starting a war. Source: Julikrise und Kriegsschuld, Bundeszentrale für politische Bildung 

[Source given in Wikipedia is Zamoyski, Adam (2001). Holy Madness: Romantics, Patriots and Revolutionaries. London: Weidenfeld & Nicolson. p. 45.] 

To qualify as “Aryan” you had to prove that none of your four grandparents was Jewish. In practice, this meant that you had to prove that they were baptised Christians. If you had a Jewish great-grandparent you would still qualify as “Aryan” if that great-grandparent had converted to Christianity and had his or her children baptised. So the Nazi “race” policy actually boils down to a question of religion. But that is because race is an essentially fictitious concept. There is a fairly detailed discussion here: $URL$ 

The answer to your question is: no, there are no surviving unmistakably Ebionite sources. What we know about Ebionites comes entirely from hostile Christian sources. There is however an early Greek book called “The Homilies of Clement”, a fictitious autobiography of St Clement of Rome. As has been recognised for a long time now, many of the doctrines expounded in this voluminous work have a clear affinity to those which the polemical sources attribute to the Ebionites and other so-called Jewish-Christian sects. Some scholars have maintained that the pseudo-Clementine Homilies (or rather their underlying lost source “G”) are an Ebionite work. However, we do not really have enough reliable information to assign the (proto-)Homilies to any one particular Jewish-Christian sect, or indeed really to know what the difference was between Ebionites, Nazoraeans, Elchasaites and other so-called Jewish-Christians. What we do have is evidence for a wide current in early Christianity which, among other things, maintained the continued validity of the Law of Moses even after the coming of the Christ. PS.: I have intentionally refrained from giving links to Wikipedia and other such “resources”, as the “information” found there is mostly pasted together from out-of-date and unreliable works. What I have given is a very brief synopsis of current academic discussion. 

All one needed was a map of Europe and the German propaganda reports on the fighting (and maybe some pins to mark places). Official German radio reports about fighting included names of cities that lay in the vicinity of the combat and rivers that were crossed. The reports were heavy with propaganda-speak, blurring losses and denying defeat. But if one filtered out all the phraeseology and just concentrated on the cities that were mentioned, he could get a good overview of the back and forth motion of the general frontlines. Completely lying about the course of the frontline would have been impossible. Too many men were soldiers, and they went on home leave occasionally. Wikipedia says that approximately 18.000.000 men served in the Wehrmacht [Wikipedia]. It was impossible to prevent them from talking to people at home. I don't know how the reports differed with respect to information content between radio, on-screen, and the newspapers. 

Criminals were sent to concetration camps (like the non-criminals by most of a modern democracy's standards) in which the treatment was not in accordance with common standards, such as non-torture. Criminals wore a green triangle -green used to be the color of the police in Germany- for identification on their inmate's uniform. The Nazis implemented a law for murder, in which they coined a new definition of what is considered to be murder. A murder is a crime that is comitted treacherously or sneakishly, or "with low morals". This is an offender-based description of a crime. This definition is still contained in today's murder law in Germany. Judges are forced to respect it, thereby neglecting "looking at the circumstances of each individual crime" [BBC article about the German murder law]. 

The Hotel de Ville was then located at the same spot as it is now. I presume you know where this is. The original building burnt down during the Commune, but it was rebuilt on the same site. 

If you count Spain as part of Western Europe, then divorce was available at least to the Muslim population from the time of the Arab conquest in the 8th century until the Catholic reconquest in the 15th century. The same is true for the Jews, both in Islamic and Catholic Europe. As I mentioned in a comment to another answer, Fredrick II legalised civil divorce in Prussia in 1752, long before the British Matrimonial Causes Act of 1857. 

I assume that you are asking about Latin, not about English. praesidens, genitive praesidentis is the present active participle of the verb praesideo “to sit in front of”, and then “to preside over”. For the substantivised participle praesidens the Latin dictionary by Lewis and Short has a citation from Tacitus where “superbia praesidentium” has the meaning “governors”. A more common term in classical Latin is the noun praeses, genitive praesidis, from the same root and preverb. It occurs in the meaning “one that presides over, a president, superintendent, head, chief, ruler” at the latest from the time of Virgil onwards.