I share the museum staff's judgement that the important part about metres and feet should not be taken literally. The guy was clearly just making fun. This is a rhetoric structure many people use when something didn't turn out to be the way they expected. And most certainly, the doors and windows are not enormous. It is a nice anecdote, for sure. But I think this one is busted. 

So basically, yes, the moon can cause big earthquakes on earth, or make small earthquakes bigger. And the effect is measurable. They are not mentioning "super-moon" phases there, and I don't have access to the paper. Since the pull is strongest in this phase, I think it's safe to say that the probability of large earthquakes is higher than usual at this time. This is how I interpret the excerpt. Also, I'm not a Geoscientist. Why is the moon's pull strongest the closer it comes to earth? Because the gravitational force between two objects is a formula of their masses and the distance between them. F = G * M * m / R ^ 2 R is the distance between the objects. If they get closer to each other, R decreases. When the denominator decreases, the resulting Force increases. I found an online tool that calculates the gravitational force: Newton Law of Gravity Calculation I actually put the numbers in to see what the difference in force really is between the Apogee (furthest distance between moon and earth) and Perigee (closest distance). The gravitational force is 30% stronger at Perigee than at Apogee. Type in the values and test it yourself. The Japanese researchers figured out that large earthquake probability is higher when the moon causes maximum "tidal stress". When is this tidal stress the strongest? When the moon pulls strongest. There will be less tidal stress on the side of earth where the moon doesn't pull and more tidal stress on the side of earth that faces the moon. At least this is the only way that makes sense to me. By the way, today, the 14/11/2016 is the Perigee of this year. 

The earliest mention I could find of this experiment was in the popular business/self-help book, Competing for the future by Gary Hamel and C. K. Prahalad (1996). Here is the quote from the book: 

That sounds like hogwash to me. However, over the past few years I've noticed I have never once seen a bird sitting on a high-voltage power-line. So, are birds really magnetically repelled by high-voltage power lines? 

Given that there seems to be no evidence anywhere of this experiment ever actually taking place, that all trails of references eventually lead to the claim in this book, and that this is the earliest available mention of the experiment, until further evidence becomes available the most reasonable conclusion is that C. K. Prahalad or Gary Hamel made up the experiment for their book. 

One popular explanation is that near-death experiences are due to Dimethyltryptamine (DMT), a psychedelic drug produced natually, in small amounts, in the brain. It is speculated that large amounts of DMT are released during near-death experiences, though I don't know of any studies that confirm this. 

I asked the people from the In Flanders Fields Museum, which is located right in Ypres. If anyone knows about the background of the story, it should be them. And sure enough, the nice person who responds to email inquiries at the museum shed some light on the question. Here's his response to my question about the truth of that statement: 

This artifact was found in Mezin, Ukraine. Many details of the excavation site can be found here. There are also illustrations of the bird figurine. The BBC article on the topic can be found here: Reclaiming the Swastika It says at example 5, the bird: 

Just recently, researchers in Japan were able to use existing data of earthquakes and the lunar phases to show a relationship between tidal stress and probability of large earthquakes. From the excerpt, published in Nature Geoscience: Earthquake potential revealed by tidal influence on earthquake size–frequency statistics 

Alright, this question stays in the top list, because nobody has "answered" it. So let's see. According to this article: Rs 2000 Currency Note With Nano GPS Chip – Hoax or Not? 

FWIW, snopes.com has an article on it in which they have quotes from Longoria. Unfortunately, they don't list a source for the quotes, which is rather unlike them. It's a fake. 

There were US officers that expected a Japanese air attack on Pearl Harbor, but they were generally low-ranking officers, and you can typically find low-ranking officers who will believe anything. (Gordon Prange, At Dawn We Slept). The best account I've found of exactly what went on is Lee & Clausen's Pearl Harbor: the Final Judgment. There are so many conspiracy theories that it is hard to refute them all in one book, but reading a few good books on the subject will be useful. One thing that most conspiracy theorists ignore is that the US Army and US Navy sent messages to Pearl Harbor ordering preparation for imminent war ten days before the Japanese attack. It seems to me that, if you warn somebody of an impending attack, there's always the possibility they'll do something about it. Another fallacy that is sometimes used is the confusion of US officials expecting imminent war (which they did) with US officials expecting an attack on Pearl Harbor (which they didn't). The second question is covered thoroughly in Feis' Road to Pearl Harbor (I haven't found a better source yet). In brief, Roosevelt was dragging his heels on sanctions and the like against Japan, in the hope that the US could stay at peace with Japan. (Roosevelt wanted to get into a war with Germany, and in September 1941 ordered the US Navy to fight the war in the Atlantic (Morison, The Battle of the Atlantic). Roosevelt was advised that the materials sent to Japan would delay US rearmament, and allowed them to be shipped anyway. The tl;dr version of the above: No high US official expected an attack on Pearl Harbor. Roosevelt was taking measures to not provoke Japan, in the hopes that he could avoid that war. 

People write down passwords. We all "know" it or have done it, but since this is skeptics stackexchange, I looked for "evidence". I found a paper from 2011 where researchers watched the password creation process and user behaviour: Of Passwords and People: Measuring the Effect of Password-Composition Policies 

You can see the chip here. It's small, but not flat enough to be integrated in paper money. The average banknote has a thickness of 0.11mm No, banknotes cannot be tracked with GPS. In addition to this, the value of GPS trackers that size would exceed the denomination of the note. Even if it was possible at this time, no country would do it. People would get the banknotes, remove the chips and sell them. 

He also gave me a link to a page that shows the house and what the chaplan actually wrote: Slessorium Here's how the house looks like: 

I could not find a study specifically about safe owners, but I don't see why human behaviour would be different when it comes to creating and remembering a password/combination of digits, when applied in a similar context, like safes. There is lots of anecdotal evidence about this writing down of passwords of course. I remember Richard Feynman writing about his experience as a hobbyist safe cracker when he discovered this behaviour. He would look for a written down password at the sides of the drawers. At the places I worked, with IT people, unfortunately, writing down passwords was quite common. I saw Post Its on screens with several passwords and user names. If you asked people to not do that, those notes would not vanish but move to another "hidden" place on or under the desk. My bet is that people anywhere at all times wrote down passwords. When a secret message travelled through the Roman Empire and arrived at a secretary, I'm pretty sure that guy had the code to decipher the message carved into the side of his clipboard. So yes, with the research paper at hand showing that people write down passwords, I go ahead and say it is very likely that safe owners do it too, because it's the same concept. I know this doesn't prove that they keep the note in the same room, I haven't found a study on that. 

C. K. Prahalad is deceased, but Gary Hamel is still alive. I tried contacting him several times, but unfortunately both he and his secretary were very evasive. The best I could get was 

Someone here asked the same question, and the consensus seemed to be that birds don't land on the wires because "a bird's sense of direction is governed by magnetic fields." However, note that they also concluded that the birds wouldn't be shocked by the wires because they're not grounded, which I'm fairly certain is incorrect. 

The authors did not provide a source for this claim. This story was later repeated in various other popular business/self-help books. Every source online I could find erroneously attributed the experiment to one of the above authors. No one, anywhere, seems to have a reference to the actual experiment. 

There is a board game from the 90's called 'Mind Trap' in which players must solve tough riddles. One of the riddles goes like this: 

Is the claim that the Swastika is over 11,000 years old backed by scientific evidence? Yes, there is archaeological evidence of at least one Swastika being at least 12,000 years old. BBC Article Photo 

It says 10,000 years BC, that would make it 12,000 years old. I cannot check the source for that statement because I don't have the book. The site reporting on the excavation site states the artifacts are 15,000 years old. That would match the BBC statement, but could be circular reasoning if they used the same source for their information. I think it is safe to say that the artifact is betwen 12,000 and 15,000 years old. Now, is it a Swastika we see there? I wondered myself, because I couldn't see one first. Giving the archaeologists some credit, I looked harder, and then it hit me that I should not focus on the three visible patterns, but on the whole thing. 

I traced where I see a Swastika. The Swastika we all know is the red one. I kept tracing a bit more of the palaeolithic artist's work in green where I could make out the carving. It is still a Swastika in my book, just a bit more fancy. I stand by my answer: Yes, there is scientific evidence that the swastika is over 11,000 years old. 

I did a quick Google search. There is a 2007 snopes.com article about it, claiming that while there definitely is brightly colored meth, nobody official verifies the flavor, and there is no evidence it's intended for young children. This ABC News article from 2007 provides testimony from a former meth user that meth can be flavored, but that drug rehabilitation centers in three states reported no reports of such meth. The idea that it was intended for young children is attributed to a law enforcement official, but no actual evidence is provided. Looking at more articles, I find a complete lack of evidence, although a lot of suspicion, that the fancy drugs are marketed to young children. I found one case of a teenager using something like strawberry meth, but it's unclear to me if the teenager started on it. Newspapers tend to present evidence if they have it, and I'm not finding it. I think that, if any drug dealer had been caught trying to sell this stuff to a young child, there'd be a mention in one of the articles. It's clear that colored and flavored meth exists, but the idea that it's targetted at young children seems speculative at best.