You have to figure out does and AI actually experience pain? Is the simulation of emotional states equivalent to actually experiencing emotions? and the accepted answer for responses to this question. If you consider the answer to be "no", the AI don't really feel pain, and torturing them isn't real, so the question is moot. If the answer is "yes, an AI can experience pain", then the question is a much more complicated one: When is it acceptable to torture a conscious being and when is it unacceptable to do so? You would be tempted to answer off the bat that it is never acceptable, but it is not so simple. We frequently torture and endanger animals for various reasons (food, medical experiments, sometimes even for entertainment), mostly because we consider that the well being of humans is more important than the well being of animals. Most people accept this, but some people object, and therefore disapprove of the consumption of animal products, of hunting, of using mice for medical testing. Now imagine the following scenario: In the future we have fully conscious AI, who truly experience pain, joy, etc. You might think it would be completely immoral to torture such an AI, but future psychologists tell you that they might find a way to cure various mental illness such as depression and schizophrenia using purely psychological methods (therapy, hypnosis). to do so, they need to test their therapies and methods on real cases, and they can't test it on human patients because they fear that the methods might have serious side effects. The only way they can test it is by using on fully developed AIs who have then been tortured to induce the various psychological disorders that need to be cured. Is it then acceptable to torture an AI or not? 

I have recently come across Thomas Nagel's book "Mind and Cosmos: Why the Materialist Neo-Darwinian Conception of Nature Is Almost Certainly False", which I've only skimmed. I've also just finished reading "What's it like to be a bat". He vehemently argues against materialism, and is a prominent dualist. He claims there is more to consciousness than can be explained by evolution alone, and that the emergence of life and intelligence must have a teleological explanation. Teleological here meaning that there was purpose or intention in the way life and humans evolved. He is also an atheist and maintains that he is not a proponent of intelligent design, even if he has argued that ID shouldn't be dismissed offhand the way the scientific community does, because it asks the right questions, even if it doesn't have the right answers. To summarize his position: 

What you are referring to here is the bundle theory of self, which not every one subscribes to. In particular, someone who believes in God is likely a dualist, and dualism provides a situation where one can have a specific personality and character independent of experiences and perceptions. See for example Leibniz's soul monads. 

He then goes on to provide an extreme example to support his position: We can never know what a it is "like" to be bat. Bats are highly evolved mammals with complex brains, and therefore must have subjective experience. But instead of vision, they use echolocation, so their subjective experience will be radically different from ours. We can conceptually understand how a bat moves using sonar, and we can try to imagine ourselves as bats, but we are still using our own subjective experience to "translate" the bat's sense experience in to ours. Ultimately, no matter how hard we try to imagine ourselves as bats, we inevitably imagine the cave they navigate and the insects they catch as visual perceptions, not sonar echoes. Navigating the world through sonar instead of vision is something that is forever inaccessible to us. To quote Nagel's paper again: 

To add to jobermark's answer, dolphins and orcas show advanced hunting methods which can't be explained unless they had distinct beliefs and conceptualizations. In particular, different populations of the same species of orca show different advanced hunting methods and teach them to their children (i.e. they are taught by learning, not transmitted genetically). This is considered evidence not just of orcas having beliefs, but of them having population specific cultures and customs. 

In a lecture on philosophy of science I recently listened to, it was stated that Quine was the one who decisively refuted the logical positivist program. I've also read that Quine and Popper were significant challengers, but that it was Kuhn who effectively ended the logical positivist movement. It seems to me that before any of those challengers, Gödel's incompleteness theorem would have dealt a major blow to logical positivism. If theories based on logic are inevitably incomplete or inconsistent, wouldn't it follow that stronger theories based on logic in conjunction with empirical evidence are inevitably incomplete or inconsistent as well? On the other hand Gödel himself was a member of the Vienna Circle, and was surely sympathetic to the logical positivist's views. They couldn't have just ignored him. My questions: 

Marx develops the idea mainly from an economic point of view. He sees it as result of capitalism. However, modern capitalism is a direct consequence of the industrial revolution, and wouldn't be possible without modern technology. So in a sense, your idea that "we loose our qualities" - we become alienated - because of technology is supported by Marxists theory. 

Am I interpreting the two passages by Adorno and Horkheimer correctly: That any artistic or literary form (including philosophy) can get hijacked by the culture industry? Or do they mean something else by those passages? Has any one from the Frankfurt School, Critical Theory, or philosophy in general discussed the hijacking of philosophy by pop-culture? That even philosophy can lose its value and be commodified? 

Questions like: - Are viruses forms of life, or just very complex replicators? - Would a Von Neumann machine be considered alive? - Does life have to be organic? - Is reproduction a necessary condition for life? All pertaining to what is the exact definition of life? What branch of philosophy does the question of life fall under? Metaphysics? Philosophy of science? 

Similarly, Kuhn and Feyerabend presented serious challenges to the special epistemic status of science and logic compared to other fields of inquiry. All these challenges started from premises based on the logical positivist program itself, not from any outside considerations - in a sense positivism contained the seeds of its own demise. As Max Horkheimer (presciently and very eloquently) put it in his 1941 paper "The End of Reason": 

Yes. There are several examples: Daniel Dennett in several of his lectures explains how nature frequently exhibits purpose without agency, which he calls "free floating rationales". Trees and plants grow in certain directions with purpose (to avoid obstacles, to get closer to the sun, etc...), but without having agency. Similarly, economists frequently speak of purpose without agency. Adam Smith and other proponents of a free market system, argue that free markets lead to greater good more so then centrally planned economies and intentional redistribution of wealth, because they are guided by an invisible hand. On the opposite side of the economic spectrum, Marxists that different social classes act with purpose, but without agency. When they speak of the capitalist class oppressing the working class, they don't believe that a group of capitalists got together in a dark basement and conspired to oppress workers. Instead, the concept of class is an emergent phenomenon that acts with purpose, but without any agency. See the related concepts of emergence and self-organization.