First you need to figure out what type of bicycle you are looking for. Is it a road bike, mountain bike, hybrid, or something else. If you can't answer that question you need to do basic research to figure that out. Once you understand what type of bike you need, you also have to figure out what size of bike "should" fit you. The only way to see if a used bike actually fits you is to test ride it. Now that you actually know what type and size of bike you want you can start searching Craigs List. Note that some of the prices on CL are not realistic. It's up to you to figure this out. When you see a bike you like on CL make sure it is the correct size for you. If it is, the ad should list the model and year it was made, plus (at least for road bikes) what the major components are. If this information is missing- ask the person selling it for those items. It usually possible to look up the actual manufacturers specification page for any bike made in the last 15, or so, years. You can see the list price for that bike there. So now you know what the bike cost new. You can use a site like Bicycle Blue Book to look up it's current value. This will give you an estimate of what the bike should be selling for now. More expensive bikes have more expensive frames and components. Set a budget for yourself, and stick to that budget when looking at ads. Remember most prices are negotiable AND many used bikes will need a tune up, new handlebar tape, new tires, or other things that will cost you extra. Figure this into the budget for your bike. I've purchased 2 bikes this summer on Craigs List and every seller let me test drive the bike. I would never buy a bike without testing it. One seller brought a bike to "evaluate" that had no pedals. I couldn't try it so no sale. Finally, always get the bike serial number before you buy and run a check to see if the bike is stolen before buying it! You can check serial numbers at Bike Registry 

@Carel's answer to this question is perfectly acceptable, but I wanted provide another alternative. When cornering and doing any kind of bike manoeuvring, you should be in the attack position. The attack position allows you to shift your weight around on the bike and has the added bonus of keeping your pedals flat ensuring you don't have a pedal strike. More info from MTB Techniques: 

I carry a spare tube and a CO2 canister with me always. They live under my bike seat in a small bag. I can change a tire in 5 minutes flat, often this is significantly faster than walking home or waiting for public transport. In my opinion this is the only thing that you must bring with you. Everything else is optional. Water, rain gear lights, all of those things depend on what the conditions will be like. Spare tube and CO2, you always need. 

Where would be the best place to look for this? I have tried my local craigslist postings but these items are too specific. I have also looked in my local bike shop but buying these parts new will cost more than buying an entire new bike. I like to do most of my own work and being a student I have a fairly small budget. Where would you look for these parts? 

Next I would buy these "drop bar ends". It took me weeks to find somewhere that sold them. I have not bought them yet but they look sweet. The key when installing them is to install them inside your your breaks and shifters. This will give you a narrow profile similar to what you would experience on a road bike. (If there is space you can also mount your bar ends inside too). 

You seem to have misunderstood something here. "Walkable" clipless pedal shoes are not designed to be used as a replacement for normal shoes. These special shoes have a solid plate in them so they do not flex like normal shoes. You can "walk" in them, but you can't run, and you have to be careful while you walk. There is no way you can use them as a normal shoe. Go to any bike shop and try on a pair. Then walk a bit in them. You will see their limitations immediately. 

I have several bikes and use them more and more in bad weather. I have no problem with rust on the chain, but I am seeing little bits of rust in the various hex bolt heads on the bike. What can I use to remove this rust and how can I prevent it from happening again. Note I ride things like Ragbrai, so keeping out of the rain, or drying the bike right away is not an option. 

A 15 mile route with few if any stops A good road surface (paved, minimal bumps) Few intersecting roads Dry weather Fairly flat ride 

I always carry a spare inner tube AND a cheap small tire patch kit, plus 2 CO2 cartridges with me when I ride. That way, in theory, I can fix up to two flats on a ride. The tire patch kits go bad over time, so I replace them regularly. In practice, I have used the time patch kit to repair tire cuts much more often than I use it to fix a second flat. The patch stays in place regardless of tire pressure, prevents road dirt from working its way through the tire (into the space between tire and tube- where it can cause another flat), and can help stop rips or cuts from spreading. I have fixed tires this way and forgotten about the fix, riding 300 - 500 miles before remembering that I needed a new tire. It's pretty effective and has some advantages over the dollar bill fix. Plus you can use it to fix a tube! But remember you still need a new tire. 

Should I begin riding my steel bike now while the roads are still wet and salty or should I wait until summer and/or get a temporary winter/spring bike? If I am going to ride my steel bike what can I do to protect it from the wet salty streets? 

Note: All pictures are take from google images. Background I have a short commute through part of Ottawa and run lots of erands on my bike. When it is snowing and when the roads don't look good I have several routes that are only slow residential streets so I can stay away from people yacking on their phones. I would also like to start doing some winter trail riding. Here is the historical weather data for Ottawa. 

I am looking for a bag to attach to my road bike that I can attach quickly without having a rack on my bike. I saw one a few weeks ago (on someones bike) that attached to the seat post and extended backwards. It mounted on the seat post with a screw-on clamp but the bag (and 95% of the weight associated with the bag) could be removed via a clip. I don't need anything very large. The bag I saw was just big enough for a t-shirt or your lunch. I am interested in finding the bag described above or another bag. Here are my requirements: 

What is the best place to buy bike components that will ship to Canada? I would prefer a Canadian company or someone who ships within Canada to avoid large shipping costs and inport duty. I am especially interested in buying used components. Right now I am interested in buying: 

All of the commuters I know could easily finish the ride in less than 1 hour. (averaging over 15 mph). Many of them could average 18 mph for the entire ride. A few might be able to average 20 - 21 mph. However, They will all arrive at their destination dripping sweat and need a shower and a change of clothing. If it rains, your average speed will go down significantly, since it just isn't safe to ride as fast on wet pavement. So practically speaking, unless you are a highly trained athlete, doing 15 miles any faster than 20 - 21 mph is probably out of the question. Much more likely that you will do 15 - 18 mph. (And that's for a trained cyclist.) You then have to worry about cleaning up once you reach your office. Getting one of the special bikes you mentioned will most likely slow you down, since they are designed for ultra high speeds with gearing that simply won't work in a city. 

You can't just put the batteries in parallel with the DC coming out of your hub. The hub output voltage will attempt to light the lamp AND charge the batteries, which are not designed to be charged that way. You need to put a diode in series with the batteries to isolate them from the hub power. The series diode on the battery line will also drop the battery voltage by .6 - .7 volts.