In other words, the God you think people shouldn't believe in; and the religions that lead to belief in said God are not populated by a homogeneous crowd of simpletons, but rather a vast immeasurably detailed network of diverse individuals with reasons and ideas as varied as there are stars in the sky. 

Because (with this argument) we all already automatically have value, reducing a person to a thing is dehumanizing regardless of the human in question. The human in question is first a Thou who is "experiening us experiencing him", only secondarily do we relate to him as the actions he has undertaken. 

If each action we take; each second of our existence; each thought is to recur infinitely, we are forever bound to the consequences of our actions. There is an unbearable amount of heaviness and seriousness associated with all things. Life cannot be taken lightly, because the weight of our actions will be with us infinitely. The true spirit of Nietzsche's metaphor, at least as he intended, is: 

In other words - if this life is to recur eternally, 'Will I love this fate?' or 'will I despise this curse?'. Thus, I must live my life in such a manner as if the events I experience were to be my fate eternally, and in so doing, I will create a life worthy of living eternally. 

So I have no intention of trying. One way to look at this question is - without dwelling upon the origins of this phenomenom - is that we have a broken (at best constrained) way of thinking, because we have a broken/limited way of talking. Our speech has trained us to relate to the world in such a way that all action must have an actor - anything existing must follow from that which gave it existence - and we give everything an origin and forget that we have done so. No matter how absurd we recognize our notions to be - we as a species are anchored to looking at the world from the perspective of the way our language is constructed. The "Doer" flaw is everywhere - not just in relationship to the "I" illusion, but in relationship to everything with which we interact. Examples: 

Deontological ethics was made famous by Kant's categorical imperative - which very sloppily stated is something like an ultimate rule that drives one's actions in every situation. These are two of the very many sub-contexts beneath the heading of Normative Ethics. However, most of the other schools in Normative Ethics can be said to contain aspects of both Consequentialism and Deontology as they represent the polar extremes so to speak. Your conception of ethics relates well to what Ethics actually is. However the last part of that sentence is tricky. Ethics doesn't have an is in the same way a rock has an is (even a rock doesn't have an is really, but that is a different conversation). Though, often thinkers in the field of ethics wish to end the discussion with the right answer, the bottom line is that ethics is a discussion for structuring what are considered the ideal moral and (in many cases) legal standards that we ought strive for. Because this conversation is eternal and is often not related to that way; there is more stupidity and misused ideas in the field than in perhaps any other field of philosophy. Human beings go absolutely nuts when confronting uncertainty - and the idea of absolute moral laws which we can follow at all times is both tantalizing to the psyche, and dangerous. It is dangerous in that once we know what the truth is, we stop thinking about it, without realizing that often the thinking about and struggle for truth may itself be the truth. However that said: Ethics is both the conversation and discussion that give rise to our moral ideals AND the prescription of and declaration of those ideals themselves. note: The two quotes in this article came from the Wikipedia Ethics page, which is very well written and fairly easy (as easy as you get with scholarly philosophy). 

Nietzsche was not a nihilist. His outlook can be looked at as somewhat of a mixture of the polar viewpoints. The idea of amor fati (love your fate) is much easier without eternal return, because all fate is etherial and meaningless in that context. However, what Nietzsche says in "The Gay Science" is: 

This is reiterating a bit what @jeroenk said, and I think it is a particularly important point towards understand many of Nietzsche's writings. Nietzsche was highly intolerant of (I am using my own word here) bullsh*t. Throughout much of his writing you can see that he picks apart the stated intentions of people and ideas to reveal what is really the driving intention for said person or idea. If we look at the history of Christianity through a broad lens, there is an unbearable amount of blood shed, hypocrisy, and 'evil' to elevate and preserve the Status quo. Given that the message at the heart of Christianity - as from Christ - and the message given lip service to from the pulpit is so contrary to said historical actions, what Nietzsche saw was a giant trail of bullsh*t. For a modern day example, consider the astonishing number of priests accused of sexually abusing young boys. While preaching, they are representing and speaking from the enormous virtues inherent in Christian teachings; but in private - something else completely. Of course, the harm caused in the name of Christianity over time is only a microcosm of the actions of mankind throughout history. And the level of harm needn't be as blatant as stated; because to be as Christ was written to be requires a level of integrity and love that most men can't even imagine. 

That is called taking fantasy as reality. That is called inventing a belief system; a point of view; a scientific perspective; etc. and elevating it to the status of dogma. To embrace the absurd doesn't imply (as I suspect you might be intimating) simply throwing up your hands and adopting a worldview of lethargic agnosticism (in fact doing this would be called eluding), but rather confronting life as it is and as it isn't without inventing fantasies to avoid confronting the absence of known external meaning and the certainty of your own death. One of my favorite all time quotes comes from a little book called The Pocket Zen Reader, and is attributed to Dogen. It goes: 

Thus, he is not asserting that eternal return is the case, but he is asking, 'what if it is the case?'. Then he goes on to say: 

That's what becomes most important. The human animal craves resolution to conflict. We also create conflict by arbitrarily inventing dogmatic thought patterns that end up trapping us into points of view. My point is that you will never receive a dogmatic lightning bolt answer here. Maybe in some future generation killing some animals will rise to the status of killing humans, but even then it will be arbitrary and a human invention not a divine or absolute truth. So the only question worth asking on this particular issue is, "What is true for you? From where you stand; and what you value, what for you has integrity? What will you live by; own; and honor?" If you can resolve that powerfully, then the rest doesn't much matter. 

Any reference to the self in language is always a reference to a particular sensaton, emotion, state of being, thought, memory etc. Our language transforms fluid sensations into solid sates, TRUTHS, preference,etc and then promptly forgets that it has done so. Things like "I am funny" or "I don't like her" are merely frozen thoughts that have been sitting around and examined and polished over time. There is nothing to point to. And still this is just the tip of the tip..But it's enough now. No one can offer an answer to the question "What Is I?" But what almost anyone can do if they deliberate for just a second or two is to point to "What Is Not I". Maybe mastery in the game called - being aware of "What I is not" - leads to something like seeing "What I is". 

You ask a very intelligent question, and you ask it very well. The debate over 'outcome oriented ethics' and 'means oriented ethics' is not new - in fact, entire schools of philosophy exist about this within the meta-field Normative Ethics. For example: 

There is no such thing as an evil thought. Or, maybe to say it another way - the evil in thought exists only in the condemnation of said thoughts. As soon as a thought is classified as evil, there is resistance to that thought. That thought then begins to gain traction, substance, power. The more the thought is resisted the greater it becomes and the more likely it is that the thought will transform into some action. Conversely, you can have all the horrible thoughts that you want, and if you allow them to exist, they vanish into the emptiness of their own insignificance. There is a Buddhist quote that says something like, 

Since this is the philosophy stack exchange site, I will answer somewhat from a scholarly philosophical context. The answer, I think, is that it depends on what philosophical context you choose to think from. Some possibilities: 

It is a brilliant question - perhaps the only question. Buddhism - particularly Zen Buddhism this is essentially the only inquiry. The Greeks spent much time with this and expounded many ideas - your question has some of the flavor of a Socratic Dialogue. Many, many Philosophers have spent their entire lives working on such a question; The Existentialists, Camus, Kierkegaard to some degree - in fact - I'm gonna go out on a limb here and say that any philophy that devlves into human discourse,thinking,emotion,action,etc. is fundamentally only finding new ways to ask this question. So you're not alone. Moreover, given the proliferation of great minds who have dedicated themselves to this, it seems unlikely that someone will provide some new conclusive answer in a StackExchange thread - just saying. But, what is possible is that someone can offer up a view - a way of looking at the question that gives whoever reads it a new thread to pull at while investigating the question for themselves. Zen Quote: 

Consider how we use language to slice the world into abstract objects we see (we don't consider ourselves objects). We might interact with another person for a day, and say to ourselves "I don't like him"; and say it so fast we almost don't realize we have done it. We mostly don't stop to think about what we've done: 1. We have placed judgement on a person as if he were a thing that was and will always be only that way. 2. We've assigned ourselves omniscience of perspective - we can correctly assess a collection of personal impressions formed rapidly about this peron; come to the right conclusion about what they mean; and then convert them into traits that dictate who that person can and shall be. That's just the tip of the iceberg. But, what's most fundamental is that you only know who that person is when he's being who he be's when you're there. Said another way. You only see him as he occurrs while he is in relationship with you. Perhaps you get shy, because you think he is being mean to you. However, you grant him not that same opportunity. You are effected by him as he is an in the world, and affected you - you know, like when rains. We also grant him - as we do to some degree all - a sort of omnipotence of intent. In other words - the way he is is something he is completely in control of and at the source of - and his motivations for the way he was being were something he way completely in control of and we're completely clear to him. And here is one place where language solidifies things. What happened was merely a moment - moments; maleable seas of experience wherein the mind latches on to one particular notion - or one context - and gave that particular context solid existence that can now be distinguished from other parts of existence. The problem with this is that everything is in motion at all times - there is no "one way" that things happened that day any more than there is one permanent anything. Praise Hereclitus (sp?) for saying: 

etc. Those were just a few hasty examples, but they illuminate our confusion. Something else that is an interesting corrolary in the field of social psychology is the fundamental attribution error. 

While Buddha proposed the rejection of cravings - the triumph over desire as it were - as a path to the cessation of suffering - a path to cutting off 'the endless cycle of birth and death (Samsara)', Nietzsche offered up the myth of Eternal Return in The Gay Science, saying: 

Thoughts are basically words spoken to ones self. These words can be incredibly powerful and can (and do) devastate human life. Think about the evil actions that take place in the world. They all spring from either internal or external conversations. It is impossible to take an action without some accompanying dialog (internal or external). Note: I am not including Zen-like states of action without an actor. That said - looking at my above statement about words vanishing into the emptiness of their own insignificance might seem contradictory. However the power of any dialog can only exist if the listener grants the words weight. If someone says to me, "You're an assh*le!", that may or may not impact me. The only way it will impact me is if I repeat it to myself and give it substance. I can either give it substance by resisting it - I'm not an assh*le. What do you mean? How can you call me an assh*le when you are always..blah blah blah - or by succumbing to it - I guess maybe I really am an assh*le. God, what a loser I am. Maybe I shouldn't even try...blah blah blah. In either case, it is the power of my internal conversation that grants any power to the external conversation. My thoughts are extremely powerful in the above case - and they unquestionably have an evil edge to them. Either they are weighted with self-deprecation or self-protection - both of which are a mask or buffer between life and the SELF (God would perhaps be an appropriate synonym here). But if instead of any of the above nonsense, I relate to the external conversation as it is, and give it space to exist without identifying with it, then it will disappear and it will be meaningless - something like Oh, he said I'm an assh*le. Then the thought/words are not evil and contain no power. There is no requirement that another person be involved for this type of scenario to manifest. I make a mistake - I have a thought; I see something that reminds me of a personal failure or loss - I have a thought; I am sitting in my car with breeze blowing in my hair - I have a thought. My father suffers from OCD. He will have images in his head of murdering his wife and son (he remarried and has a young child - my brother). These are terribly painful images that he will never act on, but that have nonetheless caused him a great deal of anxiety. He was terribly ashamed of having thoughts that seemed to come from out of nowhere, and he thought the fact that he would even have such a thought meant something terrible about him. Then one day he had an insight. He realized that thoughts don't mean anything. Since he knew he would never do what these mental projections suggested, he began to relate to them the same way he relates to a sneeze or a burp. All that happens is that something floats across his field of consciousness. This something has no weight nor any bearing on anything real. When he has an "evil thought" nowadays (note: their frequency diminished greatly once he stopped resisting them), he just says to himself, "Thank you for sharing", and lets the thought pass; and it does - soundlessly vanishing into the ether from whence it came. The evil in a thought is never inherent in the quality or content of the thought - but in the response one has to the thought. Something James Carse said seems apt: