Throughout life there are many choices: do we eat something fast, or do we cook our own food? Do we skimp (or totally skip) healthcare/ dental coverage, or get regular checkups? Do we hookup with people, or do we have something steady with one person (or a few regulars)? Do we take the job that's physically demanding but pays well or the less demanding job with less pay? Do we cut corners to get a job done or do we work hard and ethically, even if it costs us more in the end? Each one of these choices is a trade-off. You might get fast food, but it's not healthy. We might save money on our health initially, but then come up with a disease that is severe but manageable, or something incurable (such as certain STDs) and so on. Even if it works for the majority, is it still right due to the consequences that need to be paid later on? Also, does the fact that we know that these habits are unhealthy play a factor in determining right and wrong? If so, what part? 

Another is Dutch analytical philosopher Herman Philipse, who wrote a thorough book on Heidegger. He succeeds quite well in a 'translation', especially in untangling the different motive in the question of Being. But his ultimate conclusion is less charitable than Tugendhat's. 

The first beginning starts with the ancient Greeks. They ask the question of Being (Sein), but in a specific form, namely what a being (Seiende) in essence is. In Sein und Zeit, this is called the present-at-hand (Vorhandenheit) mode. Later he calls this the beingness (Seiendheit) of being. This way of asking the question assumes the Being of being is itself a kind of a being (Seiende), namely fundamental and eternal: an essence, an idea (Plato), an ousia/morphe (Aristotle), a representation (Kant), will to power (Nietzsche) etc. The other beginning starts with Heidegger (sort of, he usually says he's making way for it, preparing for it). Rather than (merely) thinking Being at the being present at hand, he questions Being as Being, Being as such, Being itself the clearing of Being. The first beginning obscures the real question of Being. So they (and all other philosophers until Heidegger) are 'thinkers of Being' only in a certain limited way. The ancient Greek thinkers had an experience or insight into Being, but by asking about it in this way, this insight was obscured and soon forgotton. Plato and especially Aristotle are the ones who pushed to formalisation of this way of thinking and are therefore presented by Heidegger as the origin of the forgetting of Being. In the presocratic philosophers (Heraclitus, Parmenides) this formalisation is less developed, and usually Heidegger hopes to find traces there of the original insight into Being, to help him with making way for the other beginning. 

Take for instance you are able to go back in time and have one of the worst leaders in history killed him/ her before they came into power, thus eliminating the atrocities they committed. Or see atrocities being committed, kill them to stop them. The fact that you did this evil thing (killing) becomes a good thing. On the other hand can something be so overwhelmingly good/ perfect, but implemented or enacted in such a way that it is evil? At day's end are these labels of good and evil just manifestations of our own viewpoint? How do we know the difference? 

Without any context of time, situation, or people involved, or any other situational variable is it possible to tell right or wrong, good or evil? Why/ why not? 

In the code of Hammurabi, one of the first laws put forth was "an eye for an eye." We've come a long way since those times both as a society, and in terms of making laws - as well as the ability to provide justice, yet, the idea(s) of equal punishment for a crime still is seen as a valid point. Why? 

Nietzsche does not provide an answer because he does not draw a distinction between joy (Lust - I think 'pleasure' would be a better translation) and happiness (Glück). At least he makes no distinction in the note (German source: NF-188 14[121]) you quote from, as he says a few sentences earlier: 

Although he is usually considered an existentialist, (the later) Heidegger is against Sartre's claim that existence precedes essence in his Letter on Humanism: 

Nietzsche/Zarathusta, however, does not want humans to be plants or ghosts, to be hedonists or rationalists. Why? Because in that way humans remain fixed as a rational animal. In other words, the human as a rational animal is a current or old value. If a philosopher preaches you to indulge in your desires (i.e. be a plant) or on the contrary to be rational (i.e. be a ghost), he accepts the characterization of humans as rational animals. Z. preaches the reevaluation of all values, including this one. Humans (or, perhaps better, this fixation of human beings as rational animals) should be overcome. Human as conflict of plant and ghost, of matter and spirit, should not be merely assumed and taken as a starting point for a debate where one chooses one side or the other. Rather this value itself should be questioned, and perhaps thereby be overcome. To a new self-understanding of the human being. 

Mathematical definitions are useful and if at all only refer to 'mathematical reality' (in the sense of Platonism), not to the physical world. You seem to suggest about mathematics what Frege called "Pfefferkuchenarithmetik", it has been suggested before but didn't win a lot of followers. I can infer that 1+1=2 from a set of axioms I have set up, e.g. the Peano axioms. Whether that's useful or not is a highly subjective notion. I believe it is. Take the following example. I ask you for 1 dollar, and later I ask you for another dollar. Wouldn't it be useful to know that in total you'd loose two dollars, even if you decided to never give me anything? Do not forget that there are no completely perfect mathematical objects in physical reality - no points without extension, no perfectly straight lines, no triangles made of perfectly straight lines, and so on. Yet we need mathematics not just for understanding the world in the first place, but for all kind of intelligent planning where not all considered alternatives are realized. 

The world is full of beautiful things, but poor on (beautiful) moments that reveal these things. That ties in with the sentence before: "die höchsten Höhen alles Guten, sei es Werk, That, Mensch, Natur, seien bisher für die Meisten und selbst für die Besten etwas Verborgenes und Verhülltes gewesen", i.e. most good stuff is usually hidden. Therefore, for Nietzsche life is like a woman (the aphorism's title is 'vita femina'), as 'woman' for Nietzsche means an aluring veil. (See on this theme: Derrida, Eperons. Les styles de Nietzsche) 

To give you a reference, André van der Braak wrote a comparative study on Nietzsche and Zen (worldcat link). As Zen is influenced by Daoism (or so Van der Braak claims), he discusses it, including Zhuangzi, in relation to Nietzsche. One of the subjects is indeed Nietzschean scepticism and (Daoist influenced) Zen scepticism. Another similarity Van der Braak sees is the emphasis of both on (the way of) life, rather than theoretical knowledge. 

Logically, if the only proof of existence we have is what we can see, hear, smell, touch, taste, and feel the movement of, why do many philosophies deal with issues outside the physical? Due to these scientific limitations of not being able to prove anything nonphysical (not limited to entities/ concepts surrounding spirituality and religion[s]) exists in any concrete way that affects our daily lives in ways that WE OURSELVES don't choose it to, why doesn't philosophy eliminate these concepts? 

How do we really know that we (and everything else) wasn't created an instant ago, and everything we remember from the past is an illusion, a figment of our imagination to comfort ourselves from seeing and remembering the truth that all is not as it seems? 

A renaissance man is a person whose interest is in everything. According to Encyclopedia Britannica it is a 

No, a preorder relation - aka weak preference relation - or, equivalently, a strict ordering plus an equivalence relation suffice to talk about "more" or "less". Not all such relations can be represented by a "value function" and even if they can the value function is only ordinal and such a representation is still considered qualitative even though it involves real numbers. (The term "value function" comes from normative economics, where also sometimes "utility" is used, though the later is often reserved for values undr risk; I don't know how mathematicians would call it. It 's just a function v: D→ℝ from some domain of objects D to the reals such that v(a)≥v(b) ⇔ a≽b) For quantitative method, you likely want to measure intensities of "more" and "less" directly and compare distances such measures, which under normal circumstances would correspond to a cardinal utility function. That's all a bit vague and fuzzy; a fellow mathematician who knows some measure theory could give you more details and representation theorems. Or did I misunderstand your question? 

I think both strands can be found in most philosophers. Some are more on the analytical side, while others on the evocative side. 

I would define efficiency as follows: to accomplish something with the least effort. Efficiency, as a way of accomplishing something, is in the jargon of Sein und Zeit a mode of ready-at-handness (Zuhandenheit). Authencity (Eigenlichkeit) on the contrary is a existential modification. Reducing this to a mode of ready-at-handness would be a kind of category mistake. Furthermore, efficiency is a way of being busy. Being busy is part of inauthenticity: 

'Existentia' and 'essentia' are said of beings as they are ontotheologically thought by metaphysics, i.e. according to the paradigm of an artifact present for the eye. Sartre does not question this paradigm, but merely reverses it, claims Heidegger. In his earlier Being and Time, which inspired Sartre's existentialism, Heidegger says the essence (Wesen) of Dasein is existence, but he means something different with 'Wesen' (verbally, i.e. the way a being is towards Dasein) and 'Existenz' (restricted to Dasein only: the way in which Dasein is towards itself).