It's also worth noting that testosterone not only causes dominace but also the other way around (from the same study): 

According to the community based website Curetogether spending time with a pet helps people with depression. Is there peer reviewed research that makes the same recommendation? 

Walter Olson of OverLawyered writes in Yes, that $750 generic pill is a pure artifact of regulation: 

Asking whether a psychological model like this is true or false is a bad question. If you want to evaluate such a model you have to ask yourself whether the model is able to make useful predictions. An example of a very bad psychology model would be the model that astrology proposes. You have 12 different personality traits that all depend on when the person got born. If you use that model and observe people's behavior you can't predict at all when they got born. In physics Newton created a quite useful model for the way gravity works. Newton's model makes useful predictions. You can use it to effective calculate the aerodynamics of airplane travel. Words like dominance and aggression are theoretical constructs that humans invented to describe reality. If you ask two different observers whether a behavior is dominant, they are more likely than chance to agree. There are however also cases where the two observers will disagree. You can't measure the quantity of dominance as finely as you can measure the speed of an object. As a result a concept that uses terms like domiance is unable to make predictions with 99.9% certainty. If you have two people and judge their dominance you can't predict their testosterone levels with 99.9% certainty. But let's get back to the definition of male behavior: Most males have a higher testosterone level than females. Testosterone does have an effect on behavior. If one wants to avoid vague human created terms like 'domiance' and 'aggression', it's tempting to define male behavior as that behavior that's created by a higher testosterone level. Since testosterone levels are in principle less fuzzy than old psychological terms like 'dominance' there some idealistic hope that it's a better definition. Giving the complexity of human behavior it's however hard to invent good categories and some people might find it more useful to use words like 'dominance' and 'aggression' because they can better imagine what those words mean. 

Source: New York Times article on Mosquitoes Cool Down during Blood Feeding to Avoid Overheating - Lahondère and Lazzari, Curr Biol. 2012 The pee is not the cause of the allergical 'itch'. The mosquito's saliva is the cause of that effect - it injects it to prevent coagulation in the blood. 

The Benefits Informally, many people have been reported to have survived after having been administered the Heimlich maneuver. Some people reportedly still breathing after the technique include Ronald Reagan, Elizabeth Taylor and Goldie Hawn. Usually, these reports describe people choking on solid food items. Apart from the study below, I have found no non other scientific sources that showed statistics (other than Heimlich's own reports). 

A journal article on the topic found a negligible (but non-zero) effect of carbonated waters on tooth enamel. The claim in the Daily Mail is clearly in dissonance with the results from this study. 

In this United Nations Assistance Mission to Iraq (UNAMI) press release it is claimed that 1500 Yazidi and Christian persons may have been forced into sexual slavery by ISIS. The source for these statements is the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary-General for Iraq Nickolay Mladenov and the Special Representative of the Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict Zainab Hawa Bangura. Does their claim hold water? 

When we got our new puppy I laid a great lawn on our balcony (an amazing 1m2 patch of grass) that sadly had to be replaced after a few weeks due to yellow spots. I found a product with the name Dog Rocks that is said to prevent this issue. There are some sketchy claims on the site - such as that the pH of dog pee remains the same, and ammonia in water being reduced (was I giving my little dog ammonia!?). A study by McGill University is given as evidence here. Are "Dog rocks" more useful than pet rocks? They definitely seem to be sold a lot going by Amazon's number of reviews for them. 

Human behavior is complicated. Here's for example a study titled "Male Testosterone Linked to High Social Dominance but Low Physical Aggression in Early Adolescence" that investigates boys aged 6-12: 

There some research that suggests that we can tell the difference between real and fake smiles through pictures. Someone who pretends to feel an emotion usually isn't able to organize the dozens of muscles that are involved in the way the would be activated when he would feel the real emotion. I would however be very wary of an attempt to extrapolate whether a couple pretends to feel an emotion in the moment of a photo shot on the general health of their relationship. 

On Theranos website they say they sell Testosterone (Free) $17.33 while other labs sell them for $130.00. I want to know whether that's an accurate description of the prices of Theranos competition. Unfortunately most of the relevant tests don't get sold via internet and I therefore don't think a single example of another company that sells the test for less than $130.00 disproves Theranos claim. I think for Theranos claim to be true, insurance companies would have to reimburse tests that charge $130.00. If it can be shown that no insurance company reimbuses $130.00 I would consider Theranos claim to be false. 

Is there evidence that suggests that your teeth will be more healthy if you brush them multiple times per day than when you brush them once per day? 

It's no easy phenomena but it exists well enough to be documented in studies. As far as (2) goes, I'm not aware of this being well demonstrated. If the person however already knows what written on the page and they should be able to see the page, they will tell you what's written on the page. It's like seeing colors of objects at the rand of your normal visual field. Those objects don't appear to be colorless but your eyes can only perceive colors near the center of your visual field. The colors that you see at the rand of your visual field are the best effort your brain makes to determine the color of those objects. 

source: "Business Insider: Health Medical Dr. Heimlich Is Horrified By The Red Cross' Protocol For Saving Choking Victims" Heimlich himself at 96 did administer his eponymous technique to a woman in his retirement home with effective results, so he obviously still stands by his original claims. 

Henry Heimlich named the maneuver (seen below) after himself, and has been a strong proponent of this invention, as well as of many other of his inventions, through his (again eponymous) Heimlich Institute. In a study performed by Heimlich and others investigating its efficacy he describes the intuitive reason it should work as follows: 

(source: Psychol Rep. 2004 Jun;94(3 Pt 1):839-44.4) Finally, there have been studies on the effects on the immune system in the broader category of physical exercise too. The positive effects found from such exercise indicate that the source effect is not purely from sex, but either additive or interactive with the effect from generic physical activity. 

An article doing the rounds on my Facebook feed claims that African immigrants are the most successful group in the United States when it comes to academic achievement. African-born immigrants are more likely to be college educated than any other immigrant group, it says. 

Unless the esophagus is fully blocked Raising the arms will therefore increase oxygen uptake in healthy people, which may make you feel like you are not choking anymore. Note though that raising the arms is not an appropriate method to help a person who is actually choking. Unless the person is able to breathe adequately the Heimlich maneuver should be performed if coughing does not solve the problem. [warning, anecdotal] My tennis trainer always told us to put our arms up and breathe in when panting after a demanding exercise. During Yoga and other 'breathing exercises' the arms are usually also repositioned to either limit or maximize lung volume. 

The poll appears to have been the subject of press coverage in July 2016 (see The Star, The Express Tribune and Full Report from 4, 8 and 10 July respectively). These articles are almost verbatim copies and seem to be a media echo chamber - they also appear to be the source of the New York Time's coverage. They all refer to the survey being prepared by "the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving Immigrants and advocacy group Mass Minority" that "will be" released, however, I cannot find the "51 page survey" on either organisation's website. You may want to contact them and ask for a copy of the survey and the data set. 

What do you mean by weather? Rainfall? Temperature? Wind? Where in the world are you talking about - different places have more or less climatic variation. 

Aside from the limitations on the statistics and the publication bias described above, this is an argument over interpretation of the results. The authors see the preference as having an evolutionary basis - woman like strong men because they are the descendants of people with a preference for strong men and that gave their ancestors an evolutionary advantage. If so, such a preference should be universal. An alternative view that the article ventilates is that the preference is a cultural one and that our culture venerates strength and that these woman learned to do this too be growing up in this culture. If this is correct, then the preference is culture specific and not universalizable; across neither space nor time. One study cannot determine who is right or if either hypothesis is. Obvious issues There are a number of issues that pop out at me with how the study is constructed which may introduce biases - I do not know if the authors' addressed these. 

Source: Mucosal Immunology (2008) Supporting the claim by Debby Herbenick, a study by Carl Charnetski and Francis Brennan showed a positive correlation between higher sexual activity and IgA levels in college students. Noting: 

Source: Asian J Sports Med. Sep 2012; 3(3): 185–192. Therefore, it seems fair to assume a positive effect on IgA levels from morning sex. Based on the study by Hejazi and Hosseini, I'd advise the 'short drill' version to avoid an inadvertent negative effect stemming from endurance exercise. 

(source: J Oral Rehabil. 2001 Aug;28(8):766-72) The idea that carbonated water harms teeth may be based on the fact that dissolving carbon dioxide in water results in some carbonic acid. However, this did not result significant enamel decay. 

source: Soroudi A. et al., 2011 The US National Library of Medicine advocates using the technique after less dangerous methods have been exhausted. Their source for claiming so is Rosen's Emergency Medicine: Concepts and Clinical Practice. The maneuver is still taught in many classes. Reported Detractors The Red Cross has published guidelines in 2006 that do still show the Heimlich maneuver. The change is that first slaps on the back are recommended, and only then abdominal thrusts (Heimlich). This has been reported to be downgrading or detracting from the Heimlich maneuver. However: 

Scope: My answer comprises sources that support efficacy for the Heimlich Maneuver to alleviate choking, and sources that show a lack of evidence for a comparison with other methods. I consider only the risks and benefits in healthy individuals between the ages of 1 and 65 of the maneuver for Foreign Body Airway Obstruction (FBAO). I interpret 'most appropriate' as 'the method with highest patient survival rate'. Out of scope: Drowning (which is not choking, and even Heimlich has retracted support there), infants, the elderly, the sick, Heimlich's son hating him, Heimlich's personal flaws and support of controversial AIDS cures.