The hiring process messed up and hired someone not entirely qualified for the role. This may be a named condition such as dyslexia, or it may not, but even if it is there's still the problem that it wasn't identified so that proper accommodations could be made for it. You've already pointed this out, and to me it's pretty clear that people who have to write forms for customers as part of their job, should always be tested during recruitment for writing and copy-editing (that is, spotting and correcting errors). Provided she never lied this can't be blamed on her: if you yourselves didn't notice that the literacy/accuracy requirements for the job were higher than where she's at, then she's not going to. The copy-writing process may be messed up. No matter how good her spelling is, if a form really matters then the form should be proof-read by someone other than its author. Therefore, her bad spelling should not be an emergency even if it's throwing up more errors at copy-editing time than you'd normally expect. If it is an emergency then consider whether your organisation really needs to be so dependent on people avoiding typos and other errors, or whether you could do a better job of defending against errors. Finally, an employee is under-performing at a particular area of her job. The fact it happens to be spelling doesn't change the basic approach, which (given you don't want to just fire her) is to identify the nature and magnitude of the problem, discuss it with her, arrange appropriate training, measure for improvement, and ultimately if she simply isn't capable of the job required then fire her. However, the fact it happens to be spelling does mean the specific issue of dyslexia is a possibility, and this is something that either she or you could arrange tests for if either of you considers it at all likely. 

If the interviewer is leaving you to do the assignment, then either they're actively considering you or else they're a time-waster. If they're considering you then presumably your interview was acceptable. They'll interview you again if they think it will help them decide. If they're a time-waster who has already rejected you but hasn't bothered saying so then asking for a second interview won't help. So overall you might as well sit tight. Perhaps when you submit the assignment you could say that your interviewer mentioned a possible second interview and you would like to know whether this will be required. That is, don't ask for a second interview, ask them for the decision they explicitly left open. I can't tell from what you report, whether they really meant a do-over of the first interview. More common is that their process calls for a second-round interview if they're happy with your first interview and your assignment. I don't want to speculate what proportion of hiring processes allow for wasting the time of rejected candidates on pointless exercises. I hope it's small, but I fear that not everyone in the business is as professional as you'd expect. But the fact that they still want you to do the assignment after the first interview is cautiously a sign that you didn't actually fail the first one even if you feel you could have done better. 

The name by which you're known professionally should be in it "Professional" means not making people learn a separate nickname for someone they've never met. If you're known professionally by a nickname, fine, use it in an email address: . The point is that when people see the email address they should associate it with you. It makes it easier for them to see that what they're doing is correct when they send messages. It's easier to hold in memory if it's the only name they know for you. Probably other benefits. Nothing that you don't actively want to tell them should be in it If it's an unusual domain name, a few people will look it up. So don't use your anonymous politics blog, unless you want to in effect introduce yourself to business contacts as "the author of this anonymous politics blog". It doesn't mean you're ashamed of it that you're not introducing yourself that way, it's just not your profession. If you're applying for jobs as a politics journalist disregard that part. If you can avoid disambiguating junk, do so just is better than . It looks "neater", and neatness is a professional quality. Each little thing doesn't matter, but together they add up to a kind of "hygiene" that signals you've put effort into the details. A secondary reason, you would be amazed how many people don't use copy and paste. Most people over the age of 30 have, at the critical point in their life when they bought a mobile, lost the ability to remember a 7 digit number for 20 seconds. Those under 30 never had it ;-) As a courtesy to others, do not make your email address hard to type. I won't go so far as to say that if your name is hard to type you should find ways to simplify it, but I slightly wonder if it would help. Sure, it's hard to get hold of a neat email address at a major provider these days. It's also hard to write a good resume, so you can always try a few variants on your name while you're mulling that over. If you must add junk, try to think of some relevant junk. If your name is so depressingly common that you really can't get a decent address, maybe register a domain and throw up a few pages related to your profession. It doesn't need a whole lot on it, just your resume and anything you'd like a business contact to see. Finding a good domain name isn't all that easy either, but at least you're limited by your creativity, not your given name. If you actually use it, it should remain the same for years or decades This applies to any email address used as a general point of contact, professional or otherwise. You do not want to be that idiot who keeps sending out messages to your entire contact list with your new address. You don't have to actually use it Check the address on your resume for at least as long as you care to receive inquiries about that version of your resume. Or, you know, there is such a thing as email forwarding. Make sure that you receive the email, that you receive any error messages generated by email you send, and that you remember to send using the "correct" email address. Beyond that you don't have to log in to whatever awful web interface the provider has produced. If you come up with a better email address later, you can put it on the next version of your resume and forward the email from the old one just in case. And even that might be overkill - I guess it depends what industry you work in, but think about your odds of ever getting a decent job lead from a resume more than a year or two old. Firstly you'll send an updated resume to recruiters you care about more frequently than that, and secondly who head-hunts with no idea what you've been doing for the last two years? My experience is that recruiters stop bothering you after about 18 months or three rude emails telling them you have a job/alternative recruiter you're very happy with. Once employers hire you, they won't use it They'll give you a company email address. So your resume address is solely about the hiring process. It's not even about maintaining contacts after you leave, you can give them any other email address you like. It doesn't need to relate to any of your other online activity unless you want it to as part of what prospective employers will see if they choose to research you. Between lack of time and consistency in hiring procedures, many won't, but some will. If you plan to change jobs a lot, things are a bit different If you're perpetually looking for work (for example as a contractor) then you do want a single permanent email address for the purpose. It's probably best to register a domain in this case. Depending on the jurisdiction you're in, you might want a specific name to trade under anyway, even if you don't have a registered company. This doesn't need to be your own name, and is ideal. Or your national equivalent of : in my case. 

It sounds to me as though there is a problem with your expectations that precedes the problem with their motivation. Your first strategies should be ways to address that. You don't expect very much of these employees. To be precise, you expect more of them than you're getting, but you do so quietly. Your quiet frustration is no use to them and will not change their behavior. You say you don't want to resort to a formal procedure, but you must decide what your expectations are and communicate them to the employees. So, if these employees need detailed instruction then give it to them. And instruct them how you want them to behave, not the bare minimum you'll accept. When you get that far, it would not be fair just to say, "I want you to show more initiative and be more committed". That is not a specific measurable goal. Neither is it fair to say, "balance Facebook use in a professional way" unless you're prepared to give guidance what is and isn't reasonable (and clearly you think their current level of use isn't reasonable). You also cannot expect everyone to invent work for themselves and review past projects all the time - some people can, but you must be prepared as a manager to give those who need detailed instructions enough work to occupy their time. 

I worked for one employer with an algorithm for this (yes, it was a software company, why do you ask?). 

Short answer: you don't tell people "the whole truth" as you see it. You definitely leave out things that are confidential, and things that are pure personal speculation with no particular grounding in evidence. Just because someone asks a question doesn't mean you must say everything in your brain ;-) Depending on the company, you might also leave out things that are true and relevant and public, but that require some care in order to avoid the bad things eclipsing the good things. This is PR/spin/sales/presentation/tactful/sneaky, but whatever you call it you will in most jobs have to do it to some extent some of the time. So find out from your company what you need to do, then either do it or refuse to do it as conscience dictates. Long answer: If you're routinely being asked a question that you're unsure how to answer, then you should consult with whoever has authority over your interviewing activities, how it should be answered. When you're interviewing, you represent the company. The company has an official position as to what its prospects are, and what challenges/threats it faces. This is what you present when you're representing the company, and you should find out how far you can go in honestly presenting the downsides without straying away from what the company is happy to be discussed publicly and into embarrassing or confidential information. If the company truly is relentlessly optimistic, it doesn't admit any potential challenges to its progress or threats to its business model, then frankly just repeat that to the candidates. The smart ones will realise for themselves your company is dumb, the dumb ones will fit right in ;-) More likely you can talk about some of the downsides, you just don't know yet which ones and in what ways. 

I think normally in a "proper" business (by which I mean an organisation that can get things done, whether for profit or otherwise), someone would have the authority to decide how to solve the problem. The discussion how to solve it would only go on as long as they tolerated it, and it would be their responsibility to judge the cost of the discussion itself against the cost of making the "wrong" decision. I'm not so sure how many people in that position would literally quantify the cost of the discussion ("X people at Y per hour, discussion could take anything from A-B hours") rather than just going by a rough estimate: "definitely more than $100, so let's try the $100 solution and if that doesn't work we'll have the discussion"). Consensus decision-making, or for that matter "involving all stakeholders", has its advantages, but certainly it can be extremely expensive. In a smoothly-running organisation, whether private or public, a trivial decision doesn't require a large consensus. However, you have to count the cost of the conversation against the actual cost of making the "wrong" decision, which is unlikely to just be the retail price of the proposed solution. If there are people arguing against the $100 solution then presumably they see some potential pitfall in it, or they see some other larger gain if a different solution is used. Just for example, suppose the $100 solution is arguably rather unethical within the stated purpose of your non-profit organisation. Then clearly it should not be allowed to pass on a policy of "it's cheap, and that's all that matters, just get on with it". If nobody is actually opposing the $100 solution, but you're all sitting there all day talking about it anyway, then whoever is chairing this meeting should have wrapped it up about 1.95 days earlier than the beginning of day 3. 

There is another option, which is to disobey orders and take the day despite it not being granted. Don't ask for leave, inform them that you will not be available to work that day. This is a lot like resigning, and you shouldn't do it unless you're prepared to leave, but there's a chance of not needing to leave. OK, you might get fired for cause, but in at-will jurisdictions you could be fired at any time anyway, and in jurisdictions which require good reasons to fire people there's every chance that a single day's absence under these circumstances is not sufficient reason. Of course that's something you'd have to research in advance of making the decision. I think it's true that most people would just lie (and that they're risking being fired by doing that, albeit nothing like so high a risk as telling the truth). If you want to be scrupulously honest, and you've ruled out doing the interview any other time, then an old-fashioned ultimatum is the best option available. Be aware that if you don't get another job and the old company goes under, then your status as a creditor and/or for unemployment benefits potentially might be affected by the fact you were recently in breach of contract. It's not possible to predict the actions of a desperate person, but there's a reasonable chance the employer won't pull the trigger. If the reason for blocking interviews is that they don't actually want you to leave (or want to delay your leaving), then firing you to prevent you leaving might be considered counter-productive to their goals. Then again, they might do something seemingly-contradictory out of anger or as a warning to others, so you can't assume they won't fire you just because they don't want you to quit. You say they wanted people in seats "just in case", so to avoid it coming to an ultimatum you'd want to find out what they really need and work from there.