Are these arguments generally accepted among linguists? How much of this is "good science" and how much is just "pop science"? * In the sense of a single language from which all other languages of the world came out. ** The first version of this question contained the expression "direct ancestor". But, as was pointed out in the answers and comments, this is not an appropriate term. 

According to this abstract, published in 2007, "the half-life of an irregular verb scales as the square root of its usage frequency: a verb that is 100 times less frequent regularizes 10 times as fast." The data that supports this study comes from 177 English irregular verbs, traced over a time span of 1200 years of evolution. How much is known about verb regularization rates in other languages? Does the data collected so far, for the studied languages, show the same correlation? 

Now, I understand how to articulate an "alveolar trill" - you put the tip of your tongue onto the fleshy part above your upper teeth, air-pressure is accumulating behind it untill it is strong enough to push it open, once the air escapes the pressure falls and low-pressure causes the tongue close again and the cycle starts again. Not one cycle, but its repetition is what makes it a trill I can not make any sense with the term syllabic alveolar trill and how this relates to an alveolar trill. Question: Could You explain to me what exactly is happening with ones articulatory organs while such a sound is produced and what the difference to a regular alveolar trill is? 

From my own experience, drinking alcohol has both positive and negative effects to the ability of speaking a second language. On the one hand, it facilitates the process, mainly because one gets more relaxed and less inhibited (thus caring less about making mistakes, as long as one gets the message across). On the other hand, alcohol affects muscle control, makes reasoning slower, impacts memory and so on. These are all extremely important abilities when speaking a second language, so the intoxication makes it harder. So, my question is: have the effects of alcohol on second language speaking been studied scientifically? What are the main results? 

I wanted to understand how to articulate the sound ṛ from IAST (transliteration system for indian languages). On Wikipedia i have found this explanation: 

This focus on context creates for me the problem to find out, how sentences which are made of a main clause and subclause are represented by a syntax tree or maybe two ? problematic sentences (e.g.): 

Background-Explanation: A sound can be described by a list of articulatory features: If the list is sufficient to determine the function of the sound in a particular language, it matches the requirement of phonology, that means not a specific sound has been described, but a class of sounds that fullfill this function, though not identical. For instance, /a/ read by child, male, woman, man with a sorethroat, dwarf, giant etc. is nevertheless recognized as this particular vocal described by a few features (like: openness, nasality vs. orality, position of the root of the tongue etc.) All features that are of no importance for describing a sounds function in a language are called redundant features. But exactly some of those redundant features are characteristic to describe the persons characteristical voice. Just imagine, you could by a list of such redundant features capture a voice that could be described as "sounds like Barack Obama", "sounds like Nick Nolte", "sounds like Dave Chapelle", or less specific "sounds like a middle aged, tall white man from the south with a high testosterone level and missing upper front teeth". Question: What are, or what are possible canditates for these redundant features to describe a sound more characteristically than in phonology? 

Is this a scientifically valid assertion? If so, how do you measure the cost (and thus the economy) of the pronunciation of a certain sound in a language? 

The modern syntax approach to this, unlike the traditional grammar approach, is to categorize words according to morphological and syntactic properties. Morphologically, we can observe that nouns can be derived from other nouns using the suffix -ism, for example, to indicate a belief or process (capital > capitalism). Verbs are derived from other kinds of affixes, such as -ify (terror > terrify) and un- (do > undo). Besides, nouns can be inflected for number (book > books) and verbs can be inflected for tense, aspect and mood (give > given). Syntactically, a noun can be placed after a definite article (technically, a determiner), for example (the book is green), but not after an adverb like more (*this one is more book than the other). A verb can be followed by an adverb of manner, like humbly (he speaks humbly), but not by an article (*a speaks is fine). Likewise, if you can substitute a word with a regular noun or verb, both words will belong to the same category. The combination of morphological and syntactic analyses allows you to define what category a word belongs to. About the third item, you are referring to a specific use of the verb to be, known as copula, more specifically, the zero copula, present in languages such as Russian and Hebrew. 

My command of the English language is quiet poor, I write by my feeling, and each sentence is just another chain element left behind not knowing how many Errors are within it. The feeling comes close to using roulette as a mean of communication. Since English puts more focus on Syntax than my native language (German), i might improve if i learn more about Syntax, especially about established Syntax patterns. As for now, i do not even know if there is simply a hand full of syntax patterns or a myriad. So here is what i know for sure from school: 

Accorging to Fisiak, this is the same process that caused the irregularity one → first, two → second in several languages. Since the word for half (as the words for first, second and third) is much more frequently used than the words for other fractions, it tends to maintain its irregularity over time. Another source of this irregularity is that children do not learn to count as one → first, two → second, etc. Instead, they learn the ordinal and cardinal sequences separately. This is probably what happens to the fraction numbers as well, which constitutes another barrier to regularization. 

When I try to read an article related to India (in particular indo-aryan languages) certain special characters emerge which I do not know how to pronounciate. For instance: Aṣṭādhyāyī of Pāṇini contains ṣ,ṭ,ṇ - but there are more. I have tried to look them up in the IPA-list, but no such characters exist there. 

The German Wikipedia-article on semantic nets lists more relations: additionally to the above three relations, four further are enumerated: 

Sprachgesetze, verbatimally laws of language, are stochastic statements about features of a language based on empirical evaluation of a corpus. The Sprachgesetze I found are mainly quantitative statements about features on syntactic (piotrowki-law) or lexical level. Do you know of any Sprachgesetz concerning semantics? 

I have read somewhere that if there ever was a world's first language*, that language must have had very much in common** with the Khoisan languages. Arguments in support of this hypothesis are: 

Any language has a formal variety, primarily (although not exclusively) used in writing, and one or more informal varieties, used in everyday speech. Yet, for some languages, like Norwegian and Arabic, these two varieties lie so far apart that they are considered two distinct dialects. According to Wikipedia, this situation is called diglossia. This is not the case (as far as I know) in most English speaking countries, for example. So, where do linguists draw the line? What are the features that must be taken into account to consider a certain society diglossic? 

All 7 relations being described by having or not having features of reflexivity, transivity and symmetry. Is there a standard set or different sets of relations for semantic nets within linguistics? 

Now, in Arabic, the derivation of words is based on roots and patterns, to form a real word one has to combine the root and pattern, so that they are interlocked. Similar to this, in Chinese one can combine, for instance, 起来 and 请客 by interlocking them into: 请起客来. How is this kind of affixation called ? 

Wikipedia tells about the difference and relation between lexical aspect and grammatical aspect. Whereas the lexical aspect is a specific way to put focus onto how to observe an event on a semantic level, the grammatical aspect is its concrete realization either by means of syntax or morphology. My question aims to the following: Since each language has either syntactical, morphological or both ways of realizing an event, is it possible to express every lexical aspect by what choice of realization ever? for example: Is there a language that is not able to express the concept of inchoativeness or progressiveness? 

Since these datasets are is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License, you are free to share, remix and make commercial use of them, as long as you obey the conditions specified in the license. 

The comparative method is used to reconstruct unattested languages from the attested ones. By comparing different sounds for the same words in various sister languages, it is possible to infer some phonological rules. The internal reconstruction method, on the other hand, compares variant forms within a single language to discover how they evolved from a past regular form. Would it be possible to combine these methods to "look forward", so to speak? For example, comparing several dialects of a language with how they were fifty years ago and then extrapolate this data to predict how these dialects will change in the near future? Of course, some degree of uncertainty would have to be allowed.