How can you define the difference between for example Math and Philosophy and Sociology or Biology. What makes a philosophical question a philosophical question. Is this clearly defined? 

I think the answer is yes. Since male and female can live on their own. But for the sake of reproduction and child rearing some form of symbiosis can develop. 

Suicide is usually an expression of a lack of motivation. So it is not an expression of fear or courage. So you are neither courageous nor cowardly in attempting suicide. You are just lost and don't know any other way out other than the ones you tried already. A good expression could be: "Death by mental or emotional starvation by constant repetition of the same acts." A person that dies of hunger also is not a coward or courageous. He is just lacking nutrition. Or in other words, he has no choice but to die. So it really is not a choice, but a lack of options to choose from. If you are referring to the actual step of harming yourself. Well life is just slow death anyway. So we all are committing suicide everyday until we succeed. The actual suicidal person just found a way to get there quicker. He lost the will or the reason to live he lost the illusion that kept him going. Could he find a new illusion. Yes sure. But love is pretty strong. If you boil it down to logic it is just like begging your enemy to kill you finally vs. leaving you to die slowly and in agony. It just makes rational sense. You could say he is a coward for not wanting agony or you could say he is courageous for wanting to die vs begging for mercy. Either way. The individuals perspective says, there is no way out, let's end this instead of continuing to suffer without purpose. 

Coming from an MBTI (Myers Briggs Type Indicator) angle. Christof used TI or ungrounded logic to compare Truemans situation to a non fake world situation by using the angle of there are lies and deceit inside (staged) and there are lies and deceit outside. A lie is like a staged truth or show. So life is a show anyway according to that logic. If you use grounded logic or TE. Then you cannot compare life in an artificially controlled environment to life just by the fact that one is artificially controlled and the other is not. Christof points this out by saying the difference is having nothing to fear. Which is a pretty important difference. Since fear is a pretty strong motivator. 

Meaning if something is reasonable, agreeable to reason or sound judgment, it is useful for convincing somebody enough that they eventually believe you. Now if you convince yourself through your own experience or you experience somebody else convincing you is just a difference in semantics. So in the same way you can choose to be convinced by something or chose to intentionally ignore sound reason. 

Just because he has all the power, does not mean he is using it all the time. Also if you are a part of god then you are all powerful too, maybe not. But if god has free will and you are a part of him then you should have free will to, just as your hand has free will by being connected to you. 

Because nothing exists, nothing also does not exist. If you look at nothing as the opposite of something. The existence of one requires the existence of the other. But since one explicitly says it is nothing i.e. does not exist. That should also mean that something also does not exists. Or nothing exists. Is there a known solution to this paradox? 

Knowledge means you have or know the or an information. Belief is you know or believe or are convinced that something is exactly so and are ok with this enough that you are not actively engaging to oppose your own belief. 

So it's a question of good and bad. Good and bad are a matter of perspective however. I follow the Buddhist way of thinking there, without being a Buddhist myself. $URL$ 

You are looking for a definition that can be tested? How about was the descendant of a human being? We all have one mother. Some thousands of years ago. We are all children of the same mother. So we are equals in that sense. All that might be different would be the age and birth order. Equal just means it would be to complicated to rank everything all the time so we just give everybody the same rights and only rank when there is conflict. 

Following this good and evil exist since the beginning of everything. But, since it's a matter of perspective I'd say evil begun as soon as "we" were able to distinguish between good and bad and could attribute it to somebody else being willfully or intentionally bad instead of just being ignorant. No observer, no evil. 

If you can't beat them join them. Don't argue with an idiot, they drag you down to your level and beat you with experience. =) Those two come to mind for me. Essentially you are trying to convince him that you are right and are upset that you are not succeeding. The question would be. Does it matter if you are right? And if you are right, does that automatically mean that he is wrong? And even if that is true. What does that prove? Yes you can relativize everything. I'm good at doing that also. His argument about everything being subjective is true. Your argument about science being able to prove things is true also. Still do you know how science proves things? By experiment. By observing what happens. Which in itself is subjective. So I guess I win. 

Yes we can. The answer is simple. The one trying to find out if the other one is a liar is using memory - long term memory. He is comparing past vocalizations with present actions and or vocalizations. If there is an inconsistency found then either one is a liar or the other has a bad memory. Or both have a bad memory. A lie is always in reference to something. To actual events or an actual statement. You cannot just have one sentence and based on that sentence determine if it is a lie or not. One sentence in itself is just a statement. Truth --> a = b lie --> a not= b So you need at least two items to compare. But then you still have the problem of bad memory. I guess thats when we started inventing writing. Then at least you can compare reality then to reality now. But of course the past reality can be faked too. So you need to figure out if the reality then is a real reality then or a fake reality then. 

Is it better to maximize my own happiness or maximising the happieness of others around me so that I can feel happy for and with them? 

I'd rephrase the question. What if all the weak die and only a few strong survive? Would it not be better to share the workload? I.e. some produce food, some make weapons, some wield weapons? Some rule? It's simple sustainability. 

Whew. So why is the difference between points not another point? Because a point has no dimension. Or reference. It is 0 in volume or length or diameter. It just sits there at it's coordinates. So point = (1,1). Now a vector consists of two points. Or better yet a vector is a direction. With a reference to something. Usually we use normalized vectors with reference to point (0,0) So you could say since the coordinates of a 2 dimensional vector and a 2 dimensional point are the same, why not use the same object type? I don't know, good question. I guess when you are NOT using normalized vectors. Meaning the vector is origin + direction. Then you need more than one set of coordinates. You'd have (1,1)(2,2) for example. This would be a vector starting at (1,1) and ending at (2,2) using absolute coordinates. If you were to use direction then it would be (1,1) and (1,1). Adding 1 to each dimension starting from 1 in each dimension lets you arrive at (2,2). So I guess the answer is simply. Vectors (non normalized) contain more information than a simple point. Now after this long ramp up the time delta question is simple to answer. The normal(ized) time difference is just that, it has no starting point. If you were to schedule a meeting however with a starting point and a duration or time difference between starting and ending time then suddenly you'd need a time vector class. It would have the starting time and the duration. Or starting time and ending time which would make it more complicated. So the generalized philosophical answer is. If you store more information you have more. And more is not the same as less. So you cannot say more = less. More or less. 

Everybody makes sure they are happy --> Everybody is happy Everybody makes sure everybody else is happy --> Everybode is happy 

Is there a way of distinguishing which approach is better? Constraint: This would be if happiness was the only important thing in the world. You either are happy because you feel like it or you are happy because others feel like it. Would there be a difference? Or is this far to abstract to matter? 

Is being tired a conscious or a subconscious mental state? All emotions are subconscious. You can calm them by being conscious of them, but still they are a thing of their own. 

extension = addition or in addition to though = discernment / logic World is extension of God like an arm is an extension of a human body. World is thought of God like a blueprint is a thought of an engineer. 

The resonance project has a possible answer to this $URL$ Nassim Haramein focusses on the space instead of the non-space that mass and energy are. According to him there is a structure to space that follows certain geometries which are fractal i.e. all things are bound by these geometries so certain patterns always repeat. For example phi or fibonacci or vortexes. From this viewpoint looking for a god particle is nonsense since it's more of a geometric relationship vs an actual particle that creates matter and energy. So it's a principle vs a thing. If that are opposites. The nice thing about the principle is there is no problem with infinity. It can go all the way down and up. No need to search for bigger or smaller things unless you actually need them vs just looking for them to find an end which might not actually exist. 

The purpose of instruction is to know the end goal and help the apprentice by guiding him. The purpose of learning is to get familiar with the current state of reality and how to cope with it. 

The funny thing is, when the human mind says the stories, they are happening. So you cannot say they never happened, when they actually are happening as we speak. =) :o) :P You are what you think (you are). What am I talking about. Any story comes from memory. If you remember concepts and make a story out of them or if you falsify or glorify a story that actually happened. The listener unless he witnessed the same thing, and even then might not know the difference between a real and an imaginary story. Because when you are telling the story you are using your imagination to bring back the images so you can translate them into words. And every time you tell the same story unless you wrote it down it will be a little bit different. You just created a new story or new world. So to speak. Why does the above answer your question? I don't know. Maybe because the humans mind can say anything it wants to? Why can it do that? Because it needs to be flexible and able to adapt to anything. Why does it need to be flexible and adapt to anything? Because it lives in a constantly changing environment. Why is the environment constantly changing? Because it is inhabited by living beings that can adapt to anything and also well there is day/night etc. So being able to say anything is just a by product to being able to say anything which again is necessary so you can talk to anybody about anything potentially. All you need to do is learn new things and then you can talk about them. In any particular order and or combination. 

(3) Definitely. I'd liken it to a crystallization process. Or maybe even condensation. Time does not exist. Only change exists. We can observe change by comparing the now to the what we remember. Relativistic physics talks about "time" speeding up or slowing down depending on how fast you travel. All that changes is the speed of change of the object that travels faster or slower. If you take an analog clock for example. If you don't watch it for "some time" it will have made several 24h rotations. If you don't know if it's day or night outside you might not even know what "time" it is or if the time is correct. It's just some made up instrument to give us something to hold onto in the ocean of change. 

My approach to this would be to use a synonym to: "I believe." I believe that "I am convinced" is pretty much the same thing as "I believe." The Merriam Webster dictionary also shows belief to be a synonym of conviction. Now you CAN convince somebody of something. That means it does not just happen unconsciously but with conscious interaction. Also see unconvincing which is defined as: 

A friend of mine just asked me a similar question. What if we have existed like this before? My answer was it does not matter. Because for it to be like now it would have to be independent from now. And if it is independent from now it does not matter since there is no correlation or causation. Just coincidence. 

So yes it is relevant. Still vetoing does not mean having a free will or choice. It's just another more complex "reflex" designed to prevent us from killing ourselves too quickly. 

Since we don't work just for works sake but to satisfy real or virtual needs of others the more people work the more demand for work exists since each persons time is finite and you cannot work on all things at the same time. (specialization) So in the future one of my prognosis would be an automated production and then a lot of sales people selling stuff to each other and on the other hand a lot of support and service people fixing issues or helping you if you have a problem. More people with more stuff = more issues = more people need to sell new stuff or fix broken stuff. The only way out would be to build quality products that last 20years+. But still nobody prevents you from trashing your perfectly working phone in order to buy a new shiny one anyway. 

The below assumes that God has a plan and only interferes if things are not going according to plan. From a logical perspective you could say that there needs to be action in order to be a reaction. Now if you believe in God and him having a plan you could say that if things are following his plan already he remains inactive as there is nothing to do. (Learn from your mistakes human.) Or if action is needed so that the human can get safe to the next mistake to make God will step into action and prevent any harm from his sheep since they still got lessons to learn before departing. If you assume God is there to make everybody happy every time then inaction can indeed only be a mystery because it does not make any sense if God indeed just wants the "best" for everybody. (Whatever best means.) 

"Selfish gene" means in this context self reinforcing. Or making sure one is self reinforcing. For if genes were self destroying they would destroy their host and thusly themselves. It's "just" a (selfish) positive feedback loop. That does not mean selfless (self-destructing) genes don't exist. It just means that they usually are weeded out of the population sooner or later if they are too destructive and don't allow their host to procreate. 

meaning just means meaning which results in meaningful meaning and that means it means meaning by means of using the inherent meaning to create meaning Definition of meaning: what is meant by a word. What is meant = what is to be expressed Finding your own meaning = finding your own expression means of expression or method of expression. Also known as living within your means. Or doing what you can do. Instead of what you can't. Simply being "who you are". Finding your own meaning is contrasted to what "everybody else" thinks your meaning is and how you should be expressing yourself. Can you find your own meaning? Definitely.