You need not used the term -- 'deeper level'. You can simply use--'to know our real nature'. Or to realize the divinity in ourselves. It is for reaching the highest level that we can attain with our human body. Thus our life's purpose will be fulfilled...not for finding (our life's purpose). 

$URL$ If the aforementioned is difficult to digest, the following mantra would be useful in our daily life. Isavasyam idam sarvam yat kim ca jagatyam jagat 

If one's world-view and analysis are always right, it means he knows the ultimate truth. Or you can say, truth is coming out through him without any interruption. Otherwise you can confirm that his is a wrong world-view and analysis. All those who realized the ultimate truth, (in your words, "those who knew solution for our world view and analysis") are developed not by a particular science. Instead, they tried to look into themselves (self realization). If our science is for nurturing the ego in us, that science would never be be a good solution. But some wise men who have found out the word in themselves have used their own method for eliminating their ego. Sometimes we wouldn't find any science in them. If you wouldn't call it a pseudo-science, the answer to your question is, "it is a good solution". I mean science, if it is capable in eliminating the ego in us, is really a good solution. I wouldn't say it is the best, because people in this world follow different paths for this. Actually their body becomes a medium for that. Many people could do that without our science (what we call science). Such people had said that everything was done by the Lord. If I say science is the only world-view we have in analyzing our world, that means truth seldom comes out from those who are ignorant about science. And it also means that the world-view of the people who know science is often right. From our daily experience we can understand this is nonsense. Modern science is developing day by day. Yet people's world view and analysis haven't developed more than our ancestors had. Truth is passing through everybody (or, is there in everybody even in a sinner). Our ego is the main obstacle in creating a good world-view and analysis. 

Here's a couple things you can look at. Obviously, this is from a philosophical, and not legal perspective. 

I don't know if this is the answer your looking for, but it reminds me of a story about a theologian named Herbert McCabe who would debate atheists publicly. The atheist in question would explain why he didn't believe in God, and afterwards, McCabe would say "I completely agree with you." He would then go on to explain that the way the atheist defined and thought of "God" was different than how McCabe (and many other theologians) thought about God, and he attempted to show that there need not be a conflict given a different notion of God. 

To summarize: the above tenets of Christianity show that their predictions tend to be true, and confirmed by common sense and personal experience. As one gets into details, there are necessarily lots of messy exceptions, but life is messy after all, and a Theory of Life would necessarily be just as messy. 

Focusing on my own religious views, I'd say something similar to the other posters as the solution. First, God is not in time, His existence precedes time and therefore is independent of it. In the Nicene Creed are the words 

He will show you the divinity in you without expecting anything in return. If you don't believe in divinity, you may say that he tries to develop the inborn good qualities in you without allowing the bad qualities to pop up. Since he is useful in many ways, most often you cannot say that he is not for utility or pleasure. You can find a word in Sanskrit -- suhruth. Please try to find its meaning. Since such friends are not many, instead of searching for them we should try to make our character and conduct good. This might attract them. This link about friendship would be useful. 

We cannot say that what one feels is true. Others also must be able to know/feel that; now or later in their life. 

If there is a term--'Vedanta' (the limit of knowledge) and many great men have used it, your doubt is true. You can verify whether the term 'Paramahamsa' refers to any kind of improvement. $URL$ 

This must be because they know that the sufferings of people are almost the same in all religions. They feel that God doesn't help everyone always. 

If we know only about the material world, your statement is true. Then you can take your doubt as an exceptional case. But if you know the Truth, you can't say that statement. So, it is definitely wrong. You can correct it like this:"Almost everything is relative. But something is absolute." You may read page 1 & 2 of $URL$ You might have read this statement: "Nothing surpasses the truth; it is above all!" Great men wouldn't have used the term--"The Absolute" if there were no such thing. $URL$ 

If you do a search for the quote, you'll see there's a key phrase missing from understanding the point of the text that immediately follows it: 

For the interested, Father Robert Barron discusses this at length in his various speeches and on his YouTube channel. The way he states it (and I think he gets this from others like Aquinas): superstition falls short of reason, faith (or religion, if you'd rather) is on the "far side" of reason. For believers, saying faith is on the far side of reason doesn't mean that it is irrational (i.e., lacking in reason), but rather it extends beyond what reason alone can accomplish. The archetypical example is the virtues: by reason, Cicero et al. came up with the cardinal virtues of Justice, Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude. These virtues are reasonable, and most faith traditions embrace them as far as they go. Religion (or at least, Christianity) introduces three virtues that bring virtue to its perfection: Faith, Hope and Love. These virtues do not contradict the cardinal ones (certainly, to love someone includes being just to that person!) but extend beyond it (for example, by loving someone you may not only be just to them but also merciful). Similarly with all things, say religious people, religious faith brings rational things to their perfection. 

If I am thinking of an apple, and I think of it as red, is that a different kind of red to the property of red a real object has? I would think that the property of red a real apple has is a real red, but the property of red a conceptual apple has is not real, its just imagination red. What kind of philosophy is this? Does anyone know where I can find information about it, in a book? Or website? Thanking you very much in advance. 

I'm no expert but I think the way in which Kant's comments apply to Anselm's argument are to undermine the idea that the concept of something and the corresponding being are different. He says that nothing is added to the concept to get the real thing. Something like 'there is no more in a hundred conceptual dollars than there is in a hundred real dollars', for if there were, then the concept would not accurately represent the real thing....I personally see a problem with this, as I think concepts are worlds apart from real objects. 

You say if yes, then the argument is circular, because we've assumed what we wanted to prove. Just to clarify, Anselm is trying to prove that God exists, not that existence is a greater quality, just making sure we're on the same page. It does not follow directly that because existence is a greater property that the greatest being must exist. In fact, (though I am no expert) I think the key here is something which was pointed out by Kant and echoed by many others, not to exhaust their entire point, but just to borrow, that existence is a unique property (or not a property at all if they have their way). In my opinion, apart from being contradictory, if a property at all, existence is the one thing we cannot give to the definition of a being (or anything else for that matter). I can define a purple, skinny jaberwocky with 5 toes and an affinity for blue cheese, but I cannot define him to exist in reality. It seems Anselm shared my sentiments as this is not what he has done. He set out to prove it, by saying that if the being does not exist, then an existent version can be imagined, and the imagined version would be greater, creating a contradiction, and if the proposition that God does not exist leads to a contradiction, it must be false and God exists. 

agape - willing the good of another person independent of one's self. eros - attraction (from where we get "erotic") philios - "brotherly love" - something like friendship or love for the mutual benefit of two people 

Bishop (then Father) Robert Barron has a talk he did about 10 years ago where he discusses this in Aquinas and Joyce. He says (referring back to Aquinas - a summary of these ideas can be found on the IEP Aesthetics article) that an aesthetic experience consists in three things: 

Chris Sunami pretty much nailed it, but I'd like to add something more specific about why there are exceptions, even if not specifically mentioned by letter in the Bible: in the fallacious argument you site, it is considered a just thing to tell the truth, but it is also a just as it is a just thing to save someone's life. It is the virtue of prudence that helps one to decide how to practically decide between these two seemingly conflicting options. The logic that concludes that it would be a lie to hide someone in my house has then two problems: (1) no concept of there being justice in hiding someone and (2) no notion of prudence to navigate between the options.