It seems to be an client problem why it's declining the address. Is it well configured to use a DHCP address. Try runing dhclient manually. 

First what would you install apt instead of having yum? And second you'll need to find a source to had to yum so it can install apt, but because the two programs (apt and yum) are doing the same job but on different platform I don't think you will find one. So I think you'll need to build apt from source (see on Source Forge). 

It seems that the return path for the packets is not known. To be sure you would need to check intermediate routes, I'll get to that in the end. When you ping 10.10.3.50 from the 10.10.2.0/24 host it is forwarded your default gateway (lets assume 10.10.2.1), then itself checks its own routing table and sees the route for 10.10.3.0/24 via 10.10.1.5. A ICMP redirect can normally be ignored since its purpose is only to shorten hops needed and router load. But it is sent because its seems that the next hop is on the same physical net as the request cames from. But what you should check is wheter or not the 10.10.3.0/24 router as a route for the source subnet 10.10.2.0/24. 

The ~ means the home directory of the current user (or the user you try to connect to), but watch out adding the authorized_keys file to a user permits the one with the private key to connect to your server (without any password). 

What you'll have to do is use UUID of your partition instead of partition special file. If your unbuntu is recent it will use UUID by default in GRUB and /etc/fstab. 

If I understood well you want to delegate the DNS from your registar to your own DNS server. So yes it is possible you just have to tell your registar to point to it. You will need to add an NS record and a A record to point to your server and server's IP address And so you'll will be the authoritative DNS server for your zone. It should look like this: registar: example.com. IN NS ns1.example.com. example.com. IN NS ns2.example.com. ns1.example.com. IN A 0.0.0.0 ;; ip of ns server is needed because it's the only way for everbody ns2.example.com. IN A 0.0.0.0 ;; to know where you are You: example.com. IN SOA ( ;;; soa blargh!! As it means Start Of Authority you are the one ) example.com. IN NS ns1.example.com. example.com. IN NS ns2.example.com. a.ramdom.host.example.com. IN A 0.0.0.0 ;; ip of a random host 

I am trying to follow this procedure to add a registry key to all my domains computer. The thing is that I don't see anything under: 

I not sure to what you want to install both apache version on your server. It is like you want the brand new model of car and the old one too. There is no reason you can not install it but there will be a problem if they try to serve on the same port (80) as on will block the other. But if you configure them on different port it will work. Again I don't know why you want to do this. 

The vast majority of my tapes are like B and C. A is the outlier. I'm looking for some sort of best practice here. The tapes are verifying OK. I don't want to have a tape fail just when I want to restore, but I also don't want to toss a tape with a handful of errors if it's unnecessary. 

We're just trying to bring our Macs into the fold here. My original plan was to use Backup Exec's Mac agent. Then I found out that the agent doesn't support 10.9, or even 10.8. So if you're keeping the OS up-to-date, that's out. I've heard legend tell that the next SP will get it up to speed, but I'm not holding my breath. It has been a few years, but Retrospect used to be the gold (and only) standard for Mac backup. Install the agent and you could set a schedule so the Macs would back up once connected to the network. I don't have recent experience with it, though it did work via VPN many moons ago. You'd then want to have it save the backup sets to storage that you would sweep into your existing backup environment. If you get a Mac Mini with OS X Server, you can redirect Time Machine on the laptops to the network, then sweep that connection up with another disk backup tool. I don't know if there's any granularity to Time Machine, though -- I believe it grabs the entire disk, or nothing. I know you mentioned cloud may not be an option, but if that is because of the VMs (which are now out of scope?), then perhaps that makes your CrashPlan/BackBlaze/Carbonite options more palatable. If you do want to bring the VMs in scope, you could install a Windows-based agent in the VM, and treat that as you would anything else. 

At this point, unless your email system is providing your business some impressive value-add, it's probably best to think of it as a commodity. It's going to be hard to find an ROI that is better than an outsourced solution unless you have a very compelling argument as to why you need to bring it in-house. With the Google Apps, you have some flexibility should you change your mind down the road. But without dedicated sysadmin support and some specific value-add that you can justify in savings, I don't think you'll beat Google's price once you factor in hosting, hardware, and the opportunity cost of your sysadmin not working on revenue-producing activities because your mail server's IP is suddenly on a blacklist. 

Your network sounds very similar to ours. Here's what we did. We map the drives and the printer by user using login scripts for the drives and Deployed Printer GPOs for the printers. Everyone has the same departmental drive K, but that is mapped to a different share for each department. In our AD, it's easiest since all users are divided into OUs by department whilst the computers are divided into OUs by OS. Since we do not have a mobile workforce, this works fine for us and is minimally fussy. If you want to go all Group Policy on your drives, you can use Group Policy Preferences to map drives. We've had our little batch scripts forever, so we haven't used it, but I've heard good things. 

It's not because you pay for something it is good, this is what I trust. But alot of people think the converse. 1 000 000 million people can be wrong. 

No I checked at the man page of netstat and there is no way of knowing the time of an established connection using netstat. And I don't think it is stored anywhere because connection are so dynamic. 

Yes it's possible to do so put a htaccess in the file you want to moderate the access. Put the same text as in the configuration file. Make sure that your conf files will read .htaccess. 

auditd is a good utility to know what have been done to every file. It might not be what you need tough. 

As they are block these connections are not harmful for a DDOS. Logs are only there to let you know who tried to attack you. What is harmful is when the number of half connection opened gets near the limit you specified in your config. What I suggest you is to follow the advice of Zypher and have your firewall to moderate these connections. 

I accidently create a "\" file into my linux how to revert it. I tried rm \ (as it's the escaping character it didn't work), rm '\' and rm \\ nothing worked. 

I want to place a VPN beetween home and school because I do not trust the network down there. If I configure the VPN server with NAT-T (nat-traversal) and configure my router to foward UDP 20 -> UDP 500 && UDP 21 -> 4500 (I also configure the client to use UDP 20 for IKE and 21 for NAT-t) will the configuration works? And is IKE mandatory in order to ipsec to function? 

An apple's airport express can do do the job as well as any other wireless router. You'll need to configure the router in a browser type: 192.168.1.1 or 192.168.0.1 and follow what you need to. 

Normally it will be an unsigned 32 bit (on 32-bit system) so 2^32 = 4294967296. So the range is 0-4294967295. 

For some reason those cmdlet are availible using the 64 bit version of powershell. It is shown as Windows PowerShell in the menu, without the trailling (x86). If it is not shown in the applications menu just search for it. You should then have access to the cmdlet for deduplication. 

I am using Windows Server 2012 R2, and after it reboots I absolutely need to connect to it in local or else it will not allow any connections (RDP, shared folders). What is the option (local or group policy) to allow connection without needing one to connect to it in person. 

In grub legacy it uses exclusively menu.lst. In grub2 grub.cfg which you should never modify by your self. If I recall correctly there are commands called grub2-install and update-grub2 on debian that will configure grub.cfg.