The following image is of the drive side of the front disc rotor (where the rotor is pressed into the inboard pad.) 

Trying to take the freehub body off my bike. The bike is a fairly low end Raleigh Shimano Tourney set up. I got a 12mm hex, inserted it into the hex groove on the freehub side and tried to turn it anti-clockwise. It will not come off. Gone so far as to use fit an adjustable wrench on the hex shaft for more leverage and use a deadblow hammer on the end of it. (Shorter end of the hex not quite long enough to use it in the other orientation that would supply better leverage). Are freehubs meant to be on this tight or am I doing something wrong? 

Notice the marks where the pad material has transferred onto the rotor in each picture. The marks end further inward toward the centre of the disk on the outboard pad side, than on the side where the inboard pad hits it. Because of the way the brake works (bending the rotor at an angle as it is pushed into the stationary inboard pad), this would make sense to me as the very top of the rotor hits the inboard pad, and because of the angle, leaves a gap lower down. But is this how BB5s are supposed to be? I say this because the while a similar thing is happening on the rear rotor, it is not quite as pronounced (ie, the inboard pad side seems to be hitting a smidge more square on, and does not squeal). I have played around with different pad adjustments as well as caliper alignment. I've tried the sanding the rotor and pads trick. And it's new so nothing is contaminated and I've used alcohol on everything just to be sure. Nothing seems to make any difference either with trying to bring the position of the inboard pad lower as it makes contact, or the squealing itself. I took it to my LBS, he seems to think it's an acceptable set up and just needs riding, but did not say why the rear seems to be acting differently to the front, despite setting them up in the same way multiple times. Could it be a slight manufacturing defect on the front one that causes the inboard pad to sit at a slight angle (it's not totally clear with the naked eye). 

You could try wiping the grease in the stem off with some alcohol or thinners. Even a little bit in there could be a problem. I'd leave cheater bar alone and try and get them snug without using it. Stems aren't something you want to fail suddenly. Have you checked the dimensions of the bar and stem? 

As an aside, what makes you think the BMX stuff will be better? BMX stuff is usually designed to be robust rather than the absolute best. Your V-brakes are almost certainly good enough. 

Lever throw is how much the lever moves in total. Cable slack is how slack the cable is, ie. how much you have to pull before the brake pads start moving. Park Tool says: 

After cleaning I give the bolts a small squirt of WD40 followed by a good rub down. This leaves a very fine film of oil that won't hold dirt but is just enough to stave off the rust if done regularly. The spray also displaces (WD, water displacement, geddit?) any water left from cleaning in any little gaps. 

I've recently been shopping for headsets and now believe you don't need to go all the way down, but longer is better. 

Your plan sounds pretty sane to me. Depending on how tolerant your parents are, I would prefer to leave the bike intact and open to the air, so it can dry if it gets damp, but that may not be possible. I returned from uni, a long time ago now, and dug out my old mountain bike. It hadn't been prepared for 3 years on its own but came out just fine, less a few parts my brother had relieved me of. When you return you'll want to give them a pretty through service but over 2 years nothing much should have degraded. Tires would most likely be fine, if they're tubeless the sealant will have dried out and either disappeared or formed a lump of goo. They'll be flat and may crack along the fold. Some bolts will have some surface rust. 

I've got a cheap new rear wheel. Disassembled the cones etc and replaced with my own grease. When trying to adjust the bearings to the correct tension, it gets to a point where the axle will make small movements smoothly, but will suddenly give a lot of resistance. If i turn the axle (not the cone), back to where it was smooth, there is still play in the axle, suggesting the axle should be rotating smoothly the entire 360 degrees. When I remove the cones, I usually see that one of the bearings has 'jumped' out of its position and on top of one of the others. What could be causing this? It's new so there's no pitting or corrosion. I think I used an acceptable amount of grease and there are 9 bearings each side. 

I have found before that if you decide to do the quick release up tighter than usual it can tighten up the bearings a little too much and you might hear a fairly regular noise as the wheel rotates. I'm not sure I would call it a 'scratching' noise, but maybe that's it. Try a looser quick release adjustment. If the noise remains the same then you can rule this idea out. 

I'm setting up some Avid BB5s. As I tried to bed in the brakes, the front one squeals quite heavily, the back does not. The following image is of the non-drive side of the front disc rotor. (Where the outboard pad hits.) 

They are most likely going to try and shim it with a small piece of metal, a bit of old beer tin or similar. You can buy these off the shelf for mismatched seat tubes/posts but I've never seen a headset specific one. Once everything is assembled and clamped down it should be as good as new. 

Pulling the tire from the rim is the easiest way. If you want to avoid spilling any sealant, have a friend or stand hold the wheel off the ground so the tire can keep its shape. 

This depends on where you are to some extent. I would start by asking either the local police or council and if they're not interested a locksmith. Going with someone official makes the job look a lot less sketchy. Might be worth while having the receipt or some photos of you and the bike handy incase you're challenged. That said, most cable locks are pretty worthless and if you're not worried about getting stopped, some quality cable cutters or small bolt cutters would do the trick. And, yours isn't, but for combination locks, you can usually decode them by pulling on the lock body and turning the barrels gently until you feel a click. 

Just keep on doing what you're doing. To get good at anything, the easiest way is to keep doing that thing. As an aside, I find I descend a lot quicker when I'm wearing a cap with the peak down. I think that having the peak in my field of view forces me to keep my head up.