As it turns out, after performing the assessment and then looking over my previous workouts, I've been running slightly faster than I should have been on most of my intervals for my current training level (edging into yellow frequently, and staying at the top of green yesterday, even though I was really trying hard to slow down). Getting the Pacer configured right should really help with getting my levels down so my heart rate isn't 190 bpm while I'm running. 

The extra weight in muscle, unless artificially generated through steroids or other unhealthy means will have nothing but possible positive effects on your health, including your heart. Extra weight in fat, on the other hand, is very damaging to your health, including your heart. It also causes a myriad of other health problems, including the storage of toxins in your body which muscle would readily flush out. 

I've watched part of the Ab Ripper X video, and reviewed all the exercises involved, and while I've not tried the program particularly, I have used several of the exercises that they have in their routine in my workouts in the past and can say with absolute certainty that the exercises will build muscle and burn calories. How many calories you will burn I could not state for certain. Also, there is a limit to how far this workout will take you, and at that point, you'll need to add more reps, more resistance, or increase the intensity in some other more creative way in order to continue to progress. If you are overweight or have excess fat on your stomach, having strong stomach muscles will not make your stomach look less fatty or more ripped/toned. You'll need to lose the fat to show off the muscles. Losing the fat involves a change in diet and/or activity level, probably beyond what you're going to get just from the Ab Ripper X routine. Ab Ripper X is a fairly intense workout, especially for a beginner or someone not already in decent shape, and as Meade Rubenstein pointed out, starting out with too intense a workout often causes beginners to lose interest and quit. Building a stronger, healthier you is a lifestyle change with a lifetime commitment. 

If you have the muscles built already, then the thing you need to do is just practice. Eventually you'll remember to call on the muscles you need and it will become second nature. There is an example known as the Johari Window which is commonly used to portray this: 

It sounds like you're currently in the third phase of this process from your question and comments, and if you will continue to consciously practice and make an effort to perform the movements correctly with correct posture, it will eventually become a trained response that you will perform automatically. Just don't give up and keep on practicing! 

This is an interesting question, as "Dairy Products" will help you lose weight due to their high calcium concentration (Source). "Lactose" specifically, though, is where the carbohydrates in milk come from, and complex carbohydrates are converted into glycogen in the liver and used for the body's energy source, thus inhibiting the body from burning it's fat as a resource. 

You don't want to overdo electrolytes, so if you're going to get them from fruits or vegetables, don't add much of anything. An avocado is a great example to get potassium. Also, bananas are great as well. Presumably unprocessed banana chips (dehydrated banana) would be a good start. Celery is also a good way to up your sodium levels. All of your electrolytes can be gotten from purely natural sources, and your body will absorb them slightly easier from these natural sources. The basic thing to remember is what your electrolytes are: sodium chloride, potassium, magnesium, and calcium. Potatoes, avocados, and bananas are good for potassium, leafy green vegetables like lettuce and cabbage for magnesium, cheese and yogurt for calcium, and celery for sodium chloride. Just plain table salt will also work for sodium chloride. High fiber isn't a big concern. Fiber is regulatory, not diuretic. As long as you're going normally to start with, then having the extra fiber won't cause you to need to go in the middle. The big thing is the amount you'll need to consume to balance your electrolytes may actually cause you to need to go, so I would start switching over to the natural stuff slowly to see how you perform. Example: 1oz of cheese on a few leaves of lettuce, 1/4 - 1/2 of an avocado, and a celery stalk for a "salad". That will add a load of electrolytes, but only be about 1 - 1 1/2 cups of food. Start that during practice so that if you do have to stop to go, you can get the timing down to where you can eat it long enough before you begin that you'll need to go before your run. 

Apples, celery, cabbage, and etc. are considered "negative" calorie foods. While I understand that the "negative" portion of that statement is largely mythical in nature, as they are actually just lower calorie, high fiber foods[1], I'm wondering if they're a good source to renew energy or stave off that gnawing hungry feeling during or after a workout, such as a long run, and if they are a better, more "natural" alternative for energy as opposed to something along the lines of a Clif bar, energy packets like Hammer Nutrition, or something similar? 

You certainly don't want to be hungry right in the middle of your run, as that hungry feeling is quite distracting. Eating immediately before exercise though can lead to cramps, which are quite undesirable as well. Running.about.com suggests eating a light snack or meal an hour and a half to two hours prior to running. They also suggest that what you do eat be higher in carbohydrates for quickly available energy, and lower in fat, fiber, and protein. My personal experience is that I'm fine to run in the morning provided I ate a sufficient supper the night before. If I didn't, I'll have something light like less than 300 calories about an hour before I go. I will say though, I'm not quite up to 5K yet either, and I can't guarantee that my personal experience will remain the same as I increase my running distances. Another article on about.com agrees with this, stating that you should simply get up early enough to eat well before your run if you're going to be running for more than an hour. They also suggest a 300-500 calorie breakfast. As a less-preferred alternative, they suggest taking an energy gel about 30 minutes into your run. 

Any time you perform an activity that causes joint pain or soreness, you're doing long-term cumulative damage to your joints. Typically, soccer (football) should not cause knee joint pain. There are a few different things that can cause this: 

Yes, you are experiencing a lack of blood flow, and thus oxygen deprivation, to those parts of your body. Most of your blood will be pumping through your legs (actually, your legs are helping to push blood through your heart) and less will be flowing to other areas of the body, specifically areas level with or above the heart will take the largest deficit of blood flow and oxygen. If you are experiencing a tingling sensation like that, then you need to slow down and let your body regain some oxygen. If you are running with your arms out, or your elbows bent at greater than a 90 degree angle, you are more likely to experience the tingling in your fingers. Your hands will likely be raised higher than your heart, and an increased bend in your elbow will also create a tighter area for the blood to pump through. You can't really lower your head below your heart when you're running though, and your brain is in your head, so if you are experiencing a lack of oxygen to your fingers and lips, you are also experiencing a lack of oxygen to your brain, and this can cause damage or in extreme cases even be fatal. When I run, my heart rate used to get up to around 185 and I didn't experience any of those symptoms, so I would think that it is likely not just your BPM but also the amount of oxygen you are consuming and burning. You may need to control your breathing a little better by taking longer, deeper breaths. If you are overdoing it, breathing like this will slow you down on it's own, since you will start hyperventilating if you are running too hard. You aren't really doing yourself any favors by running that hard. The amount of energy, in calories, that is expended during a hard run is barely higher than the amount expended in a slower run (on the magnitude of around 20 calories per mile). According to this chart, the amount of calories expended (and work done) per mile is exactly the same at 5 miles per hour and 10 miles per hour, you just get more miles in the same amount of time. 

While she's working out, she will gain muscle and lose fat, and that can appear as a stall. If she still wants to focus on losing some weight, and still has 60 pounds to lose, she could likely cut 500-1000 calories from her diet and maintain some weight loss while not limiting muscle gains. Every 500 calorie daily deficit is a pound per week. I'm not incredibly familiar with the specifics of Weight Watchers, but I do know that there is no reason for a normal, healthy person (without hormone problems, or other health problems) with excess adipose tissue (fat) not to be able to lose it while continuing to work out and maintain a healthy lifestyle, with the exception of too much caloric intake. If she is still losing inches, but not losing weight, I personally wouldn't be as concerned about it, as cutting more calories can add some complications such as hunger and/or weakness during workouts. Those complications can easily be dealt with, however, if she would like to see the scales drop as well. I did this myself on the Atkins diet. I stopped losing weight but was still dropping inches. I cut nearly 1000 calories from my diet and started losing again immediately. 

Fructose (the substance enzymatically produced from sucrose in the production of high fructose corn syrup) is found naturally in fruits, vegetables, and grains. As with any sweetener, eating too much of it will naturally raise the amount of carbohydrates in your diet and upset the natural way in which the body expects to be nourished. The only difference in the two is that fructose is absorbed into the body slightly faster than sucrose, meaning that eating excessive amounts of fructose will yield slightly more weight gain than sucrose over a shorter period of time, but will have little to no relative effect over the long term: if you overeat, whether it's sucrose, fructose, or fat, you'll gain weight. Period. Much of the processed and "fast" foods now contain added sugar or high fructose corn syrup for seasoning purposes, and those foods which have been artificially sweetened should be avoided generally. It is always healthier to eat natural foods in their raw form. Calorie free sweeteners and sugar alcohols are a matter of debate, and from studies conducted seem to largely depend on how an individual responds to them. 

Getting proper nutrients is essential to maintaining a healthy immune system. Human bodies are built on a system of threes. We start with three macronutrients: carbohydrates, proteins, and fats. Each one of those is broken down by a system of three micronutrients. The micronutrients' balances are maintained through a system of threes as well. The same is true of plants, which is why we give them three part fertilizers, such as nitrogen, potassium, and phosphorus. If you don't have enough of a balance in these things, your body will become weakened and ill. You should start by maintaining a healthy lifestyle of proper exercise and nutrition. Exercise plays almost as large of a role in staying away from the doctor as proper diet (Source). Taking a vitamin will help to ensure that you are getting most of your necessary vitamins and nutrients, and will help largely with staying away from the doctor. Lastly, as Sparafusile pointed out, there are some conditions that will require medication or surgical intervention to prevent you from being sick, such as hormonal imbalances. Depending on the type of illness you keep encountering, it would be wise to seek a specialist if you are certain you are maintaining a healthy diet and exercise routine but continue to fall ill. 

Being overweight in general is bad for your knees. Stressing that and adding the intense of shock of running to the already overweight state is just asking for trouble. The amount you are overweight definitely has some to do with this as well, as 5 extra pounds is obviously going to be less damaging than 50. I would seriously consider starting with a brisk walk instead until you are down to a more manageable weight. 

You can take all of the listed various vitamins and supplements together. If you're only going to take them once a day, it is more beneficial to take them with your largest meal of the day, and that hopefully being dinner rather than with breakfast. (Source) (Source) However, it is better to take smaller amounts with each meal than to take a single large dose once a day if at all possible. This way your body will maintain a more constant and stable supply of it's needed vitamins and nutrients. You need to remember that some vitamins are fat-soluble (dissolve in fat) and some vitamins are water-soluble (dissolve in water). If you have a low-fat meal with your multivitamins, you're going to miss out on all the fat-soluble vitamins and only absorb the water-soluble ones. The reason you're suggested to take your vitamins at your largest meal if you can't take them in multiple phases is because your largest meal is the most likely to be well-rounded for more full absorption of the vitamins. 

There are several great posture building exercises. One is to lay on your stomach on the floor (or on a pillow or something if this makes your back hurt) with your arms above your head. Then raise your pelvis off the floor and one leg and the opposite arm (pelvis, right leg, left arm or pelvis, left leg, right arm). This can be extended into Supermans once you're comfortable doing them, by simultaneously lifting both arms, both legs, and your pelvis at the same time. Another is to simply do Planks. Lay on your stomach resting on your forearms. pull your body up into a strait line with only your forearms and toes touching the floor and hold that position as long as you feel comfortable, then lower yourself back down. As Sparafusile stated, you can also do rows. One of the easiest ways to exercise the muscles exercised doing rows is to lay down on your stomach on a bench with dumbbells on either side and lift them up until your elbows are straight out to your sides and your elbows are bent at a 45 degree angle. About.com also has a great article with more exercises to strengthen back muscles. You should take into consideration your age as well, and any other conditions which may play a part in having a hunch in your back, such as scoliosis or damaged vertebrae or discs. If any exercise causes you extreme discomfort or pain, stop doing it immediately and talk to your doctor. 

Two weeks isn't adequate time to make a determination if you're not in good shape to start. You will improve if you are following the directions properly. Just don't give up, and stick with it. From your question, it sounds like you're probably also doing this at home via multiple sources, media, or routines. Pick ONE, and stick with that one. Don't try to follow multiple routines or programs, find a single routine, and practice that single routine, nothing more or less. You will see much more improvement in that manner than you will by trying to work from multiple sources simultaneously.