Taking at face value your assertion that this employee's participation and presence is required for every topic under discussion at the meeting, I would have little to add to the other answers. However, there are a couple considerations from the employee's perspective: 

It's been my experience that knowledge workers don't like being dictated to about policies for which they see no purpose. You do state a purpose, but the employees you are managing seem to think it is not a good one. Further, there are probably alternatives that you have not considered, and given what sounds like an issue being "dictated from above," your employees may either not have thought of them, do not feel comfortable proposing them, or feel that they would simply be shot down. If the only reason you are implementing the policy is because of tension with people in other departments, it's your job to manage that tension so that your people can work most effectively. I don't think that's the only reason, though. For example, what if a developer is needed to fix an urgent production issue that happens at 8:00 or 9:00 or whatever other time? However, it is unlikely that you need all your developers present to fix that issue. What if you had a rotating (unless someone volunteers) "early" schedule, so that each developer takes a turn being required to be there at 8:00 (or 9:00, etc.)? That solution seems more likely to satisfy both the business needs and the desires of your employees. Everyone "shares the pain" (or inflicts it on someone who doesn't mind it). People can come in and work most of the time when they feel they would be most productive. This is just one possibility, but it may generate discussion with your employees about how to solve the real problems and satisfy everyone's interests here. If you choose to go down the more disciplinary route, and the "start time" issue truly is important to your developers, you will lose your good ones to other employment. Your employees are likely to feel insecure in their jobs (what if some real emergency actually happens one day to make someone late?). Further, this can be seen as a shift in management in the wrong direction (from your employees' perspective), since they did previously have experience working under someone else. It's up to you, of course, but I would urge you to take a step back and try harder to see the situation from your employees' perspective. You have a job to do, of course, but I think there are solutions that better satisfy everyone's interests than the one you are proposing. 

Background I just started an internship and while I'm enjoying myself I've spotted a few areas where efficiency and productivity could be improved. I am also not very busy (read: overqualified and bored) so it would be nice to see if I could develop a product to help solve it. Here's the hitch: I've just ended my first week and I'm only at the company for another 2 1/2 months. Then I'm back to university. Facts (Just since people are questioning implementation, I'm not too concerned about that bit myself. Just wondering about the ethics bit) 

I'm not experienced and would be happy to see any part of their work. I could (literally) go wiring avionics, inspecting fan blades or riveting skin panels and would be satisfied. To compound #1, I'm a bit late into this, so I am not in the position to be picky. Several of the companies are cold-calls with no 'official' positions listed. 

Are there additional tasks in your workload? Make a quick list. For this answer, I will presume that the list above represents your complete workload. Given that spending time on one task takes time away from other tasks, it is important to the business that the most important business priorities are delivered the fastest. In an abstract sense, the task with the highest business value (highest profit, regulatory benefit, cost savings, etc.) and the least cost (delivered in a shorter timeframe, purchased off-the-shelf versus development in-house, etc.) is the task that should be accomplished first. Usually -- as I believe is the case here -- the value vs. cost is not entirely clear. Fortunately, you don't have to rank all your tasks this way, since business priorities change all the time. Just rank the top few. In a more practical sense, I would recommend: Organize your thoughts and tasks. Look at your task list. Are there tasks (such as lower-priority defects with the internal website) that can be delayed until after the launch of the two websites? Are there parts of tasks that can be reused, especially between the two websites? Are there libraries (free or paid) that may solve parts of your problem for you? Don't spend much time on this effort, but even a few minutes organizing this list will help you have a conversation with the business stakeholders. Get agreement on business priorities for your tasks Now that you have a list, find out which tasks in your workload have the most business value from the perspective of your management. This means asking your manager -- and anyone else your manager believes should be involved -- to decide which tasks in your workload take priority over the others. In your situation, the two questions I would most likely raise are: 

From your description it sounds like you were assertive, and not over-assertive, in how you handled this issue. Unless there was some other aspect of the interview that gave rise to that assessment, it might be that you just got unlucky in getting a bad interviewer. That happens sometimes, and sadly there's not much to do about it. It's important to learn from experience, but sometimes it's just as important not to over-learn. Sometimes the error isn't on your side, in which case you shouldn't change your approach to cater to one person's foibles. The tough part is figuring out which ones should be learning experiences and which ones shouldn't, but then that's what this sort of post is for - getting feedback from others. 

In my opinion, the error you've described is very minor. But even if it weren't - let the recruiters make that call. It's not your girlfriend's job to look for reasons to disqualify herself. Now, if the error had been something likely to mislead recruiters (like, say, overstating her role in a previous job) then she would have an ethical obligation to correct it. This could be done at the time of interview: "Hi, before we get started, I just wanted to correct an error on my application..." But it doesn't sound like this error falls into that category. The recruiters presumably already know the name of the office they're recruiting for. They will notice the error, if it matters enough to notice. 

I've just joined a company as an intern making Widgets as one of few foreigners. As part of this, I read some training material used in courses that customers buy for the company's products and discovered that substantial parts of it were written in very poor English. I'm not native but I found mistakes all over the place and cringed at the bad structure. I passed by the higher boss who oversees my team as well as the training department. I offered to correct it; he appreciated the gesture. The training department didn't seem too interested or helpful but were like 'oh sure, go ahead'. Now I'm concerned I've embarrassed the department in question having sent in the corrections: 

I'm not in the position to direct people, but I think that this stuff was unacceptable and feel a bit of personal interest of maintaining the company's professional image. Industry: Engineering, Europe Addition: I've been respectful/soft in all communication. 

You may have an interesting opportunity here, actually, though it may be tough to perceive this opportunity through the pressure you feel. Why? 

I have a software product that may have some appeal to a relatively small, vertical market. I am considering hiring a salesperson part-time (which can be in addition to the salesperson's other work provided that there are no conflicts of interest) to sell this product, customizations to the product, etc. What should I look for in such a salesperson? 

Production support ("we have just released on production our new internal website and we are constantly running on bugs related to it"); and Creation of two websites in a rapid timeframe ("I have been given the task to complete two websites in twenty-one days") 

From these questions, gain agreement on which work is to be done first. If production support issues are the most important, they get done first. If some production support issues can wait until after one website or both websites are done, work on the websites first. Important: "agreement" does not mean "set in stone." Business priorities can and do change all the time. As long as you recognize and the business stakeholders recognize that changes come with a cost, if your manager (or other "boss") changes your priorities, and you have advised the business on the cost, then your priorities have changed. Keep the business updated at least daily on your progress This doesn't need to take long. A quick e-mail should suffice. Raise any new issues that someone else could reasonably help you resolve. If you are waiting to get a question answered, work on your next priority That way, you are continuing to make progress. Don't push yourself past your level of productivity You have a job that requires you to think -- or at least, we hope so. It does no one any good for you to keep working when you are too tired to continue. Get some rest and come back the next day, rested and ready to work. You are in a tough situation. You may or may not get everything done that the business wants. But -- the business is almost certainly better off if you deliver something usable. If you can get your first website done in a little under half the time allotted -- or at least the most important, usable parts of that first website -- you are in a great position to reassess the situation with the business. Good luck to you. Many of us have been in situations like this, and while you cannot and should not constantly work in crisis mode, know that you can survive this ordeal and maybe demonstrate more worth to this employer -- or a more reasonable, future one. 

Some time back I read a great article: "Don't Self-Reject". It's written as advice to SF/F authors who are deciding whether to submit their work to a publisher, but the basic message is relevant to almost anybody looking for a job: you shouldn't be rejecting your own work before the editor (recruiter) even gets a chance to assess it. Summarising the ideas in that article, and translating to the workplace: 

Obviously each person has their own priorities, but if a candidate isn't thinking about anything along those lines, I would have concerns about their judgement and maturity. For another: if you don't take an interest in what it is we do, and how we do it, there's a high risk that you will end up building solutions that don't meet our needs. I've seen this happen, with a scary-smart technical whiz who didn't understand that our IT policies were very different to the places where she'd worked before; she put a lot of effort into building a software tool that didn't meet our security rules. As an interviewer, I'll do my best to avoid wasting a candidate's time. But if I notice that a candidate is getting impatient after just a few minutes of talk, that doesn't bode well for how they're going to cope on the job. If it's only five minutes, your best option is to be patient, nod and smile, and think of some questions that the recruiter can answer. You may waste a few minutes listening to their canned spiel, but it's better than wasting hours having to put in another job application because you alienated the interviewer for this one. 

Dilemma For a short internship, I'm wondering if it's worth the trouble to do the stuff just for this company and loosing ownership over it afterwards. 

I've realized that they probably didn't overly appreciate getting corrected by the new intern. Should I do anything to seem helpful rather than just obtrusive and superior? I suspect that I might have to do more work with the department in question. 

Is it unethical to go with personal development of this idea and then to sell it back to them? (although perhaps give it to them for some time span for free perhaps or similar benefit, but I retain ownership over it) Field: Engineering, Central Europe 

Footnote: When customers fork out substantial amount of money for training courses, they should be able to expect that materials are free of for instance elementary spelling errors (e.g. it's vs its). Nobody in the department are native speakers but I think it's unacceptable in the safety-critical industry in question. 

As an interviewer, I would not be enthusiastic about a candidate whose attitude was "don't care what you do, I just want to know what technology you have". For one thing, anybody with an ounce of self-interest should be interested in some of the non-technical aspects of the job. Stuff like: 

Depending on your relationship with your managers, it may or may not be helpful to discuss that you're feeling frustrated with this situation. (At least, I'm assuming you're feeling frustrated, because I certainly would be in your shoes!) Some places understand that supporting employees' career development is good for long-term retention, even if it means some trade-offs in the short term, and in that sort of environment it can help to be candid about how you're feeling. Others aren't as enlightened and may hold it against you; that's something you'll need to gauge for yourself. If they say no to that, then it's definitely time to start looking for opportunities elsewhere. Good management doesn't penalise people for making themselves useful! 

Location: Germany, Branch: Engineering Background: I've been invited for an interview at a company's main office. They offer a (fixed) travel reimbursement based on travel distance from your home address. I had a trip planned to my parent's house that happens on the date of the interview, so I will travel from their place to the company. Their house is perhaps half the distance to the company (but still in the range of several hundred kilometers). Seen on a map going through their house would be a massive detour from my home address. Dilemma: Is it ethical to not disclose that my travel distance happens to be shorter than expected? 

I was writing a motivation letter for an internship and showed it to a friend who responded “You're actually not saying what you want.” He was in the opinion that I should say what I want to do- except that I have three slight issues with this: