I am not a massage therapist, but I have received many different types of massages and treatments over the years, so I can share my experience. If you get a deep tissue massage - sometimes called a "swedish" massage - the muscle areas that were massaged are going to feel a little sore afterwards and the muscles themselves are going to be dehydrated somewhat. This is why after getting a deep tissue massage you are encouraged to drink plenty of water to help re-hydrate your muscles. I would definitely not recommend getting a massage like that before a competition. It will hurt your performance, not help. If you get a relaxation massage where they use light pressure then I would say go ahead and do that before a competition if you feel it helps your movement during a run and with breathing. Having said all of that, what I would think to be the best kind of treatment to receive before a run or any kind of competition would be some assisted stretching after you perform a light warm-up routine. Spend 10-20 minutes doing light exercise (just enough to where your heart beat is slightly elevated) then get on a table where someone can help you go through some stretching routines. That has helped me the most before any kind of competition and gets me the most loosened up. 

If Nadal reaches the final, he's earned (at least) +300 points. Let's assume Djokovic beats Nadal in the final - and reclaims the +500 points that expired: 

What you are describing sounds like a player that has trouble with their "transition" game - the shots and strategies you use when an opponent hits a short or attack-able shot to you and it draws you up to the net or puts you in a position to attempt hitting a winner. In my experience, players that have trouble with their transition game are your stereotypical "baseline basher" type players that have a pretty consistent and topspin-heavy stroke from around the baseline, but don't spend too much time developing other shots (slice, drop shots, volleys, etc.). Some players just don't develop an all-court game and try to get by on overpowering their opponent from the baseline. That type of game works up until a certain level of opponent, just not against better opponents that know how to handle power and can effectively defend against it. 

At the point when you are making contact with the ball, your arm should be straight with your elbow locked. Your wrist is what generally moves or 'rolls over' as you swing the racquet to hit the ball. Your elbow should only bend after contact during your follow-through. See this video of Roger hitting forehands to see what I mean. $URL$ 

So, tennis tournament draws follow some mathematical rules, but also incorporate a bit of random chance to try and keep things interesting and fair. It seems like you already understand how seeding works so I won't bother explaining that - but I would like to point out that certain tennis tournaments sometimes follow different rules for determining the seed for a player and don't just strictly follow the ranking = seed formula that other tournaments use. For example, Wimbledon has their own formula that incorporates the player's performance in matches played on grass since that's the surface Wimbledon is played on. Let's first ask ourselves - what is the point of having a methodology for how a tournament draw is constructed? The answer is - the main purpose is to preserve match-ups between highly seeded players until the later rounds of the tournament. It's a way for the "difficulty of opponent" quotient to increase as the tournament progresses. Knowing that, we can understand why - for every tournament - the #1 seed is placed at the top of the bracket and the #2 seed is placed at the bottom of the bracket. This ensures that the only match those two players can meet in is the final and attempts to keep those top seeded players participating in the tournament for as many rounds as possible (and $ell a$ many ticket$ a$ po$$ible). After the #1 and #2 seeds have been placed, things get a little more random, but not by much. The scale of the formula changes depending on the size of the bracket but for the purpose of this answer I'll look at last years (2016) Wimbledon Men's Singles Draw. In this draw you can see that Novak Djokovic was seeded #1 and placed at the top of the draw in position 1 with Andy Murray seeded #2 and placed at the bottom in position 128. In keeping with the theme of preserving big name matches until later rounds - seeds #3 and #4 are put into their own "quarters" of the draw to ensure that they won't play the #1 or #2 seed until the semi-finals at the earliest. This is why #3 seed Roger Federer is placed in the second quarter of the draw in position 33 and #4 seed Stan Wawrinka is placed in the third quarter of the draw in position 96. Keep in mind that after the #1 and #2 seeds are placed - the rest of the placing of seeds into the draw can be somewhat random and different. In the example I just gave, Federer and Wawrinka's positions (33 and 96) could have been swapped depending on the randomness of their names being chosen - by someone pulling their name from a hat (at all 4 majors anyway). Different tournaments use different methods for name selection and have changed those methods historically at certain times. Here's a link to a draw ceremony video of the 2015 Australian Open Women's Singles draw if you care to watch. So, back to the placement of seeds. Keep in mind the idea of "quadrants" - so 4 blocks each having 32 places in a tournament bracket size of 128. After the #1 and #2 seeds are placed, the rest of the seeds (#3 through #32) are placed somewhat randomly, but in specific positions in each quadrant of the draw. Again, those positions help to ensure matches between the better players not happen until the later rounds. You can notice a pattern to those positions mathematically. They are 1, 8, 9, 16, 17, 24, 25, 32, 33, 40, 41....down to 104, 105, 112, 113, 120, 121 and finally 128 (for the #2 seed). If every match went according to plan with the (higher) seeded player winning, this placement of seeds into the bracket would lead to: 

Higher quality racquets are generally going to cost somewhere between $150 and $200 when purchased new from a shop. If possible, I would recommend buying from an actual tennis shop - the big chain stores like Sports Authority, Sports Chalet, Big 5, etc. generally don't have very knowledgeable employees when it comes to tennis equipment. Most tennis shops also have a demo program where they let you take racquets you're interested in and go try them out before you buy anything. Most of the big chain stores do not have demo programs. The racquets you referenced were probably around $30 (I'm guessing) so the jump to paying $150 or more for a racquet might seem like a big investment. This is another reason to try and find a tennis shop - they might have some used (demo) racquets they want to sell and you could get a really good deal (like half-price) on a higher quality racquet that would still last you a long time. Also - since you're a beginner, look for a racquet that has at least a 100" sq. in. head size. This will give you a bigger area to hit the ball with, a bigger sweet spot, and more stability on contact. It will also give you easier power. 

I'll have to research this in depth to get a more certain answer, but it is likely that it has happened before - and it's probably happened in doubles or mixed doubles. The reason is, sometimes players enter both the singles and doubles draws at major tournaments, and singles generally pays out much better than doubles does in terms of prize money. So when things are going well for a player in singles and they make it deep into the singles draw (like QF/SF/F) players sometimes decide to withdraw from the doubles competition in order to focus and dedicate their time/energy to singles in order to (hopefully) improve their chances at further singles match wins. Disclaimer: I run a fantasy tennis website (GoldenSlam.com) so I see match results and statistics pretty much on a daily basis. I'll run some queries against my database to see what I can come up with. Here is just a quick example that I pulled from recent memory where one section of the doubles draw had 2 walkovers in a row - not from the same team and it's not one of the 4 majors, but you can get an idea about what I was talking about above - Fognini withdrew from doubles because he made it deep into the singles draw (he made the final). And this came after he and his partner had just advanced in the previous round because of a walkover. 

Yes, It is possible to play in an ITF Junior event after having already obtained an ATP or WTA ranking. However, I believe it is your junior ranking that is taken into consideration before your ATP or WTA ranking. See the section titled "ITF Entry Regulations" here. Rule 46 of the ITF Junior Circuit Regulations also spells it out in a little more detail if you want to read about the "Criteria for Acceptances" in this PDF (page 14 of the PDF, or overall page 21) 

Moisture (sweat) absorption - how well the overgrip stays dry when your hands are sweating. Tackiness - how "grippy" the overgrip feels in your hand when you first put it on your handle. Durability - how long the overgrip stays good and doesn't start wearing out or tearing after a certain amount of use. Thickness - how thick the overgrip is and therefore how much size it adds to the handle of your racquet when it's put on. 

If you feel like you have a superior return of serve and have a better chance at breaking your opponents serve than they do breaking yours, elect to receive serve first. I would imagine players like Nadal, Djokovic and Ferrer choose to receive if they win the coin toss. If you feel like you have a superior serve and your opponent is going to have a tough time breaking your serve, and you feel like you would mentally benefit from "having the lead" after holding serve and making your opponent feel the pressure of "keeping up" with you in the set, elect to serve first. I would imagine players like Raonic, Isner and Karlovic choose to serve first if they win the coin toss. 

To add to Devin's answer - sometimes professional players will also be happy with the result of a point even if they don't win the point. For example, Andre Agassi was well known for running his opponents ragged. By the 2nd or 3rd set his opponents would be so tired from Agassi's shots running them back and forth that it made it much easier for Andre to close out the match by being the fresher player at the end. His 2005 U.S. Open QuarterFinal match against James Blake is a good example of that style of play. Some players know their opponents don't have the best endurance so they will throw in more drop shots knowing they might not win the point, but the goal is more to tire out the opponent than win the point. Generally there isn't too much advantage you can take in tennis other than perhaps serving first and getting (and maintaining) a lead. So if you are confident you can hold serve and can serve first, it is generally a good strategy. Keep in mind that tennis rules try to make all things as equal as possible in a match - changing sides of the court, switching which side you serve from each point, new balls after 9 games, tie-break rules and lines people all contribute to that fairness. 

Racquet manufacturers (for squash, badminton, tennis, racquetball, etc) these days design specs for every racquet using modeling tools on a computer so that they can get detailed measurements to the manufacturers. The grommets have specs just like the racquets do. The space between the holes in the hoop of the racquet must be known and be precise in order to make grommets that fit properly. Same for the size of the holes drilled in the hoop. So the answer to your question about one grommet strip made for one design of a racquet is yes - grommets are designed/made generally for one racquet only. That's why, for example, on a page like this, they ask which model squash racquet you have when purchasing grommets. There are some rare cases where the grommets for one type of racquet will "fit" in another if you can manage to heat the grommet (plastic) and stretch it a little so that it fits into the other type of racquet but, like I said, it's fairly rare. What I would recommend, if you're worried about the durability of the grommets, is find some racquet head tape and put it over the part of the grommets that you're worried will break down (usually from about 9-to-3 o'clock on the racquet head). This will help hold the grommet together and decrease the chance of the grommet breaking and/or splintering - which is the root cause of strings breaking in cases where the string rubs against a sharp edge of a broken grommet. This head (a.k.a "guard") tape will need to be replaced anytime you change the strings in your racquet. 

Yes, absolutely - the receiving player must allow the ball to bounce before returning the serve - or any shot, actually. If that was not required by the rules, it would be very easy for the returning player to hit (volley) the ball right as it crossed over the net with a shot that would be nonreturnable by the server, and points would be very short. Basically, it would provide an unfair advantage. 

Well, quite a question. As of the latest (August 2011) NFL CBA - Incentives have a lot of rules around them. I'm not a lawyer or arbitrator but from what I can tell, Brooks' contract sounds legal (and fairly typical) for a player of his status in the NFL. As far as what is spelled out around individual player incentives in the NFL CBA - Section 6(c).v on page 96 of the CBA states, "Any incentive bonus that depends on team performance in any category not identified in Exhibit A hereto is prohibited." while section 6(c).vi at the top of page 97 states, "Any incentive bonus that depends on a player’s individual performance in any category not identified in Exhibit B hereto is prohibited." so the incentives listed in the CBA are what players & teams are limited to as far as incentives go. INDIVIDUAL INCENTIVES RUSHING