In Germany, all bicycle lights above a certain lumen value have to have a low beam feature, so it's pretty standard here. So, if you do not want to kludge your existing headlight get a german one, e.G. Busch und Mueller Headlights always have a low beam feature, which they especially advertise. Here is their english web page. $URL$ 

I am from the Bike Lobby in Austria, and we are doing security checks together with the police. We make a checkpoint, the police stops all cyclists and checks their equipment. If everything is O.K. we give the rider a goodie, like some chocolate If something is amiss we have a repair tent nearby where we fix the problems. We have reflectors for free, and do repairs e.g. for dynamo powered lights for free. If there are some components missing (battery lights) we sell them cheaply. If someone does not want to fix their lights (happens rarely) he will not be fined, but has to push his bike. This works great, and we have pushed the light quota from 60% to 95% in the city we are doing this kind of activities. It requires a lot of effort and support from the government though. We run 12 of these checkpoints on different places in the city, always in the weeks before or after the change from daylight saving time to normal time. This activity is sponsored by the government, they are paying the costs for the repair tent and some of the equipment and goodies. So summarizing: Instead of trying on your own, better work together with some people and get organized. This approach works! Infos about the Event in German 

I got a pump with an head like this, and I use both the presta and the schraeder opening. The problem is that the automatic switching does not seem to work as well as it once did. It is pretty random where the air comes out, and most of the time it involves a lot of shaking and cursing before I can get my tires pumped up. Can I fix this somehow? The pump was not cheap, and I would like to avoid getting a new one, though the hassle of getting air out of the correct hole is annoyinng. This question is about a Pump Head, where the mechanism does work (air only comes out of one hole), but switches pretty randomly. I want to get an answer if there is a solution without replacing the head, else i would order a new pump head. 

If I were in your situation, I would definitely get a compact (50/34) crank. Gaining lower gears for climbing makes some uphills possible and other uphills easier. All you have to give up is maybe some top speed on downhills. You're still able to ride those downhills, only you'll be going 55kph instead of 60kph. Or increase your cadence. In general I come across a lot of people who think they need huge gears because they somehow want to have a really low cadence. Since you said you're riding for fitness and weight loss, I don't think that top speed is a priority for you -- you're not competing against others in a race. It's much more important that you can handle hills and don't hurt your knees. My top gear is 46/11 and I never find that to be a limitation. A cadence of 120rpm is quite reasonable for a few minutes (few descents are really long) and 120rpm with a gear of 46/11 is approximately 65kph. With a top gear of 50/11, it's 71kph. 

Regarding Q2 -- I think both brakes should feel like your front brake -- when the pads contact the rotor, the lever feel should change instantly. If this is not the case for the rear brake, I assume it is due to (tiny) air bubbles somewhere in the rear brake system. It is strange that in spite of this, you observe that the front provides less braking power than the rear. Perhaps the front brake pads or disk are contaminated with brake fluid or some other liquid ? 

If you can find some other tube on the bike frame that fits the clamp better, that should be fine. Obviously if you attach the clamp too high, the trailer will be tilted at an angle which would be uncomfortable for your kid. I used to have a trailer with a similar attachment. I noticed that the clamp can have a tendency to come loose from vibration, if it's not super tight. If the trailer doesn't already have it, I would rig up some kind of safety backup system, where a string/rope/bungee will hold the trailer arm if the clamp suddenly lets go. The idea is that you notice that something has happened to the trailer and you can pull over and fix it. It's not designed to keep riding without the clamp, except for 20-30 feet until you can stop. 

I am using Headphones like this: They even reduce wind noise, and you can hear the music and everything around you, because they are not blocking outside noise. The problem is that in city traffic you will not hear the music, because the cars are so loud ;D Important is that they have foam, cause that reduces the wind noise. 

I have this bike for a year now and I am pretty happy with it. It does not allow very sportive riding, but it is nearly maintenance-less, since the chain is fully enclosed by the protector (which rattles sometimes). The rear rack allows mounting a Basket. I check the chain every 3 Months, and there are still no signs of rust or that the original oiling has diminished. The transmission is very good for city riding and pulling a trailer up a hill, but not so good for going fast on roads (35 - 40 kph max possible if you have to pedal). The brakes are also very good, the only maintainence required is filling them with some special oil, and they have no problem braking the bike going down a steep hill with a fully loaded trailer. The bike has built in lightning that is very bright, with a hub dynamo. This is a photo of my bike in action, with full loading capacity of about 60 kg (30 kg on the trailer, 30 kg on the rack). Total cost of the Bike, as you see it here (with trailer and baskets and airzound) was 1500 €, Maintenance cost is around 30 € per year. 

Well. I think that you really want this you have to build something youself. Basically you will need a light without a condensator and this circuit. Just add it to the power cable and have fun. $URL$ IMHO flashing lights are not optimal because they reduce the ability to gauge distances. A better approach might be to use a really bright rear light, or one with the braking light functionality e.G. the light from Bush and Mueller Toplight Line Plus 

I have transported a lot of loads like this on my bicycle rack without problems. The load should be no problem for a usual bicycle rack but there might be a problem with the balance, so you will need to strap it down pretty good. With strapping down comes more pressure on the package, that might mean you might need a more stable package. For strapping I use old tubes. They are elastic, nearly unbreakable and if you form a knot it will not get off so easily. Another argument is that there is no scratching of your bicycles paint. Just use 3 of them, tie 2 trough the rack and one through the seatpost and you should be ready to go. I always have an old tube on my rack in case I need to carry some stuff. 

I've had a hardtail mountain bike for a few years, and used it for all kinds of rides -- singletrack, rail trails, roads. A few months ago I got a cyclocross bike (Norco Threshold) in addition to the mountain bike. So I'm in pretty much exactly the situation you describe. I am enjoying the cyclocross bike and I feel like it's made me about 3-4mph faster. I am surprised that I like the drop handlebars better (more comfortable) than the straight handlebars on the mountain bike. I already had a set of slick tires for the mountain bike that I installed for road rides, and switched back to knobby tires for singletrack rides. If I only had knobby tires, the speed difference would probably be even greater. The Specialized Crux that you're considering seems like a pretty good choice. It has 38mm tires out of the box, which is nice especially since you're used to mountain bike tires. Tires of that size have a much less harsh ride than thinner tires (28mm), and don't slow you down (people used to think that, but research has shown that it's not the case). Two things to consider about that bike: The brakes are cable/hydraulic hybrids; there is a brake cable that connects to a hydraulic piston. I'm not sure if those are as good as regular hydraulic brakes; there is probably a bit of friction in the cable. The other thing is the gearing: for hills you might want an 11-32T cassette instead of the 11-28T. Depends on how strong you are and how steep the hills are. If you care about riding in the winter, go to a Specialized dealer and ask if you can install fenders on that bike, and what size tires will work with fenders. To attach fenders, you generally need eyelets (threaded holes in the frame). If the frame doesn't have any of those, it makes it very difficult to mount fenders. 

I also have Shimano M038 shoes that have a recessed SPD cleat and are very good for walking around. The cleat doesn't touch the ground. 

Assuming that the bolt patterns match: This will work, as long as your new 36T ring has the right kind of pins and ramps to assist shifting the chain. However, the shape and pattern of those pins and ramps is quite mysterious, and it's not guaranteed that you'll get good shifting performance from the 22T ring to the 36T ring. The fact that both the crankset and the 36T ring are Shimano probably helps. Since you already have all the parts on hand, it's very easy to try it out. If for some reason the 14T difference prevents shifting, you'll find out within the first minute of your test ride. If it works at that point, it will continue to work. The only other thing I can think of that might cause a problem is releasing the chain from the middle ring when you shift to the big ring. I've seen some chainrings that had 2 teeth that were shorter than the others, to help release the chain at the right point, relative to the location of the ramps and pins on the larger ring. But that was on a SRAM 2x10 chainset, so you probably don't have this problem. If you do have those 2 shorter teeth, then the alignment between the chainrings is important. If you install the 36T ring and it doesn't shift right, try removing it, rotating it 90 degrees, and reinstalling it.