You don't have to know, it just happens. Its basic economics. Supply and demand are intersecting diagonal curves, the intersection of which is the market price. 

There are also several hits from that period on things published by publishers from Allentown, Pennsylvania of all places. One, Philosophical Publishing Company, is still in business. This is the same period that Allentown became a hub of beer brewing. Typically this happened in places that experienced a lot of immigration from Germany, particularly Bavaria. I suppose it shouldn't surprise anyone that Bavarians might be interested in the Bavarian Illuminati. But to get back to the question, it looks like the real surge in interest in the Illuminati was probably around the turn of the 19th century. What you saw in the early 20th was perhaps an echo, at least partly based on the late 18th century surge being far enough in the past to have become a valid subject for historical study. * - One important bit of context here: In early America it was New Englanders who frequently used religion as a political cudgel, and chiefly Southerners (particularly Baptists) who strongly supported the separation of Church and State. 

There were two Roman provinces that encompassed part of modern Bavaria: Raetia and Noricum. In both the ancient population primarily were herders and loggers, not farmers. So they weren't particularly populous provinces. Both were essentially overrun by Germanics during the Migration period. These "Germanics" were primarily speaking either West Germanic Upper High German (eg: Alemanni, Suebi, and Lombards), or East Germanic languages (Goths, Gepids, Vandals, etc.) The East Germanics, as pastorlists, tended to be accomplished horsemen, but also light on the ground. That meant they made a much bigger impression in histories of the time. However, it was the more farming-oriented High German speakers who settled down and culturally took over the area. The Bavarian spoken in the region today is a descendant of High German. 

Where did all the Germanics come from? There was basically a suction effect, pulling them into Roman-held western areas. Their homeland appears to have been the western Baltic Sea coastal areas. They spent the next few centuries expanding into what were likely non-farming (so lightly-held) areas north of the Roman Empire back to the Black Sea. The victims of this movement were likely Thracian, Slavic, and/or Iranian tribes. The Roman areas were relatively depopulated in this era. McEvedy and McGrath report that the Roman Empire's population dropped by about a fifth from its 2nd Century apex to the 4th, and then another 20% in the next two centuries (so about a third in total). Whatever was going on, it didn't seem to hit the Germanics and Slavs as hard. As McEvedy put it: 

I believe the next major operation on the Western front was the Allies' Operation Market Garden. The idea was to get across the Rhine in force using paratroopers followed up with armor, and thus hopefully win the war before Winter set in. This was a failure for the Allies, as they got themselves stretched a bit too far, and couldn't complete their main objectives. So it could be viewed as a German success (although a defensive one). But even after this victory, the Germans were on the defensive. Part of what allowed the initial German success in the Battle of the Bulge was that the Allies had it in their heads that they were on the offensive, and there weren't going to be any more German offensives. Thus the Ardennes Offensive (aka: The Battle of the Bulge) can be viewed as the German's first attempt to take back the offensive. 

This is quite reminiscent of the Ottoman Empire's original Janissaries. At first these were young boys forcibly taken from Christian families as slaves and raised to be the Sultan's personal guard. Not being from Muslim families they could legally be enslaved, and they had no social position in the Empire apart from their relationship to the Sultan. So not only were they indoctrinated to be loyal soldiers, but their position was entirely dependent on their Sultan. Thus, unlike Muslim volunteer troops, they had nothing to gain and everything to lose if something were to happen to the Sultan. 

Boston Avenue UMC (my own church), which was designed and built in the period in question (the 1920's), is a prominent example of Vertical Art Deco. The effect is reminiscent of Gothic, but using concrete and steel in addition to stone with a modern (for the '20's) look. And of course no buttresses required. 

Note that just about every USA scientist, including those working on it, thought the whole idea was ludicrous too. You don't have to find secret Soviet documents saying that. :-) Still I have heard that claim about SDI killing the USSR argued, and there's a good case for it. The argument is that the entire Cold War regieme depended on the concept of Mutually-Assured Destruction (MAD); the idea that neither side would attack the other directly because both sides knew full well that if they did so, the other side would be able to destroy the aggressor. The important thing here is psycology. If one side got it in their heads somehow that it was in fact possible for one side to destroy the other without getting destroyed in return, then MAD no longer works. The truth of the matter isn't important, just what both sides believe to be the truth. What SDI did was allow the American side to plausibly argue that they no longer believed the MAD condition to be true. Again, if they were right or wrong isn't that important. The Soviets would have had to develop some kind of clear counter to SDI that would convince Regan and his band of (insert your favorite adjective here) that MAD had been reasserted. That would have been really expensive, and the USSR just didn't have that kind of money or technology. Now I'm not really sure I entirely buy this argument. If it were me I'd add SDI to all the US's other military spending, and say that the Soviet Union simply got to the point where it could no longer afford to keep up a credible military counterbalance. Once folks got the idea that there was no longer a real balance of power, the USSR's credibility at home and abroad simply collapsed. 

I'm not saying this is The Truth®, but here's the argument typically given for the Ancient Romans you mentioned. Nobody is really sure exactly when Jesus was born (even the year, much less the exact day). The biblical authors do not seem to have felt it was particularly important information. The earliest two Gospels don't even mention Jesus' birth at all. The first time somebody deigned to come up with a date for it was two centuries later, and that date was May 20. March 21, and several different days in April have also been used. The earliest reference we have that uses December 25th is from 200 years later (400 AD). So it seems highly unlikely this date was decided upon due to certian knowledge that it is correct. So why this particular date? Well it just happens that the Romans had a big solistice festival called Saturnalia. Of course the solistice happens a few days earlier, but Roman practice at the time was to have a week-long celebration, culminating in the Birthday of the Unconquerable Sun, on December 25. Saturnalia was a very popular festival amongst the Romans, and involved gift-giving. So the logic for the Roman origins is that the Christians settling on the same day for the Son of God's birthday as the Roman's Birthday of the Unconquerable Son is not a really weird conincidence, but rather a purposeful attemmpt to co-opt for Christianity what was otherwise an inconveniently popular Pagan holidy. So the gift-giving came over from Saturnalia.