Lean-tos are hard-sided structures, and are not really meant to be set up quickly. As a hiker and scouter, I and my group carry tarps all the time, and expect rain to greet us wherever we decide to set up camp. As such, tarps need to be one of the most accessible things you have. If I were caught in a downpour, my immediate reaction to get/stay dry as quickly as possible would be to generally follow these steps, which does require a leader to step up assertively, and to have knowledgeable people in the group. When either cannot be accommodated, your chances of a quick setup will look bleak. And wet. First thing occurs before you even set off: You must pack appropriately, and everyone must be aware of where everything is. This isn't just for good measure to stay dry, this applies in cases of emergency. So, staying dry, staying warm, and having fast access to first aid kits, maps, and means for calling for help need to be very accessible, and everyone has an interest in knowing where these resources are. Whether you are car camping, hiking, or whatever, everyone ought to know where the emergency equipment is. Everyone should have personal rain gear. Next is when it begins to downpour. The leader must take charge: Assign someone the various tasks, such as retrieval of rope, tarp, stakes, etc. Not related specifically to your situation, but anyone who doesn't have a job needs to don rain gear. Staying dry is a safety issue, so, everyone needs to be as dry as possible. First tie a rope across two trees, as high as possible. Next, toss a tarp over it, and guy the tarp with lines, secured to trees, rocks, or pegs. While tying out the tarp, everyone not doing anything needs to remain under the tarp. 

Safety clothing - gloves, safety goggles/glasses, and close-toed shoes (preferably boots) Safety location - choose an area safe from children and pets, lest they distract you or they get hit with wood chips. Rope or tape off an area that no one goes inside while anyone already inside has cutting tools in hand. Safety of others - be sure no one is in front of you or behind you; check often Safety in equipment - be sure axe, hatchet, and mallet or hammer heads are secure; check often. Cutting tools should be fairly sharp. Safety in technique 

Looking closely at the photo, the knots are very much different. In the lark's head, the running end is inside the knot; that means, as tension is applied, the knot will tend to tighten on the standing end, making it more secure. The pull of the standing end will tend to pull the knot and the running end into the knot, guaranteeing a tight knot. In the clove hitch shown, the running end is on the outside of the knot's load, which means, the tightness of the knot relies on the knot tier's skill at keeping it tight. Further, if the knots were tied such that there isn't much load on the knot (and there is more slip in the bight), then, the clove hitch will tend to twist out, eventually allowing the running end to unsecure itself from inside the knot. The first (lark's head double half-hitch) is a more secure knot. 

Great answers here. This news piece seems to be relevant to your question, now probably 3 years old now. Grade Point Student survives three days in a cave after college spelunking group leaves him behind And since no one mentioned it, I'll say it here: Always do a periodic headcount. 

I'm gonna go with "not much". I found this article, Reflection Measurements in IR Spectroscopy And in it, I recognize many English words, but they did not seem to be arranged in a coherent fashion that I could well understand. Maybe you have more luck or skill than I. It seems written for an audience, a party to which I was not invited. What I can distill from it is this: Heat can be reflected (back), transmitted (through), or absorbed (kept, and not reflected or transmitted). I suspect that heat will be split all 3 ways (some being reflected, some being transmitted, and some being absorbed), and, the material which allows more heat to be reflected more than it is transmitted or absorbed will be more effective for this particular purpose. The article also states that reflection takes place at the surface. My guess is, a foam padding painted with aluminum reflective paint or such coating will effectively reflect, but probably not with someone sleeping on it, which will disrupt the reflection. Because the surface is distorted when slept upon, the foam material is the next line of defense against transmittal of heat, and all we can do is hope for as much absorption as possible. My guess, then, the thinner the foam, the less absorption and greater transmittal occurs, and that factor can be determined by the material's ability to compress, and, the weight of the person sleeping on it. A child, for example, might find it warmer than an adult might, because there is less deformity of the surface, and, when compressed, is less so than when an adult sleeps on it. 

You can indeed get sick from swimming in algae, if the algae is a bloom. Not all algae in lakes is harmful - in fact, it shows that the lake's ecosystem is alive. But too much algae can be dangerous, as it deprives the water of oxygen, and introduces harmful bacteria. Here is a warning from New York State: Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) FAQs And another from Indiana: Swimming, Boating and Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) Michigan: Harmful Algal Blooms in the Great Lakes Washington: Cyanobacteria ...and your neck of the woods, the European Environmental Agency: Blue-green algae - check the water before you swim I agree that the photo you shared is of plants, not algae, so not harmful. But if you really meant algae, and not the plants listed, you should pay attention to these links. (Well, you should pay attention to the links anyway...) 

While at a Klondike event this past March with the boy scouts, the camp winners did this in a breathtaking 38 seconds. Their method cannot apply to everyone, and I suspect that they got wind of the specifics of the event and then practiced it. But here's what they did: Their patrol leader assigned 4 scouts to take on the rope across two trees; one scout climbs the back of another to gain height; each pair ties clove hitches to the tree using 1/2" rope. As the scouts get into piggy back, and another lays the rope on the ground between the pairs, another scout is assigned to retrieve the tarp. Rather than throw the tarp over a tied and taught rope, they performed the novel task of throwing the tarp over the rope as it lay on the ground as the pairs of boys assumed their piggy-back position. Once the tarp was laid over the rope, and the pairs of boys were piggy-backed, the other scouts handed the pairs the rope, which was first secured on one side, then the other; meanwhile, others were tying the tarp corners with rope. By the time the tarp was raised and the clove hitches were being secure, the guy lines were being secure. 38 seconds was the record for the day. Group of 8 worked as one well-oiled machine, very impressive. I definitely took notes! This was no easy feat. Tying the clove hitches on the right side of both trees, getting that one scout to fetch the tarp and unfold it across the outstretched rope, getting the other scouts to tie 2-half hitches on all the corner grommets, getting a piggy-back, raising the center rope, tying off the guys... that took practice. I wouldn't expect every camper in every group to rehearse something like this, but each group needs to have the know-how and the equipment to efficiently set this up. The key is the leadership to properly communicate what is needed, and the others to know how to perform their task. 

I'd say the only definitive way to tell is if a doctor tells you so. But as there are many different ways to break, from hairlines to compound fractures, there's no one answer to give - particularly as this group's policy doesn't like to give out medical advice. On the other hand, if you're in the wilderness, and your ankle hurts like hell, I don't think it matters too much whether it's broke, bruised, sprained, or strained - you simply can't use it, and the first aid would be similar. If it hurts, or is swollen, or you have any doubts about what's going on, get thee to a doctor. Yes, there is a possibility for a fracture and little or no pain. Such recently happened to my son who found no pain, except that he found it difficult to twist it in a particular direction. It turned out to be a hairline fracture. My daughter last year banged the hell out of her elbow, black, blue, swollen like a balloon. But x-ray confirmed no break - only a contusion and broken vessels. 

You will not have any problems with propane or butane being released in your yard, unless there are sparks or a heat source near by, or if there are low areas leading into a house. I would manually release the gas, one can a day - and don't burn the gas. In this manner, the gas will naturally dissipate. The issue for you then becomes what to do with the spent canisters; and for that you'd have to defer to local code. Some will require you show evidence of physical destruction (eg, crushed or with a hole in it). For this, you could flatten them with a car. You use a vice, but this leads to a potential for a spark setting off residue gas, you really don't want that. In any case, I would not ignite the gas in a stove. If you're questioning how to get rid of them, their suitability for consumption is in doubt. Just release the gas and you'll be fine. By the way, the gas you have is not poisonous if you responsibly release the gas. Propane is an asphyxiant, and it will deplete oxygen in your blood if you do not get to fresh air. The butane in the canister is not enough to be a problem for you if you just dissipate the canister, even if the canister is in your hand. Just aim it away from you and you'll be fine. 

For branta canadensis, it is "Canada Goose". As I suggested in my previous answer to a related question of yours, language is a stupid form of communication. Reputable sources in this link say it is "Canada goose" and give several examples of similarly named animals (or plants) that do and do not fit the nomenclature: 

Some commentary focuses on quarries and industrial lakes. I am not of the opinion that that makes a difference: what's down there (ie, machinery, rock ridge formations, etc), and what's in the water (ie, chemicals) is more important than how deep the water is. In this case, signs should scream "Danger! Keep Out!", rather than "Danger! Deep Water!" I'm also not of the opinion that cold water temps at depths are a reason for the signs, although I do think it might play a role in swimmability, which pertains to your initial question. But experienced swimmers know this, non-swimmers do not. And at depths where temps make a difference to non-swimmers, the depth - and not the temps - is a more troublesome issue for the non-swimmer. Although the question is broad, you did give an example of a lake. In this case, things like currents or animals/fish playing a role in the "deep" part of the "danger" is less likely. The word "deep" doesn't even have legal definition. After all, pools are often labelled "2 feet deep", "12 feet deep", etc. Is 2 feet really "deep"? I think not. So a sign that says "deep water" is simply playing to fears, forcing people to be careful. And that is a valid context: to play on fears, as well as to avoid legal liability. For example, you mention a lake. Lakes are not "x meters deep"; rather, they have variable depths. Someone who cannot swim, perhaps a child, may walk into a shallow area of a lake, walk around, and suddenly find themselves walking at depths they can no longer walk without having to swim. Is it deep? Yes, for that person, it's too deep for them to walk. Is it deep for a diver? No, of course not - but a diver is used to temperature changes as well as knows how to swim. The signs, therefore, must pertain to those who cannot swim. Further, you see signs at public pools which indicate how deep that part of the pool is - but you never see signs that warn of "deep water", even at the 4 meter end. There's a pool near me which has a 20' depth for scuba instruction and practice. No signs. Why? Why does a lake with variable depths get signs, while a pool with a known depth not get a sign? And that's the answer: the depths vary, and will be too deep for non-swimmers. The water isn't more or less swimmable at varying depths, it is that it is less walkable at varying depths. And beaches: why do beaches never have signs indicating that water is deep? The depth most definitely varies. There are currents. Temperatures more assuredly change. There are fish, some really nasty ones like sharks and jellyfish. Yet, there are not universally placed signs warning people of these dangers, right? Well, not true: It would take away from the beauty of the beaches to have these signs all over the place; but in fact, they do place signs there. And they do tell you of the dangers: deep water, rip tides, shark sightings, rocks, buoys, and so on. They're just usually not placed right in the middle of the water where one might swim (or walk) into one. And they're very specific about the danger that lurks. As to liability: That there are signs at all is probably to avoid legal liability, but only in limited cases. The reality is that lakes are typically owned by government, and suing a government entity is a herculean task. I think, then, liability is less of the impetus to place a warning sign then it is to help people know that waters are probably deeper than they are tall. In private lakes, perhaps a warning sign has more legal implication, but your question didn't distinguish between private and public bodies of water. Rather, you asked if depth made water more or less swimmable. By the way, the example link you provided struck me as odd (and comical, with very young children playing around a scary looking danger sign). I'm from the US, and am wondering if my definition of bathing and paddling are different than in the UK. I'm imagining that bathing has a connotation that there is a lot less formality with regards to swimming, and deep water can affect your bathing. A lost bathing suit can be most embarrassing if you can't swim down to retrieve it - but that hardly warrants a "danger" sign. As to paddling, well, you're in a boat; the article mentions that swimming and navigation are two separate distinctions in UK law, and that might mean the difference. Paddling, also, is dangerous to swimmers who could become injured by the craft in which you're paddling, or the paddles themselves.