Update: I have removed the fabric from the trailer to get a better look at the frame. The fabric is still in tact so it would be possible to put it back on the trailer. 

This video is aimed at mountain biking but still provides a good overview of the things going on here. 

What is the procedure to change the chainring? I watched the Park tools video on Crank Type Identification but was unable to tell what kind of crank I have. When looking for a chainring how do I tell if it is compatable with my bike? 

Distance due to commuting: 95 KM It is possible that I have ridden an equal distance running other errands, but I would think that I am over estimating the "Other distance". So, Total Distance on a single pair of brake pads: between 100 and 200 KM. 

I think the first thing you should do is take the hoods off the bars. Usually there is a screw or an allen key that will loosen the hood on the bar. On my hoods this is only viable when the break leaver is pulled down. After you loosen this screw you should be able to slide the hoods along and off the bar. (You might need to remove the tape). 

With all bar end brakes you have to run the brake line under the tape so you could not switch out the bars without retaping your bars each time. Anyone know of any bar end brakes that the lines run NOT through the bar tape? Switching between bars frequently (once or twice a month) will cause major wear on your bike and you should pick one thing and stick with it. 

I am looking to buy a new mountain bike and comparing two models with different head tube angles. How big of difference does 1 degree of slackness make? Would an intermediate rider be able to feel the difference? Both bikes appear to be fairly slack. 

There is also the option to mount the dogs crate onto the trailer. I have seen lots of pictures of these. Basically you just need to put some bolts through the flatbed of the trailer. This is a more professional example from Tony's Trailers: 

I am curious how other people deal with flats in the winter. Although I always carry a spare tube and CO2 I don't think I would be able to change a tire with bulky winter gloves on. Changing a tire gloveless is also not really an option. How do you deal with flats in the winter? 

I am considering purchasing a bike with SRAM's GX1 11x1 gearing but I would like to switch it to use a double crankset. Is the SRAM GX1 rear derailleur and cassette compatible with a dual crankset? The bike says: 

Just to give you a boundary case on how quickly pads can and do wear have a look at my current bike: I replaced my rear brake pads in Nov 2012. It is now almost March 2013 - so 4 months have passed. My rear brake pad is totally worn and riding metal on metal. I am going to replace it next weekend. Here are my stats: 

My mountain bike is too difficult to pedal when the going gets steep. I need an easier gear ratio. Am I better off switching the chainring or the cassette? I currently have: 

This won't be a great option if you are wanting to race road riders, however a cross bike will offer you 9/10ths of a roadbike's efficiency with much greater freedom to explore more technical terrain. There are a couple cross riders (who are very tallented) who ride my local XC trails. I think a cross bike should also feel more lively than a touring bike which may be a good thing or bad thing. I would recommend trying to find something that has fender eyelets and rack mount points. 

First off: Thanks to everyone who clarified what clipless, clip-in, platform pedals are. Arguments for using Clipless pedals (in order of importances to me): 

I have a Velomann V2500. They are made in Italy. The stand is great overall. Very stable. My only complaint is that the clamp is a little bit fussy. Getting the bike into the stand is a bit of a pain. (Once it is in no problems though). If you where working on 20 bikes/day this would cost you endless annoyance however if it is just for your personal use I would defiantly say get it. I think that a Parks Tools Stand would definatly be better quality but I only paid $109 (Canadian) for this stand. In Canada you can buy it from MEC (they will ship internationally but it is probably cheaper to order it from somewhere else). 

Where can I find a Norco catalog from 198X? I bought a used Norco about 10 months ago and I am begining to get curious about the bike. How good of bike is it? How much did it cost new? Where was it made? Etc. Anyone know where I can find an older, 1980s, Norco catalog? Are there other resources that I could use to find out about my bike? Meta: I don't think that I can post a picture of my bike here and ask for information on it can I? 

I am looking around for an old mountain bike to ride this winter (and this summer when it is wet). I was just browsing around and was curious what the difference was between Direct pull brakes: 

I just purchased a kid trailer to convert as a utility trailer. I paid $75 for it used. I could not find a cargo trailer for under $200 plus shipping (probably large). The trailer is also rated up to 100 pounds (which is actually more than the cargo trailer 75 pounds). I was wonder if anyone had converted a kid trailer to a cargo trailer before and what the best way to do it is. The frame is: 

This summer I have already bought two bike computers but both have failed to meet my expectations: Computer #1 The Filzer had poor reviews but I thought I would give it a try anyways. Should have listened to the reviews the computer stopped receiving data after about two weeks. (Luckily Mec has a good return policy so I exchanged the computer). 

One problem left. You usually use the drops when you are descending and trying to be as aerodynamic as possible therefore you will be going fast. You will need a break on the drops to stay safe. Probably you don't want to move your brakes to the drops since you will probably be using the flats for more technical riding. So you need Auxiliary ("Cross", "Interrupter") Levers. To quote Sheldon Brow: 

I have tried track standing on multiple different bikes and they are all dramatically different in terms of how easy it is to track stand on them. 

Mini vice grips. I got a pair at a hardware store. They are about 5 cm long. Amazing little things. Great for unexpected emergencies. They are not big enough to grab onto the head tube but everything else they are great for. 

I am just looking for a a new set of tires for my front suspension mountain bike (has a newer nicer fork on it now). I mostly ride in the Gatineau Park in Eastern Ontario. The conditions are almost always dry. There is quite a bit of loose gravel and a good amount of hardpack. The terrine is pretty hilly and occasionally I find myself loosing traction on my rear tire while climbing. Right now I am riding a pair of stock tires. Both tires are pretty cheap. 

I might look into getting a cross bike. They are road bikes designed for abuse. Wikipedia: $URL$ Cross Race: 

My main concern with this jacket is the breathability. It has pretty big armpit zips. It is made out of "Super Microft™ microfibre polyester, which is soft and quiet like cotton but tightly woven and treated with durable water repellency (DWR) to shed water". It feels like the fabric will cut through the wind well but might leave me very wet inside. The jacket does not have any kind of back vent which may be problematic. I am riding in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. It has been pretty wet here lately. I haven't riddin in the rain too frequently but the roads are always wet (thank you fenders). The temperature I want to use this coat in would be about +7C to -2C and maybe colder if I can layer correctly. Open questions: 

@ttarchala's answer is awesome. But I thought I could provide a bit more info for anyone else looking for info. -- On a coil fork (fork with a spring inside), there are two ways to adjust preload. First off you should get a spring that is the right tension for your weight. For Rockshox forks there are 6 or 7 different spring tensions that are designed for different weight ranges. See: Rockshox spring diagram. Once you have the right spring in your fork you can adjust using the preload control (pictured in the question). See @ttarchala's answer for a good description of what this does. -- Air forks generally just have one way to adjust fork preload. Looks like this: 

In that temperature I run clear downhill (mtb) goggles. They have plastic on the straps so they stick to the back of your helmet. Works great. Bonus of keeping your face a bit warmer. Never had any fogging issues with them, except occasionally when stopped at a light. I ran ski goggles for a couple winters but have since switched to MTB goggles. Advantages: 

Link Option 2: Get a bigger cassette This gives a more significant effect. You pretty much get an entire extra gear. 

Am interesting in upgrading to get a bit more performance out of my bike. Would also like to reduce the rolling resistance. Couple questions: 

My girlfriend recently got a new road bike. After getting it home we realized that that handlebars were quite badly bent. Here is a picture. Here is my question. Can I try and bend the bars back into shape or should I go out and get her a new pair? I suspect whether I can bend them back into shape will depend on what they are made out of. How can I tell this? The frame is made out of butted chromoly (according to a sticker on the bike). Any ideas? Edit: Is this a warning flag about other issues on the bike? I have checked the frame over (specifically where the head tube and top tube) meet to look for crash damage but I did not find anything. Overall the frame looks good to my eyes. Should this worry me? What would cause bars to bend like this? 

I am curious if anyone has put larger tires (mountainish) on their road bike. I am thinking about doing this to do some riding on gravel roads/touring/commuting from rural areas. I have an older steel Norco. How rough can I ride this with bigger tires without damaging the bike? (Purely just for curiosity. I am not planning on doing any drops etc but if I drop off a curb now and then does that matter?) 

Sheldon Brown has a good description of both kinds of brakes but he does not give pros and cons. Or suggest which are better. 

Looking at purchasing a new bike with a 1x10 gearing setup. I am concerned that with my current or future level of fitness, I may need slower gearing on the bike. What is the easiest (and cheapest) way to get easier gearing on the bike? Options: 

There is still a lot of salt on the roads in Ottawa, Canada, but I am thinking about starting to use my road bike instead of my mountain bike because the snow is mostly gone. (At least temporarily). My mountain bike is aluminum so I have not been worried about it rusting/disappearing. My road bike that I want to start riding is made of steel so I am more concerned. What can I do to protect it from wet salty roads? My steel road bike currently has a good paint job with few to no chips. I was thinking before I take it out the first time I might spray some greese onto a rag and give it a quick wipe down. I am not sure if this will be effective or a good idea so I would appreciate any feedback possible.