Short answer: Yes it is safe to ride on it for another thousands of miles. That is the tyre rubbing mark. This happens when the clearance is too little to allow any error in assembling the rear wheel. I have repaired a few carbon frame and happy to tell you that it is very likely that the damage is superficial. It appears to be a smooth surface, which means the worn out part is still at the epoxy/laminating epoxy resin. Just make sure that the wheel is true, and assembled correctly to prevent further damage. 

Your bike looks like a hybrid, which gives out that you mostly ride in urban area. Adjusting handlebar height is thus beneficial because you are likely to hit 20 mph+. 

From my experience, the answer is no. I have been cycling across the Great Glen and have no problem with mechanical disc brake. My bike was moderately loaded with camping equipment. So the load (including me 70 kg) was around 110 kg or 242 lbs. There were continuous downhill sections but the brake works fine, thankfully. 

Microshift is a brand. They are Taiwan base. Most of the twist shifter operates in similar manner as you described. They are for trimming as Batman said. But in fact it is made from the same machine and parts to keep the cost down. It is all about how to set up the front derailleur in your system, and find a spot for each appropriate gearing. i.e. avoid chain rubbing on the front derailleur There is one thing that I like about twist shifter, is that when you shift up, you can go slightly higher than where it suppose to be on the front chainring. This helps your chain to shift up easier and faster. 

Completely remove the bicycle quill Hang the bike up-side down Take out the wedge. If the wedge is stuck, try inserting the quill bolt alone (no quill, just bolt). Take care not to push the wedge further in. Try to thread in the wedge, and remove the wedge when there is enough grip. If wedge is truly stuck, remove the front wheel from the fork. The fork should have a hole so that you can push the wedge from below (with rod/hammer) Re-assemble the quill and wedge with the bolt correctly. Make sure you know how to do this, it should be straight-forward. 

I have a cracked tyre on my Road bike. I think I put it in the gazebo and exposed it to the sun. It's cracking along the tyre wall, in continuous fashion. 

So to sum up, the average wind speed does not have enough drag (force) to null the speed of you and your bicycle, which is constantly 'replenished' by your pedaling. 

It is possible. For 250W motor, without any limit, I can go 20 kph on a 8% grade hill. But that will burn your battery and motor, so please be careful about the discharging current limit if you are planning to DIY deep into the software/hardware. Most Chinese brand can be reprogrammed easily with a usb cable to the controller. On flat, I can go 36kph, which is 8 kph less than the rated speed of the unloaded motor. Most 250W motor can withstand 350W for a short time, but mind you, while going uphill in warm weather (~24oC), it can burn your motor easily if you do not assist the motor and let it run at ridiculously low RPM (less than 10 kph is bad for motor). Battery: DO NOT go backwards to Lead-Acid Battery. It has ridiculously long charging time, shorter cycle life, and 4xheavier than LiPO4 (2.5 kg as opposed to 10kg, and you do not want 10kg of Lead and Acid with you around). So again, NEVER think about using LeadAcid battery for your sake. The money you save does not worth the hassle you have to go through, even if you are broke and homeless... Motor: consider gear Hub motor, as they are lighter. You have cantilever brake and that's another reason to get your bike as light as possible. You can get a good Geared hub motor for £250 which weighs 2.1-2.4 kg. Controller and Wiring: get some waterproof wiring/plugs and controller so that you do not have to worry about cycling in the rain P.S In all honesty, I would sell the carbon fork to get better components for e-bike, then buy a cheap alloy fork (maybe 300g heavier, but with better e-bike components, you can save 2-3 kg of weight in the end) 

On two occasions (same wheel, loosened everything off and re-did the whole thing after the first time) as I've applied a final half turn to tighten the spokes round the wheel it's gone from being pretty laterally true (within about 0.5 mm) to badly out of true (probably a couple of mm or more out). The simplest explanation would be that I've managed to mess up by missing spokes/over under-tightening some of them, but I'm fairly sure that's not the case. What else could cause this? This is a rear wheel with a fair amount of dish. I'm worried that I might be over-tightening. On both occasions I decided to do a final half turn as the non drive side seemed a little loose, but I was concerned the drive side might be over tight. Could this cause a sudden change in trueness? I've got the wheel back to a reasonable state, but I'm no longer sure I have even tension in the spokes. 

The hoods for my 1993 camapaganolo chorus levers need replacing. Can anyone suggest some inexpensive hoods that would be compatible apart from a period Campagnolo part? 

It turned out that the problem here was grossly over long spokes. I'd managed to miscalculate so they were 4mm overlong. It appears that this allows the hub to move further than it should so that some spokes cannot reach while others protrude past the rim. Although mislacing the wheel may cause the same symptoms this was not the cause in this case. 

I'm attempting my second wheel build. My first build went pretty smoothly, but this time I've messed something up badly. I calculated that both drive and non drive side could take 300mm spokes ( slightly too long on one side, too short the other but both within < 1mm). It looks like I mismeasured/ miscalculated something as I have spokes that are both too long and too short. Some start to tighten with threads still showing, others protrude from the hole and would only tighten with spoke sticking past the nipple. What I don't understand is how I have spokes on the same side that are both too short and too long. I'd expect to be consistently over or under length on one side. How can this happen? When I rechecking my calcs I'm not sure if I should expect higher or lower numbers. 

After almost 15 years of flawless service my 8 speed Ultegra bar end shifter has suddenly stopped working. With the wire detached from the derailleur so there's no tension in it the lever now only moves through 5 clicks. If I switch it into friction mode the lever seems to be limited to a smaller sweep of motion than the left hand lever. I think they used to move to about the same extent. Is there anything I can try to get the lever working again? Anything to look for that might explain the symptoms? 

I recently picked this up along with a couple of old wheels. I don't know it's age or history. I've only got as far as identifying it as a Sachs. There are no other markings apart from the logo shown in the photo. 

I suspect that the abrasion from road/chainring/cogs is negligible, especially when comparing with other causes. The silica grains (SiO2, present almost everywhere) would be more of a worrying issue than the aluminium oxide, regarding chain wear. The grains are often visible (in sub millimetre size) and easily stick on the chain after a ride on any road surface. These grains create grindings (between chain and cogs/chainrings) and accelerate chain wear. The applied force also plays important roles in chain wear. An incorrect gear would create a large force between chain pins and cog/chainring. A worn chain would create a large (localized) force between (certain) chain pins and cog/chainring. A chain would wear much faster if the applied force to its pins increase. In short, aluminium+stainless combination is almost identical to stainless+stainless combination in gearing (i.e. creating the same amount of debris) . I used to make electric motor with high RPM and the best combination is nylon+metal. The clearance/applied force does have great importance over many other causes of wear. 

What's the advantages of bigger wheel? I feel that it's more forgiving on rough road, giving that the tyre width and pressure are the same. Is it just my imagination? Since population height is improving, why don't we have even bigger wheel by now? 

24mm refers to the diameter of your spindle (the rod connecting the two cranks) You can look for more details on this chart: $URL$ Hope this works for you :-) 

I assume your question is 'How is it possible that I can still riding upright, even though the headwind is greater than my maximum riding speed?' The answer is: 

Aiming to build a shaft driven bicycle for efficiency is the wrong direction. Efficiency improvements of shaft over chain driven in bicycle is negligible. Not to mention, shaft driven is overshadowed by an (un)established market regarding gearing on bicycle. Advantages of shaft driven: 

Would it be likely for me to break the axle, or the hub, under power pedalling? Have anyone broke their hub or axle using freewheel with inappropriate speed? (Please do not discuss in theory, I would like to see reference or your own experience) 

I use this product: $URL$ Since this is a tail light, it is less suspicious as a GPS tracker. You can simply charge and remove the USB cable as well. (One thing to notice since this product is not inexpensive, I epoxied the screw just to be on the safe side :D ) 

1) As in Scotland, I would recommend you to look for a second-hand bike (possibly gumtree is a good place to start with, bear in mind that you need to check and make sure the bike is not stolen). The reason is that in the winter, all the salt on the roads will corrode your bike badly.So go cheap, then keep it as winter bike, then upgrade gradually. Cyclocross would be your choice if you are planning to cycling offroad and over glens. If you are just going to stick along the coast, a road bike would be enough (and pretty fast too, so you can go to Stonehaven, Montrose, even up to Inverness). 2) A road bike as for starter (second hand) is around £100-150 (Carrera Virtuoso for example, I got one for £110, model 2012) A cyclocross for starter (second hand) is around £150-200. The higher price reflects that not many people in Scotland buy/own cyclocross (I have yet to see one cyclocross bike in Dundee). A little search around Aberdeen shows Carrera Crixus selling at around £200. 3) 700c wheel of course :-) 26" will be like a toddler-bike for you Your height is not telling much, but if you are an average guy, 1.82 m would need a 22" (L or 54-56cm), between 21" and 22" also ok-ish. Having said, I'm 1.73 but I need a slightly larger one comparing to my height (20.5" or 52-54 cm), because my back is quiet short, relatively to my legs.