It depends a bit on how this "once" is defined. The building originates from the 6th century ("537 A.D- The reconstruction was completed with the lavish decorations and ornaments") and was therefore subject to changes, additions, removals, over plastering, reconstructions over more than a thousand years. Even under Byzantine rulers unchallenged from outside, either by Christians or Muslims, the appearance was altered from "the original". 

That is not really easy to answer, as the German economy was not really in orderly fashion functioning. The black market dominated many sectors of civilian life, internationla trade was "low" and most of the consumer goods were hidden away or distributed via food stamps. Compare that to Reichsmark: 

These rules were not always interpreted in the same way regarding prostitution or the moral indecency of extra-/pre-marital sex, but they were used to such effect. That means in most cases: providing the opportunity for fornication is forbidden and punishable. If you are a hotel manager or hotel owner you will probably loose your licence on top of other punishments. All in involved would therefor not only engage in frowned upon behaviour but also violate the criminal law. From the fact that they had a law for that we might of course justly infer that this behaviour did happen. Whether from time to time or very frequently is not inferable from this, as it depends too much on the level of moral panic involved. A last qualification from my initial "almost impossible": a few might have pulled off your scenario and might have gone unpunished for it. Further reading, including the changes on these laws and morals from 1927–1930, under Austro-fascism and the Nazism, may be found in: Werner Schubert: "Sitzungen vom Juli 1927–März 1928. Sitzungen der deutschen und österreichischen parlamentarischen Strafrechtskonferenzen (1927–1930)", de Gruyter: Berlin, Boston, 2014. (Law changed in this proposal to §304f) Ilya Hartmann: "Prostitution, Kuppelei und Zuhälterei. Reformdiskussion und Gesetzgebung seit 1870", BWV, 2010. 

The feeling of humiliation and shame that the treaty of Versailles imposed was extremely widespread in Germany. Wilson's betrayal, the deemed as too harsh conditions, injured pride and real problems emanating from this treaty's consequences did lead to an urge to reverse it completely, in the moderate parts and to a simpler and more aggressive "revenge!" in less moderate circles. Evidence of often very hostile opposition to this treaty, public protests, popular speeches, commemorative coins, newspaper articles, postcards, the lot. This feeling ran through the entire population to some degrees. This is not something confined to or were coming only from extreme rightwing parties but also from the SPD, supposedly leftwing and representing the workers. From Scheidemann proclaiming that the hand that signs this treaty shall wither to several articles in the party newspaper as well. 

These dates are taken from the register of an insurance company. That the Expedition is listed twice with exact numbers of slaves gives any author the perfect excuse to use the other one as reference when accused of inaccuracies. These incidents were not entirely uncommon. Traders, military ships went all over the place, also directly from Africa to Britain. The higher the urgency of the voyage for the rescuer the less likely it would be to drop any survivors from the wrecked ship off somewhere else. Perishable goods, military matters, your choice. Whether plot-wise this is a problem or an opportunity, it should be considered that concerning the exact year: 

One of the leading factors to account for the widespread dismissal of the sheer possibility of ancient visual instruments seems to be the lack of durability for the physical objects in question. In more favourable conditions such objects such objects did survive: 

Some finds are much more durable, though. And the best thing about bronze is that it doesn't rust so much. 

So if you need wood and think cornel is best, you are better off using almost any other wood then to seize making replacement weapons. While cornel wood is fine type of wood, the original premise of this question overstates its military importance, while it may indeed be a small contributing factor over all. While the Greek hoplites dory were made of either ash or cornel, it seems that only the extremely long Macedonian sarissa really calls for this type of wood. Much more interesting in this regard is the effect an environmental crisis on the Greek side had at precisely this time: 

Sources Barbara Stollberg-Rilinger: "Das Heilige Römische Reich Deutscher Nation. Vom Ende des Mittelalters bis 1806", C.H. Beck: München, 2006. Joachim Whaley: "Germany and the Holy Roman Empire: Volume I: Maximilian I to the Peace of Westphalia, 1490-1648", Oxford University Press: Oxford, New York, 2012. Joachim Whaley: "Germany and the Holy Roman Empire: Volume II: The Peace of Westphalia to the Dissolution of the Reich, 1648-1806", Oxford University Press: Oxford, New York, 2012. R.J.W. Evans & Peter H. Wilson (Eds): "The Holy Roman Empire, 1495–1806. A European Perspective", Brill: Leiden, Boston, 2012. 

It is unlikely that the Achaemenid Empire depended solely on cornel-wood. That empire started out without direct control over those areas now known as natural distribution of that species. If ancient and current areas of distribution are even largely identical that means they build their empire just fine without cornel-wood or imported it. But take a closer look on the map and you see that natural distribution is not identical with human introduction of that tree elsewhere or indicative of some isolated populations. Trading your enemy what he needs for his weapons is really an ancient custom, from Noric steel sold to the Romans, over to the USSR selling (unknowingly via proxies) the USA the titanium it needed for the SR-71 and everyone today selling or otherwise delivering weapons to the Islamic State. The conquests of Alexander were quite quick. It is unlikely that the wood needed for weapons is only ever cut for use as weapons days before battle. If it is of strategic importance, they would have amassed a certain amount of stores of it. If you do not have your preferred material at hand, you then use something else. The oldest example of wood used for such a purpose is according to Wikipedia spruce. The Romans considered cornel as the best material available and used ash most often for 

As a personal addition, Germans refer to most big rulers as kaiser as well. The Kaiser Augustus of the Roman Empire and the Kaiser of China just being further examples (also note the intricacies in MAGolding's answer). Although the actual lemma for Kaiser says: 

So, this is important: lottery was rotated through the districts or tribes, but there this game of chance ended then. Men were elected/chosen according to their status as fighters, experience, age, number of campaigns etc. 

A note on the Greek διατελέω: bring quite to an end, complete, finish, as a journey or road, […], with the end in view, complete the march, finish the distance, continue to do, or do constantly (the participle containing the leading idea.) Putting on my speculative literary interpreter hat this opens up some interesting possibilities. Shooting Persians with Persian ammo completes the destiny of the ammo? Seriously: The enemy arrows were compatible and suitable for Greek uses. That is an immense advantage if you are in enemy territory, far away from your own re-supply. From Xenophon you can not conclude that these arrows were superior, but that the Greeks used scavenging tactics to recycle them for the next battle. 

From the British Isles, Denmark to the Parthians at least are there examples over space and time it seems. And it is also not necessarily a purity concept to use only one type of metal for such an outfit. Iron, steel and bronze are fundamentally different, but each of them can be made in a staggering variety of qualities and attributes. So, using the right tool for the right job, things were sometimes combined. 

If you look at the Bible and do not skip the first part there are many, many rules pertaining to purity, ritual purity and corporeal purity as well. And, as usual, these beliefs were quite wide spread in the ancient orient: 

This is indeed a hold-over from he propaganda of the First World War. Although the term started its career earlier. Compare the official definition for Kaiser on the Wikipedia disambiguation page: 

The most defining aspect of Nazi government in recent memory was the industrialised extermination of Jews, Roma and other whole groups of people. While this crime of unspeakable extent is considered important today, neither this crime nor any other war crime was seen as important by the vast majority of Germans in the day. This is not to say there were some non-racists, some resistance members and so on. But is absolutely accurate to describe the inhabitants of Nazi-Germany as Nazi-Germans. The Germans were Nazis. The crimes were committed by Germans (and to a much smaller extent, by Poles, by Ukrainians etc). Not every member of the SS, the Reichsbahn and not even the upper echelons of Wehrmacht was also in the NSDAP. The crimes were not carried out by party-members exclusively and the war was not carried out by party-members. After the war especially the surviving soldiers made a point of having been in the "saubere Wehrmacht" ("the clean Army"), despite carrying out the war, despite all the war crimes, and despite things like Kommissarbefehl and anti partisan guerilla and mass shootings of Jews and so on. That has some consequences today. If you correctly say the Germans started the war, fought it as they did and committed war crimes, build the concentration camps and extermination camps, then this carries over into judging not the actual perpetrators, most of them now also dead but their sons and grand-daughters and every other now living German. That goes not only occasionally a bit too far for historical accuracy: 

In that situation and given the presumed social status of your protagonists: impossible! Well, almost impossible and highly frowned upon, socially, but it gets even worse, for all involved. While extramarital sex was never fully controlled by the authorities, not at anytime and not in Vienna, Austria had quite a few laws, similar to German laws that criminalised such behaviour. (Regarding the indirect and circumstantial reasonings of and around Nazi-laws: this answer does not provide any, this is purely about Austrian law before 1930.) It is quite difficult to link to the current version of the "crime" in question, since Austria re-codified its criminal law in very fundamental ways since then. That means that the words and paragraphe/section number used then do not correspond with today. But the main hinderance for such lewdness would be a crime called Kuppelei (at the time; in Latin: lenocinium; now codified as §213 and defined completely differently; Kuppelei might be roughly translated to [enabling] a couple/coupling in the sense of mating?). The old version of the criminal law code dealt quite extensively with this in some amazing detail: