This seems like it goes beyond the standard disclaimer of authorial opinion. Especially in context, it's written in a much more personal tone, as if the writer really wants to emphasize this point. The translator's introduction goes on to highlight exactly the same thing: 

...and so on and so forth. (This essay is a treasure to read.) He's even, in some other places, gone so far as to embed footnotes inside of boxes inside pages, and putting more footnotes inside those boxes, up to three or four layers deep, such as in the essay, Host. Did DFW ever write about where he drew inspiration for his style? Was this sort of colloquial-academic prose unique to the way he writes? 

Structurally, these conversations are very similar. Lane is pushing the Consul not to go on the pilgrimage, and the Consul rejects it, describing the pilgrimage in a very similar way. Kassad spends the rest of the chapter recounting his story; this seems to mirror the rest of Book 2 of the poem: 

This is actually fairly common and has no real significance. It's a purely decorative process called edge painting (or fore-edge painting) because it's color painted on the fore-edge of the book (go figure). It's common on religious texts, but that's only because religious texts simply tend to be better made and better decorated. It's quite general, though. 

The Founding and Manifesto of Zardulism* has several pages that are... filled with symbols without clear meaning. It's only ten pages long, but three pages (5-7) are dedicated to what looks like encoded text. Whether it actually encodes text, or if it's designed to look like it encodes text, is a little bit of a mystery. So... does it? If so, what does it say? If not, what are we supposed to make of the fact that it doesn't? *(this link is the actual link to the document, as posted by Zardulu) 

Douglas Hofstadter wrote a wonderful meditation on translation, the book Le Ton Beau de Marot. It contains literally scores of translations of the same poem from French into English. Each translation preserves some aspects of the original: meter, rhyme, various aspects of tone, wordplay, vowels, consonants. Some are close, some are loose. Some are whimsical, some are serious. Each of them is the same poem; each of them is different from all others. There is no way to capture everything about a poem in translation. You can't even read the same poem twice: the "translation" from the page into your head will always vary a little. A great poem, I'd say, is one that will vary more between readings, making it evergreen. I don't think it's fair to say that translation "takes away" from the meaning of the poem. There was never any single "meaning" for it to detract from. A translation adds to it, creating a new poem which is somehow conceptually related, but the original remains right where it was. A poem -- indeed, any text -- is a dialogue between its author and its reader. The "meaning" of that dialogue is the change it produces in the reader. The author never really knows the reader's state to start with, and can't point to a unique transformation that they can be certain will take place. The author may have a variety of hopes for it, and the totality of those hopes are expressed in the text as you see it. Change a single letter and you get a different thing. Substitute a word for its "synonym" and you still get a different thing. That's why Tom Robbins had a character declare, “There are no such things as synonyms!" So in every translation, something is lost, and something is gained. That "something" could be anything, any aspect of language. You can hope to arrive at a similar effect that a native reader would have had upon reading the original, but even that native reader won't have a single "meaning" for the poem. So how close you come to achieving that effect is itself a new dialogue. 

I hear this term thrown around a lot, in connection to a variety of different works. They don't all share the same central themes, though - at least not necessarily. But they do all tend to be connected in a pretty basic way: they're all fairly grim. Online definitions circularly say that "Dostoevskian" means "in the style of Fyodor Dostoevsky," which isn't particularly helpful. What aspects of his works are typically specifically referred to by this term? Do people mean to say that a work is nihilistic, or explores seemingly irrational behavior? Or do they mean something else entirely? 

Some works seem to apply these to objects, or ideas themselves, but they ultimately stem from people and (more generally) sentient beings. Still, the idea does seem to show up in one form or another in many fantasy books. Where did this idea come from, originally? Does it have a clear source? 

You don't have to read that. You probably shouldn't, honestly. But this is by far not the only example of this sort of stream-of-consciousness meandering excess in the Papers. I know Hamilton was operating on a short time-scale when writing, drafting, revising, submitting, and printing these essays. But this smacks of a disregard for any sort of editing process. This sort of leads me to wonder: were the Federalist Papers ever edited in a thorough and rigorous way? If so, by whom? And if so, what on earth were they checking for, and what changes did they make (if we know)? I'm more interested in whether there is evidence that they were vetted by a third party, but if there's information on Hamilton's approach to self-editing that could be relevant, I'd count that, too. 

This is a setup that allows Abbot to draw attention to a poor Victorian standard... and then he challenges it in the worst possible way: 

So it's known that as a practice it goes back at least that far. Chabad holds a slightly less reserved view: 

I don't believe it would be right to call him a religious fanatic. His plays contain both pro- and anti-Christian elements, all of which seem to be more about playing into the sense of the times than any personal conviction. There are hints that he may have been a crypto-Catholic (as his father was accused of, the nature of the Ghost in Hamlet, and so on), but it would have been suicide to be a fanatical Catholic in Elizabeth's England. Rather, I'd say the treatment of Shylock is more a matter of the prevailing mores of his time. He was no more anti-semitic than most Englishmen, which is to say, pretty anti-semitic. Jews had been expelled from England in 1290, and would not be allowed back in until decades after Shakespeare's death. The Jew would have been a stock character, and Shakespeare was drawing on the same sources that inspired the evil Barabas. Shakespeare had a fondness for anti-heroes, like Macbeth and Richard III. He often gave them very sympathetic speeches, and any discussion of anti-semitism in Merchant must be tempered by the "Hath not a Jew hands..." speech. While Shylock is in many ways a stock greedy Jew ("My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter! Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!"), he has that one magnificent, deeply human speech. So in the end I think it's best to treat Shakespeare's characters, and Shakespeare, as simply human, both good and bad. Religion wasn't a huge deal to him: it figures in his plays in many ways, both serious and as a figure of fun... just like real human beings. His plays were rarely fables with morals. They're stories, of people, with no simple moral summary. 

It's yet another context switch. It doesn't directly continue on from the Samson story. It doesn't seem to connect to any specific Biblical story; there are non-biblical images in the stanza ("she tied you to a kitchen chair"). Rather, it's an emotional invocation: she has coaxed the speaker to an ecstatic state. The word "hallelujah" appears most prominently in the Psalms, nominally written by King David. It means "praise God", and is most associated in English as an exclamation used when one is overwhelmed with joy. Together with the other stanzas, it illustrates a rocky relationship with both extreme lows (exemplified here by Samson's defeat, as well as the evocative but non-biblical image of a broken throne[1]) and the extreme highs accompanied by an exclamation of "Hallelujah!"