Well the whole struggle of the renaissance and the Enlightenment was really over the issue of faith and reason. So your question has a lot of history behind it. The "modern" struggle for reason probably began with the rediscovery of (really transportation of) Aristotle from east to west in the 12th or 13th century. And overall this would be characterized as looking to the world for answers, and not just for empirical answers but for ideas that might spur developments in mathematics also. At the end of the day Fred has faith in a book or a tradition, the words and promises of the book or tradition, or he might just have faith in himself. The book, tradition or Fred is set up as the authority. George challenges Fred's faith-based arguments using reason and Fred says, well you just have faith in reason and you are the same as me. I would not call what George has faith, I would call it a justified belief based upon the principles of reason, which combines both the empirical and the rational. Now looking at this problem from where we stand in 2017, and making the assumption that Kant's transcendental aesthetic failed, which I think it did, then I think George's real justication will rest in pragmatism. To (boldly) paraphrase William James, George's way of thinking pays better than Fred's does, and by this he means pays in a broad way. Crude, but it gets the point across. (Certainly not all pragmatists are as crude as this, personally I'm not entirely sold on pragmatism, I rather agree with some of the remarks B. Russell made about Dewey. Nevertheless pragmatism is strong today). The problem we have is that reason today does not rest on a good foundation (to the extent that matters anymore). But the age-old fight is against bare authority and superstition, and I believe that still stands. The definition of reason in the dictionary is good enough for me. I still think a historically informed reason is the way to go. I think a narrow, historically uninformed reason is deadly. Sadly, most of what we have today falls into the latter category. 

As was pointed out yesterday, in the extreme situation, there is no time to reflect. Hence, we must be programmed (instinct, non-reflective) to act "as if" ALL others are valuable for species survival. We see that in calm times, the surgeon may be more valuable than the ditch-digger (that is, in the calculating, reflective, instrumental, immoral world). But in extreme situations we must act as if all are equally valuable because there is no time to reflect. In the extreme moment, we must save all in order to save the potential one who will advance the species. Objection: not all soldiers jump on the grenade, so it can't be instinct. Answer: They have, in their spare time, in preparation for battle etc., taken the time to calculate. They anticipate the emergency situation, and engage the everyday, instrumental thinking. The neo-cortex overcomes the instinct to save the other in extremis. Now what about this instrumental, "goal-for", world of everydayness? In this world not only other men but nature itself (and this is key) we see as mere instruments to be used for self-survival. Now let's trace the moves: Freud, "Civilization and its Discontents"; Marcuse answers many years later: "Eros and Civilization" and "One-Dimensional Man". The solution, advanced by Marcuse, to pacify but satisfy man in his relation to nature is probably no longer possible for external reasons due to unanticipated changes in nature itself. This era of possibility may have closed, we don't know yet, but it may have closed. Hence some say man must continue to take an instrumental approach towards other men and towards nature for his own survival, which ironically may hasten his demise. (Self-preservation = self-destruction). While Marcuse proposed solutions, Horkheimer, Adorno, and Heidegger said merely "stop", "halt" (an over-simplification but a warranted over-simplification I think). We may in some sense be "back to Kant" (again), and the hope for a morality of ends. 

Well, this is not Russell's best book. But if you wanted to do a case study on this, you could look at Chile in the last century. The Guggenheims were able to make a lot of money off of nitrogen (guano), which I guess because of cheap labor and a sort of monopoly contract, they were able to make huge profits despite the Haber process. No doubt the Guggenheims did some good things with their money, particularly involving art, the museum and so on, but one would have to look at the history of the little man in Chile too, and it was not so good for the working class. Not in the least. What is conservatism? Well, it is not liberalism, but we don't explain to Americans what liberalism is. (At the end of the day it stands for nothing, there is a general inability to "take a stand" under liberalism, it approves everything, including, not surprisingly, laissez-faire economics!). And by the way, Marxism is not liberalism, though most trendy American "Marxists" don't know this. Well now might be the time to read Popper (his supposed sober middle ground). I think the philosopher who was most subtle on some, not all, of these issues is Galvano Della Volpe (Rousseau and Marx). I think M. Unamuno is good, at the end of the day, his Basque stubbornness, and his wisdom, allowed him to stand up to the Franco regime. I like B. Croce, but he had certain blindnesses. We all have certain blindnesses we have to take into consideration in the political realm. We have to be at least somewhat cautious of our own biases, especially me! 

Here we have a language problem with the word "believe", I think. Do you mean believe in what such a human says, or do you mean believe that such a human is real? Because I could believe in what such a human says, without committing myself to believe that he is real. Couldn't I? By playing with the word believe in this way, I think you also beg the question, but I will leave such a determination to the fallacy and logic experts here. 

If you want a real answer to the question it would help to know French. Then you would go to Paris and try to find a Parisian of the age of 75 or over who was involved in the philosophcal-political "scene" of the 60s through 70s in Paris, and they might be able to tell you the real story. Failing that you might do some research in a French library while you were there. I am serious. This is the best way IMO. But difficult and not cheap! Leo Loewenthal (Frankfurt School) made a few comments about it. George Lukacs wrote something on it I think, not much. Habermas. But these are not Frenchmen. The Marxian, and more open, writers have addressed your question. You are not alone in realizing this phenomenon. However, most of their remarks are not in depth. Sometimes you run across something in an interview transcript, but again it is not addressed in depth. Keep in mind, the volume of Marxian books,writers, philosophers went down after 1979, particularly in America, and in Europe too. The other thing is to look for dissertations (PhD.) On the subject, but avoid cultural studies and literary studies dissertations, because generally they are worthless for philosophers. Historians and French studies majors can be good,philosophers would be best. You may look through a really good research library for more current books. I am out of date myself. Look for books by philosophers. Also Journals in philosophy, French studies, intellectual history if you have access to journals. Oh, I forgot, Marxist, socialist journals, etc. And of course, someone may come along here who can give you a good answer and good reference material!! But good references, really, really good studies, are hard to find which address your exact question, at least in my experience. You might have to write the book yourself. PS. I think you will find that the earliest originators of postmodernism were "conservative". However, saying that does not capture the full flavor of Paris during this time. A person might switch from being a socialist to being conservative in one week's time, or he may have a string of ideologies at the end of his name. 

Here is a link to a magazine interview which may give some insight into his views on a changed position. Full quote removed. [Approx 35th q&a] JPS, answer: "In some ways-- perhaps... Playboy Interview, 1965. $URL$ In other words, he wishes to pay honor to his past commitments. To the person and truth he was when he made them. But he does not feel bound by them. 

I am writing from a U.S. perspective. This actually goes back a long time. The Jimmy Carter Administration tried to introduce a public health model, here: "Rather, the change of terms was based on the application of a public health model that emphasized the role of the environment, social services, and prevention rather than the traditional psychiatric focus on the diagnosis and treatment of severe and persistent mental disorders." $URL$ During the Reagan administration, Carter's legislation was repealed and a system of block grants was instituted, many public psychiatric residential facilities were closed down; many of these people migrated to the streets and public libraries, so we had librarians acting as "psychiatric nurses". It was a complicated issue because the public long-term residential facilities for the mentally ill were not that great, many people were simply tranquillized and put to bed; so the Reagan Administration was not completely wrong, but they just shifted the problem as I mentioned above to the streets and to inner-city libraries. At any rate, deinstitutionalization was already under way when Reagan took office, timeline: $URL$ Karl Mannheim had some good ideas after WWII. (1950) His book is interesting: Freedom, Power and Democratic Action. There is an old review of this book by Commentary magazine on the web. Of course times were good and no one listened to Karl Mannheim after the war, certainly not in the United States. No one wanted to plan for a better society. What do we call these things we have in the U.S., mass shootings? This started to my memory with Charles Whitman at U. Texas (1966). Elton John has a song, "Ticking" (1974). "It may be that lyricist Bernie Taupin was inspired by the Whitman shooting, albeit indirectly." (Songfacts) Might things get better if we let things get worse? Oddly, yes. Maybe we will finally wake up as the madness increases. As it stands now the short attention span of the public and the media acts to push the latest violent incident under the rug. In the meantime, who wants to take a bullet from one of these shooters? How does nihilism factor into this? We know today that many of us, not all of us but many of us, are postmodern individual monads without community. No religion and no replacement for religion. No overarching narrative. Loneliness. We can't seem to get on the same page. The only narrative we have is Star Wars and I lost interest at part II, whatever it was. I forgot Batman. He must be mentioned. Of course some philosophers think it's a good thing that we don't have a meta-narrative, because it is a form of dominance, an exercise of power over the masses. Foucault wrote about mental illness and power. Erich Fromm had some ideas. Even Konrad Lorenz in his later works spoke about where man was headed. I must also mention Allen Wheelis, "The Way We Are", 2006. Many others. The problem is with society, and to fix things means to stir up society. For the time being some people can hide away in gated communities, and enjoy the benefits of "security". I think they are fooling themselves. I do think what the OP suggests regarding mental health would work in small and medium communities as long as they were given money and allowed to do their own planning. However, in the long run we must face up to what this quote suggests: "It is no measure of health to be well adjusted to a profoundly sick society." Jiddu Krishnamurti 

Yes, for a long time in European history the Roman Catholic Church was the only institution that had the money and power to build cathedrals and so on and a lot of teachnology was developed out of this. Of course the Church began to become a little nervous later on when this secular knowledge began to produce the likes of Galileo! On the other hand, how religion tends to fix the world in place is illustrated well by Mircea Eliade in his book "The Sacred and the Profane". The repetition of religious holidays and events year after year within the religion, results in a kind of eternal return within whatever faith it is. The same things happen over and over again which provides stability, but at the same time could stifle innovation. This book is available PDF for free, but some copies are better than others. Don't forget, many great artists and scientists of the past did their great works to show the glory of their God on earth. So their work was part of their faith, all for the glory of God. I could add we humans seem to have an innate need to create and innovate even if things may seem futile in the end. In some ways we just can't let things be, we are "bothered" by the object, we may feel alienated from it, and we can't resist the urge to make it our own, and we make it our own by putting ourselves into it somehow. There is a great interest in this problem in German 19th century philosophy. Also Philosophical Anthropology deals with this area: just what is this Man philosophy proposes to deal with? Another oddity of humans is that in an odd way we don't care if it's all torn down. Freud had the idea of the death instinct, Thanatos. This is like kids building a sand castle on the beach and expressing glee in the fact it is washed away, only to begin building it again! Gambling is a little like this: work hard for money, and strangely revel in losing it (because most gamblers know they'll never beat the odds over time). Freud is always interesting, if nothing else and he had a philosophical side. Sorry some some of the sexist language"Man" etc it's not always easy to find a better word that doesn't sound odd. 

I'm a bit worn out from writing about sadness just now , but when there is a fire, the fire department has to put it out, no matter how tired they are. It's the same with philosophers. No matter how tired and (very) befuddled we are, we would be remiss if we did not jump in to help answer a meaning of life question. We must do our duty. This obviously will involve some of my opinions, since it is impossible to be entirely objective on this. Well, you have caused me to have to think about this myself. I think we search for a meaning in life because man naturally seeks to overcome things, or to solve things, which bother him. Maurice Blondel said man always has a desire to transcend himself, to be more than he is at the moment. I think our life somehow bothers us in some way. Perhaps a friend or a loved one we know dies, and we want to know, why? What is the meaning of life when we just seem to disappear and leave no trace? Our life just keeps coming up as as a problem for us and we try to solve the riddle of it without obsessing about it too much. Some people solve this problem by having children, but isn't this really just a way to put the problem off for a while? The meaning of life is to bring children (new life) into the world, but then the children grow up and move away and we still don't really know why we are puzzled about life's meaning. Gregory Baum wrote a very interesting book on this subject, and Baum himself is a very interesting man. "Man Becoming; God in a secular language (Herder & Herder 1970). In this book he discusses Blondel's thesis that man essentially transcends himself as far as he can go on earth and then reaches out for God. Something like that, it's been a while since I've read the book. Baum was born in Germany, became a priest, was then a well known professor in Canada. He has had a very turbulent life in the church over the years, I think he finally quit it. Anyway, one of the best books I've read on the question of, why?