From the point of view of the spelling, Ь simply means "the previous consonant should be palatalized". See $URL$ to learn what palatalization is, it's a lengthy topic (P.S. Yellow Sky has a nice overview). Most consonsants in Russian come in pairs: palatalized/non-palatalized (also called soft/hard). Additionally, before vowels, Ь means "y" (Воробьев => Vorobyov) When it comes to morphology, -Ь is often found in cases where we have a null ending in words whose stems end in a palatalized consonant, example: путь. Also found in 2nd declension in nominative/accusative cases (of feminine gender) for historical reasons: ночь (consonant Ч is always palatalized, so no need to have Ь as a palatalization marker, but we still do). -ь is also found, for example, as a morphological unit, in imperative word forms: брось! i.e. it tells that C is palatalized, witch matches with the palatalizedness of С in the original infinitive: бросить In some cases, like -ешь in verbs (for 2nd person), the spelling is just historical, and Ь there doesn't mean anything anymore. So, in a nutshell, you can think of Ь as yet another palatalizing vowel (similar to Е and И), except it's not actually pronounced, yet still has influence on surrounding sounds. 

Not only do you have butan as "outside => except/unless" but also binnan "within", formed on the same model (be+innan). So yes, the adjunction of be ("by", PDG bei) to indicate a positioning relative to self is confirmed. PDG still has innen and binnen. Dutch as well retains binnen and buiten.2 If you think of it, it is also present in Present Day English: that's the with- in within and without.So far so good. 

Let's start with a real meaning of "outside". This is from the Genesis (as you can recognise). v 1355. 

Edit: Added an image... As a Hindi speaker myself (which uses Devanagari alphabet) I can definitively tell you that the link has all of the soft consonants. Do tell me if you are confused by any other links and attach the hyperlinks (as you mentioned). 

I think , of all the IPA consonants and vowels, the ones with association to air would be a bit difficult to pronounce in the same way, 'cause changing gravity (in drastic way) can change air thickness. E.g. Implosives, Explosives, Aspirations, Clicks etc. 

In Slavic languages, verbs have perfective/imperfective aspects, a core grammatical feature, and it's usually done via prefixing. For example, in Russian: delat "to do", sdelat "to have done"; kormit "to feed", pokormit "to have fed"; gotovit "cook", prigotovit "to have cooked". Basically almost every verb comes in such pairs. 

Interestingly, in Russian, we never call it "double negation" (at least I never heard it), although Russian is often listed in English-language sources as an example of a language with "double negation". The thing is, we don't use the same particles. We apply ne to verbs and ni to everything else. In our tradition, ni is called an "intensifier" (similar to how you add "any" in English for intensification: "i don't know ANY ..."). Etymologically, it stems from ne + i, which can be roughly translated as "not also". Example: "I don't know anyone" = ne znaju nikogo When, in fact, we put two ne together (no ni!), we have the same rule as in English, i.e. NO+NO=YES: ne mogu ne znat "I cannot not know" => "I DO know" Because of that, I think "double negation" is a misnomer for Russian (maybe for Bulgarian, too?), because ni and ne are different particles with different meanings. 

You are not wrong; German unter and Latin inter are actually related. See for instance wiktionary PGm entry for under: 

Unicode (within and beyond the BMP) has nearly 75,000 code points for CJK (Chinese Japanese Korean). The vast majority of these characters are actual words (most modern Chinese words are made of more than a single ideogram, yet most Kanji/Hanzi characters have meanings equivalent to our words). More generally Unicode encodes many (at least partially) ideographic writings (many of them from ancient languages: e.g. Hittites, Cretan and Egyptian hieroglyphs, etc...). So Unicode already has a lot of characters for "words". Having one character per word could seem a nice idea but there are a few hurdles in the way of course. If you have one character for each word, you need: 

( Since I am not an expert on Tibetan and German, this answer might be biased to Sanskrit and Hindi but this won't affect the answer asked for ) I have generally seen krodha when there is a negative connotation of anger or when the anger might result in a (mythological) curse and kopa when it's godly/well-reasoned/non-cursing anger. AFAIK cognates are a pair of words which are similar semantically and phonetically but are from 2 different languages, but krodha and kopa are both used simultaneously (at least now) in Sanskrit and Hindi. P.S. Now though, in Hindi, generally, kopa is used to refer it's religious nature and krodha is used in almost every sense. 

It should also be noted that the point of those reconstructed phonemes is that they "oppose" each other. I.e. a string of reconstructed phonemes uniquely (more-less) identifies a word, say, domos in this exact configuration means "building (something which was built)", as opposed, to, say, tomos which would mean "something which was cut in pieces". We know for sure that tomos is different from domos because their sequences of phonemes differ. We don't know how it was pronounced exactly, the real pronunciation of domos could as well be something like "tamash", we'll probably never know. But we know for sure that those were different words with different sets of sounds, and they had different reflexes (continuations) in daughter languages. We don't know the exact pronunciation but we still have to settle on some way to represent them symbolically (how do we tell them one from another otherwise?), so we settle on the most logically likely variants. 

In OE, you have both utan ("outside") and innan ("inside"). Often found side by side (just as we do today): "inside and outside" => innan and utan (e.g. Genesis 1320).1 

This explains why in OE, under had both the meaning of "beneath" and that of "amongst/between". Only the former acceptation subsists today. As an aside note regarding the latter meaning of "between", you can have a look at de Vaan 2008 inter (many cognates meaning "entrails" in many languages - gory). The prefix under in undertake is to compare to unter in unternehmen ("undertake" in Present Day German) - since "nehmen" means "to take". And as a matter of fact, before switching to "undertaken" in Middle English, Old English had undernimen. But then, during Middle English, taken displaced OE niman - IMO under the influence of Old Norse. Undernimen was therefore logically replaced by undertaken. Also note that, in its other meaning of "understand", undernimen also disappeared and only understandan remained as PDE understand. French entre is, as you well know, a direct descendent of Latin inter. Romance languages use inter or in 1. Italian has both imprendere/intrapendere - as you know prendere is to take. Also Spanish has emprender; Portuguese has interprender. You have a similar phenomenon with underwritan ("underwrite") and unterschreiben). But this time, German takes schreiben from Latin scribo and English sticks with PGm *writana. See subscribe. Also worth mentioning is entertain (cognate with French entre-tenir etc); to compare with German unterhalten (halten = to hold/tenir). This time there was no OE equivalent for entertain, so a Romance loan word was imported. So to summarise, PDE undertake does not come from Anglo-Norman entreprendre (mostly "to attack") or even Late Latin imprehendere/interprehendere ("to assault by surprise", "undertake"). However they do have common traceable PIE roots and there is, as you suggest, a correspondence between entre and under in a number of cases. 

1) The Major Mnemonic system isn't a language. It's just a coding system, but considering that to be a language, the binary codes fed to a computer is also a language and so on. 2) A language's purpose is to be able to convey thoughts. Thus such a language (which has just numbers) would only exist in a society where people just talk about numbers (which is obviously not possible) , not even mathematicians can talk just using numbers, because they have a "human" life to live which requires words/sounds to convey that meaning. 3) (a personal opinion) Number words came into a language , only after nouns or "object" words. One would have counted something only after she knew what is to be counted. Thus showing that other words "needed" to exist before numbers. And that the numbers aren't enough. (P.S. this answer is to an older version of the question) 

As well as ufan and utan "above and outside" for the rhyme. In Dutch, innen has survived as a verb: "to cash in" 

Now about the semantic shift from "outside" to "unless" which ultimately led to the displacement of ac/ak (the "but" as a conjunction in Old English). Here are a few examples I picked from the corpus of Old English Poetry gradually evolving from from "outside" to "unless". All 'translations' are mine and are deliberately literal in order to facilitate the word to word correspondence. 

In this excerpt, we even have a more archaic form beutan. Clearly, the intended meaning here is "outside". 

Welcome to Linguistics SE. 1) Do you have anything to support the presumption that says words like "meow" get replaced by unintuitive ones like "cat" or "kat" ? 2) In general, words in a language are not as intuitive as one might expect them to be; is wrong, that does not hold true, as no words are forced into the vocab in a language, the words develop as people want them to (there are exceptions, lots, but not in the words of daily use, not in the realm of words you are talking about). 3) Google says that cat comes from: Old English catt, catte, of Germanic origin; related to Dutch kat and German Katze ; reinforced in Middle English by forms from late Latin cattus. Assuming (1) to be true, the reason for that might be: a) English (like many other languages) doesn't have it's own set of words (i.e. the set is not exclusive), it has borrowed words from many other cultures and languages along the way and will continue to do so. b) Every language has it's own phonotactics, which I -personally- think might have been another reason for dropping "meow" and accepting "cat". (I don't know how universal this is, but, kids/ people still use meow for identifying cats, it's not vanished yet!) :)