Outside pedal down and your weight on the outside foot, that 's how we were taught at the cycling school of the cycling club. You may angle the inside leg more or less away from the bike if you want to turn faster (cf. moto GP racers). 

For pure road-riding: Neoprene covers over normal road-shoes are the best as long as you don't have to put a foot down too often. The cleats are prone to clogging in snowy conditions. But then you wouldn't certainly get on a bike. On the other hand, ankle hugging covers keep the rain running down the legs into the shoe, which could happen with insulated boots. For cross-country riding or commuting: Specific insulated and waterproof (membrane-type) shoes with profiled soles for MTB-cleats and MTB-pedals are a very reliable solution. MTB-cleats and pedals by design cope better with adverse conditions like mud and snow. And the shoes are more wear resistant than covers if you need to walk longer distances and there is less trouble to put them on and take them off. 

If there is a super-capacitor in the system it will need a full charge before permanent full brightness. The electronics may be programmed to switch to bright flashing mode at low voltage and low rpm/speed before the full charge at normal operating voltage and high rpm. A bright flashing light it is more visible than low brightness permanent light. 

Braking with both brakes at the same will make the braking more effective and shorter, leaving plenty of time in between for the system to cool down. Brakes should be applied for a short period only at maximum intensity until your speed is reduced to the desired level. Having brakes applied and dragging over long periods will keep speed down but only at the expense of considerable temperature rise of the disk, the rim and if it applies of the brake fluid. There will be a risk of failure if the brake fluid reaches boiling temperatures. This is true with any vehicle. 

The correct answer is yes and no. There are in fact two types of Presta valves: One where the core can be removed. Those are often used with tubular tyres so that the inner tube can be filled with a sealant (latex) fluid. Some higher quality tubes also have removable core valves for the same purpose. Normal and cheaper tubes have Presta valves where the core cannot be removed. There is a special tool to be used for handling the core although like @Michael said the (careful) use of pliers also works. Another reason for a removable core is the possibility to use valve extensions with high rims. 

This looks like it's generally illegal to cycle along Scottish pavements (using the UK interpretation of "pavement": "sidewalk" in the US). Next, they look at the Act mentioned in the question: 

As we will see... Firstly, they define "footway", and state that it's not generally lawful to cycle on one: 

The consequences for you as an individual are perhaps not as important as the broader ramifications of your behaviour. By behaving as if you think that the local rules of the road don't apply to you, you are contributing to a perception that cyclists are dangerous idiots who disregard the rules and the safety of themselves and others. This has the effect of making other road users much less sympathetic about the needs of cyclists as a whole. This can result in more dangerous behaviour from motorists, which is a battle that the cyclists will only come off worse in. If cyclists are seen as unpleasant or dangerous, we are much less likely to be effective in campaigning for better provision in terms of infrastructure such as segregated bike lanes, safer parking and so on. 

Why is the "B-Tension" adjustment screw so called? Does it stand for anything, have there been A and C adjustments, or is there another reason for its name? 

The way he's riding is bad because it damages your bike. That in itself ought to be enough reason to stop. You could point out that all the effort spent pushing the bike from side to side is wasted; he could use he energy more effectively to push the bike forwards using the pedals. I suspect that if your friend was riding his own bike, he'd be less cavalier about his treatment of it. I'd be inclined to say one of the following things to him: 

Note that different types of bike are designed for different purposes. You've tagged this as "road"; we generally want road bikes to move forward efficiently, but BMX riding (for example) is very different. It sounds a bit like your friend isn't used to this kind of distinction. 

This is one of those questions where if you have to ask "should I do this?", the answer is "no". Carbon frames need to be specially reinforced (during manufacturing) in the areas that drilling takes place see, for example, this discussion, and you could create stress concentration points or otherwise compromise the integrity of your frame. The words "catastrophic frame failure" are not ones that you want to hear, particularly from your hospital bed. 

Since it is no load carrying part and if you keep enough clearance between the repaired spot and the tyre there should be no problem. Take care to sand away any rust beforehand and treat the rusted part with rust removing chemicals. 

The tensioning or retaining spring, the small black loop in the last image, at 4 o'clock on the upper jockey pulley, should be clipped behind the protrusion on the cage that is visible in the top left corner of the red frame on the second image. The spring has probably lost tension from age. Putting the spring on that second notch will increase the tension. (The instructions are also included with the link provided / the pink image has the instructions in French, Flemish, English ...) The job of said spring is to turn the cage clockwise and to tension the chain via the lower jockey pulley. 

Clean and dry (hair-dryer) the derailleur. Relube. Check. If necessary take out the cables, chase the water from the housings by pressing thin oil with a syringe. Put the cables back in or replace with new ones. It's always a good idea to change the cables before winter if you've been riding through rain in the good season. And change them again at the beginning of the good season! 

I had a Peugeot bike once where the seatpost didn't have the usual clamp but a similar system to hold it in the seat-tube. The system was not very practical because if you wanted to adjust the saddle height you could only do so if the saddle was removed. The bolt was tightened from the top of the seatpost. There was a second draw-back: the seat-tube being rather thin walled you had to be be careful when tightening or you could ruin the tube. Your bicycle has a normal clamp so I would remove this long bolt with the cone and save hassle and weight. 

The difference between a 170mm and a 175mm crank is about 3%. That will also be the difference of the leverage, so probably barely perceptible. However the impact they may have on the pedalling will depend on anatomical differences, mainly on the length of legs as a shorter crank reduces the circumference of the pedal circle which in return affects the angles of the joints in hips, knees and ankles. The general recommendation is that shorter legs ask for shorter cranks. Taller riders will need longer cranks. A serious bike-fitter should find the best crank-length for the individual rider. 

It seems to me (neither a Scot nor a lawyer), that it's generally illegal to cycle along Scottish pavements (using the UK interpretation of "pavement": "sidewalk" in the US). According to a briefing for the Scottish Parliament: 

My toddler (two and a half years old) has just started scooting around on her balance bike. I'd like to ensure that the saddle is at the best height for her to learn to balance. I know the rules of thumb for adjusting this on an adult bike with pedals, but they obviously don't apply here! What is the ideal height, probably expressed in terms of how straight her legs should be when sitting on the saddle? 

Pumps have an air chamber (normally cylindrical) that is compressed in order to force the air into the tyre. When the handle is pulled out, air behind the piston is forced out of the cylinder. In single action pumps, this air is vented into the atmosphere and lost (no big deal; there's plenty of it around!). On a double (or dual) action pump, this air is collected and forced through the valve into the tyre. Single action pumps are mechanically simpler, and so smaller and lighter than equivalent double action pumps, but take roughly twice as many strokes to get to the same pressure. With a double action pump, you have to do work when pulling the pump handle, as well as when pushing, which is more effort per stroke (due to the pressure of the air already in the tyre, unlike in the single action pump, where you're working against atmospheric pressure which is much lower). 

This (official) guidance seems to say that pavements are not generally covered by the Land Reform Act (because "access is controlled by or under another enactment"), but there are exceptions. It's not clear to me how to determine whether something is a "core path"; I think it's determined by Local Authorities rather than centrally. The briefing goes on to say: 

I wouldn't worry about it. Repeatedly bending the core could cause it to break, but as a one-off, it should be fine. I quite often end up with slightly bent cores, and don't normally bother bending them back, and I don't recall ever having a valve fail. 

Tainio et al, (Can air pollution negate the health benefits of cycling and walking?, Preventive Medicine, June 2016, Vol.87:233–236), produced a model for cycling (and walking) in polluted cities, using data of one particular type of pollution (fine particulate matter) from various global cities. Using a measure of minutes per day spent cycling, they find that the health benefits of cycling have a "tipping point" (after which no further benefits are observed) and a "break even point", after which the harm due to pollution outweighs the benefits of the exercise. The authors claim that, in almost all urban environments, the benefits of cycling outweigh the harm. The most polluted city they looked at, Delhi, however, has a tipping point of 30 mins/day and a breakeven point of 45 mins/day, which must make it a pretty unpleasant place to cycle! The conclusion seems to me to be that if the choice is between cycling and driving, you're better off cycling (for any reasonable distance, such as commuting), because you'll be healthier and causing less pollution yourself. Personally, I like to avoid heavily polluted areas of my city for aesthetic reasons and also because they tend to be busier and slower than the alternatives. 

I have a shimano XT hydraulic disc brake system. While servicing it I took out the pads an checked the pistons in the caliper and noticed that only one is extracting. After a few pulls on the lever when the one piston reached the end of its travel, the brake fluid spurted from it. I've since resettled and reset the pistons but I'm thinking I might still have fluid leaking out from there in the future. Or maybe that was normal behavior? 

First time taking the cranks off. The bolts, chinrings and drive side came out easy. Left is stuck. Should I open, pull or do something particular for it to come out? 

I have noticed a lot of scraping on the inside of my Trushift 44T plate. Is it just a function of distance, time and color or is it a clue that something is not working properly? The bike was bought used. Here is my chainring (bottom) and another from my buddy's bike. Mine did more km so it is not a perfect comparison but still: 

How to i set the height and tighten the mechanism with affecting the other rotation "axis" of the derailleur? are there always combination of cogs (front and back) that will cause the chain to run against the cage?. 

And this is the chain still on the first (small) chainring but now the bolt is almost fully loose, so in fact, nothing changed with the actual position of the mount: 

It fell from the front hub/disc brake/fork area (most likely brake caliper) on my friend's bike which I'm servicing for the first time and I have no idea what they are! 

So I'm working with the park tool tutorial but I've done it a couple of times in the past. When adjusting my Shimano Deore Front derailleur (height and rotation) it lines up great but when I tighten the mounting bolt the whole thing "banks" inwards and so the cage bottom rises and touches the chain. 

now some photos. it is very hard to create a stable reference angle with the phone and without a tripod but you will get the idea. This is the chain on the first (small) chainring when the bolt is tighten: 

After finishing my last two rides on my second hand bought bike, I've noticed both stanchions appear as if they are leaking oil Could it be just WD residues or excess suspension oil?