Different competitions have different suspension rules. However, in most major competitions, it is not the job of the referee to check for eligibility of the players in a team's lineup. That job is given to an official provided by the competition organizers. This official shall check that every player mentioned in the team list (including substitutes) is eligible as per the competition rules. If even this official does not spot that a suspended player has been selected, the match can either be handed to the opposing team by forfeit, or be replayed, again depending on competition rules or decision made by the organizers of the competition. For example, in the third qualifying round for the 2014/15 UEFA Champions League, Scottish club Celtic should have lost 6-1 on aggregate to Polish club Legia Warsaw. After losing the away game 4-1, Celtic then lost 2-0 at home. However, it transpired that Legia had used a suspended player as a substitute towards the end of the second leg. Celtic were consequently awarded a 3-0 victory and went through on away goals after the aggregate score was tied at 4-4. 

The decision to remove the manager is never done by just one person. A football club big enough to be in the Premier League will be run by a board of directors. So it will be the board's decision to sack the manager. Some clubs also include the major shareholders in such meetings as they are directly invested in the success of the club. 

While Joe's answer is correct, the Asia Cup will not permanently be a T20 tournament. This Wikipedia article tells us that the recently revived Asia Cup tournament will be played on rotation basis in One Day International (ODI) and Twenty20 International (T20I) format based on respective next world events under the ICC. 

Disclaimer: This list is by no means exhaustive. Just a list of some players who scored a hell of a lot of goals for their respective clubs. 

No. Not all offences in the penalty box lead to a red card. Many offences within the penalty box lead to no further action than a penalty being given. The referee can also show a yellow card for offences within the penalty box. If the yellow card shown is the second one received by the player during the match, the player must be sent off. Red (sent off) or yellow (cautioned) cards are to be shown for the following offences according to FIFA Laws of the Game, Law 12: Fouls and Misconduct 

Let us say Player 1 hits the ball with a huge amount of spin, causing it to bounce in Player 2's side of the court and return back over the net to Player 1's side. If Player 2 is unable to reach over the net and play the ball, Player 1 gets the point. If Player 2 is able to reach over the net and play the ball without him, his clothing or any item he may be carrying touching the net, net post or the ground on Player 1's side of the court, Player 2 has made a legitimate return and play resumes normally. USTA 

It's just a matter of convenience. If a batsman has to tie his own shoelaces, he has to remove his gloves, and also look around his pads. Try wearing pads, kneeling down, and tying your shoelaces. You'll see the pads do seem to get in the way. Also, it's not like the batsman walks very far to ask a fielder/umpire to do this. He only asks the nearest person to him (who can tie his laces without much bother) to help him out, be it a fielder or an umpire. But its not that a batsman cannot tie his own laces. I have seen plenty of cases where the batsman does it himself (like you mentioned, usually when there is nobody nearby to help). He just asks a fielder/umpire because it is less of a hassle and usually, fielders/umpires are glad to help out. Cricket is said to be the "gentleman's game" after all. 

FIFA has no powers like any judiciary body of a sovereign nation. FIFA can only govern in matters relating to the sport of football. Hence any trials, fines and bans will be in direct relation to the sport of football or footballing activities. FIFA's 'power' over private individuals extends only to their participation in footballing activities, including but not restricted to, playing the game or managing a team in any competitive game and taking part in any form of governance of football related activities. Being banned from football means the person is not allowed to take part in any activities pertaining to football, i.e., they cannot hold any positions in football governing bodies, and they cannot be part of a team(player or manager) in any competitive match. They can be allowed to watch football games, if they purchase the tickets privately. Some people might not be allowed to even do that, which means they have been given a 'stadium ban'. As to the corruption, well nobody can do anything about it, except the Ethics Committee in FIFA or the Court for Arbitration in Sport(CAS). Expecting the clubs to do something about FIFA's corruption is like expecting a player to show a red card to a referee in a football match. There is no chance of that scenario occurring whatsoever (even if it does happen, it will only result in the player getting into a lot of trouble). The maximum clubs can do is file a case against FIFA with CAS, although I don't see that happening, since none of the clubs have been directly affected by the corruption that has currently put FIFA in the limelight. FIFA was recognized as the world governing body for football by the first few nations to play the sport in the early 1900's. FIFA's position became official upon recognition by the IOC as the the governing body for football in the world. Asking football to continue without FIFA is like asking for a match to be played without a referee. Apart from the fact that FIFA governs football all over the world, FIFA also organizes tournaments like the World Cup, Youth World Cup, etc and has other roles and responsibilities as described above. A solution to what you are asking would be to disband FIFA and create another regulatory body for football. But the problem here is not FIFA, but the people running FIFA. Hence, even disbanding FIFA would make no sense if the same people are running the new governing body. The real solution is to get rid of the corrupt people, and ensure FIFA is being run in a clean and transparent way. Hence, FIFA President Sepp Blatter and FIFA Vice-President Michel Platini have been given 8 year bans upon being found guilty of corruption by the FIFA Ethics Committee. 

Yes this play is completely legal. It often happens even in the big European leagues where goalkeepers dribble a good 10-15 yards out of their box while the opposition players are all relatively far away.. Goalkeepers have as much right to dribble the ball out as any outfield player. If the goalkeeper has legally caught the ball, and has released it from his hand within 6 seconds of catching it, it does not matter how play is continued after the release. He may pass to a team mate with his hands, his legs, or roll the ball out, dribble himself and then pass with his feet. 

Again it is completely up to the referee's discretion to judge whether the offence falls under any of the above categories. 

Regarding FIFA's official transfer laws, international transfer of minors is not allowed if the player is under the age of 18 (which is the definition of a minor). There are 3 exceptions, as explained in Article 19 of FIFA Regulations on the Status and Transfer of Players (pages 17 and 18):