Breaststroke - Pectoral and Latissimus dorsi muscles are used to sweep the arms inwards against the water. - Glutes and Quadriceps muscles power the breaststroke kick. 

If you want to get good at running 1 mile, then run 1 mile a lot. Throw in some short printing exercise and a few slower 2 mile runs and you have a pretty good regime which will improve your 1-mile time. The is the very basic principle behind programming for sports. You don't see rowers spending most of their time on the bench-press, because they are rowing. If I was training for a running race and spent all my time on the cross trainer had did a couple runs then I wouldn't do as well as someone who did the opposite. What will doing burpees develop (muscles)? You will get good at doing burpees and find them easier as your mind develops the connections required to execute a burpee without thinking about the motions and balance. You will develop your brain (sort of) Next, burpees consist of a squat-thrust followed by a squat-jump. Both are variations of performing a squat but both aren't really as good as just a pure, full-depth, ass-to-grass, bodyweight squat. Problem is, burpees don't really provide any significant resistance or work to ANY part of your body, there is a lot of stabilising going on and movement but for the most-part you are just moving fast. You won't develop any specific type of physique that can be categoried using normal descriptions (lean/bulky/ripped) 

You haven't asked for a diet plan so I won't provide one. You are just asking why your plan is not letting you lose weight. Usually I would go to MyFitnessPal to find out how many calories and what the macronutrient breakdown is for your shakes but that is out the window. We are also missing vital information about your build and what else you eat (snacks/dinner/weekends). What I can say is the following: 

This is kind of outside of the scope of the PF SE but you seem genuinely in need. First point of call would be to talk to your parents, you are saying you are feeling pushed too much into the older team and dealing with the changes in your body. You are 16 and hopefully you understand what puberty is and you are feeling the very real effects of it on your body. Your limbs are growing at a drastic rate and as a result your body control (balance, ability to produce controlled explosive power, etc.) is weakening. The more senior members of your team have had a few years experience in dealing with the changes and so are more food-sure. There is nothing you can do to slow down your bodies development and everyone develops differently and at different rates. Practically there are some things you can do to help: 

As soon as possible. At 26 you still have the ability to quickly adapt to new exercise and develop muscle relatively easily. 

Your heart rate will be elevated by about 20bpm or more. You will feel warmer. You will have mobilised your joints and feel limber. With weightlifting, warm up sets are usually sufficient after some mobility: 8-10x Reps at 50%, 70% and 90% of your training weight. Don't neglect to warm-up if you are attempting a 1RM, people often do. 

For a full obstacle guide go here: $URL$ Atlas Stone A round concrete ball, slightly larger than a basket ball and probably around the 20kg mark (does not clearly state weight but looks like that weight based on my experience of stones). 

Lifting weights with proper form while maintaining a healthy diet will not stunt growth. In fact, weight lifting has many benefits for youths including increased strength for sports and higher self-esteem. In particular, Olympic Weightlifting (with its technique-heavy requirement) is very suitable for young people and if they are looking to develop into that sport they should start as early as possible. A comprehensive analysis of strength training in youth can be found on ExRx (summary below): $URL$ 

Sufficient Quality Rest Sustained consistent programming with progressive overload. Sufficient nutrition (particularly protein). 

Taking the barbell weight away we can get a good idea of what weight plates you are lifting in your PPL program. Taking into account that you are 20, 75kg and 6ft 1in. I only care, and you should (at this stage) about your main lifts: 

Ditch the cables and machines and pick up a barbell. Squat, press, bench and deadlift should suffice in developing your whole body. These big compound movements (if used with good form) should help your body account for imbalance. Unilateral: For example, my left arm is weak so I do a set to failure of bicep curls on my left arm first, counting the reps. I then repeat that number of reps on my right arm, no more, no less. 

Your weight is just a number that tells you how much of a effect gravity has on you. I suspect what you really care about is how you look. If you want the ever-popular "ripped" physique then you should design a sensible diet plan that has total calories in 15% over your TDEE and has a good macronutrient breakdown (most people suggest 1g protein per 1lb bodyfat). Pair that with a newbie strength workout like Starting Strength or Stronglifts and in 6 months time you should be a little more muscular. 

Honestly, if someone was doing PPL at your height/weight, I would expect those to be the first warm up weights. Everyone is a special snowflake and we are only in competition with yourselves etc. BUT... Reality check, you just aren't experienced enough to benefit from advanced programming. Get back on 5x5 Stronglifts. Everything you said points towards you being skinnyfat, no-one I know ever finished 6 months of 5x5, following the diet advice on the website and stayed skinnyfat if they followed the program to the letter. You are over-assessing your current lifting ability and experience. You are the definition of a beginner. Finally, stop cutting! What are you cutting to show off? At those lifting numbers, you have no real muscle growth that will be visible without starving yourself. Its likely that your gut is showing because your posture is bad and/or your core is not strong, because you aren't lifting any heavy-ass-weight on a regular basis. Lifting heavy weight will help fix both of those things. Summary: 

The Run: The Spartan Sprint race is 3+ miles and 20 obstacles. Compared to similar obstacle runs they run quite short with a less focus on running and more on the obstacles blocking your path. With that in mind, you should be able to run 3-5 miles comfortably. The Obstacles: The race organisers don't release a full list of all the obstacles but do provide a breakdown of the standard obstacles that you will need to complete to progress. If you fail to complete a obstacle you will be required to complete a number of burpees before you can continue the race. 

All of the above contribute to their physique but I am confident that the key to their posterior size is down to: 

When you run out of glycogen you are operating under fat metabolism only and your power output will decrease. You will feel like you have rapidly lost a lot of energy over a short period (1 mile running or so, varies by individual). Afterwards you still feel like you have no energy but this is where the mental ruggedness/determination of endurance running becomes more important. Are there benefits to bonking? Technically yes, you are more effective at burning fat after bonking because it is all your have left. However, generally no. Your body is not designed to operate without glycogen for an extended period and thus you should not aim to bonk during exercise. How can I prevent bonking? There are several approaches to prevent glycogen depletion: 

The reason some people say deep squats are bad for your knees is because they heard it from someone and are just blindly repeating it. Some knowledgeable people say this because the patellar tendon is in a stretched position at the bottom of a squat. However, this is not a problem if you don't have pre-existing knee problems (if you do, see a doctor): the tendon will strengthen to handle bigger and bigger loads. If you perform any exercise without warming up you are more likely to get a strain/minor-injury. The movement is perfectly fine and as it is a unweighted (no barbell) movement, even more so. As a side note, the bottom half of the movement that is restricted by the box is generally considered much more difficult as it requires better balance and flexibility to be able to push out of the position. Having a box means you won't do this part of the movement. 

I have assumed 2 tbsp of each dried fruit & nuts with lunch. Ignore the goals at the bottom. If I plug in your height, weight, age into IIMYM.com I get that your BMR is 1961 calories and your TDEE is 2298 calories. If you want a nice gentle cut you need to aim for between 1950 and 1838 calories per day. (I am a 5ft6 Male, 25, aggressively cutting, working out 5-6 times a week doing weightlifting. I redid my target during this and now I have gone from 3 to 6 days a week exercise and am now targeting 1898 calories on a cut) While my Macros might not match yours, the outcomes from the breakfast and lunch tell a story. 

Initial fitness (what you walk into the weight room with). Training (weakening your body through targeted stress). Recovery (your body is actively repairing you through active and passive rest). Supercompensation (your body is bigger/faster/stronger by a small margin). 

To "activate" a muscle you need to actively isolate and tense it, that is what "mind-muscle contraction" is (similar to when someone writes the word kegals on the internet and the reader will consciously be able to think about and do them. Its that thinking and contracting that is important. The pain in your quads may be due to tight hip flexors, a common issue with bridges. Doing flat foot lunges and other hip-flexor mobility stretches can help. Just focus on squeezing your ass. 

In a word: Very I am not going to address the issues with self administering IV injections of 125ml in terms of safety (bubbles, infection, needle site issues) but instead look at the effects of both. You are artificially increasing your testosterone level without a medical professionals assessment. Testosterone Mental Health Effects Most studies have also found testosterone to be associated with behaviours or personality traits linked with criminality such as antisocial behaviour and alcoholism. Many studies have also been done on the relationship between more general aggressive behaviour/feelings and testosterone. About half the studies have found a relationship and about half no relationship [1] Studies have also found that testosterone facilitates aggression by modulating vasopressin receptors in the hypothalamus.[2] Studies conducted have found direct correlation between testosterone and dominance especially among the most violent criminals in prison who had the highest testosterone levels.[3] Physical Health Adverse effects of testosterone supplementation may include increased cardiovascular events (including strokes and heart attacks) and deaths based on three peer-reviewed studies involving men taking testosterone-replacement [4] In addition, an increase of 30% in deaths and heart attacks in older men has been reported.[5] Recent studies also raise concerns.[6] Physicians are cautioned about the cancer risk associated with testosterone supplementation.[7] Adverse effects may also include minor side-effects such as acne and oily skin, as well as, significant hair loss and/or thinning of the hair (which may be prevented with 5-alpha reductase inhibitors). [8] Exogenous testosterone may also cause suppression of spermatogenesis, leading to, in some cases, infertility. [9] Benefits Testosterone has successfully been taken to enhance muscle development, strength, or endurance. They do so directly by increasing the muscles' protein synthesis. As a result, muscle fibers become larger and repair faster than the average person's. Nandrolone Not much has been established about this drug in terms of side effect studies on a large scale but i'll summarise what I found. Physical Effects Abuse can cause erectile dysfunction and cardiovascular damage, as well as several ailments resulting from the drug's effect of lowering levels of luteinizing hormone through negative feedback. Erectile dysfunction is attributed to the weaker action of dihydronandrolone in the penis since dihydrotestosterone is a known sexual modulator. There is a study here which may provide more information: $URL$ Essentially the findings were that the administration of 200 mg. of Nandrolone (intramuscularly) for 8 weeks significantly increased body mass, whereas fat mass, bone mineral content, bone mineral density were unaffected. These data indicate that the changes can be attributed to an increase of muscle mass. Summary To summarise, tests show that using both drugs can enhance your body's recovery and paired with the right training can boost muscle growth. Is it worth it? Unlikely. A well rounded diet with correct levels of protean and a heavy gym routine will get you the same, clean, results. IF you want evidence, google John Cena; John has tested clear on every single drug test over his entire life. [1] Wright J, Ellis L, Beaver K (2009). Handbook of crime correlates. San Diego: Academic Press. pp. 208–210. ISBN 0-12-373612-9. [2] Delville, Y.; Mansour, K. M.; Ferris, C. F. (1996-07-01). "Testosterone facilitates aggression by modulating vasopressin receptors in the hypothalamus". Physiology & Behavior 60 (1): 25–29. doi:10.1016/0031-9384(95)02246-5. ISSN 0031-9384. PMID 8804638. [3] Archer J (2006). "Testosterone and human aggression: an evaluation of the challenge hypothesis" (PDF). Neuroscience and Biobehavioral Reviews 30 (3): 319–45. doi:10.1016/j.neubiorev.2004.12.007. [4] Finkle WD, Greenland S, Ridgeway GK, Adams JL, Frasco MA, Cook MB, Fraumeni JF, Hoover RN (January 2014). "Increased risk of non-fatal myocardial infarction following testosterone therapy prescription in men" (PDF). PLOS ONE 9 (1): e85805. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0085805. PMC 3905977. PMID 24489673. [5] Vigen R, O'Donnell CI, Barón AE, Grunwald GK, Maddox TM, Bradley SM, Barqawi A, Woning G, Wierman ME, Plomondon ME, Rumsfeld JS, Ho PM (Nov 2013). "Association of testosterone therapy with mortality, myocardial infarction, and stroke in men with low testosterone levels". JAMA 310 (17): 1829–36. doi:10.1001/jama.2013.280386. PMID 24193080. [6] "Testosterone Products: Drug Safety Communication – FDA Investigating Risk of Cardiovascular Events". FDA. January 31, 2014. Retrieved February 3, 2014. [7] Gaylis FD, Lin DW, Ignatoff JM, Amling CL, Tutrone RF, Cosgrove DJ (Aug 2005). "Prostate cancer in men using testosterone supplementation". The Journal of Urology 174 (2): 534–8; discussion 538. doi:10.1097/01.ju.0000165166.36280.60. PMID 16006887. [8] "Therapeutic Advances in Drug Safety", Adverse effects of testosterone replacement therapy: an update on the evidence and controversy, October 2004 [9] "Contraceptive efficacy of testosterone-induced azoospermia in normal men. World Health Organization Task Force on methods for the regulation of male fertility". Lancet 336 (8721): 955–9. Oct 1990. doi:10.1016/0140-6736(90)92416-F. PMID 1977002.