This website has all rules for bikes on public transit for what seems to be most companies in the UK. Check it out. 

It really depends on your budget, but you should check this out (or anything similar), from Gore bike wear : 

It's pronounced without the K, see-ree-um. Source: a bunch of bike-shop-workers who seemed to know their wheels ;) 

The different lengths of suspension will affect the geometry by giving your bike a steeper (or not) head angle. Too much travel might make it tougher to pedal as well, depending on the fork's settings. A too long/short fork (compared to what it was designed to use) might put some unnecessary stress on the tubes and for that reason forks outside of a certain range void warranties. The blur is designed for a 5.5 in / 140 mm fork. I'd suggest going to a local Santa Cruz dealer (if such a thing exists where you live) and ask them if 120 mm is fine too. 

Aluminum is more durable, but highly used PVC rollers have been seen to hit the decade mark so it's not really a big difference maker. The other difference would be that PVC rollers charge up static electricity and it can be annoying to get zapped every time you ride your rollers. Now it's up to you to see if that's worth an extra 90$. It's most likely possible to ground the rollers to avoid the shocks and save some money. (The main difference is that PVC rollers can't really be used outside, but it doesn't matter here.) 

Weight and durability are indeed factors, but it's also about the performance of components. The "high level" bikes are for a "high level" of performance. They're usually designed with competition in mind. The shifting has to be perfect, the brakes need just the right amount of power, the suspension has all kinds of adjustments, tires specific to the terrain on that day are used, etc. Of course, Average Wealthy Joe will buy one of those bikes and brag about it, but hey, be happy he's financing your favourite bike companies. ;) 

So if you're trying to keep the costs and headaches down, look for bar end shifters and brake levers designed for MTB brakes. Is it worth it? If you really want drop bars, enjoy working on your bike and it costs less than buying a new one, then yes. But make sure you plan & price it out. 

If you're not seeing the first problem and visually the cassette looks fine, then you're probably ok to keep using it. Best case, everything works fine and you've delayed the cost of using your new cassette. Worst case, your new chain won't last as long and at that point you'll have to change both. Since chains cost much less than cassettes, I'd suggest running with the old cassette if it's not skipping and shifts smoothly. 

Most hard-soled cycling shoes position your heel slightly above the ball of your foot (so a slight toes-down angle). That's probably the angle I maintain throughout each pedal stroke, but to be honest I don't think about it much, nor do I know what's "correct". I focus on trying to make smooth circles and let my ankles do what comes naturally. Focusing on pointing my toes down seems to help on tough spinning climbs, but it's probably just a psychological trick. 

You can do this in a pinch if you're careful, but I don't recommend it. Your tires need to have Schraeder valves (similar to car tires) or you'll need an adapter for a Presta valve. Fill the tire in very short bursts, checking the pressure in between. Err on the side of underfilling your tires -- put too much air in and you may blow the tire off the rim, which is worse than having a flat in the first place! I used to do this 20 years ago before I realized that there were small pumps you can take with you. In addition to the risks, the problem with gas station pumps is that they're never there when you need them. The one repair kit you should have with you at all times is a pump + patch kit (or spare tube). Trust me, it can be a long, long walk home without them! 

The following image is of the drive side of the front disc rotor (where the rotor is pressed into the inboard pad.) 

Notice the marks where the pad material has transferred onto the rotor in each picture. The marks end further inward toward the centre of the disk on the outboard pad side, than on the side where the inboard pad hits it. Because of the way the brake works (bending the rotor at an angle as it is pushed into the stationary inboard pad), this would make sense to me as the very top of the rotor hits the inboard pad, and because of the angle, leaves a gap lower down. But is this how BB5s are supposed to be? I say this because the while a similar thing is happening on the rear rotor, it is not quite as pronounced (ie, the inboard pad side seems to be hitting a smidge more square on, and does not squeal). I have played around with different pad adjustments as well as caliper alignment. I've tried the sanding the rotor and pads trick. And it's new so nothing is contaminated and I've used alcohol on everything just to be sure. Nothing seems to make any difference either with trying to bring the position of the inboard pad lower as it makes contact, or the squealing itself. I took it to my LBS, he seems to think it's an acceptable set up and just needs riding, but did not say why the rear seems to be acting differently to the front, despite setting them up in the same way multiple times. Could it be a slight manufacturing defect on the front one that causes the inboard pad to sit at a slight angle (it's not totally clear with the naked eye). 

Downhills that have the possibility of cars entering/exiting from the side carry a extra risk and can take away a lot of fun in your ride. Same goes for downhills with parked cars or traffic signals. You do have to be careful on these since stopping distance is a concern. You're also travelling faster than motorists expect, which can lead to more incidents. I've had a nasty crash on a downhill (bad pavement) and another near miss with a car entering from the right. Both of these took some time to get over, but with enough time back on the bike it does get better. Plus you know what to watch for next time. To rediscover your confidence on downhills, try finding quieter routes where you can let 'er rip without worrying about traffic so much. You might have to go further afield, but the mountains should offer you some quieter backroads? 

Of course, if none of these are problems for you, it's fine to ride without them. Other types of gloves should offer similar benefits too (wool gloves with "grippy" palms are nice in cold, wet weather). I try to ride without cycling gloves for rides up to an hour to toughen my palms and reduce the bizarre tan lines the gloves create. But for longer rides (especially randonneuring, which is 200km+) I can't ride without them. What else can you use them for? Basically anything where a padded palm would help. They make great workout gloves, and I've occasionally used a pair for paddling, doing yard work or helping someone move. 

Pacelines can be a lot of fun. They work best when the more experienced riders in the group take some time out to explain how things work to newer riders. And it helps to fall in with riders at your level. I like riding with the fast guys but once my legs start screaming I drop off the back and find a slower group. 

isn't used all the way up to the metal plate (the copper part of the brake in the previous picture). So how do you tell how worn they are? By comparing to their original thickness. The pads use up quite linearly (Observation, I have nothing to back this up) The consequence of letting them wear too low is that if you brake without any "breaking surface" left on your pads, the metal bits could get stuck somewhere and ruin your disc. 

Since you don't hear the noise when the bike is up on the stand, the problem is probably linked to the load of your weight on the bike (trying to formulate this in a way that doesn't sound like I'm saying you're a problem or you're overweight but it's impossible! haha). Sit on the bike, swing on the saddle to simulate the effect of a bump and have someone check if there's anything swinging/bending and touching a part of your wheel. If you're really desperate and have some time on your hands, remove the luggage rack and go see if you hear that noise. Then re-install it carefully. Actually you might save some time doing this right off the bat. 

It depends on where you live. On many winter days there isn't much difference between the frozen pond you mentioned and the middle of the street around here. Studded tires are definitely not a must for any winter rider, it's more of a if-it-fits-your-local-needs type of item. 

What you need to know is the type of mounting you have on your fork and on your brakes to know what adaptor you need to get. There are IS (so-called international standard, used by Hope and Formula, among others), Post (used by Rockshox, Marzocchi for forks and Avid, Hayes for brakes, among others) and some manufacturer and/or fork specific mounts. According to the link you provided, the fork has Post mounts. (From the description: Lower tubes: Magnesium, Post-disc mount). Hope uses IS mounts. So you need a Front IS to Post adaptor. See this for an example The size of your disc is another important thing to know, since you might need a bigger adaptor for it. 

I would suggest staying away from 55mph roads, they're no fun to ride on (unless you're out in the countryside). Drivers are in a hurry, not looking out for cyclists and at those speeds there's not as much margin for error. Try to pick a route that lets you enjoy cycling. It'll make it much easier to get out the door every morning. If option #2 has slower traffic (both from the speed limit and traffic stops) plus a bike lane to boot, then that's a much better way to go. Why suffer on a dirt/gravel shoulder when you cruise down a smooth lane of your own? The stops may slow you down too, but once you learn the route you should be able to figure out the timing (blocks where there's no need to hurry, others where you may want to hustle to make the next light). When I was commuting in Vancouver, I had similar choices and stuck with the busy route (70km/h so not as fast as 55mph) far too long out of a perception that it was faster. When I finally switched to the slower, bike-friendly route I enjoyed the trip more and rode more often. The trip time didn't change much either. 

My current bike uses bar-end shifters based on some of the reasons above. Plus for long randonneur rides (over 20 hours) I lose a lot of hand strength and the bar-end shifters are the easiest to work with (can shift using the heel of my palm). 

(and the teeth on your derailleur's jockey wheels may last, but the bearings may not) The chain is usually the culprit for wearing out the other two. As it wears, the distance between links effectively increases, and the mismatch between the links and teeth will grind away at your gears. So the key to making your cassette and chainrings last is to change the chain before it wears too much. I use a Park Tool chain measuring device -- it slots in between the pins on the chain so it's a bit more accurate than a ruler. Keeping the chain clean will help increase its life. Also keep in mind that 9- and 10-speed chains (and perhaps 8 as well?) are narrower than the other chains. Their construction allows more gears to fit in the same space, but it also means that they wear much faster. I've stayed with 9-speed and my chain lasts at least 1500km with a lot of riding in wet weather. Every time I've pushed it (and ignored my chain tool's advice), I've had to spring for a new cassette afterwards. I remember chains on my older bikes (7-speed) lasting much longer than this. 

179.99 USD MSRP $URL$ They aren't the tightest pants out there, but "real" tight pants are very rarely (trying not to say never) waterproof because of the type of fabric used to make them. An alternative idea would be a nylon pant (waterproof, windproof, but absulutely not warm) that's relatively tight with a warm baselayer. 

There are different types of e-bikes as described in other answers, but in the end it all depends on what the buyer had in mind. Even if an e-bike is intended for X, there are good chances that it's not what it's going to do. (See the number of suspension mountain bikes on the road) There are old and/or ill people who need assistance in tougher parts, there are lazy people who want a cheap scooter, there are people going to work who don't want to be tired/sweaty, there are very-out-of-shape people who want some help in the beginning and so and so... It's most definitely not for everyone, and if you cycle for the sports aspect more than to move around then it may be why you "don't get" how to use these machines. 

It won't be much better with the police. So in the short term I'd say they're is nothing to do. In the long term it's all about sensibilization and working on developping mutual respect between drivers are cyclists.* They're is a lot of work to do, but really it's the only way to reduce the number of incidents like the one you're telling us about. *The mutual part is important here. If there weren't so many cyclists doing not-so-smart (I'm staying polite) moves all the time, drivers would probably be more tolerant. 

To answer the "Which one should I choose for average mountain biking?" part, You don't really "choose" your brake oil, it's specified by the manufacturer. The oil is chosen depending on the heat output of the brake and the general construction of the system. A different oil than what the manufacturer recommends might affect/break the cables, seals or some other parts of the system. Check your brake's manual (most likely available online if you lost it) to know what you need.