Whenever you are presenting (and there is a significant presenting component in a job interview) avoid all meta talk. That means not saying: 

I have never asked this sort of question, but the theory is that you will be revealing your true nature. Possible answers might be interpreted like this: 

If you want your manager to be more polite to you, one of the things you need to do is be more polite to them. Different people define politeness differently: you don't like yelling and swearing, and your manager doesn't like being ordered around, at least not by you. So give what you want to get, in this case politeness, and in addition be polite, calm, and specific when asking for what you want, which is to be spoken to in a different way than your manager is choosing today. 

Now, your boss is unlikely to give you advice that goes against the company's interests, but might well tell you that HR typically takes 4 weeks to get these things together, or that actually it looks like you might not be getting that offer after all, or whatever. Or, your boss may thank you for the update and then get on to HR and tell them to hurry the heck up. If you take the offer from B and never get an offer from A, you don't need to say anything to A. If and when you get an offer from A you should either accept it or decline it. If you want to tell your boss to stop hounding HR for the offer, because you couldn't wait and have accepted the offer from B, you can, but that's not the same as giving your company notice. They technically think you're leaving when your internship ends, so they don't need any notice about that. 

One thing to keep in mind is that in the context of the show, the person is not asking their employees personal questions. They are pretending to be a peer (or less than a peer) of the person they are talking to. That is, although we hear the CEO ask the assistant manager a very personal and intrusive question, which would be awkward, the assistant manager hears the new person, typically presented as someone who is "starting over" at some entry-level job while being much older than is typical for such a job, asking questions of their new boss, or of their more senior coworker. There is a good chance that the "new person" revealed some personal details of their own before asking. Consider "I sure hope I work out ok in this job. My kids are teenagers and I really need to be making money so they will be ok. Do you have kids?" The show can edit out this leading question and we just see "do you have kids?" - and then the revealing answer from the assistant manager. And finally, if the "new person" tries to have a personal conversation with someone who doesn't reveal personal details about themselves, that person will not get the "lottery win" at the end of the show where the CEO sets up a college fund for the kids or provides the down payment for a house so the wheelchair-bound mother can live with the manager or whatever. Not everyone the undercover boss interacts with gets that sort of thing. 

I would be standing there with my mouth open staring at your rudeness. Nobody asked you, you didn't check if it was ok, you just intruded and now you're criticizing. Sure, children's safety on swing sets and back deck is really important. But so are the rules of polite society. A better guest wouldn't invade the back yard without consent and wouldn't blurt out an inspection report early in a conversation. Instead that guest would wait until reaching the back yard with a glass of lemonade and then say 

Clearly, you are not managing these interns the way they need to be managed. It may well be unfair that they need to be managed so differently from typical employees, who want to accomplish, but this is the hand you were dealt. Here is what I would do. First, I would gather them all together for an intern meeting. I would give them the following information, not singling any one out: 

People are more than used to informality in e-mails and it looks weird if you attempt to do more. If you're worried about appearing overly informal then use the team's name: 

In the latter two examples feel free to substitute Hi for Dear; using Dear in this situation sounds less strange to me, in UK, but I imagine it'd be overly formal elsewhere. If you're received an e-mail from someone then respond to the person or entity that signed the e-mail - you're not going to be incorrect then. tl;dr: If in doubt don't mention anyone. 

Marv's answer is not strictly accurate; your probationary period ends when your contract says it does. As your probationary period is defined solely in the contract of employment you signed with your employer there's no guarantees that your situation will actually be better once the term has ended. To quote from the Citizen's Advice Bureau - this is a large quote but it's highly pertinent. 

If in doubt about who to address, for instance if you're e-mailing a group e-mail which you've never had any correspondence with previously, then address no one. A simple hi is normally sufficient: 

You can always attempt to negotiate, but a negotiation is two sided and both parties have to agree. This means that you should be thinking about what your employer will get out of this. Your current negotiating position seems to be "I would like to breach my contractual terms and I would like you to pay me extra money, you will get a dissatisfied employee for a longer period of time." That doesn't sound very attractive for your company. 3 days is no time at all. If the job isn't what you signed up to do then you should be asking your line manager for concrete plans to get you doing what you were hired for. Or, if you wish, just quitting. Don't be surprised if they don't let you keep the joining bonus though. 

There is nothing shameful in asking for help when you're in over your head and if something's going to go horribly wrong your boss will appreciate it being raised early so that she has a chance to fix it. You also need to be involved in the process of fixing the issue; it's part of your job as a lead. You can't do this if you're taking no responsibility for the project. 

If you're the lead, however temporary that position is, you do take responsibility for both failure and disaster. You don't get a free pass because you did something on a short assignment. Whatever the reason for your current issues you need to tell your boss that you're struggling. 

All employees must have a contract. You should also have a written statement of employment particulars if you've been employed for 2 months. This statement should cover everything in your question. If you don't have one after 2 months your employer is breaking the law. Read your contract. 

Read your contract Contact the Citizen's Advice Bureau Talk to your employer - you may be misinterpreting things Contact an employment lawyer 

Probation Period There is no such thing as a probationary period under UK law1, 2, 3; there is a commonly used convention called a probationary period. During this period the terms of your contract of employment may differ to what they will be once it's ended. Everything about your probationary period should be in your contract. 

In the case of )join@example.com_ writing Dear Join would appear a little strange; if you're really wedded to the idea of talking to an entity you can address the company - the people sat behind the e-mail are representing the company after all: 

I have no idea how many LOC there are in the projects I'm responsible for, but still get asked by interviewees and internal stakeholders. I think it's fine to guesstimate, once past a certain complexity it becomes almost impossible to know. I use the number of bytes in the repo as a proxy for LOC in this extremely clever formula... 

This seems to be a legal opinion rather than the actual law. Holiday Pay As far as I'm aware (IANAL) your employer is breaking the law by denying you holiday pay. Your are legally entitled to 5.6 weeks of paid holiday a year (or more if it is in your contract). Paid holiday accrues as you work. If you've worked for your employer for 3 months you are legally entitled to 1/4 of your holiday allowance. Note that some of your entitlement may have been accrued in the previous year, depending on when the holiday year starts. Your employer is not obliged to allow you to carry this over. The Citizen's Advice Bureau has a lot of information as well. Sick Pay You are probably entitled to statutory sick pay (SSP). There are no restrictions on length of service under 8 weeks. There may, however, be other restrictions related to your employer which mean your employer does not have to pay you. If your employer does not have to pay you SSP then "you may qualify for Employment and Support Allowance instead". Your contract may also provide you with enhanced sick pay or additional rights, once again you need to read it.