I like Serban's first two answers, but because you'd like more, I've just read an article from Science News: Option 3: "To retrieve the radioactive loot, scientists just need a magnet". Small, tiny nano-particles of iron can attract, and encase uranium, which has implications on future events that are similar to Fukushima and Chernobyl. The article also notes that they could be harvested from sea water. Your planet's ocean has a much larger amount of these than our ocean, and a storm surge floods the area for a short time, enough for these little buddies to clean your site. It can also take some soil with it. 

Yes, there is a tiny minority who hunt for thrills, trophies, or sick fun; but I have to assure you (with only anecdotal evidence of years of hunting), they are deep in the minority of people who hunt. How does this relate to a stun gun? Hunting is about skill and precision. In fact, people who hunt by archery very well could have hunted with a firearm, but have chosen not to for that reason. The same will go with those of us who use precision rifles. Why not just put an animal in a cage and shoot it? Because that's not the point of hunting. Similarly, it's why I choose to hunt instead of getting meat from the supermarket. Who could this be useful for? I think this would be a great mechanism for beginner hunters. One of the hardest things about being a real hunter is ensuring that you don't torture the animal by firing at the wrong time or without precision. Real hunters are devastated if they hit a deer, for example, but are unable to kill it on the first or second shot, or let it get away. A beginner could very well use your weapon that can ensure the animal is stunned by one shot anywhere on its body. You could even release the animal, if you are just practicing, although I wouldn't want that to be a regular practice (think about how messed up it would be for a deer to be stunned forty or fifty times in its short lifetime). How can we restrict weapons to hunting in your story? I was wondering if you have the technology, you could put out a dozen or so coordinated transponders around a large perimeter ("hunting area only"), and rifles in your future can be modified to be limited to operation within this perimeter. It can include firing ranges and large private properties as well. That's going to take some work, and diligence against companies that provide hacks (individual hackers will do it themselves), but it could be a start and also prevent accidental shootings in homes. 

The Weather. This is all kind of 'supernatural' but in coincidence only: Eastern Front: It's commonly understood that the cold, wet, harsh winter in Russia greatly hampered the German advance. Have an unusually warm winter in '41, '42, and '43, and it is possible if not probable that this would help to crush Russia's western troops. It was an absolute contributing factor to Germany's losses there. German Bombings: Rain and snowstorms erupting during bombing raids prevents the allies for even being able to target industrial complexes. Rain distributes evenly to assist in putting out the fires that raged under allied bombing. Atomic Bombs: The original target for both atomic bombs was meant to be over Kohura, but due to weather, they had to move first to Hiroshima, then to Nagasaki (twice lucky for Kohura). Imagine if weather thwarted all nearby Japanese targets, preventing the United States to use the bombs - US bombers had limited range over Japan's southern quarter, so bad weather over the general quarter would have delayed any bombing of this type for a long time. Dust Bowl: More waves of drought from the dust bowl over the United States might have forced more civil works to be undertaken, as well as reluctance to support pre-war allied efforts (food), and entrance into the war. Pearl Harbor: Weather patterns that prevent the Japanese carriers and bombers from approaching American territory might have kept the Japanese from "kicking the sleeping bear," long enough for the other factors to encourage Japan to refocus on East China and allow America to look inward. Naval Warfare: Weather is always a factor on the outcome and procedure of naval warfare and amphibious invasion. A series of 'unfortunate' weather events could occur in favor of Axis victory. All of these are very, very coincidental, but then was the succession of unusually cold and wet Russian winters a coincidence, or the fact that Kohura avoided the bomb twice by weather? Also, can I be cheeky and say "Yellowstone Super-volcano Event"? 

It was central to all of the provinces and cities. But that's not all that contributed. Access to Resources Resources were accessed by river - accessibility that is critical to a European medieval city. Travel by river, sea, ocean was much faster than by land. Access includes information as well, not just goods. Religious and political players can get to a medieval city much quicker, from which everything could be spread. But that, too, is not the only factor. This also contributes to the size of a city, being the crossroads of so much trade. Structural Both defensive structures and symbolic/civic/religious structures help make a city most prominent in 1500s Europe. Sitting on a rise, as though to look over the whole territory. 

Oceans - Higher ocean level & smaller ; the extreme pollution contributed to a runaway greenhouse effect, which through warming, melted your poles. Colors - Brown where there is green. Rivers, etc. would remain the same, as trees - while they do contribute some, to local weather - do not have as large of an effect on major climate systems as land masses do. Clouds - Due to the destabilization and heating of the atmosphere, many more large accumulations of clouds near the equator (including more extreme storms) will be noticeable. Night - Well... it will be very dark during the night, instead of the twinkling of developed city lights. Other than that, I can't imagine it looks much different. Replace the green areas below with brown, and add violent stormcloud accumulations (I don't have photoshop on my laptop, sorry): 

You could do this (technologically speaking, of course) today. Dwelling underground on Mars is a smart way to have a lock on pressure, contain air, and protect from the harmful effects of radiation. Most certainly, anyone that breaches the surface will die, and maybe take others with her. You already have your solutions for sustaining the population underground, so I won't get into that. 

This requires a HUGE answer, but I'll try to give you some broad factors. And all of these are generalizations; there are exceptions to every single item, and I look forward to any comments that will include them. Climate - Rainier climates will see more vegetation, and more competition. Colder wet climates will have hardier tree trunks and leaves. Warmer, wet climates will see thinner trunks and leaves. Dry climates will have plants and trees that maximize their surface area for water collection, or thick, low plants for storage of water. Drier forests tend to have less under-brush, due to being regularly cleared by healthy forest fires. Altitude - Higher regions are colder and windier and will require large, hardy plants with thick leaves. Pine trees do well in dryer high altitudes than others, and will grow up to the timberline of a mountain. Fauna - Areas with a lot of competitive bugs and animals will tend to have thicker trunks and waxier leaves for protection. Soil type - rich, nutritious soil means a very active growth and death cycle, so this is where you find your dense vegetation constantly growing and dying, and usually with lots of our bug friends. A lot of our "nicer smelling" plants, like sage, rosemary, etc. appear to prefer rocky, dry soil. Floods & droughts - places with annual, healthy floods will see your low growth plants and grasses. Places that experience annual droughts will, as well (think African Savannah - annual dry and wet seasons, lots of grasses and low, hardy trees). Rain shadow - frequently, on islands as well as mainlands, where there are high mountains near weather systems, one side will be rich with vegetation (where the rains come), but the other side is blocked from receiving the rain. Sea - most 'trees' in the sea (not talking about corals or other formations in this case; I'm thinking more like the sargasso forests) tends to accumulate closer to shore and in warmer waters, although not exclusively. Active volcanoes - where lava is flowing, there doesn't seem to be a lot of trees. 

Yes. In Arabic, the TV News and Academic Arabic speakers (usually) use Modern Standard Arabic, whereas in every Arabic country, a colloquial version is spoken. This seems to achieve the strata effect you're looking for: the Academics and the Informed speaking in a totally different dialect than your every-day Joe (or every-day Ahmed, or whatever). Of course it is not that concrete and universal, but a rule of thumb. EDIT: As per PipperChip's comment below, apparently high German and local dialects differ as well (thanks). It seems like almost any culture large enough will have differentiation in dialect, but there are a few good examples where the 'upper' group and 'lower' group - being very rudimentary with my language - is separated. I grew up in Germany and don't remember it; maybe I was the lower group! 

Gravity Once your space-faring civilization enters a new star system, they still have to get around on their own, and can use (particularly massive) planets for gravity assists. The other benefit to gravity is that a planet with similar mass as Earth can offer a lot of space to stretch their legs. Resources We only speculate what resources are available on exoplanets, but they vary greatly in size and probable composition. If a particular resource (water/ice, oxygen, etc.) it's possible that at least one planet in each candidate star systems has what your civilization needs. And LOTS more of it than a comet or asteroid can provide. Protection If any of the exoplanets have an atmosphere to protect from space debris, or can protect from harmful radiation, then it would be a great place to make a cheaper 'space station'. Geology / Morphology Rocky and gassy, all-water, and acid-raining planets would be so cool to explore to understand processes on our own planet, as well as provide evidence of potential life. 

The first part is what you need; the second part is how to get there (it won't be pretty). High Paying Jobs; Free Education, Healthcare & Housing; Benevolent Dictatorship; Regulated Borders; Redistribution of Wealth; Replace Immigration with Guest Workers; and Censorship If you can provide these, then I can give you UAE as an example, remove their flaws and add extra protections to see if it fits your requirements for your story, although I will stress I do not find this a good way to live. When we were living there, the Emiratis (citizens, representing 10% of the population) and the wealthy expatriates enjoyed a life of virtually no crime, sort-of gender non-discrimination, mostly gun-free, and public trust in the police & leadership. Crime: Skilled expatriates like us were making 12k and more a month. Threat of breaking a serious law meant loss of job, loss of visa, deportation or desert-jail (that's what we called it). No way was I going to steal a car, because I could afford one, and I couldn't afford to lose such a sweet job. Emiratis are guaranteed payment for any education they can attain. They (and we) enjoyed VIP Healthcare 100% covered, and they are given a government house (typically a 5-bedroom villa), or an allowance and plot of land to build their family home when they are married (or special circumstance). They are also given a plot of land for investment (maybe a residential or office tower, etc.). They will lose this for committing crimes. Because of this, there was virtually no crime, and no need for it. Sure there was likely unreported crimes like domestic abuse, etc., but I mean, I accidentally left my Jeep running, with the top off for an entire day in busy Hamdan Street and nobody dared touch it. I also kept my bike out front day and night. I had a neighbor who was a single mother who did not want to return to the UK because she'd grown accustomed to feeling safe even late at night around even the busiest parts of town. The remaining crimes are attributable to the unskilled laborer - a terrible institution that you should remove from your scenario, unless you want to have expatriate labor do your jobs for you. Guns & Weapons: There is some limited firearms for sport and hunting, but because there is strong control of borders, drugs and illegal guns are few and far between. Equality: While gender equality is very strong and promoted in the UAE, they fall short on homosexuality: it's only legal to be gay if you're a non-muslim and you don't practice it in the country. They also fall very short on the treatment of unskilled laborers and this is manifested culturally as well. But the latter two issues likely won't be a huge issue in the States in 50 years (hopefully). We should be focused on the thinly veiled sexism & racism in our country now - among other things. Personal equality is done through cultural norm: professional clothing worn by the Emiratis are the same, humble kandora or the modest abaya from the highest sheikh to some guy in Fujeirah. That is until office hours are over and we go to the movies or a bar, then it's back to Western clothing. Weddings have a strict spending limit to avoid extravagence / showing off. Obviously there are ways to get by, driving this-or-that car, giving extravagant gifts to someone when you visit their home, etc. Violence in Media: Sexuality and violence is censored from film, etc. unless it's artistic. Your America might never show it, but then someone is going to watch a Canadian or Mexican (or whatever) film and you're going to want to censor it. The other qualifications are inherent, but it should be noted that the censorship of opinion is very strict - although not the most outrageous I've seen (ahem, Russia, Saudi, Qatar, Israel), and because the citizens are kept out of the truth and kept 'fat,' they're very complacent and full, unanimous support for leadership. The country has it's (major) flaws, but for the skilled expatriate and the Emirati, it meets your requirements. So what would have to happen in the United States? I'm not saying this is ever going to happen, but for a storyline it might be expanded on... You have the simultaneous growth of a political party that has the same goals in mind as well as a like-minded media mogul. Step 1: Get everyone to agree on leadership. This might be easier than you think. I have an aunt that is a Republican because she only listens to those crazy radio stations that use sound-bytes and propagation of lies. The Democrats have these, too, but many, many people get their opinions from main-stream media. Your media mogul buys influence and through censorship gets everybody to love your new politician(s). They amend the constitution, pass legislation, etc. Step 2: Close the borders and replace migration to guest workers. If someone wants to have a better life and support their family in the United States, because there are better economic opportunities - fine - but they don't get the permanent status that those here enjoy; and there is zero tolerance for any crime. PS- I'm not saying I'm for this. Then close the borders: yes, you will have to post defensive security. PPS- I'm really not for this. Shipments and border crossings are going to be massively controlled - barring the influx of guns and illegal transport of persons. Where will all these guards come from? Step 3: Ensure everyone who seeks a job gets a high-paying job. This means you even make up entire government agencies and pay people highly; sure you create a lot of lazy people, but they get fat and complacent, because they can buy their nice cars. The competition in the UAE was between which job the Emiratis had - would you rather be stamping passports all day at the border, or would you like to work in the sexy Development department, then you work harder? And to do the real work, there are your guest workers (see step 2) that are paid very well, just not as well as your Americans, and don't want to do anything wrong to lose their job. How do we afford to pay all these fake and real jobs? Step 4: We have more oil & gas interest per citizen in the United States than the UAE. However, in the UAE, it is largely distributed to provide the benefits that their citizens have, while ours are locked away in ownership and profit by EXXON or whoever. A risky and unpopular claim on the ownership by the new political party is taken, and the profits are given to provide health, education, jobs, & even a home. For every law-abiding citizen. Step 5: The rest is easy; you have mostly educated and healthy people who want to obey the law, because they so love their leadership and because to lose that would be bad. This is when you further the censorship and keep your tight hold on public opinion, but they're okay with that, because your leadership is flawless, kind, gentle, and generous ... as far as they know. Step 6: Driverless cars, for God's sake. I'll be happy and sign any social contract for just that: and I mostly bike!