I cannot say for sure, but there are cases where knowing you are doomed does not help stop you from being doomed. If your army is too small or too far away to react to a raiding party, there is nothing you can do. If you know of two armies that are going to attack you at the same time from two different sides, and you can only successfully protect against 1, there is nothing you can do. 

Napoleonic Wars If your goal was to stop Napoleon, you might not win with only one carrier. If you bombed all of France, it might be months before Napoleon hear about it, and even considers surrendering. (that’s presuming he even believes the account of large metal birds turning his home into a crater) They won’t have much luck trying to bomb Napoleon himself unless there is a avid historian on board. Even if they did get lucky, it might be months before all his generals hear about it and consider surrendering, (or take over where he left off) Its only one ship with so much fuel, they will have only so many scouting/bombing missions before they run out of fuel. Europe is relatively large area to play hide and seek. 

If this organism were cut, the wound would quickly fill with air. This would bring the pressure in the creature up to atmospheric pressure. If this sudden increase in pressure does not cause any harm to the organism then as blood passes the wound, some would exit the wound. TL:DR, under the right condition yes the “human” would bleed. 

Not all planets are created equally. "According to some theories, life is so easy to create, that all of it should have appeared at roughly the same time. So, we have had as much time as them to develop our war machines." I'm going to go with the assuming all life supporting planets formed and cooled at the same time. Lets take Earth and an Earth like planet,(lets call it Learth) for example. Earth and Learth both had life start at roughly the same time. Unfortunately for Earth it went through several extinction level events. Learth did not necessarily go through these same events. So one of Learth earlier species had time to evolved into a species capable of developing tool, societies, culture and eventual Space travel. Earth had to wait till after 5(?) extinction level events before that happened. 

If I was stuck in a building with limited resources and I was currently being besieged by zombies, I would go Zombie Fishing. With some rope and if lucky some type of large hook like object I would lower it off the roof or out a high window and try to snag one zombie. One I have one I would pull it up just high enough to bludgeon it and then pull it in. IF by change more than one zombie started climbing my line I would cut it free and try again. For the most part I imagine zombies are inedible. Maybe you could cook them, autoclave them, char them but personally I wouldn’t risk it. What Zombie fishing would do is supply me with resources. These are not just walking corpses, these were other survivors hording supplies. That zombie with the backpack, he is the one you want to aim for while zombie fishing. Yes he could have been an unlucky student on his way to school, or he could have been that guy who nabbed the last can of soup from the store. As mentioned by other Zombies could be disassembled, skin could be tanned and used as leather, bones could be used as building material. Lukbl mentioned burning them and using the ash as fertilizer. You can add ash to a compost, but by itself it is probably not as usefully as a fertilizer as compost. On the other hand it is better than trying to grow something in plane sand. 

Pop-tents and Legos At first when I read the question I thought maybe they would choose a building material that would last forever, or at least something inert like glass. Then I remembered how often people I know go about renovating their houses and apartments. Humans tend to get board with their surrounding and like to change them. So maybe they would use an easily manipulated material, or at least something that can be easily removed/replaced. Something along the lines of interlocking plastic wall segments. Almost like gigantic Legos or building blocks for grownups. Then I finished reading your description of your race, and their single minded goal of closing Pandora’s box. It sounds like they wouldn’t care what they ‘lived’ in. from your short description they might live a minimal life living in the equivalent of space age popup tents. Something functional, and not really decorative. I have the feeling if more than a handful are living in one area then they probably are not efficiently distributing themselves enough to complete their goal. With so few in one area they would not need anything extensive like sky scrappers. They might have a need to store some of the stuff they “incarcerated” This would call for a larger building, maybe something along the lines of a popup warehouse made for the gigantic lego walls I mentioned earlier. 

Another problem with inbreeding is divorce. (Presuming there is such a thing as divorce or messy breakups on this alien planet.) A family is one of the basic units of a society. If two family members start a relationship and then have a messy breakup, this could potentially divide the family. There may be stigmata about inbreeding/incest to keep families together. They might not recognize it as that. They might just say its bad luck to date within the family. 

Art. With dogs having better sense of smell and slightly poorer eyesight, their main form of art might be depicted through aroma. EX: When decorating a Wedding cake they may focus more on what the frosting smells like than they would on how it looks. EX: Art galleries might consist of scented oils instead of paintings. (Maybe adding scented oils to a painting is a big part of painting) Smelling what the first dog president might be more interesting than seeing what they looked like. Tools. Depending on how anthromorphic they are you might see tools develop differently. If they have screwdrivers they might be T-shaped instead of linear. This would allow them to more easily manipulate the screwdriver with their mouths. Tools, doorknobs and what not might have soft rubber coating to protect their teeth. 

Submarine. The deeper you are the less effects of wave action you’re going to feel. (I don’t know but I’m presuming that’s the revers for earthquakes: the higher you are in the water column the less tectonic movement you would feel) So you can hedge your bets. As the asteroid draws closer you should know where in the water column you need to be. There is a problem with cost. A quick google search leads me to believe a submarine should be in the order of billions not millions. Fortunately you won’t be living in the submarine. That’s just the vehicle you will be using to survive the initial asteroid impact. So it might be possible to get a really cheap poorly constructed one for a million? All it has to do is submerge for several hours and fit 10 people. After the impact, it might be possible to use the sub as a boat/temporary shelter. Supplies and tools probably won’t fit in this submarine jalopy. Your best bet is to anchor a couple of buoys in the same body of water as your sub. The supplies might be stored in the buoy itself or are the anchors (maybe both?) 

Crossbow vs Super Reflexes. If soldiers are supplementing their reflexes with magic, maybe it is to the extent that they simply can dodge arrows and bolts fired from long range. This would limit crossbows and to close range combat. Your mage might simply be patient and observant enough to see when an enemy soldier is in the process of burning themselves out and picks them off when they are no longer able to dodge the bolt. The mage won’t be lucky enough to catch every burned out soldier on the field, but it happens enough to make it worth carrying a crossbow and a couple of bolts. 

I cannot imagine there is one true answer to this. (at least not without fleshing our more of the world and this town) It would only attract nobility and the rich if it has something else. (They are already rich. Food probably is not a problem, unless food is a problem globally?) Maybe a clever entrepreneur created a luxury resort there, and uses the replenishing quality as a gimmick to attack costumers. If it did attack nobility one thing to keep in mind, good food taste good. I don’t believe people would purpose go without eating if food was available and it can be afforded. If you are a rich noble, eating food could be a sign of your power. For the rich eating isn’t about survival in this case It’s about showing your status and enjoying life. Similar concept to the vomitorium of Rome. It could attract beggars, the poor if the environmental conditions were acceptable. If you can’t afford food then you probably have trouble affording shelter and cloths. Going to a place where you will freeze to death instead of starve isn’t that appealing to me at least. If the land all around this place is barren, then the town might be a prospering trading post. No reason to go all the way across the deserted waist land when you can buy and sell your goods at this permanent settlement half way. There could be to types of individuals who live there. Those who laze about just happy that they can exist without worries of food or water. Taking part time jobs just to pay for rent, and minimal luxuries. Those who work so hard that food and water tend to take back seats. I can easily imagine an eccentric researcher/author working day and night on their project of choice, only taking breaks to sleep living here. If there is a hospital in this town, the hospital might receive a good amount of attention. Diseases like Cholera tend to kill you via dehydration and can be treated with proper fluids and Electrolyte intake. In this town you would ‘magically’ stay properly hydrated.