I agree with @Rabbit -- what to do next depends on what you are trying to achieve (and what you already have achieved). For example, while doing mindfulness of breathing, how well developed has your concentration become? Have you attained the state known as access concentration, or even the first of the four samatha jhanas? Assuming you have attained at least access concentration, what do you want to happen next? More tranquility, tighter focus, more one-pointedness? Or something else? If you're specifically pursuing a Buddhist approach then I'm guessing you're looking for something more than just tranquility/samadhi. In that case, I'd suggest, if you haven't already done so, to at least have a look at the instructional writings of Mahasi Sayadaw for guidance on next steps. For example: $URL$ $URL$ Also, look at Yuttadhammo's book (AFAIK he's from the Mahasi "lineage"): $URL$ Of course your answer to the "what do you want" question may be "I dunno yet", in which case I'd suggest you keep your meditation simple (e.g. just stick with breathing) for a bit longer, and while you're doing that broaden your reading so you can see where Buddhist practice can take you and thereby what your options are. 

Aside from the meditative benefits of short sits -- i.e. even if there weren't any, which I don't think is the case -- one other benefit is that they can help build a habit of regular meditation eventually leading to longer sits. See here for example: $URL$ 

No. See Sam Harris' book "Waking Up", pages 131-133 of Chapter 4, "Meditation". In it he relates the story of a woman who experienced just what you're describing, and the subsequent events that showed that although her experiences did represent some degree of progress, they simply were not the big E. ADDITION: Actually, the relevant part is reproduced here. The key part starts at the third paragraph, but it's worth reading the first two as well, for context. (And I highly recommend buying the entire book.) 

It's a complex question, with a lot of components needed for a complete answer. I'll offer just one. A fundamental difference between Buddhism and "western thought" (as you call it), is that word "thought". A key part of Buddhism is you have to do it; it's not just a set of ideas to believe or reject. If your knowledge of western philosophy extends to the phenomenology of Husserl and Heidegger, think of Buddhism as, in part, applied phenomenology. Analogy time. You can read all you like about weight training, cardio, diet, stretching and so on, but merely reading about them won't build your muscle mass or your endurance. In that sense, the bias in western thought makes it like reading about those things; Buddhism is more about doing them. Oh, and in that context, the Buddhism/atheism thing is probably a false dichotomy. I don't necessarily agree with him, but see Stephen Batchelor's "Confessions of a Buddhist Atheist" and "Buddhism Without Beliefs". 

Dr Willoughby Britton, a research and clinical psychologist, is doing a lot of work at Brown University on the so-called "dark side" of meditation. More information is here: $URL$ There are also some videos (same site) of her interviewing Daniel Ingram talking about the same thing, and specifically that subset of the stages of insight that Ingram named "The Dark Night" (alluding to experiences very similar in appearance reported by some Christian mystics -- e.g. John of the Cross, and Teresa of Avila). Britton's emphasis is not so much on anything inherently health-risky in meditation; overall she is positive, and I think is a practitioner. Rather she works on what appears to be not uncommonly encountered difficulties associated with making progress in insight. Ingram -- also a medic, albeit not a specialist like Britton -- is the same, although Daniel draws too much attention to it for my liking. The aim of both is to help people deal with the tougher side of things. There's also a video by Shinzen Young on Youtube where he mentions this same idea. I can't find it, but I mention it as worthwhile because Shinzen gives a good balance to Daniel. Daniel scares the bejeezus out of you (on purpose, although, as I say not ideally) but Shinzen downplays it (to, I think/hope, the right level), saying that although difficulties can be encountered, they're not common, are rarely that severe, and are typically easily worked through provided you have a good teacher who knows what they're seeing -- i.e. usually the dukkha-nanas -- when they see them. 

Part of Daniel Ingram's "thing" is to speak more openly and frankly about this kind of topic than "traditional" Buddhists are sometimes willing to do. So you could have a look at his "Mastering The Core Teachings of the Buddha" which I think mentions some of these phenomena. Also, the site he started, dharmaoverground.org has an entire sub-forum dedicated to discussion of such things. Here's Ingram himself in that sub-forum. I have to add, for completeness -- and I'm not criticizing your question -- that I personally look on all that stuff askance. I'm not saying it's not real (although the meaning of the word "real" seems to take a bit of a beating on those discussions), but it's not why I got and remain interested in Buddhism. 

The concept of anatta does not assert that there is no such thing as a self at all, but rather that whatever self is, it's not permanent, separate, etc. So in your own formulation, "no fixed self", the operative word is "fixed". Given that, there is no contradiction since clearly -- a la Descarte's cogito ergo sum -- the mere fact that you practice metta and wish for the wellbeing of yourself (and others) itself shows that you exist. I suppose one could say beatifico ergo sum :-) Anatta then simply points to the fact that "you" whatever you are, aren't what you (assuming you are unenlightened) think you are 

Based purely on my experience -- i.e. I don't know what any of the Buddhist literature says -- music is a two-edged sword. On the one hand it doesn't at all help develop concentration or insight. It may feel like it is, but I think it is nothing but a feeling. But on the other hand, it did serve to get me meditating at all. I found (still do) meditation to be difficult, and it wasn't something I enjoyed doing. Music made it a bit easier and got me on the cushion. However, once I'd built meditation into my routine, I stopped using music. So it served as "training wheels", and was best discarded as soon as possible. Of those two effects, I think the first is the stronger. And with hindsight, perhaps a better approach for me would have been to join a local sangha, and used simple camaraderie to get me over the initial hump of starting to meditate. Then music wouldn't have been needed at all. 

Communism is taken to mean a lot of different things, but at its essential core is simply the notion that the means of production -- i.e. land, factories, and so on -- should be collectively, not privately, owned. So yes, Buddhism is compatible with Communism, but only in the same way that Cheesecake is compatible with woolen socks, or Windows 8 is compatible with a pony. 

One of the problems you're going to find with answering this is that most published studies focus on short duration meditation -- 4 to 8 weeks and the like. I personally have an ADHD diagnosis (although I'm not convinced it's a real pathology), and an issue I've faced is that my ADHD (if that's what it is) is an obstacle to actually getting a practice underway for any length of time; i.e. for more than 4 to 8 weeks at a time. Therefore, if benefit is to be had, but it arises only in the longer term, then few if any of the studies would see it. That said, there was some work done at UCLA, and a lead in that direction could be Lydia Zylowska. A few pubs are mentioned at the bottom of this page. 

Yes, it is eminently practical. There are simply too many accounts of modern, everyday, busy people becoming (allegedly) highly attained on the Vipassana path (and others) to make the idea that it is practical only for bhikkhus credible. A few examples, just off the top of my head, include: Daniel Ingram, Kenneth Folk, Shinzen Young, and a reasonable subset of the people interviewed at BatGap (if you're willing to broaden out beyond pure Vipassana and Buddhism and into Advaita Vedanta, for example, then look on BatGap specifically for Gary Weber). I think Young spent some quasi-monastic time, but I don't think he was ever a full-blown monk. And of course for the par excellence example of a very busy householder of Olympic-grade Vipassana capability, you can't do much better than Dipa Ma 

Also, as ChrisW says, Poonja isn't formally Buddhist. I think he'd be more accurately described as an Advaita practitioner, although even that may be more precise than is fair (to Poonja or Advaita). 

I'm not sure if this helps, but since you asked for a list of discourses: There is an appendix at the end of "Buddhist Religions" (5th Ed.) by Robinson, Johnson, and Thanissaro, entitled "An Overview of the Three Major Canons", which lists the Pail Tipitaka, the Chinese canon, and the (or a) Tibetan canon. It's just lists though -- no commentary or comparison. 

Trouble is, although that's probably quite a precise form, it's for the Pali. See below for the references that help explain it. 

Sometimes an apparently well-formed question can suffer from a "category error", such as in "Is the present King of France bald?" or "What noise would the programming language Pascal make if you dropped it on the floor?" In such cases, an appropriate way to "answer" the question is to point out the category error, instead of just saying, for example in the previous examples, "No" and "'CLANG!' (although some authorities argue "SPLAT!" is more accurate)". This Buddhism question isn't completely prone to this problem, but one aspect of it might be. So I'm going to attempt that kind of answer. First, I'm with the Dalai Lama in that if science proves something in Buddhism to be wrong, then Buddhism would have to adjust. However, it's important to understand that there are certain kinds of true things that science simply cannot prove wrong. That's not because, as with many things in the past, our science just isn't advanced enough yet. It's because the scope of science doesn't cover everything important we might want to say. This goes against the modern prevailing view, sometimes called, often by its detractors, "scientism", which is really a modern version of positivism. However, it is not difficult to see that such scientism isn't obviously true.++ As an example, take the law of gravity, and in particular the component that says that "the gravitational force between two masses varies inversely with the square of the distance between them". That is very deeply established in science, and has been for centuries. If it were proved wrong, it would shake things up a lot. But science could indeed prove it wrong. In fact, there is already some evidence, surprising though it is, that in certain situations, the inverse square law isn't exact. But now take the proposition "2+2=4". Philosophers would refer to that as a "necessary" truth. Science cannot ever prove that statement wrong because science relies on that statement and, more to the point, science does not deal with such truths. They are important truths that lie outside of science (in fact the existence of such statements doesn't break positivism which is broader than scientism, but it does constitute something that science cannot disprove). Another one: "people typically experience redness when looking at tomatoes". Now science could certainly show that the frequency of light reflected off tomatoes corresponds not with red light but with blue light, but that doesn't change the fact that we experience redness. Science would probably come up with a theory as to why we experience redness when exposed to blue light (for example, perhaps we'd discover that tomatoes emit a certain gas that confuses our brain's color recognition system, leading us to experience redness instead of blueness), but as I say that would explain why, it would not disprove that we experience redness. So, what about something like "there is no rebirth". Well to me that is clearly a statement that lies outside the scope of science, certainly of science as we usually use the word. To be a "scientific" statement typically means in practice that we can construct some kind of experiment capable of allowing us to make observations confirming the statement's truth and, even more important, observations confirming the statement's falsehood. But scientific observations are observations of the natural world and it's not clear that "rebirth" is posited as a phenomenon within the natural world. Now it's possible to argue, or at least to claim, that there is nothing but the natural world, but that's just begging the whole question. A claim that "natural science is all there is" is itself not a statement of natural science, so where does that leave it? This doesn't mean, of course, that there's nothing in Buddhism that science couldn't disprove, but it does exclude a whole bunch of things from being disproven in that way. For example, I'd say that the entirety of the Four Noble Truths lies outside the scope of science. I'm not saying that they are necessarily true, nor that they couldn't be shown to be false. But science cannot do that, any more than gardening or cookery can. -- ++ Note that I'm not saying that scientism argues that science can know everything. Even the scientistic view allows that some things may simply never be known. I'm making the point that scientism typically argues that if something is knowable, science will eventually, in principle, figure it out; and that if science cannot eventually, in principle, figure something out, then nothing else will.