The WHO's position on alternative medicine seems to be the same as their position on conventional medicine: if it is proven to work and proven to be safe, go ahead and use it. 

No, there were about 4,000 bank robberies in the US in 2016 according to the FBI. I believe the 'here' in the claim means either Los Angeles or California, though it wouldn't make sense either way as the entire state of California had about 460. Even if the FBI statistics miss some number bank robberies, the claim is still hard to believe. If 'here' means the US, then the FBI accidentally counted each bank robbery twice. If 'here' means Los Angeles, then Los Angeles has 6 times more robberies than are reported by the entire state. 

There were several children deaths for which ages were reported, and three of which were under the age of five: 

No, it seems that low power electromagnetic fields(such as from BlueTooth devices) do not cause any significant increase in the permeability of the blood-brain barrier. Research regarding effects the low power electromagnetic fields(EMF), such as those produced by common wireless devices, is sparse. While a few studies(as mentioned in the EMFacts article) have found that EMF cause permeability increases in the brains of lab rats, the increases tended to be very small and the tests were not very rigorous, and little(if any) research has been done regarding the effects of low-level EMF on human blood-brain barriers. More recent research, including studies specifically designed to mimic positive studies, have not shown increases of permeability of the blood-brain barrier. 

The research mentioned in the claim is lacking: Researchers mentioned by the EMFacts article are mentioned in the analysis, and describes their findings regarding rat brains: 

Unfortunately, without any conclusive audio of Langan speaking at 6 months we can't really prove whether he could or could not speak. However, it is possible, though unlikely, that he could speak very simple words that early. Such words would depend on fast physical development rather than high IQ, and wouldn't mean he 'learned to speak'. The first step on the path to language that (pretty much) all babies go through is called babbling. Although the exact connection between babbling and actual speech is not fully known, the different stages of babbling have been consistently observed in infants worldwide. The relevant babbling stage here is that at 6 months old most babies can reliably produce the same sounds repeatedly, such as the sound 'ma' to say 'ma ma'. Before this point, babbling is mostly random/inconsistent. The reason for this is because a baby's larynx is initially high in the throat and descends/begins developing in their first year of life. About a month after this is when their vocal system has developed enough to produce multiple different sounds in one breath. These abilities to produce and repeat sounds rely on physical development, not intelligence. Therefore, unless Langan's larynx descended early to allow his vocal chords to develop a bit more, at 6 months Langan would have only just gained the physical ability to make repetitive sounds. At 7 months, he'd finally have the ability to produce several different sounds in one breath. Without this ability, coherent words don't seem possible: articulation requires physical control, not intelligence. However, although this means that he may have been able to reproduce very simple, single syllable words at 6 months old, that is both far away from 'learning to speak' and not at all uncommon. 

Measured permeability increase are likely not dangerous: Even when permeability increases were reported, the actual values are quite small and inconsequential: 

So, they examined 18 years worth of publicly available data covering 2,186 firms which have a combined 18,075 years of lobbying effort. I don't know enough about econometrics to know for sure, but this seems like the paper has solid data backing to base conclusions on. Conclusions: To reach their conclusions, they examined relationships between a large number of variables and performed various econometrics measurements, such as Arellano–Bond estimation, propensity score matched analysis, 2SLS (IV) estimation, and others which I do not have enough statistics degrees to understand but certainly seem thorough. However, what I can understand are sections from the conclusion: 

As a side note: the math indicates that it is only counting banks robbed during normal hours(if you don't care about Saturday), but even if the '2400' claim was true the math is still kind of wrong: 2400/50 = 46 robberies/week assuming 10 public holidays, 46/5 = 9.2 robberies/day for a 5 day work week, 9.2/8 = 1.15 robberies per hour, or about one every 51-52 minutes. That's only 3-4 minutes more, so it's not like they needed to fudge the numbers to sound cool, it's simply a mistake. If the people who made this claim felt checking whether they divided numbers three times correctly was too much work for the intro splash, I doubt they did proper research for the number of robberies. 

This paper, studying Canadian college students and Japanese 5 year-olds, led to similar conclusions: 

Simple summary: if root canals were as dangerous as claimed, people would be much more interested in supporting their research. In other words, researchers would make money and receive a lot of funding if they actually found a connection between root canals and heart disease. 

An even larger epidemic occurred in 1881 in Sydney, during which 154 cases were reported and 40 died: 

Did M. Beddow Bayly say the quote? Unfortunately, as with most quotes before widespread video/audio recording we can't prove it one way or the other. He is a real person, he was alive in 1936, and he was against vaccination, so it is entirely possible that he said it. Have only three children under five died? At least three but very likely more have died. According to the historical source I used(see below), three children died in a single outbreak, though the ages aren't mentioned: 

Essentially, high frequency/power EMF can heat the barrier and increase permeability. However, this EMF of this strength is not produced by low-powered cell phones, BlueTooth devices, etc., and research regarding low power EMF effects is lacking: 

Right before submitting I realized how long this answer was. The below simply goes into smallpox cases in Australia to explain why the number of deaths and vaccinations are so low in order to show that the quote is misleading rather than false. Australian smallpox history: Here is the full text of "The History of Small-Pox in Australia, 1788-1908", a 1914 compilation of historical notes regarding smallpox cases in Australia, and the source of the information below. Among the indigenous population, smallpox caused many deaths: 

Simple summary: Pretty much just repeats the above. There is no modern evidence supporting the theory, and more research is needed in order to claim a link between undergoing a root canal and having health issues such as heart attacks. 

The above columns represent "Bank Robberies", "Bank Burglaries", "Bank Larcenies", and "Bank Extortions". There were 462 bank robberies in all of California, so the statistic cannot be accurate unless there are 6 times as many robberies than are reported, and even more than that if it's only for Los Angeles. 

As a side note, some homeopathic shops seem to sell lysine, which is an amino acid that certainly does have an effect on health, but is not related to rabid saliva. 

Quick note: what most people call a root canal is actually called endodontic therapy, and a 'root canal' is just a part of a tooth. I'll tend to use the common name for this answer, but may use the proper name where appropriate. 

According to current research, there is no definitive evidence that root canals lead to heart attacks or heart disease. However, the reverse may be true: research suggests that heart disease may lead to needing a root canal, and is a potential source of the anecdotal evidence used to support the 'root canal causes heart attacks' idea. In short: there is evidence that people with heart disease will need a root canal, but not that people who undergo a root canal will get heart disease. 

Simple summary: more research is needed to prove if certain at risk patients are more likely to have gum disease, and if that correlates with root canals. 

A smallpox epidemic occurred in 1857. Caused by infected passengers on a recently-arrived ship, vaccination and quarantine began after 16 confirmed cases of smallpox and four deaths: 

Simple summary: modern root canal critics have no rigorous research to support their claims, and there is rigorous research to dismiss their claims 

Health Canada Source: Here is Health Canada's information regarding 'nosodes', which are homeopathic products sourced from infectious material. On the linked list, you can see lyssin/lyssinum is in fact sourced from the saliva of rabid dogs. These products must comply with Canada's Non-Prescription Health Products Guide, so rabid dog saliva seems to be the genuine source for lyssinum. Thankfully, these nosode treatments likely aren't dangerous, since ideally a homeopathic dilution will have no active ingredients left, and thus don't actually do anything. If they were a hazard to health, I presume(and hope) Health Canada would ban them and not provide dosage information. Most of the homeopathic shops selling it seem to market is a pill supplement, and is intended for pets and not 4-year-olds. Furthermore, according to this study, lyssin supplements appear to be completely lack any evidence of efficacy, at least in regards to similar aggression-causing infections in cats.