What's interesting is that the earliest known legal code, the Code of Ur-Nammu was a series of if statements: 

A familiar trope that is sadly very much in line with reality is that if they have sufficient money, influence, manpower and cunning to begin with, they could begin by seizing control of the many (and large) areas of the planet that other people with money and influence tend not to think about very much. They could, for example, deal with/infiltrate/ultimately control the hundreds of little terrorist groups we probably haven't heard of. They could operate in any or all of the countries that westerners can't name and tend to lump together as our vague concept of "Africa". The only thing they would have to be careful of is not interfering with (and thus attracting the attention of) all the other powerful developed-world interest groups that are operating under more or less the same general principles right now, i.e. don't interfere with the supply of minerals to US corporations, recruit too many sweatshop labourers, or pirate any essential shipping routes. Think what had to happen for you to hear about Al Qaeda; now as long as our shadowy organisation doesn't do something like that, they're free to control the Afghan heroin trade, the South and Central American cocaine industries, any number of diamond and rare earth mines, and oil fields; think of the manpower they could muster simply by feeding and housing the millions of desperate people in any number of different places, or by creating an ideology that spoke to the even larger number of people with a great deal to be angry about and very little to lose. The best part about this strategy is that if any one of their proxy groups or individual operatives were to attract attention, it would be trivial to cut them loose, and let people's prejudices lead them to assume "those people" are "naturally like that". Anyone who suggested there was a monolithic organisation arming hundreds of unconnected terrorist groups and drug cartels, inventing new religious sects, and working in accordance with a colossal master plan would be dismissed as totally demented. Meanwhile, when the world powers responded by crushing the little people who got caught holding the rocket launchers, burning their fields, bombing their villages, and so on, they would only be exacerbating the desperate, unjust and anarchic conditions that made the developing/underdeveloped world ripe for their taking in the first place... 

Because everything in encrypted in 2060 Most of the other answers are based on how different the aliens might be. However, encryption may prevent even very human like Aliens understanding our signals. Between identity thieves, spooky intelligence agencies using data-mining and internet trolls look for offence, transmitting any unencrypted data is becoming unwise. Already we are using https everywhere is being advocated. DRM is being increasingly used for TV shows, and it is not like they will be paying $60/month for a TV decrypter box. Perhaps by the time the aliens are able to pick up non-trivial signals such as TV, it is simply not done to transmit unencrypted signals. So when they arrive in 2060 all they know about us is that we beamed the digits of π at them between 1959 and 2020, and now all our transmissions seem to be gibberish. 

Mirrors The earth is already receiving power from space. The fusion furnace at the centre of the solar system provides Earth with 174 petawatts of power. It has the potential to provide much more, the total output is around 400 septawatts of power, far more that I would ever want to be beamed at the fragile surface of our tiny planet. The obvious ways of directing more solar power to earth are lenses and mirrors; large lenses can be heavy, so mirrors are as sensible choice. There are a number of ways of receiving solar power. The most familiar are solar panels, but if you are directing a large amount of power to small location, you might want molten salt generators. Molten salt generators have two advantages. Firstly they are able to store power so you can handle demand fluctuations. Secondly molten salt is much better than molten solar panels. The mirrors could have a control module in the centre. The module could have a vertical and horizontal set of solar powered wheels. Spinning the wheels in one direction will rotate the mirror in the other. This would allow us to direct the reflected energy. Plausibility Often the future doesn't involve new technologies, but rather existing technologies becoming cheaper. No known material is strong enough for a space elevator. Perhaps in the future new materials are discovered that could be used to build a space elevator. Then again, it was predicted that we would be able to live in all plastic houses... I guess we can now but why would we want to? Without a space elevator we are limited to various forms of beaming energy down to earth, and reflecting energy to existing solar power plant seems like an incremental step. All of this technology could be made today. Putting mirrors in space would be prohibitively expensive today, but presumably prices will fall if industrial production is moved to space. Sometimes you don't need power to be in the form of electricity. If a smelting plant needs something to be melted, concentrated solar energy could do the trick. Some malcontent complaining about energy prices? Be generous for a change and beam a free terawatt directly to their roof. In principle you could have an elaborate system of charging fancy lazcannons, and lend them to your goons. Sure you may be the power hungry leader of a futuristic mega-corporation bend on world domination. That doesn't mean that your CFO will let you hand out priceless prototypes to your incompetent minions... not when there are more cost-effective ways of vaporising your opposition. 

There's another thing to consider, if we're talking about carnivores like cats and dogs - their teeth aren't like ours, so it's likely they'd have some degree of difficulty forming dental consonants, and maybe alveolar consonants (with the tongue just behind the teeth), in the way that we're used to forming/hearing them. As their teeth don't form as close a 'seal' as ours, with larger gaps between pointier teeth, it's likely there'd be a lisping or 'whistling' sort of inflection on these consonants - which would be perceived as an impediment if they were trying to speak one of our languages, but would be the normal way of producing such sounds in a language developed by/for pointy-toothed carnivores. The effect will be more pronounced for the dental (marked in orange) than for the alveolar. All this is also dependant on the shape and size of their tongue; dogs especially have larger tongues proportionate to their mouth cavity compared to humans, so they'll probably have more issues with this than cats. In humans, an abnormally large tongue is known as macroglossia, and affects individuals with Down Syndrome - a dog's speech might share certain characteristics commonly associated with the speech of individuals with this condition. Something I haven't quite been able to define in full is whether or not a cat or dog would be capable of producing sounds that aren't in the human IPA. One thing that immediately comes to mind is a cat's purr, and off the top of my head I do not actually know much about how this sound is produced. Whatever mechanism is involved is very likely something that a cat would incorporate into its language, given the rich variety of ways in which real cats can purr. If you wanted to work it into this chart (i.e. to make a chart of your own) I would probably put it as a trill or fricative beyond the glottal. A canine language would probably also incorporate growling, which (when imitated by a human) is probably somewhere between a voiced uvular and glottal trill. Given that their hearing is more sensitive in higher frequencies, it might be easier for them to perceive breathy/whistling sounds that are very subtle to our ears - accordingly they might assign linguistic significance to these sounds (e.g. allowing some air to escape through the nostrils, or between the teeth). If this was the case, it might be a part of their language that humans would struggle to understand/learn. More sensitive hearing overall might also lead them to assign significance to sounds that are almost imperceptible to us, like the sound of the tongue adhering to/separating from the roof of the mouth, or the sound of the throat closing during swallowing. 

Being a crew member is a very "exciting" undertaking While there are advanced scifi explanations for why will evolve beyond the need to poop, there is also a simpler and more low-tech explanation. Anyone who smelt the air in Victorian era London would know that a need to poop does not imply the existence of toilets. Perhaps instead of being a shiny cybernetic utopia, the future is literally a crapsack dystopia. Every week civilian starships with boring names like "The Enterprise" meet aliens that are about to destroy the universe, galaxy or at least the ship. This is no regular starship, this is the Exciting Undertaking which faces annihilation at least ten times every hour long episode. When friend computer designed the ship it forgot that meatbags nee understood that the highly valued human crew would be terrif excited by the suicida bold mission on which they were sent. As such the crew would vacate their waste product storage organs quite frequently during their insa regular duties. As such the death tra ship is equipped with diapers crapsacks and brown trowsers rather than toilets. 

e-dystopia Perhaps in they future people don't much like each other, don't trust each other, and certainly don't meet face to face. All purchases are done though an "e-buy" service. Scammers automatically generate sockpuppets to market obvious high value items such as gold, gems and premium storage cubes. Legitimate sellers wouldn't even try selling them, because they'd be undercut by scammers, and the buyer would probably try to claim the item didn't arrive. Any offer to trade high value items would be treated liked Nigerian prince emails today. If you order a ruby, you may as well order colored glass, since that is what you are going to get (unless colored plastic is cheaper this year). Trade, such as it is, occurs only on obscure or low-value items that scammers don't bother targeting. 

Since it seems like you're looking for constraints to help construct your language, I thought one helpful approach would be to lay out exactly what sounds you have to work with. I've taken a chart of the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) from Unilang.org and annotated it to indicate the sounds which are impossible without lips - crossed out in red. 

I feel there are two key variants of the scenario, one where the state has the power to control the actions of the populace, and another where the state controls their thoughts. Controlling actions In this scenario, imagine that your motor cortex/neurons are overridden, or your limbs instantly paralysed or whatever, at the moment you begin to execute a criminal action. I'd say this type of control would cause considerably more suffering; the frustration from being able to form intentions but never carry through would be torturous. I'm considering both good and bad intentions here — it would be impossible to veer out of your lane to avoid hitting an animal, and also impossible to punch someone you're enraged at. In this scenario, I feel people would come to hate the system, but would obviously be unable to do anything outside of the law to express this. Worst case scenario, it might even be illegal and thus impossible to express these negative feelings. "Best" case scenario is a mind-controlling liberal democracy where people are free to write critically about the system, gather peacefully to protest against it, even vote for it to be moderated or eliminated — but the people would be doing all these things at the absolute mercy of the state. True mind control This scenario is maybe philosophically more interesting, but potentially difficult to write an interesting story about. Let's imagine that instead of intervening to prevent specific criminal actions, the state is able to control people's mental states, impulses and desires. People may not even be aware these thoughts are not their own, and go through their days feeling a warm sense of community spirit, the sheer strength of their belief in their society combining with the total contentment of having everything they could ever desire to make a person who would never even think to break the law. To add some conflict, you could do what some other answers have suggested and make certain people immune — imagine the crushing weight of being the only Bart Simpson in a society that is 99.99% Ned Flanders.