Within the real world, it's easy to describe what can be done with time machines: nothing. Within a literary world, however, the range of actions that can be done with time machines will depend upon what abilities and limitations the author has given them. If the author creates machines which are too powerful, someone who acquires such a machine would be able to render the actions of everyone else irrelevant. Further, if the limitations of time machines are not made clear, readers will have no idea how to judge whether there is ever any real danger, or if the time machine could always come to the rescue. I would suggest that while establishing the time machine mechanics won't cause the rest of the story to write itself, it will help ensure that certain aspects of the story are likely to make sense. A mechanic I've not seen used, but which I'd invite anyone to try out, would be to have a machine which is limited to sending back information to a pre-determined time, and will only work reliably in cases where the information is used in a manner that would not violate causality. Someone with such a machine might be able to use it to make a lot of money, but would have to be very careful to avoid any actions that might affect the predicted phenomenon. Among other things, such plans would likely have to involve two people--one of whom would have minimal knowledge of what the machine said, despite having a full understanding of the plan, and the other of whom would minimize contact with the outside world (the former person wouldn't have to worry about accidentally changing the future on the basis of information received from it if he doesn't have any such information, and the latter person would find it much easier to avoid influencing anything if he minimizes interactions with the outside world. 

It would be possible construct macroscopic mechanical computers which could manipulate substantial amounts of information, but they would have to do it very slowly by modern standards. If speed were not an issue, it would not be overly difficult to design a grid of rods, each of which could be pushed in or out, along with a device which had a group of push rods used as address wires, another group used as data wires, and a "read/write indicator" push rod, and which would visit the rods indicated by the address and either move the memory rods to reflect the state of the data-bus rods, or move the data-bus rods to reflect the state of the memory rods. Given that, it would not be overly difficult to design a mechanical equivalent for something like a 6502 processor. A skillful person might even be able to hand-build such a thing at a scale that could fit on a typical table top. Using modern "macroscopic" fabrication techniques--nothing exotic beyond the ability to produce lots and lots of intricate parts--it would be feasible for someone with the time, money, and inclination to build a device which would emulate a 1980s computer, but do so very slowly. Fast memory would be expensive, but slow memory might well be about the same cost per bit as the magnetic core memory which was widely used in electronic computers until integrated-circuit memories became practical. Write-once tapes would probably have a relatively low per-bit cost, and a reel the size of a cinematic movie film reel could probably hold a few megabytes. I don't know that speeds could reach those of even 1960s computers, but storage capacities and computing power (aside from speed) could probably go well beyond what would be achievable in 1960. I'm not sure to what extent mechanical computers could play a role in mechanical manufacturing, but it would certainly seem plausible that they could do so. 

Perhaps the two approaches could be combined. If the former style of test would be feasible, even if audiences would only be interested in watching clones compete in genuinely-fatal circumstances, the former, "protected" style might be the most effective way of ensuring that one's clones would have the mental preparation required to perform effectively. 

One approach would be to have a device whose exterior travels linearly through time in the same fashion as anything else, but which allows items to enter at one time and leave at another. Under such a scenario, if someone enters a time machine at one location and transports himself ten years into the future, and during that time someone else moved the time machine to a different location, then the time traveler would find himself in the latter location. This approach would allow travel forward or backward in time, but only to places the machine either had been or would be. The movie Primer used this concept and took it a little further with a time machine that only transported things back in time, and required the travel parameters be set "in advance" (if I remember correctly, transporting from midnight Jan 1 2014 to midnight Jan 1 2013 would have required that the machine be configured, prior to Jan 1 2013, so that at Jan 1 2013 it would contain whatever was in it on Jan 1 2014). Note that either the restrictive approach from Primer or a more general approach given above would avoid some time-machine paradoxes surrounding "bootstrapping", since there's no way that time travel under such rules could be used to facilitate the construction of the first time machine (since such construction would represent the earliest time to which anyone could return). 

In your scenario as described, the interests of the victim and the audience are at odds. The victim would like to be oblivious to what's going on, but burning someone who's indifference to the experience wouldn't be much more interesting than burning an inanimate body equipped with an artificial blood-circulating pump. While it would be easy to synthesize some drugs out of hand-wavium that would allow the victim to feel nothing but still be capable of acting as though he's in extreme pain, I don't think the fictional-world audiences nor the real-world readers would find that terribly satisfying. I think you could make things more interesting if the audience didn't merely want to watch victims "die" in extreme pain, but rather rewarded victims for their ability (or their snapshot-clones' ability) to function in extremely painful situations. If, for example, a stage were built near the focal point of a solar collection array and the victim/clone were be tasked with moving as many objects around as possible before his body was burned so badly that it could no longer move, then both the audience and the victim would want to avoid having the experience be so painful as to cause premature immobilization. I would suggest two possible variations on this concept: 

If one knew an obscure language or dialect that nobody would recognize, one could use that rather than inventing a fictitious language, but doing so would likely cause those who did know the language to wonder why the characters would be speaking it. 

For terrestrial applications, light-than-air craft are not practical for routine short-range travel. On other planets with the right kind of atmosphere, however, they might work much better. In atmosphere of sulfur hexafluoride at terrestrial standard temperature and pressure, for example, the volume of gas required to achieve a given amount of lift would be about 80% less than on Earth, and if atmospheric pressure were e.g. twenty times that of earth, that would offer another 95% reduction. If the atmosphere contained the right percentage of oxygen, humans could probably become acclimated to breathing such it directly, and shrinking lighter-than-air craft by 99% would bring them near the point of practicality. Even at that reduced size they might not be 100% practical, but the amount of handwavium necessary to fix that would be less than with terrestrial vehicles. 

Woodwind and brass instruments rely upon the speed of sound in the medium within which they reside; since the speed of sound in water is much faster than in air, such instruments would need to be twice as long to yield the same frequency in water as in air. Further, the portion of the instrument that converts changes in velocity to changes in pressure (e.g. the reed, embouchure, etc.) would need to be sensitive to smaller changes in velocity than would be typical in an instrument used in air, since water's change in velocity with respect to pressure will be smaller than that of air. Alternatively, it might be possible for instruments to use variations in pressure to cyclically induce and suppress cavitation in an air-powered instrument, but I'm not sure at what frequency ranges that would be effective. For things like stringed instruments and percussion, I think the key to success would be to have vibrating members within a trapped gaseous cavity, arranged in such a fashion that vibrations could be loosely coupled to the outside of the cavity which would in turn transfer them to the water. 

If everyone in a story speaks and understands a common language, that can be represented as being the language the story itself is written in. If it's necessary to represent the characters as being sometimes unable to understand each others' languages, however, it's much more effective to say: 

Many kinds of firearm are designed so that the only rapid operation is replacement of one present ammunition-feeding device with another; the firearm itself will often keep one round available internally while the ammunition-feeding device is switched, but there's no way convenient way to transfer enough rounds from a magazine to "top off" a gun. Some fixed-tube-magazine firearms, however (especially shotguns) make it easy to add individual rounds even while a firearm is in ready-to-fire condition [though one would want to get one's hand clear of the loading area before firing], and some other fixed-magazine firearms make it easy to top off a firearm using stripper clips of various sorts. I would suggest that the relative preference for fixed-vs-removable energy storage would depend upon how readily energy may be moved between storage media. If recharging an energy storage device would take many minutes, having it be removable for rapid field substitution would be better than having a weapon be inoperable during the time required to recharge it. If, however, recharging would only take two seconds, then an internal device which could be charged as needed from an external supply device might be better. Another possibility to consider with energy weapons would be the possibility of conveying power via cable between a possibly-shared large energy-storage medium and hand-held weapons which may or may not be able to hold a usable quantity of energy when the cable is detached. Finally, regardless of whether one uses fixed, swappable, or cable-connected energy sources, it may also be worthwhile to consider the "rules" for transferring energy between devices. For example, given a small device with a charge of 4/10, and a larger device with a charge of 85/100, it may be possible to quickly transfer energy so that the devices would be charged to 8/10 and 80/100, respectively [since the energy would in a sense be running "downhill"], but it might be much slower and less efficient to try to transfer energy "uphill". The effect would be that once the large unit was down to 50% charge, reloads would be required twice as often, a "fact" which could help make increase the level of danger and excitement. 

The definition of "force" is mass times acceleration, so it's not meaningful to describe what the universe would be like it it meant something else. One could, however, consider what it would mean if some quantity other than force were affected by various things much as force is. Harmonic oscillation of many kinds of objects (e.g. springs), for example relies upon the second-derivative negative feedback relationship between force and position. It doesn't matter what term one uses for the quantities that are interacting, but it's essential that negative feedback affect the second derivative. Without only first-derivative feedback, nothing can oscillate, and higher-order levels of feedback are prone to create systems which, if they oscillate at all, are apt to do so in highly chaotic fashion. Likewise, the only way planets can have any kind of orbit is if the effect of an object's position upon its gravitational effects has a second-derivative effect. If position had only first-derivative effects, then an object's trajectory would be determined entirely by its position, which would imply that gravity would always pull objects along a straight path toward or away from the center. In short, in order to define any sort of physics where F=mv work, one would have to define some means by which either an object's position could affect the derivative of force, or the integral of an object's position could affect the force upon it. Such a system would likely be like the current one, but with the word "force" used to describe momentum rather than mass times acceleration. 

I think a key aspect of making a legal system comprehensible is accepting that no matter how well laws are written, ambiguous cases will always arise and that it is better to recognize certain areas of the law as being nebulous, and have decisions involving nebulous aspects of law be made arbitrarily, than to try to have everything rigidly defined. To use an analogy, suppose that a traffic court punishes people who park illegally, but also punishes those who issue inappropriate citations. If the traffic court tries to use case law to decide whether various borderline cases should be considered legal or illegal, the net result will be that neither people parking their vehicles nor the people issuing citations will know what lines they should be following. If, however, the court were to instead take the policy that any vehicle which does not clearly go outside the inner edge of the boundary lines will be considered "legally parked", any vehicle which is not clearly within the outer edge of the boundary lines will be "ticket-worthy", and those which overhang the inner edge but not the outer edge may be arbitrarily declared ticket-worthy or not, then motorists would know that if they don't want a ticket they should ensure they're within the inner lines; ticket writers who don't want to risk censure should generally avoid writing tickets for vehicles which don't go beyond the outer lines. If a motorist parks his car so that it is clearly not entirely within the inner boundary, the motorist may or may not receive a ticket, but will have no basis for objection if he does. While such a system would likely have a much larger "gray area" than one based upon case law, it would likely also have much simpler and comprehensible boundaries. Further, if the codified boundaries are in any way unreasonable, the ability to see where they are would make it much easier for people to petition to have them changed. By contrast, if parking places are unreasonably small but minor overhangs are ignored, then it will be very hard to determine whether the "de facto" parking spaces are reasonable, since nobody know how big they "really" are. 

A "simulated" war would be roughly analogous to a "simulated" auction, where the winner didn't actually have to shell out the money they bid. If the buyers in an auction could bid whatever they wanted without having to worry that an absurdly high bid would cost a lot of money, there would be no relationship between people's bids and an items' worth. Likewise, wars only end when at least one side is in a situation where continued fighting costs more than would settling. It is the nastiness of war that makes sides want to settle; remove all the costs of "fighting" and nobody would ever have any reason to stop. 

For surface ships, elevating the pilot sufficiently to allow visibility around much of the vessel is extremely helpful during low-speed maneuvering where side clearance around the entire vessel may be an issue. The further back the pilot is located, the more of the ship the pilot will be able to see at once. For aircraft, a similar approach might be helpful during low-speed maneuvering on the ground, but having the pilot's head above the top of the main fuselage would add a huge amount of drag. Further, in most situations a pilot will either be on the ground in an area where precise maneuvering isn't required, will have a crew on the ground to assist, or will be traveling fast enough that anything the pilot might see that isn't completely in front of the aircraft will have either hit the aircraft or missed it by the time the pilot can react. Being able to see straight ahead is important for a pilot, and thus requires that any opaque objects forward of the pilot be located below the line of sight. For spaceships which are not designed for use in atmospheres, an "elevated" bridge (or better yet, a pair of such bridges on opposite sides of the craft) would probably more useful than a bridge in line with everything else. For ships which might need to land, however, minimizing drag would be important.