The title means "A wake in the house of the deceased", beer here means 'to bear, to support', and it's most probably the latter meaning which is relevant here. 

'The man' in your sentence is not an object, since 'to be' cannot have objects at all, neither direct objects, nor indirect ones. In your sentence 'the man' is the subject of the sentence, and, naturally, the verb agrees with it. That kind of a sentence, with 'there is / there are' construction has a reverse word order, 'there' being the marker of the reversal. Generally speaking, a typical sentence usually begins with the theme (old, already known information, if it's an NP, then it's marked with 'the') followed by the rheme (new information, NPs are indefinite in this position, marked with 'a/an'): 

The main reason for the phrases in the Paragraph 1 to be in the Genitive case, and the phrases in the Paragraph 2 to have "c + the Instrumental case" pattern is that all those phrases are elliptical, the verbs are missing in them. When we speak about a future event, we wish it will be happy, and the Russian for "I/we wish" is "желаю/желаем", this verb takes an object in the Genitive case. "Счастливого Рождества!" is short for "Желаю счастливого Рождества!" When we speak about a past action, we can only congratulate with it, and the Russian for "I/we congratulate" is "поздравляю/поздравляем", this verb takes an object with the preposition "c" (with) followed by a noun in the Instrumental case. "С Рождеством!" is short for "Поздравляю с Рождеством!" It depends only on the verb which is missing, which form the greeting takes, it is the verbs that can refer to the future or past, not noun phrases. Those events are, actually, presented by verbs. 

"Th-stopping", in general, is when a dental fricative (/θ ð/, written as "th" in English) turns into a dental or alveolar stop (/t d/). This is currently happening in many dialects of English and has historically happened in the other Germanic languages: compare English "brother", "mother" with their German cognates, Bruder, Mutter. The general process seems to be that the dental fricatives first become dental stops, which preserves the distinction between words like "die" and "thy" (the former is pronounced with an alveolar stop, the latter with a dental). Then later, the distinction between dental and alveolar stops collapses, so "die" and "thy" become true homophones. "Dh-stopping" is a particular type of "th-stopping". "Dh" is a poor-man's way of writing /ð/; "dh-stopping" affects /ð/ (as in "thy") but not /θ/ (as in "thigh"). This is less common than both being affected, but for example several London dialects and some types of AAVE feature "dh-stopping" and "th-fronting" (/θ/ merges with /f/). 

The numbers are specific to Proto-Indo-European. Scholars aren't sure how PIE was pronounced: after all, there are no native speakers around now, or records from the time. All of the sounds in reconstructed words are educated guesses at best. Some sounds were fairly easy to guess. For instance, there was a sound that seems to have become /t/ in most of PIE's descendants. Thus, it makes sense to call that sound *t. But others are harder to guess. The well-known linguist Ferdinand de Saussure argued that PIE needed a few extra sounds to explain all the evidence, sounds that didn't have direct reflexes in any Indo-European language known at the time. (Since then we've found one language which has reflexes for these sounds, which adds evidence to his theory.) He simply called these unknown sounds "coefficients sonantiques" and didn't speculate as to what they might have been. Since they were probably fricatives, and weak fricatives at that, people took to writing them all as *h. Except that there were three different ones. So with typical lack of creativity, they're now written *h₁, *h₂, and *h₃. There are various theories as to what they actually were, but the notation has become standard now and is unlikely to change. Personally, I'm fond of Rasmussen's claim that *h₁ was a glottal fricative (English "h"), *h₂ was a velar fricative, and *h₃ was a velar fricative with lip rounding. But many other linguists would disagree. Some say *h₁ was a glottal stop, others say *h₂ was uvular, and so on. In Semitic reconstruction, by the way, there was a similar problem: Semitic languages tend to have multiple sounds that are sort of like /h/, and it's not clear what the original forms were. So they're conventionally transliterated *h, *ḥ, *ẖ, *ḫ. The moral of the story is we really need better conventions for writing "h-like sounds". As far as the superscript w, that's standard linguistic notation for lip rounding ("secondary labial articulation"). PIE distinguished between velar consonants and rounded velar (aka labiovelar) consonants, roughly equivalent to the difference between English "keen" and "queen". Some transcriptions use a normal *w instead of the superscript, or even a *u; it's just a matter of style. (No matter which style is used, though, the rounded consonants are generally considered single phonemes, not clusters of a velar and a labial.) 

What you call a word is actually called a lexeme, what you call inflected forms are actually called lemmas. The difference between the lexeme-to-lexeme synonymity and the lemma-to-lemma synonymity is actually the point of your question, but I am afraid your question cannot be answered, for the former and the latter are phenomena of different levels, it is like comparing whether 10 fingers are more important than 2 hands. Synonyms can be of different kinds, the ones of your (1) kind are semantic synonyms, it is the similarity of the lexical meaning of the two words that makes them synonyms. The ones of the (2) and (3) kinds are not only lexical, but also grammatical synonyms, they share not only the lexical meaning, but also the grammar form. 

The two words are, actually, and . They are derived from the triliteral root k-s-f (kāf-sīn-fā, ك س ف) with the general meaning of "fragments, pieces, lumps, to shatter, to make into fragments". Both words are indefinite singular masculine nouns in the Accusative Case. The case ending, tanwīn fatḥ over the letter alif (ـًا‎) is an obvious sign the nouns are singular. Still, the second noun, , can be used as a collective noun, it can be translated like "a piece", "(in) pieces", "a fragment", "fragments". The first noun, , is "a portion", "a part", "a fragment". As for looking up words in Arabic dictionaries, you must find out their root first. It is easy with triliteral roots like in these words, but when the root contains y or w, those consonants can disappear in some forms, which makes looking up such words a bit more difficult. In Lane's Lexicon our root k-s-f is not found, it must be on this page of volume 7, and it is there, in the lower left corner, but without any translation, "See Supplement" is only written there. In the supplement, which is in the end of volume 8, there is again a reference (in the center of the page) to still another word (بال), its root is b-w-l with the w disappearing, it is here, but there is nothing interesting about k-s-f in that article. 

Yes A glyph is a single unit of writing, which has a meaning within an agreed-upon method of communication. So for example, i is a single glyph, while the dot part of it isn't (since the dot means nothing on its own). Note that glyphs are defined within a method of communication: in Turkish, for example, i with a dot and ı without a dot are distinct glyphs, because they have distinct meanings within Turkish. In English ı only has meaning as part of i, so it's not its own glyph. In the typesetting days, ligatures were also often treated as glyphs, because they were single blocks of type. Nowadays that's less common, except in cases like the German ß (originally a ligature of ſz) where they've taken on their own meanings. 

"Be" can sometimes be a predicate The verb "be" has several different meanings. The most prominent one is just as a copula, but it can also mean "to exist", as in Descartes' famous "I think, therefore I am". In this sense, it can be a predicate: try replacing it with "exist", which clearly isn't a copula, and the structure and meaning of the sentence will remain exactly the same. The sentence in your question might be using this meaning, or might be a copula with an implicit predicate. It depends on context. (If it were preceded by "Hey, are you coming to the meeting?" for example, "I am" would be followed by an implied "...coming to the meeting". In this case, it's just an auxiliary verb.) 

Those additional symbols ("looking like "v", commas or apostrophes") have no meaning, no phonetic value, they are used just to fill the empty places, for the text to look more or less homogeneous and smooth, without gaps. That is again, the rason for using them is making the calligraphy beautiful and artistic. 

These analytical tense forms (perfect tenses) you refer to descend from free word combinations, only later, due to their frequent usage, they got gramaticalized and turned into the verb forms. Even now in English some traces of the expressions of which are not a Perfect tense still can be found. So, "I have written the letter." comes from the older "I have the letter written." (predicates are in bold type). This older form was something like today we can say "I have my car repaired." which is not the same now as "I have repaired my car." Generally speaking, the idea of Perfect is "as for now, the thing is done, I possess (hold in my hands, i.e. have) the thing made, the job finished." Also note that some languages, like French and German, form the Perfect tenses from some verbs using 'to be', not 'to have', and all the Slavic languages originally had Perfect only with 'to be', never with 'to have'. 

toki pona is a constructed language which is very close to what you're looking for, it has only 120 words and you cannot add any new ones, you can just combine the existing ones to get the meaning you need. Still the minimalism of toki pona is the point of that language, you're supposed not to construct complex structures of the 120 words it has, but rather use them in their massively wide meanings, yes, unfortunately words in this language have very wide meaning. Anyhow, you can judge it yourself if it's what you mean, here's the official toki pona textbook. 

This phenomenon is called rendaku, or "sequential voicing". Many phonemes in Japanese occur in voiced/unvoiced pairs. In kana writing, these are distinguished with a dakuten "voice mark" over the voiced version: for instance, か /ka/, が /ga/. (Side note: in a few cases this reflects historical rather than current pronunciation: /h/ voices to /b/ because it was originally /ɸ/, and /β/ isn't distinguished from /b/.) Rendaku means that the first sound in the second part of a compound becomes voiced...most of the time. In reality, it's not quite this simple. There are a few additional rules: 

"Orthography" is simply the rules of writing a language, so it's not particularly distinct from "spelling". If you wanted to draw a line between them, you could say that "spelling" is specifically the sequence of characters making up the word, while "orthography" also encompasses the details of individual characters, so that writing the letter N backwards is an orthographic mistake but not a spelling one. In this case, missing diacritics would be a spelling mistake only if letters with diacritics are considered separate letters of the alphabet (as in Polish, but not in French). 

(Source.) Notably, no vowels are included. And many of the reconstructed consonants are not easy for English speakers: 

German did lose its dental fricatives early on, but not quite early enough to avoid affecting the orthography. The transition from /θ~ð/ to /t~d/ is usually considered part of the High German Consonant Shift. But this generalization can be misleading. This change did start in the same region as the other High German changes. But /θ/ shifted significantly later, around the 10th century, and spread significantly farther, affecting all of the West Germanic languages except English. By this point, German had just begun to be written down. "Th" was chosen for /θ/, by analogy with Greek theta (transcribed as "th" in Latin, and now pronounced /θ/). So the cognate to English "think" was written thenken (modern German denken). But then /θ/ disappeared from the language. With the distinction between /θ/ and /t/ lost, it was no longer clear which German words should be written with "th" and which should have "t". Thus "th" appeared in some words like Thal, which originally had /d/ (compare English "dale"). A similar process in English created the "th" in "Thomas" and "Thames". Eventually this use of "th" fossilized. Words like Thal were permanently written with "th", while words like denken were permanently written with "d". In 1901 the orthography reform finally removed this distinction, replacing Thal with Tal and Thier with Tier. "Th" now survives only in proper names (Goethe) and Greek-derived loanwords (Thron). Source: I've been using Duden Online and Wright's Old High German Primer, which has good information on Old High German orthography and the consonant shift. However it was also published in 1888, so my information may be very out of date. Please correct me if so. 

First, is not used in Latin as a separate word, the Latin for "two" is . Next, I cannot see why that sentence surprises you. It really means "twice pairwise", "twice in pair", but isn't that the same as "two pairs", ? is plural of the word (pair), so the verb is plural. I would translate the Latin sentence as "Two pairs make four." 

I'm Ukrainian and my grandmother's name was Марія - Maria, and the endearment form of it everybody used was Муся [ˈmusʲa]. That can well be the case with your grandmother, too. 

As you can see, this sentence looks unfinished, the new information, the rheme, should follow, but it's absent. Now, let's complete it: 

I think this is called diglossia which is a a kind of bilingualism in a society in which one of the languages has high prestige, and another of the languages has low prestige. There were and are lots of societies where that occurs, many of them are mentioned in the articles I gave the links to above. For example, in the 18th - early 19th century Russia French was a high prestige language while Russian a low prestige one, the aristocracy very often had French as L1, for Pushkin, the gratest Russian poet, French was L1. 

Note, that making passives with this suffix lies in the sphere of derivation, word building, and not in the sphere of conjugation, that can be the reason you haven't at once remembered about it as a passive suffix.