It's a sistrum and a bowl (patera or phiale) used for libation. The sistrum, a musical instrument used as a rattle, isn't restricted to the cult of Isis; you may encounter it also in the context of the cult of Mithras, too. See also the Encyclopedia Britannica on the sistrum. For the sistrum, cf. this statue of Isis: 

Photo taken by Marie-Lan Nguyen (2006), Public domain, via Wikimedia Commons For the libation ceremony, cf. this statue of a priest in toga offering libation: 

So, "great experiment" wasn't used by Tocqueville at all - he simply wrote "devaient essayer" - "should attempt (to build...)". Modern translations usually stick to to french original. So, A. Goldhammer translated in 1994: 

Source: Wikipedia Commons, Schilling Thomas (Own Work) [CC BY-SA 4.0] ($URL$ The place is about 100 meters south of the „Blautopf“, a famous little pond in Blaubeuren; today, the street is named „Blautopfstraße“. Guessing by the shadows cast, the photo was taken around noon. Maybe, the photo depicts Hitler's visit in Blaubeuren where he had lunch on September 5th 1933 (according to Sandner's „Itinerar“), on occasion of his stay in Ulm where he attended a maneuver of the 5. Reichswehrregiment on September 5th and 6th, 1933 (this may explain the presence of high-ranking military people at that place and time). There are archival sources about a meeting between Hitler and some high-ranking Reichswehr officers at Ulm: Werner von Blomberg, General Kurt von Hammerstein, Generalleutnant Curt Liebmann and General Hans Freiherr Seutter von Lötzen. Guessing by a slightly better (but cropped) version of that photo (that was also available as picture postcard: see here and here), the person at Hitler's left may be Werner von Blomberg (wearing his "Pour le Mérite"?), at that time Minister of Defense. The person at the very right of the photo may be Heinrich Himmler (???). Regarding Goebbels: It seems that he didn't accompany Hitler to Ulm but returned to Berlin after attending the Nuremberg Rally from August 30 to September 3, 1933. 

East Germany was an independent state for months in 1990. It nominally had its own government before 1990, but in reality, the Soviets would not have allowed an anti-Soviet candidate to be elected. Because the Soviets would have expected exactly what happened in 1990. The Soviet Union left North Korea in 1948. So in 1990, when East Germany briefly became an independent country, North Korea had been independent for forty-two years. Even if we count East Germany as an independent country from 1949, when the government formed, that's still a year later than North Korea. And I reject any definition of independent that allows for involuntary occupation by the troops of a foreign nation. North Korea has not wanted to give up its current government to reunify with South Korea. This may not be a decision of the North Korean populace. North Korea is effectively a dictatorship. It's a one party state where the dictator controls the one party and therefore the winners of any elections it may hold. The dictatorship has been passed by inheritance only. So to say that the country does not want to give up its government is to say that the effective monarch of North Korea doesn't want to stop being the effective monarch. East Germany was also a one party state. But it was never controlled by a single family that passed control of the party through inheritance. And there is no indication that it ever desired to be an independent country. After the post-Communist government took office, it lasted less than six months before reunification. 

The main source for confusion is that different sources use different names for that certain person Matgenus (Μάτγηνος) / Mattan. He's said to be the father of Dido who founded Carthage. There are a lot of historians (greek, roman) who wrote about Dido, herself being a quite "popular" person, using different names for her father (Timaeus has "Mutto" (cf. Josephus, C.A. I:157: Μύττυνος); Justin: "Mutgo"; Servius: "Methres"; Virgil: "Belus"). Furthermore, there are problems regarding the tradition of Josephus' texts - there are medieval manuscripts in greek and armenian, with a wide range of variants. So, everyone speaking about "Matgenus / Mattan" has to decide which source to follow and which tradition to prefer. Part of this decision is to think about possible mistakes by scribes who copied a manuscript. The difference between matgenos and mattenos in greek is just the difference between γ and τ (which may look quite similar in handwritings). Someone believing that mutgo is the correct name for "Matgenus / Mattan" would prefer the latinised version "Matgenus" when editing Contra Apionem. Someone else may stick to a certain manuscript, keeping Mettenos / Mattenos (cf. Thackeray in the Loeb edition, p. 212/213; also Niese in the Weidmann edition). EDIT: According to Siegert, "Flavius Josephus - Über die Ursprünglichkeit des Judentums (Contra Apionem)", only Codex S (Codex Schleusingensis, a greek codex dating before 1544) has Μάτγηνος instead of Μέττηνος. Since the greek editio princeps (Arlenius, Basel 1544) is based on Codex S, it's very likely to be the source for that version. Interestingly, it's again Codex S at I:157 with Μύτγονος instead of Μύττυνος! 

The first appearance of the phrase was that Arthur took the sword from the anvil and the stone. As others have pointed out, the phrase makes more sense if you view it as a miscopied version of took the sword from the Angle and the Saxon. Example source: 

One theory has the original Arthur as a Welsh king named Owain Ddantgwyn (also spelled Ddanwyn) whose nickname was the Bear. Of course, Bear in Welsh is arth and in Latin is ursus. Put those together and you get Arthursus or Arthur. By that time, the Roman empire had given up on the British Isles, but many Romans had settled there. So it is sensible to think of a leader who tried to appeal both to long term native Welsh and new immigrant Romans by taking a name in both languages. This is also consistent with the view of Arthur as a High King who united Britain (under whatever name). Of course, the "High King" had responsibilities more consistent with a more modern Duke. The other kings were more like barons, earls, and counts. As you guessed, it is ridiculous to think of Arthur, the native Welshman who was resisting incursion from the Angles, as the king who unites the land of the Angles. He united against the Angles. If Arthur had been successful in the long term, there wouldn't have been an Angle-land (England). If Arthur had been less successful in the short term, it might have started earlier. England as England formed in the tenth century. Prior to that, there was Anglia. Arthur was the fifth and sixth century, after the time of Roman Britain. 

At least, his whereabouts were known to the allied war crimes prosecution authorities: General Müller was interrogated during the preparation of the Nuremberg trials by the "Military Division" of the OCCWC (Office, Chief of Counsel for War Crimes) in 1947 and 1948; the Institut für Zeitgeschichte München (Institute of Contemporary History, Munich) provides a transcript of that interrogations together with some affidavits (no. ZS [Zeugenschrifttum] 1244, PDF). It seems that he was called as witness by the defense in the "High Command Trial" („Prozess Oberkommando der Wehrmacht / OKW-Prozess“), one of the "Subsequent Nuremberg Trials" („Nachfolgeprozesse“): see the the "List of Witnesses in Case 12", "Green Series" vol XI p. 705. See also: Helmut Krausnick, Kommissarbefehl und „Gerichtsbarkeitserlass Barbarossa“ in neuerer Sicht, in: Vierteljahreshefte für Zeitgeschichte 1977, Heft 4, p. 682-738. 

Background The problems of East Germany and North Korea are very different. After World War II, the allies divided Germany into four parts, administered by the United States (US), United Kingdom (UK), France, and the Soviet Union (USSR). The US, UK, and France later merged their parts into West Germany. The Soviets turned their part into East Germany. The key point here is that the partition was mandated from outside. It wasn't based on divisions in Germany. By contrast, Korea was governed by the Japanese at the end of World War II. It was not occupied as a defeated power but as an ally. It chose to partition by forming a US-backed government and a USSR-backed government. There was a war. The result of the war was a formal division into two countries. Beyond all this, North Korea is effectively a dictatorship. The Kims make relatively unilateral decisions about how things will go. East Germany was more democratic. As the Soviet Union was collapsing, East Germany chose to reunify, democratically, with West Germany. North Korea has shown no interest in unifying with South Korea as anything but a ruler. Another issue is that the Soviets were in no position to stop Germany from reuniting. They were collapsing at the same time as Germany wanted to reunite. In fact, a movement to reunite Germany existed before the Soviet Union officially collapses. China opposes the reunification of the Koreas. China believes that there is too high of a chance of the resulting country being an ally of the US. And that would put another US ally on their border, close to their urban centers. China artificially supports the existence of North Korea. Otherwise, it would collapse. But China has never occupied North Korea. That was the Soviets. China also doesn't want North Korea to collapse because they worry about an influx of refugees. East German sanctions East Germany may have been targeted by sanctions as part of the eastern bloc. But once it was independent, it rapidly moved to unification with Germany. At that point, there would have been no reason to sanction it. Further, it never attempted to build nuclear bombs, so there is no parallel to the current sanctions of North Korea. TL;DR: East Germany was not targeted by sanctions as an independent country. 

There are some great pages on roman coinage, e.g. the formidable Roman Coins Database with more than 500 entries for roman early imperial coins. Additionally, Doug Smith's page on ancient coins has some info on roman coins from the early empire. 

I've found it on on Jamila's blog, with an overview of iraqi coins. There, it's described as follows: 

In fact, Henry Reeve translated this in the first english translation 1835 (Democracy in America, London: Saunders and Otley, 1835, p. 15) as follows, adapted also by John Spencer, and reprinted multiple times: 

Additional note: there's a great overview of Alexis de Tocqueville's writings available online, provided by the UPenn library: $URL$ There are also translations to different languages as well as the french original. 

During the extremely brief period when East Germany was an independent country, it was doing things that the west wanted it to do. It wouldn't have been sanctioned. Germany (West, East, combined) does not have nuclear bombs. It's not trying to develop them. In particular, East German was not trying to develop them during the period when it was an independent country. When East Germany was part of the eastern bloc, it didn't need to develop nuclear weapons. The eastern bloc countries were under the Soviet nuclear umbrella. East Germany didn't separate from the Soviets enough that nuclear weapons would be useful until it was rejoining West Germany. North Korean sanctions Finally, North Korea is building nuclear bombs and attempting to build missiles to deliver them. This is dangerous. North Korea is perennially cash-short. Even if they don't use nuclear weapons, it is easy to envisage a situation where they trade nuclear weapons to a middle eastern state in exchange for oil or cash. North Korea also engages in extraterritorial actions in contravention of international law. For example, Kim Jong Un had his brother assassinated. Or the Sony hack. We don't know what actions they might take with nuclear weapons. We only know how they've used previous weapons. China has some influence on North Korea, as China subsidizes North Korea. But if North Korea were as controlled by China as East Germany was by the Soviet Union, there would be no need for North Korea to develop nuclear weapons. China already has them. I suppose it's possible that North Korea is acting purely as a front for China, but then it's unclear what China hopes to gain by the illusion of independence. It would see more to their benefit to openly control North Korea. East Germany Might East Germany have also taken actions that the US didn't like? Sure. But the US, at that time, would have regarded such actions as being part of East Germany's role in the Warsaw Pact. The US would have levied any sanctions on the eastern bloc as a whole. If the Soviets had claimed that the East Germans were acting on their own, the US would have laughed at them. This isn't excusing the East Germans. It's a simple result of how the Cold War worked. At that time, the US would have rejected any claim that any Warsaw Pact country was operating separately from the Soviet Union. Even if the East Germans had engaged in a separate operation, no one would have believed they were.