As with any other question from a future employer you answer truthfully. Beyond the reasons stated in other answers, the recruiter may be assessing the likelihood that you will leave soon after starting. Generally speaking when companies are hiring, they want the new employee to work for them for a long time to be valuable. If the only reason you are relocating is for the job, there is a higher likelihood that you may become unhappy with the city and choose to leave even if you like the job. If you are moving to that city for another reason, you are less likely to pack up and go as there is something else holding you there. 

You are looking at it from your perspective and the perspective of the group you want to move into. But what about the group that hired you? That manager was trying to put together a long term plan with his staffing. (S)He spent time and money looking to hire the right person. Now you leave at the first opportunity to get into your desired position. This team has now lost a member and needs to spend time and resources repeating the original exercise. Seems costly and destructive for that team when I look at it. IMHO, this is bad form unless you made it clear to the hiring team that you had other aspirations. If you did and they hired you anyway, then more power to you. 

As a contractor, you need to approach this differently than an employee would. You are being paid a fee for a product not a regular salary. An employee would need to demonstrate the value they bring to the company, which can include tangible and intangible factors. As a contractor, you need to look at this from the perspective of unit cost to your client. Can you demonstrate that your product unit is of better quality than others at the same cost? That is basically the only leverage you have. If you work faster, they won't pay you more per unit, you'll just process more units. This might meet your needs as long as there is enough unit work available. Remember that these are not your bosses, so they idea of promotion does not apply. There is no employer looking out for your well being and a client is not concerned with your ability to maker the amount of money you want. They are concerned about that unit cost and where they can get the best cost/quality source for their needs. 

Well, actually, this is a career limiting move, and that doesn't mean the environment is hostile. Any time you tell management that there are certain jobs/tasks that you do not want to do, you are placing limits on their ability to advance your career. You need to decide for yourself how much you want to work for this company. If this company or department goes through any down-sizing or re-org, you have limited what options they have for you. If nothing happens with the company, you may never see the difference, but if you are "just another developer", you could be the unlucky one out. Unfortunately, many companies (in my experience) don't have nearly robust a technical career path as they do managerial. So anything you say you don't wish to do can put more limits on an already limited career path. I'm not suggesting that you should just put up with what ever they ask you to do, but I think it is important that you understand the ripple effect this can have. 

I can see how you might think this from your perspective, but as evidenced by company policy they don't think so. 

I think you missed the opportunity on the initial phone call. You want something for him, yet you are telling him what he should do, and implying he should be doing more. Asking nicely for the e-mail would have been more likely to succeed. "Thank you for calling to express your appreciation. I'd love to share this with my team, but I think it would be so much nicer as a message from you. Do you think you could possibly send me a quick email with your thoughts that I can share with them?" 

Start with your manager. It's not a good idea to jump layers in an organization. EVen if you think you already know what your manager is going to say, have the conversation, then consider whether it makes sense to go higher. 

It hurts because you want them to care about you personally and it appears they don't. You don't need to be happy about that. Don't know if this happens in "most" companies, but in every company I have worked in with more than a few departments, there have been business re-organizations where the needs of the business drove the decision and not happiness of each impacted individual. BTW, this happens to managers too. 

You need to resign yourself to the fact that your job may go through significant changes (some good, some not so much) as you transition from contributor to leader. 

I don't want to minimize the other issues, but I believe your two greatest obstacles are time and access to computing resources. Time You don't need a college degree to get a job in this field, but you will still need time to teach yourself. It would seem that you have the mental ability, but it will still take a while to learn enough in the different areas necessary to work in this field. If you can show that you can do the work, many(most) companies won't demand a college degree. You will also need time to develop projects to show that you have the ability, these projects can be shown instead of the degree. This leads to the second obstacle. Computing Resources From your posting, I am assuming that you don't have your own computer. Is there some facility nearby where you could get access to the internet? A cyber cafe or a public facility like a library where you can spend time with a computer? There are a large number of free online training programs where you could learn the material that you need. There are also free programs that could provide development resources to show off your skills. For example, Amazon's AWS has a free tier which actually provides quite a large set of resources for a single developer. I understand that given your financial situation, computing resources may just not be an option. Unfortunately, I don't see any way to get into such a high-tech field without that access. Good luck. 

Another thing that should be considered here is ownership, which would actually stop things before you even get to decisions about a non-compete. Many employment agreements for tech companies include language that states any ideas/developments you have while in their employment are owned by the company. These can be sticky court cases and your friend absolutely needs real legal advice. If his employment agreement does in fact include this language, then leaving to start his own company could be construed as theft of IP. Bottom line, your friend really needs to get some good legal advice on all of the issues before he makes any decisions or takes any action. 

As a hiring manager, I care about what you can do, i.e, what value can you bring to my organization. There are very few companies that would sway my opinion, good or bad, and that is because I personally know something about them, either directly or through a trusted contact. Every company has good employees and bad. The name of your current employer doesn't tell me anything about who you are. You could be leaving to take on a new challenge, or you could be leaving because they are about to fire you. Nothing about the company's name gives me insight into that. 

Are you certain they agree that you "had a fantastic interview"? Have they told you that? If they really want you, they would be doing something about it. You don't indicate here, but has anyone in the process actually told you they are interested in hiring you? Might not be in the form of an offer yet, because of internal procedures, but they should have at least said something. In my experience, as a candidate and as a hiring manager, "I should be able to give you more information next week. Thanks!" is HR speak for you haven't been eliminated yet, but we are still looking for a better candidate. 

Like so many questions on Workplace, you should expect what is in your contract, no more, no less. You think you negotiated to get 1 week more than standard for the entire time you work there. They think they negotiated to bump you to 3 weeks vacation earlier than other employees. What matters is what is in the contract or employee agreement that you both signed. If you didn't get this in writing, you probably aren't going to get anywhere. 

Be careful of the wording. I understand that you still want to call them cheats to get more traffic for your blog, but if you use negative connotations, you may lead them to subconsciously view this in a negative light. The work you are doing to accomplish this is significantly more valuable than any of the canned programming problems you have solved in your classwork. Doing this and being able to explain how accomplished it should be a strong factor in your favor during the interview process. 

Your salary is not based on your skill set, it is based on your value to the company. The best skill sets in the world aren't valuable unless you apply them correctly. For this company, that will depend on a combination of experience, business domain knowledge and inter-personal skills. Your co-workers already likely have more experience and domain knowledge, and you aren't likely to catch them in 6 months. Measuring yourself by skill set and hours worked is not likely to lead you to a successful career, financially or in your role. Learn to provide value to your employer, then career and financial growth will come looking for you. 

Regardless of your desired results, you need to abide by your contractual and legal obligations. In a comment you mention, "he/she can leave with full and final settlement." Is that fully at your discretion or is that clause applicable only by mutual agreement? One thing to learn from this process. You may have promised more than you can deliver to the new employer. If you don't have full autonomy on your notice period buy-out, you can't deliver on your commitment to leave in one month. Regardless of how much you want to work for a new company, promising something you can't deliver is sure to backfire. 

When you are being paid to do a job, you do the absolute best you can at that job. If you feel that the combined relationship between the client and the multiple companies is not advantageous for your company, then speak to your management about whether or not your company needs/wants the work given the situation. Until that is decided and/or changed, you do the best job you can for your client. 

I disagree with this statement and I think that this statement is where the problem lies. Nowhere in that statement or in the rest of your posting, is there a demonstration of leadership skills. The lead part of technical lead is more important than the technical. Successful leaders don't lead by mandate. They are able to lead because the team is willing to follow, which seems not to be the case here. A leader needs to have the respect of the team, and that is earned, not defined by some organizational team. I'd rather have TL with good technical skills and great leadership skills over one with great technical skills and good leadership skills, any day of the week. A good TL recognizes that they are not always right and that listening to their team is the best way to make good technical decisions. The still has to make the decision in the end, but that should come from a thoughtful process reviewing everyone's input. When a TL is promoted from within the team and that person does not already have the respect of the other team members (as evidenced by your own manager's reluctance), I think that team is destined for failure. 

As David K points out in his comment above, we say "HR is not your friend" very frequently around here. In a company of any size, this is one of the areas where the statement is probably wrong. You probably need something from your manager to document the STEM nature of your position. After that, it is quite likely that your company has a person or team in HR who owns the responsibility for the legal and documentation concerns of all employees on some form of Visa status. It is quite likely that your boss is not an expert on all of the details of immigration law but that is part of the responsibility of HR.