I have to disagree with the others here, yes it is right that the mass would be cubed while the power would be squared, however, strength isn't usually the reason for the speed limit of animals (humans included), instead it is the inefficiency of our limbs at these speeds. For example if you run 20 km/h your foot is pulled forward 40 km/h slowed down set on the ground while propelled backwards until it is 20 km/h slower than you and 0 km/h to ground, than again accelerated forward to 40 km/h. If you size everything up three times, you would be acceleration a 27 times bigger mass with 9 times the power, BUT you would have to do it only once per 3 times a normal creature has to do, making it actually pretty even. Even better, you have 3 times as much time and space to accelerate your feet. In the end the heart and bones would be a much bigger factor in the top speed than the up sized mass, because the biggest problem for such kind of creatures would be to keep their bones intact and circulations running. (The heart would have a hard time to keep the blood flowing). So if you just say the bones are much more durable than ours, the top speed would come down to their hearts abilities to provide oxygen for the muscles, and you would end up with something like elephants. relative fast (about three times as fast as we) walking speeds but lack of the ability to run. In that scenario every creature would be about three times faster while trotting and walking, but just barely, if even, faster than we are when at max speed. If you also presume the heart can provide the oxygen and the muscles can catch the impact when landing, the limit would be a good amount higher, not three times because wind resistance would become a problem at speeds over 60 km/h but they would be about two times faster. 

Look at Europe Almost all the European countries have had elections for senates and/or congresses, or whatever you want to call it, while retaining a powerful monarchy -- that's pretty much what you're asking for. Usually, the monarchy would deal with defenses while the elected officials dealt with everything else, including lawmaking, with plenty of examples where this is not the case. The real crux seems to be who controls the judges -- if the monarch do, the democracy part of the society is pretty moot. Otherwise, the monarch is just the government -- something akin to the cabinet of ministers in a European democracy (+ any head of state, such as a president akin to how the USA is governed). Look at Scandinavia The Scandinavian kingdoms used to have their kings elected when the old king (was)[1] died, and I seen no reason why a democracy can't have an elected emperor or king in the same way. [1] Incorrect language intentional. 

The only candidates lies with the great apes The only potential there is, is that some of the other great apes develop intelligence. To me, this seems very unlikely to happen before the sun burns out the Earth's atmosphere, even as advanced as they are today. My guess is that it might be possible for Bonobos, but I don't think it's remotely likely to happen. Chimpanzees is a close second, but the aggression they exhibit might be a hindrance. I can't think of any other species that would stand a chance. If any species is to evolve into human like intelligence, there must be some evolutionary force(*) that drives that intelligence. I'm not familiar with any force that will do so, but clearly, at least one such force exists, or we wouldn't be here discussing it. In order for a civilization to appear, you must have more than just intelligence; you also need to be able to make tools and meta-tools -- that is, you must be able to make tools that you use to make other tools. This requires dexterity that only apes possess at the moment; this alone bars all other species from developing any kind of civilization. Curiously, many great apes already make tools, including orangutans who use spears for fishing. (*) This is not meant to be understood as some physical force of any kind. Merely some sort of mechanism that requires the development of higher-order intelligence. 

The only reason you can see our skin now is because of a past environmental pressure (I'd argue for a semiaquatic stage, others believe it was to improve cooling, or sexual selection). It was not due to clothes-wearing or the invention of AC (in fact, we now have to wear clothes because of our hairlessness). Bodily hairlessness is now maladaptive for civilized-us. Head hair and beards that have to be constantly trimmed and managed is maladaptive. Head and facial hair that clearly signals age is maladaptive, unless aging is a sexual characteristic - which it is not, for most. In short, in a large population with no significant evolutionary pressures, and technological solutions like hair dye and beard trimmers to resolve any issues which might affect their reproductive success rates, "Unnecessary" is not an evolutionarily selective force. 

Why would they be offended? If they're fox-people, that means they're intelligent carnivores. They will not be vegetarian, and will most certainly eat furry mammals with much delight. If you want them to become offended, weirded out, or sickened by people wearing food, then that might work. But even if it was foxfur from feral foxes, to them it'd only be about the same weirdness as seeing someone wearing a monkeyskin is to us. They're very unlikely to relate to their unintelligent brethren unless there's some religious aspect making killing them a no-no. On the other hand, cultural history could have men killing and skinning them, so humans wearing fur could be seen as a huge slap in the face. Most societies are for the most part reasonably tolerant of such cultural differences, though, and will just point it out and laugh at the ignorant outsider. To me, an over the top, pitchforks-and-torches reaction, would feel a bit like you were straining believability for the sake of plot. 

Dental hygiene Lack of dental hygiene in WW1, may have killed more people than bullets. Introducing the toothbrush (fairly simple concept, easy and cheap to make) could dramatically improve the lives of the Greek; on top of that, it wouldn't change the balance of power in the Greek society. Better materials Not just metals, but pretty much anything will do. Quality bricks would allow for better and stronger buildings, or at least, houses that are faster to build. With a strong binder, you could quickly build what amounts to a medieval castle which would be virtually unsiegable. Building castles will disrupt the power structure of the Greek society and will require a large amount of people for the construction. Minor fortifications might be a better options. Viking longboats I'm not too sure about this -- the real strength of the viking longboats lies in its maneuverability on rivers. At any rate, they are strong, lightweight and don't require a lot of materials. They rival modern (recreational) sailboats for speed, on open waters. 

Not much really For a while at least, there's not going to happen a lot. Mounting an expedition to meet the other people would be the first step -- one that would likely be easier to do via space crafts than using airplanes, i.e. it's going to be very expensive to do, and it's not likely anyone is going to send an army across that way. Long term things could go any way. The two sections of the planet will likely have evolved quite differently and both sides will likely find it difficult to survive in the alien region; this means both sides will not be likely to attempt to colonize the alien region and have little interest in conquering the other. Unless the people are able to interbreed they have very little reason to visit each other. The resources that could be exchanged would be easier to move without manned vehicles, or using vehicles that require very little manpower -- most likely the most traded commondity would be information in some form (tv-shows, books, software, research data, political ideas, history, religious beliefs etc.), and not hard matter (which is very hard to transport across the mountains/into space). The most likely outcome, long and short term, is an acceleration in technology related to information exchange, space travel and tunnelling. The social effects will depend on the species on either region but I think all out war of any kind is out of the question -- it's simply too hard to do. 

When placing and naming civilization markers on a map, we can follow some basic rules. Where rivers reach the coast, there will typically be at least some amount of tidal estuary and delta, so the coast should angle in a little there; unlike most bays, these will be sharp rather than rounded. Urbintor is a good example. Humans live on the water, and on trade routes, so the first (and probably oldest) cities should go anywhere a river joins the sea, like Markal, Porlat, Kesidi, Mestas, and Urbintor again - great trade and fishing. River forks are also good places for trade and water, too, as well as being nicely defensible, protected on two sides by a natural "moat": in this map, this seems to be one of the main reasons for placing cities. There's a great sheltered bay with two rivers leading from it, leading to Bloodhill and Latale. This bay would normally become a huge city pretty fast, unless there's a good reason for it not to. Probably the biggest in that continent. Bays are caused by erosion from the sea, so will typically be rounded (no examples on this map), rather than pointy (Distad, Dalere, Vantia City, Turrum, Minra, Dongan, Montibem, Pordeut, Todora, Estreor, Porlaba, Eastport...), unless they are fjords between two mountain ranges. Fjords will typically end in at least a short river. Names mean things, and those things get used in multiple other names: in Pordeut, Porlaba, Porlat - I'd suspect that the "por" is a degradation of "port", and "lat" has some meaning, as it's also seen in Latale. Eastport shows the word non-degraded, showing regional differences, which is nice. The same region (Kingsland) has BloodHill - that region seems defined by readable Englishy names. My suspicion is that this will be where the heroes will start out, and venture into more foreign-sounding places. A bit tropey, if so, but not a terrible thing. Outside of that southern continent, though, names seem like just 2-3 random-syllable things, with no clear sign of meaning. Having several river-fork cities have a similar prefix or suffix (-ford, -bridge), and so on, will add verisimilitude: see $URL$ but obviously, like your "por-", make them regionalized to the tongues of your world, rather than using them directly. As a counterpoint to that, for a fiction writer, having names which are easily confused by the reader (bannockburn, bannockbridge) is usually a bad thing. I'd go with having the first syllable unique in each case, and shared suffixes, unless the point is to show the two places are very close together (bannockburn being just upriver from bannockbridge, perhaps). As well as rivers, other trade routes matter - places where major roads join, mountain passes, etc. Also significant sources of resources, like mining town, fishing villages (the whole coast would normally be populated with these before inland areas got many towns), etc. I like the placement of Erten & Estreor, placed to take advantage of the trade that flows down that channel from Gahotere and the Vanlian empire, to Kingsland and southern Aumedeszel. 

If you really think it needs to defend itself, it could easily do so. Using telepathy By using its telepathy, it can introduce images into the minds of any looters. If the looters don't understand what's going on, it might scare them and even make them go insane. Even if they do understand, it might still work. Some of the lesser (or everbody even) gifted might be persuaded that the images represent real events; the memory of one of the other members of the group stealing from you or trying to harm you in any way may be just enough to make those suspetible to the suggestion assault those who aren't, forcing the group to dismiss itself. Using scrolls Simply activate the kill all people scroll. 

It's probably not possible with the current setting. You've basically ruled out all forms of communication with different settlements of humans. Transportation is extremely difficult and there's no effective way to defend a settlement; any sizeable attack on a settlement will wipe it out unless they already have an effective wall, which they can't get because some of the monster with either fly or crawl over the wall or burrow beneath it. Islands are not an option either, because of flying monsters. Since humans can't effectively transport themselves they won't be able to found new settlements -- if they try, they will either be wiped out on the way or fairly quickly after they decided on a spot to live in. Without new settlements and since the old settlements won't survive, humanity probably won't survive for more than a single generation. How might it be possible? Have fewer monsters or reduce their relative power to humans. You could have dragons that will eat hundreds of people as long as they are rare and only do so once every ten years or so (maybe even as often as every year), but a constant onslaught of monsters will be impossible for humans to handle with a medieval level of technology.