This was a hard one to answer, primarily because of the difficulty in tracking down information. The Observations of MU69 The extended mission for New Horizons involved adjusting its orbit to do a close fly-by of a Kuiper Belt Object (KBO). The annoying part about this was that they needed to find one first! Ground based observations were unsuccessful due to the faint magnitudes of any potential KBOs and the crowded star field (being that they were looking towards the galactic core). Finally, HST was used and over the course of 194 orbits, between June to September 2014, the entire region of the potentially reachable sky, by New Horizon's designated $130\:\mathrm{m/s}$ delta-v, was scanned using WFC3 instrument and the F350LP filter. Image processing revealed 5 potential candidates. This is all laid out in a paper by the lead of the KBO search, John Spencer. You can choose to view any and all images taken during these observations (since it is in the public domain) by downloading them from Hubble's Legacy Archive. Of course you'll have to do some digging in the 970 total images to find the actual images which contain MU69. Once the entire region was scanned and a set of candidates were found, follow-up observations were made in late October 2014 of each individual candidate to precisely determine orbital parameters and observational characteristics so as to narrow down which candidate was reachable and presented the most scientific advantage. In this case, the same observing group from New Horizons took the images and once again used Hubble's WFC3 and the F350LP filter. Once again, these images can all be found on Hubble's Legacy Archive. An example of a single image which from this run, containing MU39 (although you'd be hard-pressed to pick it out) can be seen here. Most of this information can be gleaned from the Hubble Legacy Archive and is also described in this paper. The Minor Planet Catalog (props to AtmosphericPrisonEscape for pointing this out) indicates that further observations of MU69 were taken with the HST in May and July of 2015. I had a bit of trouble tracking these images down, but knowing that John Spencer was the lead in these observations, I went and looked up his 2015 HST proposal which you can read here. With the proper proposal number, I found the set of 15 images during May and July which were taken of MU69. Again, the WFC3 instrument was used with the F350LP filter. The Color of MU69 In total, we have 38 images of MU69, all taken by John Spencer and his team using the HST's WFC3 instrument and the F350LP filter (that peaks at 5845.871 angstroms). The important point here, and the reason I detailed the observations so much in the previous section, was to determine the exact type of images taken of this KBO, so as to ascertain what science data could have been used to determine color. Based on everything I've compiled, it appears to me that the statement of MU69 being "red" is a educated guess. Anyone who knows about telescopes will tell you that imaging an object in a single filter is not sufficient to reliably measure aspects such as color. You need at least two filters to determine that because you need to understand how the brightness of said object varies with wavelength. However, it could be possible to make a guess at the color of this body from a single filter by making a lot of assumptions. This is purely a guess as to what they did, but you can first measure the apparent magnitude of this object in your filter, then, assuming things like size, albedo, distance, etc., you can create a model of this object's spectrum that you'd expect it to have such that it reproduces your observed image. The first paper I linked details how they did inject false KBOs into their images to ensure their KBO finding algorithms worked which indicates they had some basic ability to model KBO images in their data. If your model can reproduce the observations, you can use that model as a basis for what your KBO is likely like and from that you can say that it appears "red". Based on experience with KBOs and in partiuclar pluto, we expect they might be red and that the redness corresponds to tholin, a common, red chemical found on KBOs, so the fact that they believe it to be read is not surprising. 

I don't know what could cause Upsilon Scorpii to appear red as it is not noted as being a highly variable star. It's spectral type is B2, which implies it would be blue/white in colour. If you know the spectral type of a star, which many stellar databases will note, you can work out its colour from this. 

My understanding is that there is a gravitationally stable region between the Sun and Mercury where asteroids could - in theory - orbit for long periods without being perturbed. However these hypothetical vulcanoids are seemingly non-existent; it being likely that their orbits decay through other means besides the influence of a planet, such as the Yarkovsky effect. We also have trojan asteroids, which share the orbits of planets such as Jupiter but spend their time in the leading and trailing Lagrange Points, keeping their orbits stable. If a Hot Jupiter such as 51 Pegasi b were to host trojan asteroids, would their proximity to the planet allow their orbits to remain stable for longer, or would their orbits decay regardless? If a Hot Jupiter migrated inwards towards its star, is it more likely to have swept away any possible trojans? 

Some of this might stray into WorldBuilding StackExchange territory, and 'when' will be tough to approximate as galactic rotation and stars going through different phases of their lives can make constellations and reference points obsolete with time. As StephenG mentioned, pulsars, owing to their (usually) unchanging and detectable rotation periods, can be used as reference points. The plaques attached to Pioneer 10 and 11 provide the solar system's location relative to nearby pulsars. Pulsar coordinates were also added to the Voyager Golden Album too. The alternative would be to adopt relatively fixed locations on your 'local' celestial sphere and determine your position relative to them, and therefore where your destination is. This assumes you know where your destination is relative to your reference points. The galactic core's location, the direction of galactic rotation, the Magellanic Clouds or other extra-galactic sources could be your reference points. They would hardly be accurate but if you are attempting a Voyager-esque journey through the Milky Way, it's a start. 

Your question body is different from your question title and it seems you really want to ask what you did in the question body so I'll address that. 

The requirement of a wide catalogue is also pretty restrictive. The BAO is inconveniently large so not many deep galaxy catalogues are going to be wide enough to even see the BAO. The SDSS is one of the few galaxy catalogues that comes to mind that is wide enough and they have already found the BAO in that. Cluster catalogues are usually built up not from a specific sky survey as galaxy catalogues usually are, but from individual observations or else conglomerated from many galaxy surveys. As such they can be much wider. 

His plasma clouds were not galactic in size and could not have produced real galaxies. He even admits he limited his initial plasma cloud size to 

Yes and no. As I said, the age of the universe is ultimately derived from GR so anything GR/SR related is accounted for. However, it seems to me that your understanding of how the universe's age is calculated is somewhat simplistic (and there's nothing wrong with that - its a complicated process!). In calculating the age of the universe, we actually don't care about how fast some far-flung galaxy may be moving away from us. We don't even look at those galaxies. What we really look at is the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) Radiation. By looking at this radiation, we're able to work out the $\Omega$ parameters more or less (and the dark energy parameter $w$) without every having to concern ourselves with recessional galaxy speeds. Hopefully you can see that the concepts of receding galaxies and time dilation are moot points when it comes to determining the age of the universe. 

Yes it is possible to predict the path of an asteroid, and if it will strike the Earth. In the first instance the accuracy of the predicted path depends upon the quality and spacing of the positional. The better the position measurements (minimum 3) the better the prediction. If the position measurements are spread around the asteroids orbit, the predicted orbit is more accurate. The second factor is more subtle. Because the solar system has many planets, there are many forces on an asteroid. These cannot all be put into an exact solution but need to be calculated step by step. The uncertainty in the predicted path accumulates the further into the future you push the predictions. When an asteroid makes a close pass to a planet a slight difference in the approach can make a large difference in the path after approach. Jupiter being the most massive planet alters the orbits of a lot of asteroids and comets. There are projects to find and measure the positions of asteroids that could strike Earth. Look up SpaceGaurd. It is because of these uncertainties that NASA etc give a probability of an asteroid hitting Earth on it's next close approach. Comets are more difficult, because as gas/dust leave the comet it acts like a rocket engine and so moves the comet off its predictable path. The effect is small but noticeable. Classically, the positions of asteroids is measured by taking an image and measuring where the asteroid is on the image relative to stars with accurately known positions. Sounds simple, but needs skill to do well, and the help of good software to take into account like distorts caused by the telescope/camera optics ... The calculations also involve knowing the location of the Earth and camera, relative to the stars. 

When it was 5700km from Earth, the Rosetta spacecraft was misidentified briefly as an asteroid as it flew by Earth for a gravity assist. I cannot find any more information on other spacecraft observed without radio from further away (I'm happy to be corrected!). If landers count; as mentioned in the comments, spacecraft orbiting Mars have observed their lander brethren on the surface. 

It seems Walter Baade and Fritz Zwicky may have coined the term in 1934 (see here) and the name stuck around. I've known some astronomers to label them 'stellar remnants' for the reason you gave; they are not stars in the sense they do not produce energy via nuclear fusion, and that they are not made entirely of neutrons as the name would suggest. They seem to be called stars for lack of another layman's term (from our point of view on Earth, not all neutron stars are pulsars), and that they still share some characteristics of stars: they emit their own light, they have masses greater than the Sun and can even have planets orbiting them. 

Neutron stars do indeed shine and some like this one have been observed in visible light. Like white dwarf stars, if they were scaled up to be the size of the Sun, they would outshine the Sun and most other stars in the galaxy. It is only their small size that make them hard to observe. As for neutrinos, it seems they do too. This link might help explain neutrino activity in / from neutron stars further.