There are, apparently, also special anti-static vacuum cleaner nozzle / hose assemblies that work on the same principle (ensuring that the nozzle is conductive and grounded). See the patent cited below for one example. 

I've never used one of those "electric dusters" specifically made for cleaning computers, but I suspect they're based on a similar principle. For example, the one you linked to in your question is advertised as having "sturdy all-steel construction", which would presumably ensure that any static buildup is immediately discharged to ground through the operator's hand. (Also, the "electric duster" appears to blow air out through the nozzle rather than sucking it in, which may indeed dislodge dust a bit more effectively, as long as you don't mind it being scattered everywhere. This has nothing to do with static electricity, though.) 

As noted above, I have never managed to damage any electronics with static (as far as I know — static damage is invisible and hard to distinguish from just random equipment failure), with or without a vacuum cleaner. I have also been unable to locate any verifiable reports of someone damaging their computer through static from a vacuum cleaner — alas, it just doesn't seem to be something that people would write up and publish. Thus, for now, I'll have to state that I cannot offer a positive answer to this part of your question. 

Concentrated Hydrogen peroxide solutions (MSDS from Merck for a 30% solution) are strongly oxidizing and corrosive. Those should only be handled with proper safety procedures and euqipment (especially safety glasses). The Emergency overview from the MSDS states: 

This is actually true, dessication with glyphosate seems to be an established practice. From the Glyphosate Task Force: 

The method generally used to observe which parts of the brain are currently active is functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Specifically the BOLD (Blood-oxygen-level dependence) is used to measure the blood oxygen level that is influenced by the energy used by active neurons. The oxygenation state of haemoglobin influences the transverse relaxation rate of the water protons in blood (Thulborn et al., 1982). This transverse relaxation rate can be measured by MRI, and thereby the activity of the neurons in the brain can be observed. The spatial resolution you can achieve with modern, high-field MRIs is about 1x1x3 mm3 (van der Zwaag et al., 2009). This is far larger than a neuron, so observing individual neurons inside the brain is not currently possible with this method. This is of course an indirect measure of brain activity, you're measuring energy consumption, not the neural activity directly. There have been thousands of studies performed using fMRI, if we used only 10% of our brain somebody would have noticed that. You could of course poke holes into that and argue the limitations of the current methods, but according to everything we currently know we use our whole brain. I would not discount the supporting evidence so lightly, especially the fact that when you damage some part of the brain, it usually has a pretty dramatic effect on a person. We have pretty solid empirical evidence that all parts of our brain are doing something. The part about messaging is also a strange argument. The main function of neurons is to pass electrical signals along, that is essentially "messaging". Arguing that this is "doing nothing" doesn't make much sense. 

Yes, vacuum cleaners can indeed build up a noticeable static charge. The amount of charge buildup can vary depending on several factors, such as the type of vacuum cleaner used, the amount and type of dust present, and, as with any static buildup, ambient air humidity. The main source of this static buildup appears to be from dust particles striking the walls of the plastic inlet nozzle / tube, picking up a charge (and leaving an opposite charge on the nozzle) through the triboelectric effect. Thus, the charge accumulates not only on the body of the vacuum cleaner, but also on the nozzle and the hose. In fact, this can be quite easily observed by vacuuming the floor in dry weather: some dust tends to cling to the top side of the nozzle, and can be quite resistant to attempts to remove it. 

Use a conductive nozzle on the vacuum. Most household vacuum cleaners come with one or two metal pipe segments between the flexible tube and the fancy nozzle assembly, so you can just remove the nozzle but leave at least one conductive pipe segment on the tube. Keep the nozzle grounded to the computer chassis while vacuuming it. This ensures that the vacuum nozzle remains at the same electric potential as the computer equipment, thus preventing any static discharge between them. You can get fancy and tape a piece of electric wire to the vacuum pipe, with the other end screwed to the computer chassis, or you can wrap one of those anti-static wrist straps around the pipe twice. The simplest way to ground the nozzle, however, is just to ground it through your own body: just hold the (conductive) nozzle in your bare hand, while making sure that your body is grounded to the chassis e.g. through one of those wrist straps, or simply by touching a metal part of the chassis with your other hand. 

This claim is a bit surprising. The patent could of course be embellishing that claim in order to make its technology seem more useful. The patent describes a variable speed blower motor that can work independently of the condenser to set the air flow to the optimal speed for cooling. The thermostat, with information from both indoor and outdoor temperature and humidity sensors, can then intelligently decide how to control both the blower and the condenser. Therefore, I'd say that if you have one of these variable-speed blowers and intelligent thermostats (they're getting more common now; I have one in a house I recently bought), I'd say that it would be a bad idea to force the blower to stay on all the time because the system is smarter than you! If, however, you have an older, single-speed system, that question is a lot more complicated, and it might actually be detrimental to run the blower all of the time. 

The authors summarize their results by concluding that lump-sum payments (e.g., lottery winnings) statistically significantly reduce the probability of bankruptcy in the first two years after winning, however, this reduction is followed by a statistically significant increase in the probability of bankruptcy of similar magnitude three to five years after winning. Note that this study only considered lump-sum winnings up to $150,000; I have not found any studies that track bankruptcies of larger cash payouts. I suspect this is due to the relatively small amount of data available on the large jackpot winners. Update: I read the abstracts of all of the articles cited by the Hankins/Hoekstra/Skiba paper, and none of them seem to specifically study bankruptcy frequency among lottery winners. One interesting theory arose from a paper by Thaler: He points out that one of the best predictors for one's level of consumption (i.e., spending) is one's income. Therefore, if one's income suddenly spikes due to a lump-sum lottery windfall, one might be very likely to increase one's spending, possibly taking on significant liabilities. The problem is: A lottery payout is only temporary, so once that money runs out one is unable to pay off one's debts. 

The general idea presented in that paper is that glyphosate is able to chelate metals, which is well-known and not controversial. The distribution of the disease is correlated with water hardness according to the paper, so they speculate that a metal-glyphosate complex is responsible for the disease. They speculate further that the metal-glyphosate complexes are not metabolized in the liver and then released in the kidney. The article behind this theory is explicitly marked as "hypothesis" in the journal, and it does not actually contain any data. The only actual new data related to the hypothesis it mentions is a study currently conducted in California. This data is pretty much impossible to interpret now as it is only roughly described in the article and does not mention any control group or any further detail. There isn't really anything to debunk here as there is no evidence in the first place. The entire article is speculative. 

Humans, animals and other diamagnetic objects are affected by magnetic fields. The effect is just so weak that it is usually not noticable. But you can e.g. levitate a frog using an extremely strong magnet (see this video on YouTube). EM fields also induce currents in humans, but they are usually so small as to be unnoticeable. But you don't want to stand directly in front of, e.g. a military radar or other sources with extremely high power. 

I could not find any evidence that this ever happened as you described it, and Snopes concurs. In fact, mass employee layoffs without advanced warning is (under almost all circumstances) illegal in the United States. "Advanced warning" just means that the entire workforce needs to be warned that a mass layoff is going to happen at least 60 days before the first employee is notified that they specifically have been chosen to be terminated. So, any company that pulled such a stunt would almost certainly be breaking the law, and would likely have received a lot of negative press for it. Since I could find no such record in the press, I think it's relatively safe to say that it is just a legend, at least within the United States. Proving whether or not it happened internationally may be impossible unless there is a high profile incident that somehow eluded our collective Google-fu. I will say that for large layoffs that are below the legal definition of a "mass layoff," using this technique would be legal in the US, and therefore might be plausible. However, I would think that such a stunt would cause a lot of negative press for the employer. The same sort of effect could be achieved by simply packing up all of the terminated employees' belongings over a weekend and then individually denying them access to the facility on Monday morning, which avoids the spectacle of having everyone laid off in a group. There have been a couple reported incidents both in the UK and in the USA where the entire workforce was terminated using the "fire drill" method. In all such cases, however, it was due to the entire company ceasing business, so all employees were terminated. Addition (2014-02-21): It turns out that there has been an international treaty (currently ratified by 35 countries) in effect since 1985, called the Termination of Employment Convention, that has very similar restrictions to the US law I mentioned above. 

[1] Mayor, Susan, Cochrane review questions evidence for statins for primary prevention in low risk groups, BMJ 2011 [2] Wei et al., Statin use in the secondary prevention of coronary heart disease in primary care: cohort study and comparison of inclusion and outcome with patients in randomised trials, BMJ 330, 821 (2005) 

To see what exactly the FDA does when evaluating a new genetically engineered crop I looked at the report about a new herbicide-tolerant soybean. The specific example is pretty much random, I simply chose to first one in the list. They do check the sequence of the inserted gene: 

I just saw an infographic comparing the size of various programs in lines of code, the largest one of those being the healthcare.gov site at 500 million lines of code. The source they used seems to be this NY Times article that states 

This cleary shows that the authors claim that they manipulated the feeds of hundreds of thousands of users. The authors explicitly thank the Facebook team in the acknowledgements, so we can safely assume that Facebook did help the researchers to manipulate the feeds: 

Mah and Binik have an excellent survey paper on the research related to human orgasm. Section 1.3.2 is dedicated to comparing the experiences of male vs. female orgasms. While they report that most studies conclude that there is more variance in the qualitative experience of female orgasm, it is also claimed that 

Edit: To summarize, Payne explains his results by claiming that it is the culture of security itself that promotes actual security. While that is likely true, I think it is also important to note that, with all else being equal, the general public can't independently audit that which is not open. That study is a bit dated and of limited breadth, though. I tried looking for a more comprehensive study, but I couldn't really find anything substantive (there are many "opinion pieces" giving arguments as to why open source is better, but not much data). Therefore, I took a quick look at the National Vulnerability Database, which collects, rates, and posts software vulnerabilities. It has a database dating back into the 1980s. I quickly hacked together this perl script to parse the database: