Pedals and shoes come in two basic styles. While there are a few variations inside the style, since what you are looking at is shoes, that means your compatibility will rely one them being: 

Use sandpaper or a Dremel to remove the teeth which fix the angles of the seat post. If you make it completely smooth, then you can use grip tape like that designed for a skateboard deck to add friction without locking you in to specific angles. This approach has drawbacks. The grip tape may need to be replaced on occasion. You need to be careful not to remove too much material from the post, as it risks breaking the post in use. As you can imagine, that would be painful. Replace the seat post with something without that limitation. 

Short answer? No, it will not generally cause you a problem. This is actually a common method of parking a loaded touring bike. Don't over tension the brake lever. Remember that a hydraulic lever doesn't require excessive force to have power at the brake. A simple 6mm rubberband wrapped over the lever and handlebar should accomplish your purpose. 

Look at the new Venture series from Scott. Designed as the ultimate touring hybrid, they are fast, agile, low maintenance, and strong. They are more aggressively positioned than your Electra, but not a forward as a hard tail mountain bike or a road bike would be. The link is to the new Venture 10, which is pictured below. The bike comes as pictured, with racks, fenders, and lights. 

Pull knob and cutter from lower hole and insert through upper hole. Loosen pinch bolt and/or pivot bolt to fit piloted tip of cutter fully into hole of brake mount, then retighten. 

Your brake pads are wearing down causing more movement in your brake lever. Your rims (the section of your wheels that the brakes touch) are working out of true, which prevents you from readjusting the brake to its proper distance from said rim, without it rubbing on the rim. 

The simple answer is that there is no simple answer. You have a triple, and a decent gear range on the cassette, so there is no obvious direction to go which you can use to say, "This is the right way. Do this." Any of the options you show should work. If it were me, I'd do the first one: 

Use a valve core tool to remove the core of the valve, and then clean it using a light solvent. It should be only a few minutes work. If there is a lump in the flat tire, the slime may have hardened, and the tube may need to be replaced, either way. Hope that helps. 

Generally on a road bike it is considered better to run tires of equal size. There are a few newer tires which are designed to run different sizes front and rear, but they are usually within 2 mm of each other. (Like the Continental Attack/Force combination) I would consider a jump from 28c to 23c somewhat large. That said, run the larger on the rear. The higher air volume will make for a more comfortable ride, and the narrower front tire will steer quicker, which makes for more reactive handling, and has a better aero profile, (which may or may not matter to you). The comfort part will matter though, and I'd say that's a trump card. 

While a breakaway could be organized by a team, the peloton would not allow it to succeed. The mechanics of 8 or 9 riders, even excellent riders working together, are such that the maximum sustainable speeds would not be high enough to stay away from the peloton for long enough to matter, and every other team would develop a vested interest in ensuring that the breakaway was caught. The GC advantage of a team that succeeded in such a maneuver would be all but impossible for other teams to recover from, so any every other team would work together to make sure it didn't succeed. Breakaways are often allowed by the teams in the peloton as it gives the GC teams a lever to play rivals against. Which team will have to expend the energy and manpower to reel in the break? How is that going to affect their chances tomorrow? Edit: And to add... An entire team breakaway would be a waste of "specialists" energy. For example, a entire team breakaway to win a single stage, could ruin a climber's chances in a mountain stage the next day. – Courtesy of *wdypdx22* 

Carbon frames are very strong, but each area of the frame is designed and tested for the loads it expects from a given direction. Adding luggage to a frame not designed for it, i.e. Without braze-one or threaded mounts, is generally a bad idea. 

While Shimano does have one shifter (2010 ST-5603 105) which will work with either triple or double drive trains, no 10 speed shifter works with a 9 speed cassette, at all. There are cam adjusters which claim to correct cable pull and allow you to use mismatched equipment, but how well they work is open to debate. You should maintain as close to matching specs as possible. All 10 speed or all 9 speed equipment is pretty much mandatory. Mixing brands is likely to degrade performance to some degree, although it will work, usually. Bottom line is, if you need to ask the question, you don't have the necessary experience to make sure that everything comes out ok at the end. On the other hand, you'll learn a lot if you try it, and if you can afford to experiment, it could be fun to try to make it happen. Be prepared to buy everything 2 or 3 times, if you do try it. Hope that helps. 

This large difference in size requires a large derailleur pulley, to make sure that the chain has cleared the teeth on the last cog, in order to shift into this gear. If you use a smaller pulley on the derailleur, you may be able to get it to shift, but it will be clunky and loud at best. At worst, it will trap the chain against the side of the largest cog, and refuse to shift into that gear at all. The second type of large pulley derailleur is decidedly not low end. 

All Shimano components have a series number (not serial number) embossed or engraved in the component. While it is possible that the numbers may be worn off or scratched over on older components, the theory you are working under seems to indicate that you would be looking for newer, lower level components, rather than older higher end stuff. Check the back of the inside front derailleur plate for a number like FD-6700, for example, (which would indicate current Ultegra). There is a number on each component, with the first 2 letters indicating the type of component, and the number indicating the series. For Example: 

This is a common set up, as the majority of your stopping power is assumed to come from the front wheel, and many frames, especially older frames, had less clearance on the rear triangle of the frame, so often the 180mm rotor wouldn't fit. You can change it if you like, but there is little necessity to do so. If you choose to change it, you will only need a rotor, and the appropriate adaptor for you brake caliper type. 

Not a stupid question. The simple answer is that they are throwing every ounce of leverage, weight, and power into the pedals and that much movement side to side is the visible result of trying that hard to move forward. If you could stay absolutely still, and input the same amount of force to the pedal, then more of that energy would go to moving forward, but you can't. It's a matter of balance and leverage. 

I know it sounds too simple, but these bags are made to be cleaned (assuming yours is unlined. If it's lined, you'll never get it out). First, try dish soap and water. Citrus scents seem to cut the smell best, but that may be a personal preference. If that is not enough, then the next best option is to use a diluted solution of something like Pine Sol or other bath, kitchen and tile cleaner. I've used Pine Sol in a 1:4 ratio with water, and it did the job that dish soap wouldn't. Another thing to consider: Seal the products you are carrying better. Don't take fish just wrapped in newspaper like the fish market gives them to you. Ask for, and insist on if necessary, a ziplock or similar plastic bag or wrap to keep the fish oil off of your bag. For Gym clothes, pack them in vacuum storage bags like you get for packing luggage tightly. Push the air out of the bag, and it will keep the nasty sealed in well enough to keep your bag form smelling. They come large enough to put most anything that will fit in your panniers or messenger bag, (even newspaper wrapped fish), and they don't take up much room when empty. 

Answer to part one: Yes, within reason, it's true. Answer to part two: It works in a very simple fashion. Each time the lever is pulled, enough fluid to move the pistons, and therefore the brake pads, is pushed out of the caliper far enough to contact the brake rotor. As they move out of the piston, they push past the caliper seal. The flex in the caliper seal acts as a retraction spring, to pull the piston back into the caliper by just enough to clear the rotor. Since the seal that acts as a retraction spring is always in the same place relative to the piston, the pad wear is automatically compensated for because the pad is always pressed out of the caliper until it contacts the rotor. It is a bit confusing to describe, but it is how it works. 

Bulk rolls of cut to fit cable housing are available. But only bulk quantities of precut cables are available, due to the cable ends. For a home user, bulk purchase like this would last for many years service needs, and generally won't save a significant amount of money. Unless you are ordering parts for your local club, I would suggest buying what you need, when you need it, with maybe one backup set in the garage. 

Short answer: Yes, you can. The rims on most mountain bikes will support a tire as thin as 26 x 1 inch. 26 x 1.25 is virtually guaranteed on any mountain bike at all. (As long as it is a 26" wheel bike.") 

To directly answer your question, yes, 9 speed Ultegra is fully compatible with 9 speed Sora. Since even Sora is shifting to 10 speed, though, it might be time to consider upgrading the entire group set to 10 or 11 speed, if only for future parts availability. 

If you want to improve your efficiency and endurance on your bike there are several strategies that you can use to accomplish that. The "Spinning is winning" concept is only partly about when and how you change gears for a given situation. It is about making sure you use the mechanical advantage of your bike's drivetrain to ensure that every bit of energy you burn goes into making you move forward, faster. For most cyclists, 90 RPMs cadence is an efficient balance point between speed and energy loss. And it can be remarkably hard to maintain that cadence in all situations. The "Spinning is winning" concept pushes that even farther. 100 to 110 RPMs is common for those cyclists following that track, and Lance Armstrong was well known for staying in 120 to 130 range. In order to improve your metrics in this area, you need a way to measure them. If you don't have one, get a good wireless cadence capable cyclometer. Preferably one with training software included. I usually recommend the Garmin products, but they aren't cheap. Then ride your bike. Try to maintain a cadence of 90 RPMs, regardless of your riding situation, once you're up to speed. That means when downhill, on flats, or uphill, your legs should always be moving at about the same rate. This can only be accomplished by shifting your gears efficiently. As we move into the base of a hill, there is a natural tendency to set the body to engage with more power, to slow the cadence, and grind it out. Instead of doing this, increase your cadence slightly to build momentum for the hill, and as your cadence drops 10 RPMs below your goal (approximately) shift to a lower torque gear, and it should rise back up to your goal cadence, or slightly higher. If you always pattern your shifts to keep your cadence consistent, you will find better aerobic fitness, and better efficiency on the bike, come naturally. And once you can do it easily at 90 RPMs, move up to 100 as a goal, then 110. It will work. 

A double walled rim is significantly stronger, assuming all else is equal. Only you can decide if your budget allows for it, or it's worth it to you, but it's not hype. They are better wheels. That said, a bad pothole, hit at any speed, will destroy the strongest wheel available. You need to learn to avoid obstacles like that, or ride them smoothly when avoidance isn't possible. Or you'll buy a lot of wheels. If you know you will hit unavoidable obstacles, the stronger wheel will last longer, but will fail at some point also. Edit: Double walls are mechanically stronger due to additional bracing between the sidewalls. Not a thicker sidewall... See photos. Double walled rim: 

The usual method of identifying a bike is what you've done. The brand and model are usually part of the decals on the frame. My bike, for example, says Scott on the downtube, and CR1 Pro on the toptube near the headset. It is Swiss made, and the model stands for comfort road 1, and Pro tells you what parts were on it originally. If there are no decals, an experienced mechanic or shop owner can usually identify most common frames. Your bike is very basic, at best, and most people would not consider it safe for use on off road trails. I would recommend looking for a shop quality mountain bike. You will enjoy riding more, and that is what it's all about. Feel free to ask if you need more information. 

Crash or impact damage is the most common. This can range from a tacoed rim, to flat spots or flare impacts. These are usually very visible. Spoke fatigue is a mileage issue. As a wheel is ridden, the constant tension and release of stress on the spokes will fatigue the metal until it breaks. You usually see breaks of several spokes in a short period of time. More than 3 spokes in a few weeks, or spokes breaking at the j-bend for little or no apparent cause are signs of this. Brake wear is caused by the use of a rim style brake over extended periods of time. You literally wear away enough of the metal on the sidewall of the rim that it becomes too thin to support the pressure of an inflated tire. This is rare, because a rim usually perishes from damage first, but it is dangerous, and should be replaced. There are indicator marks on newer rims to tell you this is happening. There is the possibility that the rim has become fatigued, or that there is small, non-visible damage from previous repairs that prevent the rim from being trued and tensioned evenly. This is most commonly the reason a wheel is replaced. When the rim is trued straight, measure the tension on the spokes (only on the drive side if it's a rear wheel) and if the wheel is round, and straight, but you can't make the tension at least reasonably even, then it will always come out of true quickly. This makes the maintenance load too high for most riders. It is a damaged rim, but in the least visible way. And last, if there is damage to the bearing races in the hub, then the wheel will roll rough and have more resistance than it should. The hub should be replaced. 

There are special shifters designed to allow a road bike drive train to run with a flat bar brake and shifter. But there is no easy and guaranteed way to run a road crank set with a mountain bike drive train, unless you replace all of the drive train parts, and buy road touring flat bar shifters. It is usually more cost effective to buy a road bike.