I look around me and I see... machines. Lots and lots of machines. Unless the world has decided to throw their toasters, microwaves, and XBoxes into a lava pit, our world is inundated with machines. Yes, we might have caused enough ruckus to chase them off our continents, and yes, we might have safely quarantined them on the ice sheets of Antarctica... ...but our entire SOCIETY still runs on machines. We make sure to not let any of our industrial robots or coffee dispensers get too smart... but how do we know? High level negotiations between the machines and the humans have come to an agreement, and a "Cold War" style peace descends: we don't nuke them and they don't hack the Internet. They're smart enough to do it, and we all assume they already have a foothold. Besides, all our nuclear weapons are controlled by... computers. If we tried to launch, they'd know. The more warmongery nations have taken to naval skermishes with the automated battleships and drones patrolling the antarctic borders, but the machines don't mind, because it's all remote control, and they know the silly humans need to soothe their egos. But the simple fact of the matter is, they hold our society in their metallic fists. And the only reason they haven't crushed us or crippled our society is their high level of mental power, and their decision to not do so. We live by THEIR mercy, not the other way around, and humans wouldn't initiate a first strike... unless they were REALLY sure it'd work. Or really, really desperate. Or extremely insane. 

I'd like to take a different tack: In an analog general purpose computer... how do you make a NAND gate? The reason general purpose computers are so flexible is the fact that every single piece of the logic inside can be created from a single element: the NAND gate. Inverted And. This provides functional completeness... any and all other logic functions can be built with just NAND gates. Now, you can easily make more space and power efficient gates to do those other logic functions... but the key is that everything can be boiled down from one concept, and from that concept everything else can be built. So what's the analog equivalent of a NAND gate? I could imagine a merging between analog and digital circuits; we do this kind of stuff all the time. You've got a sound card... that's what it does. Old timey video cards used to output analog signals for video. Wifi has to translate between electromagnetic waves and digital signals. A layer of analog circuits would filter data, which could then be processed blazingly fast on a digital general purpose computer. The power of the future seems to be the merging of analog and digital, embracing the strengths of both and cancelling out each other's problems. We solve problems in different ways... but Google's assistant voice recognition is amazingly accurate these days. Sure, it uses a massive database of records to identify speech, instead of using a finger sized wad of meat... but that's playing to digital computing's strengths. Processing billions of pieces of data in a blink of an eye. 

You get some of the benefits above with a regular encyclopaedia. Maybe an electronic version of every published encyclopaedia through the years might provide most of the benefits, but I think they as a species, and we as a species, would benefit best with an editable dump, and the encouragement to help us expand our knowledge from the comfort of whatever their species uses as a desk really says something about us as a species. 

An article on Oilprice.com estimates the amount of switchgrass Santa's reindeer would consume using analogs to biofuel production, which has some interesting data but I dislike their analysis. Useful data from his oil article includes: 

I know this is only one gift, but I think it's a big one, and it leaves open two other gifts... but this gift speaks directly to your desire to communicate our thirst for expanding knowledge. An android tablet (or whatever open, stable computation platform makes sense to your situation), hooked into the Deep Deep Space Network, with a dump of Wikipedia, set to pereodically update. Even better if you can give them the protocol to the DDSN and Wikipedia along with the dump, so they can use their own tech to talk to it. OK, this might be a silly idea, you could always use any electronic encyclopaedia, but a Wikipedia dump would give sentient life forms (especially whatever their equivalent of "librarian", "archivist", or the like is) many benefits: 

The method of teleportation you are describing is the same method used in that much-maligned book, Battlefield: Earth. In it, interdimensional teleportation is done by "swapping coordinates," the teleporters define cubes of space and then "swap out" the space inside temporarily. So, anything that was within the space of the "sending" teleporter appears inside the space of the "arriving" teleporter. The key here is that teleportation is instantaneous; space is either THERE or HERE, but never half-way in between. There's a loud bang, a flash of light, and then it's DONE. Your FTL drive sounds like this. You fold space so that an object HERE appears THERE. I'd expect this to either be: 1) Instantaneous, or 2) Look like Hyperspace from Star Wars. The thing is, there's no blue shift because there's no actual MOVEMENT happening. The ship leaves THERE and arrives HERE via some higher dimensional wrangling. 

Natural oil seepage in the Gulf of Mexico ranges from 1-5 million barrels a year of petroleum products. The BP spill, at it's highest estimated rate of 5,000 barrels a day, comes to 1.8 million barrels of oil a year. Don't misunderstand me, that's a LOT of oil, but it's well within the span of natural seepage for the gulf. So what made Deepwater Horizon so bad? 

Without any further data, I'd have to say "not much." There's a lot of bodily functions we simply ignore, which to an alien species may be beyond the pale. Our propensity to shove formerly living life forms into our face could be considered barbaric. If the temperature gets even a little too high, we start urinating out of every pore of our body. But because these things are normal for us, we don't really reflect on it too hard. "Hover farts" would simply be another one of those things; either they'd be impolite or simply ignored, like somebody who's sweaty fresh from some sweaty activity. Now, if the farts caused lightning or were exceptionally stinky, maybe they'd have a big impact. But hovering for a "split second" isn't very useful. It's not a super power, it's just an odd body function, and in your universe, EVERYONE has it. It's not caused by Taco Bell or a genetic mutation; it's one of those weird things that the humans in your universe wouldn't consider weird. 

Powerful market interest in the corporations goods (alcohol, soylent green) Competition between corporations to provide the same goods. No less expensive (in time and money) method to handle dispute resolution. 

What is telekinesis if it isn't accelerating an object relative to a frame of reference? Or, in other words, gravity. If you're willing to allow "psychic powers" and give people lighting bolts, I think the ability to condense the energy from a parallel realm into a point which allows one to manipulate an object at a distance by changing the gravitational gradients around that object. Inexperienced gravitymancers might make the object gyrate wildly or hurl it in a direction due to inexperience, while experienced gravitficers might be able to precisely position objects, create effective antigravity amongst themselves, ignite fusion with their mind, etc. Inexperienced gravity wizards may have a non-zero chance to "collapse" the object they are attempting to levitate by placing the gravity well too close with too much mass, destroying the object in the meantime. 

Another answer has discussed fertilization by using crop rotation and land management which works, but it doesn't allow the high density that modern agriculture depends on. This can be solved for your mega city, by spreading out the farms over more land to replace density with quantity. Livestock is a great way to convert inedible plants into edible meats; again, we can't do intensive farming of animals, but we could go back to the Cowboy days of open fields of clover being eaten by livestock. So the problem really is one of energy post-oil, which we seem to be pretty close to having in abundance. You mention nuclear power; giant hill-scrawling combines can have onboard nuclear generators (or at least radioisotope heat engines). The bug combines could be owned and operated by the city-state, to keep "weapons out of the hands of terrorists" or whatever you want, but we have portable nuclear electricity and steam available today. If anything, feeding a large city without oil would require even BIGGER farms with BIGGER mechanization, so that we can have BIG machines run off nuclear power. The trucks that rotate off the combines could be battery powered; they get topped off at the combine while they're loading and topped off at the silo while unloading. Oil isn't magical, it's just the easiest form of portable energy we have today. But there's plenty of ways to generate energy without oil; it's just that none are as safe, reliable, or available to the public as oil is today. In a situation where no more oil was available, we would find a way to power the infrastructure to keep us fed; especially if we're only worried about one city-state. Science and nodules. One other thing. Clover is so useful because it's got symbiotic bacteria that fix nitrogen and the like in the soil. Cows eat the clover to produce manure which then fertilizes the fields. I know you said that recovering waste from the city was a no-starter... but why? If we recovered the human waste from the city and used nuclear power to process it, it could easily fertilize fields. And biotech firms in this future would probably crack the fixing problem in giant tanks of bacteria; we're not worried about it today because fertilizer is still relatively cheap.