If you need to take a pause during a phone screen, give them a signal (in person you could hold you hand up) like "hang on" or "one sec" and then take the pause you need. If the phone situation is specifically worse for you than in-person, you should mention that. Clearly you can write persuasively, since you're getting the interview, so it's just a matter of setting expectations to enable the interviewer to understand what your pauses mean. 

It's hard to answer this without knowing what the details are that you're considering sharing, so I'll give you a way to decide whether any particular detail needs to be shared: What will the company do as a result of the information you give them? For example, if your reason is "you didn't offer enough money" then they might come back with more money. However in that case an out of band communication saying "I have to decline that offer but would accept one for X more a year" is smarter than declining with reasons. If your reason is "I love everything about the company but cannot move from A and just can't handle the commute to B" then should they open an office in B, or the commute improve in some way, you guys might want to talk again and having it on file that only geography kept you from accepting might be good. If your reason is "the third person I met was insanely rude and would have resulted in an immediate trip to HR to file harassment documents if I worked there, and working with this abusive individual is something I can't even consider" then you might consider helping whoever has to work with that person by reporting this, and how it cost the company someone they wanted to hire (you.) Further, if that person gets fired perhaps you would work there after all. Due to the sensitive aspect I would probably do this in a phone call not a letter. And so on. For any particular piece of information, consider its use. They don't care how hard a decision it was for you, where your family lives, or whether you like to ride your bike. They might be prepared to adjust some parts of the offer, but that's best done before you decline. You might like to tell them that their shabby office furniture (or overly gleaming and expensive office furniture) sealed your final decision to take a different offer, but they really will gain nothing from learning that from you, so don't bother. 

(You tell them first because once in a while the person will be able to change things so you can make your deadline after all.) Then you tell the person who is counting on your to meet your deadline (a boss, project manager, or client) 

Support your manager's decisions. Ask if you don't understand them. Have some trust that the people whose job it is to talk to clients actually know how to talk to clients. And if your truly believe that the people who set priorities are awful at setting priorities, the people who talk to clients are awful at talking to clients, and so on - why do you still work there, and what are you doing about that? 

First, a disclaimer: when I interview people I do not set them puzzles. I used to and I stopped, because they gave me false positives and false negatives. I never used a puzzle from a book or the internet though. Second, some perspective: chefs, nannies, accountants, heads of HR, and university presidents are not asked these things. It's mostly software developers. Now, why set a puzzle? Many people think it's a proxy for many software development tasks. A bug is a bit like a puzzle or a riddle (except that nobody deliberately set it up for you to solve) and by demonstrating in a job interview how you systematically approach such a problem, the theory is that you're demonstrating what a good problem-solver you are in general. Even when the solver says things like "it's basically lanterns-and-bridge but with pigs" they're showing how they can recognize one problem in another and apply previous knowledge. That seems like it would be all good. People who can see patterns (all these numbers are one more than a power of two, or only letters with even ASCII codes are coming out wrong) do tend to solve bugs faster than people who don't. People who can quickly generate a hypothesis and test it are also often good debuggers. The biggest problem is the false positives. People who aren't able to reason logically, generate hypotheses, spot patterns, figure out the weak link, make a leap, or even do basic math can nonetheless memorize, and these are the absolutely worst people to hire for software development or other creative jobs. Some of them can learn how to pretend they are working out the solution on the spot, and fool you. A smaller problem, but still real, is false negatives. People who are excellent debuggers but just think it's silly that a group of such a size would not have enough light left for people to cross the bridge however they want, or feel that once one person is over the bridge the others can cross in the dark, and they just won't let go and get playful and try to solve the underlying math problem (arrange these numbers into pairs using the following constraints.) People who write great code and are offended by being asked to do something they're not good at in order to get a coding job. That sort of thing. There's also a real risk that the solver produces an answer that is better than the asker had in mind, and is rejected for not "getting it right." I ask people if they like puzzles, and why. But I don't ask them to do a puzzle. And I would not study puzzles as part of a job-interview prep process. 

I don't recommend going and having a meeting with the boss about this. It's not that big a thing, don't make it a big thing. Save that for if the boss is constantly talking over you and nothing anybody else does helps. (I have a pair of people in my life where one talks over the other when the three of us are talking, and I know he really respects her but he just jumps in all the time and she's saying "hang on hang on" while he interrupts but he still does, and I tell him "let her finish" and it does help. He just doesn't notice because he's really engaged in the conversation. He does, however, back off when reminded, and if your boss doesn't then you might need a one on one about it eventually. I have another person in my life who has ENORMOUS pauses without yielding his turn. I am always a little off balance in conversations with him, because I am never sure if it's ok to talk. Since neither of us is good at eye contact we give and get less cues than some people, too. To his credit, he takes being interrupted very well, and will explicitly cue me to talk with prods like "right?" or "what do you think?" but I am always tamping down a pressure to jump in when he pauses for so long, even though the content of the conversation makes it clear it is not my turn.) Do you get interrupted in any other contexts? If so, consider adopting a habit that lets people know you're not done. The "filled pauses" of English (er, ah, um) are apparently a way to say "I'm thinking, don't interrupt", for example. You can rearrange sentences so you say "for example" [long pause] and then provide the example ... that intro phrase leaves people knowing there is more coming. You can also use explicit body language like leaning back, stepping back, putting down the whiteboard marker, or sitting down to signal being finished. If you don't signal you're done, you're not done. Now, don't get into all of this if this is one person who interrupts you in one context. (Or did it once, in one meeting.) Rub some dirt on it and walk it off. But if it's a pattern, learn about it. 

Everyone I know who lives in Hawaii has taken option 1 and works for a company based outside of Hawaii. I have had clients in small towns throughout North America whose staff were all doing option 2. All those clients had trouble attracting and keeping staff, btw. You and I may want to live in the small town but most people don't, and that's primarily why the firms are not there. I personally took option 3 twenty five years ago when I moved my small consulting firm to the countryside. I have had a great career and life here but I won't deny there were times that were very hard, when living in the city would have made things much easier. You need to take a long term view and make a long term plan. Average, ordinary, forgettable folks tend not to have these options. Whether it's blogging, public speaking, open source, or something similar, you need people to remember you and to notice you are good. You need to be good too, which probably means learning and practicing on your own time, not just at work. You need to be able to tell people you're good, and to know precisely what you're good at. This all takes time. Now is a good time to start. 

Taking a notebook and pen is perfectly fine. I have seen candidates make notes about my answers, and flip to a page where they have written in advance questions they would like answered. Nobody has ever said to me later "I liked that candidate, but the notebook thing, how weird!" In fact I think notebooks have been in the majority for most interviews I've done. The calculator is weird though. The math involved is not that hard - every $x of salary you give up is worth a vacation day, say, or great health insurance is worth $y. Many people would do that in their heads, but if you can't, you can't. So I encourage you to do that math in advance. Then on one page of your notebook you can write the salary you want, the number of vacation days you would need if you're offered 5k or 10k less than that, the value of other random benefits they may have, and so on. Do the adding and subtracting there. Heck, make a little grid or table. Working this through in advance will make your negotiations more confident anyway. And now you're just glancing at your notebook, not crunching numbers on a calculator. If they throw you a huge curveball and you can't evaluate the salary, relax. Once you get to the "negotiating salary" part of the interview, you're in a very good place. So you have already learned that this job has some amazing side benefit, like travel to marvelous places where they would prefer if you spent a few extra days there each time, not counted as vacation time, to save them money on flights or the like. And they've asked what you want to make and you've said X and they've said "we only have $X-5k". You can't figure out on the spot whether that travel is worth 5k? Smile sadly and say 

These are neutral questions. The interviewer might tell you about something that you hate, or love. You may, for example, learn that reorgs are common and generally disruptive and surprising. You may learn that the organizational structure is one you dislike. But you haven't "tipped your hand" to the interview, you're just gathering information, right? Yes, this is harder than asking "What don't you like?" but it will get you information that you need. So work out in advance a bunch of these kinds of questions, and when you get to the end, if they haven't been covered already, ask them. 

First, don't overthink it. Most people do not know, and will not ask, whether you use the services of your employer or not. It's personal. Some decisions are hard to hide: people may see you driving your car or looking at your phone, but most are much less public. That may leave a sense of discomfort in yourself nonetheless, or derail your interesting story about how you were in voice mail purgatory trying to get something fixed on your account when suddenly someone says "wait, don't you use US for that? Like the rest of us all do?" So it's wise to think about it at least a little. Many companies that offer products or services to the public offer employee discounts. They do so because they want their employees to use their stuff - partly because it makes those employees walking ads to their families and friends, and partly because the employees will feel more connected to customers if they are customers too. You already know this want of theirs and it's why you feel a twinge over not using the service. But explore a little deeper. Why do they offer a discount? To motivate employees to switch. That tells you that most people need a little bit of a motivation. So, when is it ok to use a direct competitor? 

IF you're going to advocate for training, do not advocate for time to read books or work on little projects. Those are in fact things you can do on the job. When you need to write some code to do X in the big project, you can go read about X in a book (or online) and make a little proof of concept (or spike, if you prefer) that does X to get familiar with it before you integrate it into the big project. What you need to advocate for is actual training. Taking courses (online, video, or in-person), going to conferences, that sort of thing. Learning about things that you didn't even know existed. Being led through a path from "never heard of it" to "I know how I can use this at work" and then doing that. The most expensive component of this is time - entire days or even weeks taken away from billing - and that's also the most valuable. I promise all my people two weeks a year of training but it has to be in big pieces that are reportable and trackable. Not half a day here and two hours there. If the developers want to use online at-your-own-pace training like Pluralsight (disclaimer: for whom I write courses) then it should be fairly intense. Eg complete a 7 hour course in less than a week. That level of focus is key for really learning rather than just sitting around half listening. Why do I spend that kind of money (two weeks of bill rate a year, plus the expenses?) Because my people get better, much better, as a result. They also get happier and less likely to move on to another employer. The hardest part for me has been remembering to do the same for myself, but in 2013 I attended both ACCU in April and GoingNative in September using the same reasoning I apply to everyone else and I'm so glad I did. I learned that things I thought I could ignore were actually relevant and important (and how to do them.) I strengthened relationships and made new ones. I'm better in my role for those two weeks away and I will be doing it again next year. 

You can tell them about your knee injury without telling them that it happened at undocumented work. Your "objective" (whether a section on your resume or a paragraph in your cover letter) should mention it, in fact: 

If you're worried that they will be mad at your for asking them to change their ways, you have to take a big breath and either put up with the smears (which do appear to bother you more than most people) or put up with them thinking you're weird for caring. You can try to minimize the extent to which they will be mad by apologizing and by framing it as being your oddity. For example: