Peru has warm and cold deserts, alpine mountains, equatorial rainforests, savannah, and temperate subtropics. The contour of land and the flow of wind and water currents have combined to produce a great variety of biomes within a relatively small area, despite being in an area with reduced (compared to more polar regions) differentiation between summer and winter. (Note: Peru does experience seasons, but the biome variation across Peru is not created by seasonal variation.) 

Selective Breeding Don't rule out selective breeding too quickly. If any of the megafauna reach sexual maturity within one or two years, a decade is plenty of time for a selective breeding program. Beginning in 1959, the Soviet scientist Dmitry Belyayev bred successive generations of wild silver foxes to produce tame ones. He produced human-friendly foxes by the fourth generation; his foxes were very friendly (eager for human contact) after only six generations. As explained in Scientific American: 

Because the species finds linear forward motion comfortable, their settlements, structures, and rooms are arranged in intersecting rings. Wherever two rings intersect, the being can either choose to continue moving forward along their current ring, or turn off into the adjoining ring. They don't need to decide whether to turn left or right (or up or down, as the case may be) to enter the adjoining ring, since their tunnels all have a natural "forward" direction determined by the ridges in the floors/walls. Cross-tunnel tracks at the junction of two rings might serve as natural indicators of which way to go if the being wants to switch rings. This keeps the decision to a binary (keep going or change rings) instead of a potentially confusing choice between the left tunnel and right tunnel or forward. (Hat tip to @Yakk for exploring this idea in the comments!) 

Don't forget you have to store the video after it's collected! This is actually one of the hardest parts. Video files are quite large, and with many cameras they're going to pile up fast. You're going to need a secure place to store these video files that can be quickly scaled to fit the needs of your police/military force. This is much more difficult than you might imagine. If you need to store the footage securely, then the most secure option that still allows quick retrieval is in a server on a local intranet. Depending on how many cameras you're talking about you'll need to shovel lots of data, fast. So you're likely looking at a cluster. Clusters are expensive, and take expensive people to maintain. Also you'll have to encrypt all of these drives or the people who maintain it are going to be able to pull a drive and walk home with it. This isn't feasible for most (the US military could certainly do so, but local police forces could not), so you might want to look at something like Amazon Web Services. They will do all the maintenance for you, but then you have to worry about it not being stored in-house, and that it has a direct internet connection. If you're not using the files often, it might be worth it to store it all on magnetic tapes and lock it up in a warehouse. There won't be immediate access, but it's secure and cheaper than a cluster. 

Reversing gravity If in your world you adopt one of these mechanical explanations for gravity, then you might be able to find ways in which to explain the reversal of the effects of gravity. In particular, if gravity is caused by all matter naturally and invisibly pulsating in phase, putting an object's natural pulsation out of phase will result in it being repelled by ordinary matter (and possibly attracted to matter pulsating at the same phase as itself). Or if gravity is caused by streams of aether being absorbed into matter and sent into another dimension via some invisible gateway, a reversal of that flow such that streams of aether burst out of a body of matter might produce a localized repulsive effect. 

Individual members of the military will deviate from the average. In much the same way that the average soldier will be different from the average man, the average female in the military will not necessarily match the psychological profile of the average female outside the military. Their behavior will necessarily be informed by both their experience and training. Nobody is naturally an ideal soldier or general; the abilities to fight and lead in a war require the suppression of some instincts and the elevation or acquisition of others. 

Now, your hypothetical planet is not tidally locked, so it would have a weak Coriolis effect, leading to a disparity between the weather systems at the equatorial twilight and the weather systems at the polar twilights. Cyclones would form along the twilight areas and generally migrate toward the poles, although the lack of oceans on your planet could slow their advance; terrain features like mountains could also stop or divert the advancing winds. 

Maybe. Everything inside an Alcubierre bubble is causally disconnected from everything outside the bubble, but only if you're going faster than light. Since you mentioned that you're using subluminal velocities, you're not causally disconnected from the rest of the universe. You are surrounded by a bubble of compressed space-time, however, and that's going to give you some problems. It's easily observed that compressed space-time refracts light passing through it. This is going to pose some issues when you try to project something out of the bubble. Since this bubble is going to be concave around the transmitter, it's going to tend to diffuse any transmission out of the bubble, so the signal is going to have to be both extremely strong and very concentrated. It's also putting off some serious radiation from the front end, so you'll need to compete with that to get a signal out. But this is science fiction! Well then, let's say that you can manage to get a signal out of the bubble. Making the problem worse, the universe has stuff in it [citation needed]. This is probably going to be a fairly lossy connection, so you're going to have to figure out a way to deal with interference and lost bits. These are surmountable problems. 

See FOOF. Pack some of this into a warhead somehow and I dare you to find a way to make it stop burning. Dioxygen Difluoride is a particularly reactive compound of already particularly reactive fluorine and oxygen. It's ludicrously dangerous production method as well as its reactivity with essentially everything, at any temperature make it fairly famous in the chemistry community. See the wikipedia page for details, but it truly does react with essentially anything. The main difficulty with such a weapon would be that it would tend not to stick to hull of the enemy ship as it decomposed, but this would be a problem with pretty much any reactive agent, which is likely your best bet, aside from nuclear weapons. 

Big weapons would probably be more manageable by smaller people. The strength (force they can exert) of a person increases with the square of their height. i.e, the cross section of their muscle. However the weight of a person increases with the cube of their height i.e., height * depth * width So if we scale a fully grown adult down to half their size. Their arm will have 1/4 the force it can exert. But will have 1/8 the weight. So it will be able to move twice as fast. Or will be able to move a proportional larger weapon with the same speed. So what if your world was similar to ours. But all of the people (and monsters) were proportionally half the size of 'normal' people. Then your people would be able to use over-sized weapons. 

Radiation Because of the flat shape the magnetosphere is only effective at deflecting solar radiation near the middle of the disk. This means that radiation near the edge is lethal, and causes lots of mutations (mutant beasts?) and sickness in the borderlands. So people avoid the boarder lands and never survive returning from the edge. 

Strength of the magnetic containment (solved problem from developing fusion generators) The stability of the RF cooling/acceleration system Bremsstrahlung radiation (X-rays from accelerating electrons (around a loop)) 

I think you can do this in a helio-centric system; as long as everything orbits the 'earth' (Moons) and the 'earth' orbits the sun. In other words as long as there are no planets (well visible ones at least) When you observe planets, in out solar system, due to parallax effects they will seem to reverse their direction as they orbit. This is what led Kepler to work out that the solar system is a elliptical helio centric system. So if there are no visible planets, either too small, or are too far away, to observe; then you would have a pretty convincing geocentric appearing system. The only caveat is, you would not have any (slow moving) planets to hang myths and legends or have astrologers able to assign cause to (blame on) "Mercury/Mars/Venus is in Retrograde" 

According to this person 57 trillion annihilations at 30 cm gives you 1 rad of radiation. Scale that over the entire planet and you get 2.9 kg of antielectrons. Indiana Jones level kill you immediately radiation dosage is about 100000 rads, so that's about 290,000 kg of antiprotons spread out evenly. Except the isochoric heat capacity of earth atmosphere is $C_v=.717kJ*kg^{-1}*K^{-1}$. Multiplying by the mass of the atmosphere $M_{atm}=5.1*10^{18}$ gives us how much energy it takes to heat the atmosphere by 1 degree Kelvin, $C_v*M_{atm}=3.6567*10^{18}kJ*K^{-1}$. Divide the energy put out by this annihilation and we get $\Delta K = 14000$. WAY too much. Let's shoot to heat up the atmosphere by 200K; there's no way anyone's surviving that. $3.6567*10^{18}kJ*K^{-1} * 200K=7.313×10^{20} kJ$. Convert that into mass using $E=mc^2$ and we get $8.137×10^6 kg$ divide by 2 because half that mass is coming from regular matter and we have $4.069×10^6 kg$. So to kill all humans you need 406,900 kg of antimatter. In all honesty you can probably get away with less because the force of the explosion will likely kill many humans. But I don't know how to calculate that. I was planning on adding more to this response, but I think Serban covered it as well as I can for numbers #1 and #2. I definitely think #1 is overkill in his answer though. 

If we're being completely logical, this soldier would be much more useful off the battlefield where he can turn any sort of motion into electrical energy by turning a turbine - wind, waves, enemy airplanes overhead, anything that moves gets turned into free electricity. Or he could use the energy to transport things. He could probably get things to orbit much more cheaply than is currently possible - just store enough energy to get up there and then ride the rocket all the way up. He doesn't even need a return capsule, he can just jump off the rocket and manipulate his own kinetic energy to fall back to Earth nice and slowly. Who cares about radiation? He can just recharge his powers by absorbing the energy of the charged particles around him. But seeing as you want this to be an interesting story, and not one about battlefield logistics, he could make an incredibly good air-defense system. Depending on the range of this ability he could literally stop aircraft and missiles in their tracks, letting them fall harmlessly wherever he wishes.