There are really no pros. The person is out of a job either way. Maybe there is a severance package, but that, as notice period and unemployment benefits is subject to local labor laws and can happen in both cases. If in doubt, you want to be laid off, because that implies no fault of your own and is normally not held against you in future job interviews. But what you really want is to switch jobs before either scenario happens. 

Generally speaking, taking a nap on the clock is frowned upon and basically fraud. If you bill someone for time worked, you should actually work. What you do off the clock, in your break or before or after work is up to you. Just make sure that everybody knows you are off the clock, or people will suspect you are doing this on the clock. If you are allowed to take your private, non-billable nap on company premises is a company-specific question. You will need to ask the specific company. 

So basically, despite their objections, you ordered them around. I'm not sure what you think you are doing or what you think your role there is (you never told us) but this is not an agile or Scrum team. There is no "manager" of a Scrum team telling them what to do. It's called "Inspect and adapt", not "My manager inspected and told me to adapt and now I have to do how he says". You have two options: 

Don't tell them in the interview. No matter how they handle it, no good can come out of making their mistake visible. Tell them only if and when they hire you. Because if they don't hire you... why help them on your own dime? They are paying people for it (and they decided that's not you), so let those people do their respective jobs. If you want to be "the good guy" you can still send them an email after they rejected you and let their people sort it out. 

For obvious reasons you should not just accept this. Fortunatly, you don't need to escalate it on your own, HR already did this for you: 

No. It means you are still in the group of people they think about and they need more information. It sure is a positive sign, but you only got the job after you both signed the contract, not one minute earlier. 

Yes, they can. In addition to the other answers detailing the reasons why that makes sense from the companies point of view, I would like to add why this makes sense from the employees point of view: You need to make sure your company knows you are working that day. Although probably this is different from country to country, there are insurances that cover most of what you do. Get into a car accident? Insurance. Got hurt at home? Different insurance. Got hurt at work? Yet a different insurance again. Lets say you get into your car on your way to work and you have an accident. Where I live, this is covered by the "got hurt at work" insurance, because it happened on your way to work. If however, the insurance company can get it's hands on a testimonial from your manager, stating (quite correctly, because you never let him know) that you were not supposed to work that day, guess who is more than happy to not pay your costs. So having your manager sign off the change in plans is required for the safety of both parties, the company and the employee. 

If you actually did something, that's cool, whatever it is. You should not look like you were just lazy. 

Say "no" and see how they react? You could also test the waters saying "I don't know their full address on top of my head, do you need a specific contact or is the company name enough?" If they need a specific contact, for example HR, then I guess they are really into it. Most likely somebody will say "no, we don't care, that's just to complete the form, write the company name or something." 

Not by law, but by peer pressure. Generally, Yes. But you may find clauses saying it's already paid for in your contract. Which means No. Because software development is not unionized that much. There is not even a union for software developers. You will find unions mostly in companies that do other stuff and have a software department attached. Because right now, we don't need unions. We vote with our feet. A new job is just around the corner. You decide if you like the contract or not. 

Under normal circumstances I'd say no, do not tell him. Everybody has issues and it's not your team leaders job to manage or handle them, so there is nothing to gain from him knowing. In your situation however, with your team leader aware of the performance issues you have, you should tell him. Because this shows that you are also aware of the problems and you are actively working on solving them. Regardless of actual diagnosis, getting help for your problems is a huge step in the right direction. Even if you fail whatever performance plan he set up, knowing you are indeed working on it might grant you another chance. Maybe you can even get an improved plan more tailored to your specific situation. For example medication for chronic issues is rarely spot on the first time. So if you are trying different medication or dosage, you could adjust your work load accordingly. Maybe not have customer meetings the day this changes so you can adjust to the changes before you are in situations where you must perform the first time and cannot make up for suboptimal performance through overtime. 

This done two things: it says that your "no" is not your personal decision. And it gives him an option where to go or what to do to get this work done. Most likely he doesn't want to go to your boss with it. But that's his decision. It's no longer you that's keeping him from solving his problem. 

If I invite people to an interview I will definitely print all their documents so I have them with me when I'm in the interview. If you think color helps you get into the interview stage, by all means use color. Once they do invite you, no company will ask for the price of a colored copy over a black and white copy. 

When somebody is fired, the company was unhappy with his or her ability to do the job. The job is still there and needs to be done. The company will probably look for a better suited individual. When somebody is laid off, the company removed the job. The job is gone and so is the individual performing it, with no indication whether this performance was good or bad. Generally people assume the performance was at least average, or the company would have fired (see above) the person and hired somebody else, keeping the job to profit from it. (Please note that when I said "removed the job" it does not mean they removed all jobs of a kind. Removing a job means you have one less. So you could lay off 5 people by reducing the number of programmer jobs from 10 to 5 for example). 

"Learning opportunity" is the politically correct way of saying "shitty job". You will not learn how to be good at leading a team when there is no team. You will not learn how to run a proper backup on your data, when there is no way to backup. You might learn how to retype code and reimport data real fast and under pressure once the server breaks 2 days before the big presentation. Is that really the skill you want to learn? If something is called a learning opportunity, just try to find a better job. If you find none without the skills you would learn there, then it's an opportunity. If you can find a better job without the skills that you would learn, run. 

Your boss is reluctant, because using your tool is really not his job. It's your job to update him on your status. That said, there is no need to do double tracking of tasks. All your boss needs is status updates. If your tool is any good, sending status updates at the time and in the format needed and should be trivial. There is no need to fill out your bosses Word Document if he gets a daily report from your tool. The important part here is "gets". He should not need to learn the tool to pull himself a report. A report should be pushed to him by the tool without any extra work by him. And it's your job to make that happen. 

We cannot know. Because you don't know. It's pretty clear by now that the manager does not want to employ you. The decision was swift and final. Twice. Applying a third time will probably yield the same result. There is no indication that you were discriminated against. So where you? Nobody but the hiring manager knows. That's not a very satisfactory answer, but you will need to find another job opportunity. 

As most of the workforce in Germany is dominated by white males, going for more diversity is allowed and even enforced by unions and civil administration. So I am no lawyer, but if your team already consists of X people of the same trait, looking for one who is different does have indeed a precedent with women and disabled people. Conclusion: To actually get a solid answer, you'd need a very specialized lawyer. But from just reading the laws, the statement of your boss seems borderline, but ok. There is precedent for exceptions and it actually makes sense (as opposed to a general "no blacks" or "no women"). However, it's laws. Much depends on how good your lawyer is at twisting and bending the laws to his will. 

As you mentioned Germany, this goes for Germany and any country with similar customs concerning salary (i.e. not disclosing it to others including future employers): No Why not? Because this number is only known to you, your employer and the tax authority. Only you are part of your next salary negotiation with another employer. As long as you don't mind, your next employer will never know what you made previously. 

I'm not sure you are in a position to answer that. You have done a lot as a hobby, but you never got real feedback on that from other more experienced people. You don't actually know whether what you do is good. "Working" is not the same as "good". There is a lot of crap out there that's "working". Your current job has nothing to do with programming. It's like saying you are a car mechanic and your boss said you're not fast enough switching tires and you conclude you may be a bad driver. Nobody can tell. Maybe you are. Maybe not. Changing tires is not the way to figure it out. Programming is a profession. It takes an education. You will compete with people from college. How would you estimate my chances to beat you in economics if I said I play stock market games and read books about it every weekend for a year and I took a job as security guard at a bank, because they are near money all the time? Getting into a profession simply does not work that way. It has worked that way for programming 30 years back when you could not simply pick CS in college. But this is the new millennium and it's been that for a while now. What you need to do if you want to do this is get an education. No free online course, no unsupervised books, not hobby projects. This is not the 90s where cobbling some shit together in HTML will land you a job. You need a solid foundation. A real teacher with real feedback. This does not need to be college all over. Look in your local community, there should be other options available. Evening courses, weekend courses, maybe courses you can take in between jobs or with PTO from a job. With a solid foundation, apply for (and I cannot stress this enough) the job you want! Sure, it won't be Google or Microsoft, but if you want to be a programmer, apply for junior programmer roles. Do not apply for anything else to become a programmer, there is no such thing as "rising through the ranks". You learn nothing about being a programmer in jobs that are not programming. TL;DR So to make it short: