The timing of the statement is not paradoxical at all. If you state truthfully that someone doesn't know something, then you haven't lied in uttering that statement. The fact that the target of your statement will then know what they didn't previously cannot undo the truth that was uttered in the past. If you repeat the statement however, then you would be uttering a false statement due to the other person subsequently being in possession of that knowledge. Let's mix this up a bit. You are about to tell your friend that she has a fly on her head, and you knew a moment ago that she was not aware of this, but as you are about to utter your statement, your friend sees the fly in a reflection. You then say "you don't know there is a fly on your head". Have you lied? Clearly not. Your knowledge may be in error and the statement false, yet this does not make your statement a lie. This I think is the crux of Michael Dorfman's answer. 

Seeing as how I seem to be in the habit of throwing my comments in months after questions are answered... ;-) Personally I can't give you any critical readings or references to peruse... Unlike most others on here, I'm what you'd call more of a "stand-up philosopher". Seriously though, I think that you've misunderstood the film if you believe that the primary theme is virtual reality. The "matrix" itself is merely a vehicle to tell a particular story, and to provide a context within which the machines can interact with humans on a level that the audience can relate to. This was a film made more for the masses rather than the hard-core sf geek community, so having a computer spit out l33t text on a suspiciously unix-like screen just wouldn't cut the proverbial mustard. Therefore, the matrix provides context for the story, much like the starship Enterprise does in the Star Trek genre. The themes are themselves quite obvious once you let yourself look beyond the really cool effects and the Kung-Fu. The primary ones being the struggle for freedom from slavery and for self-determination, self-sacrifice and selfless service for a greater cause. Much of the first film has overtones of a struggle between good and evil which becomes more obviously defined by the last film, although since your question was about The Matrix then I suppose that my answer here should note that in the first film the positions of good and evil are very subjective and not entirely clear, even if you did find yourself sympathizing with the humans in the film and thus feeling that on the surface it was the humans representing the good and the machines the evil. That said, even by the last film, each character has acted entirely within it's own nature, so the good and evil themes are still quite "muddied" IMHO. The "thematic distraction" of the classic good vs evil sub-plot seems to stem from another very strong theme which many might at first glance assume is about religion, but which I think is more about belief and faith. I find that this is perhaps the stronger and more poignant theme in how it is played out. Firstly as depicted by Morpheus' unwavering faith in the Oracle's prophesies and his belief that Neo will turn out to be "The One", and secondly in the abilities of all of the bad-ass humans constantly wearing dark sunglasses who need only believe that they can do something in order to bend the rules of the Matrix to do some of the really cool jaw-dropping stuff. The first is a theme about having faith in others, and the second is all about believing in one's own self. Of course, we can try to draw a lot of really interesting philosophical stuff about the films, but personally I prefer to simply enjoy them as a really cool series of Sci-Fi Kung-Fu flicks with an awesome soundtrack! :-) Salut. 

In space, there would be directions available to the individual if that individual is aware of the navigational conventions that are used by others. If you know how to locate a "North" of your planet, solar system, or galaxy, then you could with some effort determine the direction of objects relative to each other. That means that it's basically as stoicfury mentioned, that direction is entirely dependent on your frame of reference. Thus, you need to know how something is oriented in space before you can determine the directions that are left/right/up/down/etc... relative to that object. So to answer your question, it is NOT true that a human (you for example) in space cannot determine left and right, because with no other points of reference, that your own body becomes the referential center of all of the directional vectors that you could conceive of in that situation. If on the other hand another person (me for example) appeared nearby, then you would have a second point of reference for directionality. I might be floating down and to the left of you, but my orientation might mean that you are also down and to the left of me. Change my orientation, and my direction from you stays the same, but your direction from me changes. If I disappear again, then you revert once more to a single point of reference, being your own sense of direction from yourself. 

This is a lovely paradox. If one is truly tolerant, then one must by definition be tolerant towards the intolerant, and therefore to promote a society of tolerance one must allow the intolerant to behave as their nature dictates. That would mean then that issues of intolerance based on race/colour, breeding, education, height, weight, money, etc., must be tolerated by society as a whole. Further, that those who might suffer harm as a result of intolerance would themselves need to be accepting of such intolerance in order to be tolerant themselves. Can tolerance exist in its purest form as I have just described. Yes it can individually, yet in reality such a purity of tolerance can only fail in society as its laws are in effect intolerant of intolerance, and therefore society itself can only be intolerant regardless of the degrees of tolerance of the individuals that may exist within a society. Thus to a part of your question, it isn't tolerance of intolerance that kills tolerance, but intolerance itself that cannot allow tolerance to exist in it's purest form within a society. As to arguments for and against intolerance, such would be made based on a society's moral frame of reference. If a society tolerates slavery, it might be able to argue that such slavery is for the greater good of the society in question. Those opposed within such a society might not be able to justify their own individual intolerance towards slavery if they cannot make a compelling argument that fits within the society's moral point of reference in order to show the society itself that intolerance of the tolerable may be necessary. Personally, I am glad we have an intolerant society, in that it allows those of us who feel more tolerant towards others to have the freedom to do so, knowing that someone else's intolerance has protected my own right to be tolerant! ;-) 

Referring to your comment in answer to Joseph Wiessman's question (in comment), Legitimacy in ethical reasoning is also quite subjective. Your example of the Nazi camps is a particularly poignant example where those who could did engage in barbarism and cruelty from our point of view, yet legitimized their actions based on their own views perhaps that their prisoners were considered animals and a belief that they might have deserved nothing less. History shows us that the Allies won the war, the Nazi's didn't, so it's a moot point as to which point of view was subjectively more correct given we do not live today under the influence of years of further historical cruelty had the other side won, and that thankfully neither you nor I were taught in school to accept the Nazi point of view. Your assumptions that such behavior is "wrong from the start" is ultimately formed from a cultural and historical perspective. So to are the behaviors of Sunni vs Shiite Muslims in Saudi Arabia. You and I might not agree with the way in which the Arab world live, but neither do they agree with our way of life. We see much of their approach to corporal punishments and their treatment of women to be "cruel" and immoral from a certain point of view, yet from much of the Arab world's point of view, we are meant to be the immoral ones. When it comes to corporations in our own countries on the other hand, the waters get a little muddier, and perhaps from our own moral perspective, a little dirtier. There seems to be a collective forgetfulness among the heads of really big corporations. They know ultimately that they have people building their products in places they wouldn't want to know about, yet they take no responsibility for any cruelty committed in such places because as far as the corporate heads are concerned, it was someone else's problem. They can argue that 'it was a subsidiary', they were 'outsourcing', and that if it happened in another country, then that outsourced labor happened under the jurisdiction of another country's labor laws. The corporate heads don't have to know, don't want to know, and therefore they don't feel a need to concern themselves about such matters. You and I might think that their moral compasses are a little out of whack, but for these very rich and powerful individuals, that's beyond the realm of their concern. If on the other hand the "cruel sweatshop" was discovered in their own back yards, you'd likely see a very different story, and depending on the individual either genuine concern for the well being of individuals loosely connected to them, or perhaps concern that they might get in trouble, and so behave as expected in order to cover their backsides. Again a lot of very individual and subjective reasoning is going to occur there. I guess that the point I'm trying to make is that these corporations supposedly exist under our laws, and most likely governed by individuals from similar cultural backgrounds to ourselves, so to us their actions (or lack thereof) might seem to be out of the norm, or perhaps even worse to us because it may seem to attack the fabric of our own core beliefs. As to which philosophical school of thought all of this falls under... nearest I can get it to is perhaps Kantianism or Deontological.. but perhaps one of the more well-versed students of philosophy might be able to come up with a better match for you.