Not necessarily, but probably. Unfortunately the well of "hey, I want more out of this job" has been poisoned by people who try to hold their jobs hostage. Remember, it's not your employer's job to make you happy (necessarily). What can be a more fruitful line of play is to point out that you have become proficient (I'd recommend being able to say "expert" with a straight face) in your current role and are looking for new challenges. Basically, you need to give a reason why they want to move you up, not why you want to move up. 

In an official context, there is nothing to be gained by being blunt. You're already on your way out the door, so it's not as if they can change anything to keep you. And depending on how vindictive the company is (and you don't always know that until it's too late), saying the wrong thing may end with them messing with you in subtle ways for some time to come. I'd be honest, but only with the positives - you were looking for new challenges, it's a closer commute, you're building your career experience, etc etc... basically the things that don't reflect badly on anyone directly. Remember: you're not negotiating at this point, so mentioning salary is a no-no. Unofficially, it entirely depends on the relationship you have the people in question. Personally, I'd suggest that if you have a good enough rapport to be honest and tell them their faults, you should have taken advantage of that before leaving, when it could have done direct good to you. If you're comfortable meeting someone for coffee/beers after hours for a gab session after all is said and done, that's on you. 

I'm surprised no-one has brought up the obvious - let it go to voice mail. If "he" doesn't leave a message, well, you can't answer what wasn't asked. It's your off-hours - there's no requirement for you to even have your phone on hand. Maybe you're at the movies. Maybe you're at the pool. Maybe you're in the middle of sexy-times. Get back to him when it's convenient for you. If he needs a status update, that should happen during work hours. If he's expecting a status update and you're not providing it, that's a conversation that should also be happening during off hours. Now, reality time - I don't get the impression that you're in a position that you can manage your manager by sitting them down and saying "dude, why are you calling me off-hours?". So, sending your boss a quick status update email at the end of the day might be a good thing to try in case that's all he's after. Another would be to proactively book a weekly meeting with him to give the update. If the problem is simply that the boss needs to touch base with you but is having some time-management issues, this might be enough. The alternative is that your boss might be one of those types that just likes having his employees at beck and call when a thought occurs to him (I used to have one). Forcing a delay between his call and your returning it lets you control the timing (if you've got five free minutes before dinner, call him back immediately; if you're about to go into a movie, hey it can wait two hours) and discourages the habit (since he's calling you when it's convenient for him, getting calls back at inconvenient times for him makes it less desirable). Now hopefully it's not this bad for you, but since it was for me I'm going to bring it up just in case: until you know for sure what kind of boss you have, make sure you're only calling him back from numbers he already has. I had a boss who obsessively collected any number I called him from, so when I didn't answer the cell, then ten seconds later the house phone was ringing... and a minute later my wife's cell was ringing. It gets a bit nightmarish. 

First step: Talk to HR and confirm what the policy is regarding approving and declining vacations. It doesn't matter why you don't want to go - it's that you have a vacation booked (and it never hurts to arrange to have a commitment that day - going out of town, tickets to something, basically anything that makes it an actual issue beyond "I had that day off") and your boss is cancelling it. Best case, policy says you're in the clear, you give your regrets that you'll be away that day. (Be aware that it's entirely possible that your boss will simply rebook the event for when you're back.) Worst case, for policy or technicalities, your boss is allowed to cancel your leave. Again, ignoring the "you don't wanna go" aspect - then you need to talk to your boss about rescheduling that day (plus compensation for any arrangements you've made). To touch quickly on the "I don't like those events" - as long as they're doing it over regular work hours, I suspect you don't have a lot of wiggle room. They know you don't like to go, they think it's important enough to pay you to do that instead of actual work. Best to just grin and bear it. 

Pretty darn wrong. Let's go through them as a learning exercise. First - you mention making an "executive decision", but that you knew that if you had asked you wouldn't have been given permission. That's not executive decision - that's "better to ask forgiveness than permission", which does not always fly in the business world. Making the wrong call is generally a lot more forgivable when you honestly don't know what the boss' priorities are and there's no time (for whatever reason) to find out. If you already know what the answer likely is, then you're just doing an end-run. And the flip side of making the call is that you have to answer for it. So when the meeting comes, don't duck the issue. Second is that you don't appear to know your company's culture - the fact that they noticed you were gone and were already calling your cell before you got home means that they're the sort of place that wants to see their people at their desks. This isn't a criticism of the workplace or boss -I've been at a single company for fifteen years, and different bosses and departments have different ideas on what is acceptable. And what the corporate policy says doesn't necessarily reflect the facts on the ground. Sneaking out of work in a company that is going to almost immediately notice, question, and track you down is a career-limiting move. Third is that you need to step up to your bosses about the workload - if a deadline is going to slip, you need to be honest with them, and find out where the company's priorities are. Depending on the boss, this can either be a "what order do you need these done" or a "if something has to give, which one can we live without?" Go to your immediate one-up, put down the facts, and let the bosses earn their paycheck. (This is going to be an uglier conversation post-SNAFU, to warn you). This is how you should have handled it - get your boss in, explain that something has to give, and you can throw out the work from home idea as a possible solution. As for disciplinary action - the companies options depend a lot on their policy and the locale you're in (it literally could range from a "you done goofed son" lecture to termination in at-will states). The advice I'd give is that long-term, people will remember how you handled yourself over what you did. So be honest, don't duck or CYA, take the heat. 

I'd be inclined to play a bit of hardball here. The child is sick - that means they can't go to school, they can't go to daycare. The child is presumably too young to stay home alone (and most jurisdictions put the official unattended age way higher than you'd think it is - Ontario says you can't leave a kid under sixteen unattended at home) so asking you to leave them at home would be requesting an illegal act. If they insist that you need to be at work, obviously the only solution is that the child would need to come to work with you. 

I don't know if I'd consider that a "sentimental gesture". They're writing you a letter of intent, more or less. Sure, it's not 100% binding, but it's more than a company would usually do. There's a few practical issues as well: 

To hit it from a slightly different angle: Does your manager's description of the circumstances match your understanding? For instance - the manager says that they have more work than expected? Does this match what you've been noticing? Have they made comments about a large backlog, or that some tasks and projects have been pushed off (or "we don't have time to do that right now"-style comments)? If you agree with what the manager is saying, then you're probably worrying too much (especially since you asked the boss point-blank). On the other hand, if you're wondering what this extra work is (or if you don't feel you're busy as-is), and generally what he's explaining doesn't match your experience, then that's cause for concern. And on the third hand, if you have reason to distrust what your boss is telling you (as in, you think he's just flat-out lying to your face)? Then you need to start looking for an exit ASAP - regardless of what's going on here, if you can't trust your boss things just aren't going to end well regardless.