I am starting a WordPress multisite network with domain mapping and I am trying to think through my server set up. Right now, I only have one medium sized VPS but hopefully I will need to add more servers later so ideally the solution will also accommodate future growth. My question is, would it be better to set up Nginx as a reverse proxy with Apache or use only Nginx? It seems like setting up Nginx as a reverse proxy would be easier and offer less of a possibility of problems but, on the other hand, would using only Nginx add substantial benefits? 

I have a website on IIS set to domain1.com. I also have a domain called domain2.com that is redirecting to domain1.com. I currently have this set up in the domain1.com bindings. I need to change this to where domain2.com is redirected to domain1.com/blog Would I do this through the web.config file or is there another way? 

I've set up dnsmasq on a virtal machine server in order to handle static wildcard subdomains on my local home network for development purposes. The idea is to have *.local.myapp.com resolve to the VM itself (bridged networking), running the http and dns server. I've installed dnsmasq on the VM. And edited dnsmasq.conf to resolve to the VM's network IP: 

This fixed the problem ostensibly -- but when I reboot the vm it starts flaking again. I don't understand this at all. The mac address is still there on reboot if I run , but I have to run that command again to make it respond without interruption. I guess it would help if I knew what the hell I was doing. 

Central Administration > Operations > Enable Features on existing sites after going to this place , check Enable Features . Click Ok. Then go to- Site Action > Site Settings > Site Features > Click Activate Agile Dashboard with excel reporting. You will see all the Dashboard list like Bug, Build, Test etc on the left side. 

i want to change the local computer policy in a windows 2003 terminal server which is part of domain. The policy i want to change is "Sets a time limit for active Terminal services session" to Enabled and Active Sessions limit to 5 minutes, so that all active session can be terminated after time limit. However, I don't want to enforce it on "domain\Domain Admin" who are part of local group Administrators as well local admin users of the server. Mostly I would like to enforce this policy on Domain\domain users who are member of Remote Desktop Users of this terminal server. can somebody please help . Thanks 

I know this is a horrible, generalized question with no good answer, and I apologize ahead of time, but I wonder if someone could take a stab at a very broad estimate. Let's say you have a dedicated MySQL server running on about $1K worth of modern hardware. Let's say the average user makes 20 read requests and 5 write requests per minute -- all straightforward queries, no joins; mostly along the lines of 'select this row by UUID' out of an indexed table of ~10,000,000 rows. Very, very, very, very roughly how many concurrent users would you expect a server like that to handle before you're 'pushing it.' 

For TFS 2010 application tier. data tier and build server, What should be the best practice for IP address. Shall we give static IP available or we should use DHCP forthis. 

As per the link $URL$ , I downloaded the Windows Installer Cleanup Utility. Remove previous installation and reinstalled Office 2003 with SP3. Everything works fine. Thanks. 

In our data tier of TFS infrastructure, the folder C:\data\TfsWarehouse.0.db has grown upto 2 gb. Since C: drive is of only 10 gb ..can we move this folder to some other drives. Can we delete the files of subfolder of TfsWarehouse.0.db. Or is there any other method to create some space. Thanks upfront Kabir 

After adding the VM's ip to resolv.conf, pinging foo.local.myapp.com properly resolved to the machine's IP. When I try to ping it from the host machine, however, it acts like the there's no local dns and happily skips to the resolving it via internet, returning the webhost IP address. I tried listing it as the name server on both the host OS and the network router. No dice. I'm very new to this, so I know I am probably doing something remarkably dumb. Could anyone offer a guess? 

I'm new to cloud/virtual hosting and having a difficult time finding much useful information on google about this question. Are there any reputable hosting providers out there, aside from hosting.com, who allow you to upload and manage your own vmware server virtual machines, rather than providing you with their standard images? Is this a viable option for scaling a web application in transition between shared and dedicated hosting? Any major downside? edit -- found this: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ After talking to some reps I'm getting the impression that these services are highly overpriced. Is this typically the case? 

I have installed MOSS2007 along with TFS2010. While browsing through dashboards I found following error- Excel Web Access-An error has occurred. Please contact your system administrator if this problem persists. The eventviewr is flooded with error- Excel Services: Unexpected exception while trying to access Shared Services Database;. Error = Cannot open database "SharedServices1_DB" requested by the login. The login failed. Login failed for user 'Domain\Servername-01$'.. I have installed MOSS2007 on apptier of TFS Setup. Please suggest. Thanks Upfront. 

We have a terminal server in our environment, where Domain\Domain Users can login through Remote Desktop. We want to force log off these users after half an hour. However Administrators (this includes Domain\Domain Admin also) should not be affected by this. They should be able to connect to terminal server with out any interruption. Can somebody guide us about it. Thanks upfront Kabir 

Any ideas? edit - upon further inspection, this is only happening on the host computer. Another network computer doesn't experience the problem -- at least not at the same time, although there is the occasional lone timeout every 30 attempts or so. On the host computer, it normally stops responding like clockwork every 20-second or so. I'm very confused, but I'm starting to think my windows configuration is to blame. edit2 - tried setting a different ip for the vm, no luck ... only the host computer is having trouble. Host computer talking to the router and other computers - no interruption Other computers talking to the vm - no problem Deferred host computer's dns to the router and told the router to connect to the vm's dns - host is getting uninterrupted dns now Host trying to reach the vm 'directly' (ie. by network ip) - 15-seconds on, 15-seconds off. If it's an ip conflict, I have no idea the source. Tried assigning the host computer a static network ip address. No difference. Feels like someone's playing a cruel prank on me or something... anyone have a guess at all as to what I should test at this point? 

Install TFS2010 10.0.30319.1 (RTM) on Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise(app tier) SQL 2008 SP1 with Cumulative update 2 on Windows Server 2008 R2 Enterprise(data tier) Reporting Service is installed on app tier. After this installation worked fine we installed SharePoint 2010 on app tier. After installation we followed $URL$ for configuration. We are not able to perform the last step described in the link as following error occured- TF249063: The following Web service is not available: $URL$ This Web service is used for the Team Foundation Server Extensions for SharePoint Products. The underlying error is: The remote server returned an error: (404) Not Found.. Verify that the following URL points to a valid SharePoint Web application and that the application is available: $URL$ If the URL is correct and the Web application is operating normally, verify that a firewall is not blocking access to the Web application. We have also noticed that Document Folder in Team project also have red x.