The events of the world are not predetermined, as shown above, they are what we do with the world around us by using our free will to decide between things that are possible for us. In the same manner, our thoughts are mostly common/usual responses that each individual's brain has as a result of repetition. We can slowly change the way we think, as well as the nature of our thoughts; this means that we have some measure of free will even in our thoughts. Our effort is the amount of work/energy we decide to apply to something; and if we had some measure of free will when it came to our thoughts, we have all of it when it comes to the amount of effort we decide to apply to something. 

Perhaps, or perhaps not; luckily for us that is not the case because it is not true (as shown above). However, even if it were true, there might still be some intrinsic worth to moral values. Success, defeat, and winning are not moral values; but they would certainly have no meaning if hard-determinism were true. 

Apparently, Russell and Dewey had a very provocative debate in the philosophical literature of their time. Unfortunately I am only familiar with Russell's side of the debate, and want to learn more about Dewey's responses. In his Logic: the Theory of Inquiry, Dewey side-lines truth (only mentioning it in the context of Peirce's definition once in a footnote) and focuses on inquiry, which he defines as: 

Background Many physicists use 'reality cannot have a true paradox, only apparent ones in our theory' as a very common maximum and guide to theory checking. As with all universal rules, Paul Feyerabend disagrees[1] that this is useful rule across science, and suggests that there are facts that are best described by inconsistent theories. Unfortunately he only gives one such example[2]: optical illusions where a static object appears to be moving. He asserts that "[t]he only phenomenologically adequate description is 'it moves, in space, but it does not change place'". In a footnote (ft 92, ch 16) Feyerabend tries to address the obvious criticism (raised to him by A.J Ayer and G.E.L. Owen) that the above statement deals with appearances by saying that putting "it appears to move" in front of the statement just pushes the question to the level of appearences but doesn't resolve it. However, it seems to me that Feyerabend is completely missing the point, because he is assuming that we are saying (with glorious use of brackets added by me) that: 

I agree with you Dvij, I can tell you are sincere in your search for truth and I myself came to a very similar point in my life. This is why I am going to try my best to give you the answer I have found for this problem. I agree with you that results from a moment of action/inaction are determined by the laws/rules governing nature. I also agree that this applies to every moment of action/inaction. We can call a moment of action/inaction by a different name, "the previous situation", because that was the state of the world that was changed into the resulting state of the world by that action/inaction. In other words, a "previous situation" is indeed what caused the resulting state of the world/reality, because it is made of two elements: the previous state of the world and the action/inaction that changed it. However, even if we didn't have a choice about what the previous state of the world was, we still definitely had free will when it comes to the action/inaction that we took and that resulted in the next state of the world (with the exception perhaps of some mental illnesses which might completely or partially dictate a person's actions, but I'll ignore those in this answer due to their low incidence/prevalence in the population). This free will is evidenced by the great sense of freedom we have right now about getting up from our chairs and jumping out of a window, laying on the floor shouting, going outside and jumping over the neighbor's fence, studying hard for an exam, or doing a cartwheel into the bathtub. We can decide to do any of those things right now, and every moment of our lives we have many things we can do. We decide, and that is free will. There are many things we can't do, like teleporting to a friend's house, traveling back in time 20 years, or turning rocks to gold; but the reason for that is not that we don't have free will, it's that it's impossible to us. Therefore free will is the ability to decide what to do between the things that are possible for us. Because of this, it is true that the events of the world are just the results of the application of the rules of nature on the previous situation of the world (which is comprised of the previous state of the world and what we decided to do/not do with our free will at the time). 

Sources and further information: [1] In his typically colourful language he writes (on pg. 245-6 of 2010 reprint of Against Method): 

After translating the works, it seems that Ficino commented on several dialogues like Parmenides, Sophist, Philebus, Timaeus, Phaedrus and (only) part of the Republic (the confusing numerology from 546a-e). Although he also uses some imagery from the Republic, like the cave, it seems to be mostly coming through engaging with Plotinus and not Plato's Republic directly. It would seem that the Republic was at-least mildly important for the ancients, given that people like Zeno (founder of Stoicism) wrote book-length responses. However, I don't know how much response other dialogues by Plato had garnered, so this is not convincing evidence for me. I am not as interested in if the work was actually influential or widely read, but if it was considered to be influential and widely read. However, knowledge of the first can inform the second. I've asked this question on /r/askphilosophy and /r/askhistory and although they were well received by votes, those threads have not generated any answers or insights. 

No, the State would not be responsible. As you state yourself, all of the rulings mentioned pertain to situations where the police are involved. The gun-control issue has nothing to do with the police, thereby voiding any precedent you tried to establish before posing the question. It would be hard to prove that the individual getting assaulted in the example would not have gotten assaulted anyway if gun control legislature had not been passed. In fact, the opposite is just as likely to be true: that individual may have gotten assaulted exactly because the assaulter had easier access to a gun thanks to gun control legislation not getting passed. It would be hard to imagine someone arguing that the State was responsible for the assault because the gun-control legislation was not passed. It is even possible that the person assaulted would've gotten assaulted on multiple occasions instead of just once if previous gun-control legislation had not been passed. 

So if, "John has black hair" is a singular (and thus, scientific?) statement and "There exists a man that has black hair" is a logical deduction from the statement, but also purely existential and thus metaphysical. Does this mean that Popper allows logical inference to turn scientific statements into metaphysical ones? Or are singular statements not scientific according to Popper's demarcation? 

I would agree with Feyerabend that the statement [A] doesn't achieve anything except introduce an extra judgement statement, but statement [B] (which is what I think most people mean) separates two domains of 'appearance' and 'reality' and thus is not contradictory. Question Feyerabend spends a lot of time talking about appearance and reality elsewhere, so I am worried that maybe I am missing some subtlety that makes statement [B] contradictory. Am I missing some subtlety in Feyerabend's critique of self-consistency? Alternatively, if this particular argument is so weak then it seems like for such a bold claim he would support it more elsewhere. Are there other articles where Feyerabend (or subsequent authors) more closely defends his critique of self-consistency? Alternatively, are there more convincing examples of the failure of self-consistency? 

Let's explore your teacher's irksome claim. 1) According to Plato, which is what your teacher is claiming, there are Forms of beauty, mountains, colors, courage, love, justice, goodness, etc. 2) Therefore, according to Plato, there are Forms of objects (like mountain) and attributes (like color). Also, there is a Form of love. Love is a feeling, a force, a relationship between a being and something else, and a bio-chemical mental state. We can then say that there is a Form of relationships like love and hate. 3) Force, as in F=ma, is a force, and therefore has a Form. There is also a Form for mass, and another one for acceleration. F=ma is a relationship describing things that already have Forms. Therefore, if we can find a Form of a relationship between things that already have a Forms, your teacher is right. 4) Justice is a relationship between an event/action, like a crime, and a particularly-satisfying result, such as a punishment. Beauty is a relationship between a set of characteristics/attributes, like big eyes, that when perceived as a whole produce pleasure in the observer. There is a Form for beauty, eye, punishment, and crime. Your professor is correct, “F = ma” is indeed a Platonic Form. What bothers you about it is the same thing that bothers me, and the same thing that bothered Aristotle, and the same thing that seems to have bothered Plato himself later on: there is a problem with Platonic Forms. However, your teacher did not claim that the forms are true. He claimed that “F = ma” is a Platonic Form, and he was right. PS: Whether he was right for the right reasons or it's purely coincidental, remains unknown. Also, whether one can be right without knowing it, is a different matter. Your teacher was right when he said it, as per the meaning of "right" you had in your mind when you posted this question. Hope this helps! 

Today, the Republic is often considered to be Plato's best known and most influential work. Some even consider it as one of the best known and most influential works of all of philosophy; at least it is a contender for this populist view. However, during the Medieval ages, it was largely lost to Western Europe, and part of the Timaeus was the only Platonic work available before the 12th century (when the Meno and the Phaedo were translated, but not widely read). Except for this, Plato's works were unavailable to the Latindom until the Renaissance when Marsilio Ficino translated the complete works of Plato in the late 15th century (see also note [1]). When they re-emerged, did the Republic become Plato's most popular work right away, or is that a more recent development? How long was it until it could be considered a contender in the public's eye or among philosophers as one of the most influential or famous works of philosophy? Finally, I put "(re-)" in the title, is that appropriate? Was the Republic considered to be Plato's most popular work in antiquity (say during the Hellenistic period, when many schools formed as descendants of Socrates as told by Plato; see note [2]), or did the ancients prefer a different text of his? Notes 

Yes, to equate the brain to a hardware system and the mind to software; and then say that the brain causes all the changes and activity of the mind is indeed like saying that the system's hardware causes all the changes and activity of the software. All software is made by programmers, even if the software they made is somehow capable of writing its own software. In such a case, the new software written by the original software would be the intellectual property of the programmer, and not of the original software. Just like a pie made by a pie-making machine would belong to the maker of the machine, and not to the machine. The same applies to the hardware, it was made by engineers. The problem is perhaps that the analogy is less than perfect and only goes so far. 

It is not logically-impossible for a being to be all-knowing. The difficulty would be for any being to know for certain that they are all-knowing, since he cannot know whether there are still things he does not know. However, for such an all-knowing being to not know that he is in fact all-knowing would be a contradiction. Therefore, an all-knowing being would also have to be somehow certain that he knows everything (through means unimaginable to us who are dangerously close to the other end of the spectrum). In this case there would be two types of beings who consider themselves all-knowing: the ones who only think they are all-knowing but aren't, and the ones who think they are all-knowing and are. 

He would not approve of my use of the word 'optical-illusion' in the description, so I don't mean to smuggle in the naturalist interpretation, I am just giving the easiest way to remind you of the phenomena. I think the Rotating Snakes would be a fine and easier to see example of the sort he meant. 

an 'isolated' (a term he introduced in the English translation, which seems to be used in a very vague way) purely existential statement is not falsifiable, since its negation is a universal statement. However, he treats singular statements as scientific, and allows logical deduction of a particular being replaced by an existential (i.e. "John has black hair" implies that "There exists a man that has black hair"; note that he has to allow this to falsify universal statements with singular statements.) 

Mathematical platonism -- or platonism more generally (with the lower case 'p') -- holds the following three theses about mathematical objects: they (i) exist, (ii) are abstract, and (iii) are independent of intelligent agents. This is typically all that mathematicians mean when they say they are platonists, and the differ in their further commitments. Plato would hold these three premises as well (in that way Platonism is compatible with platonism) but his metaphysics is traditionally taken to extend further, committing him to stances that most mathematicians do not hold. Thus, I would say that mathematical platonism is not compatible with Platonism. For a first example, let us consider ethics and the existence of moral truths. Obviously, for Plato, forms like the Good and Justice have the same sort of existence as Triangle. For mathematicians, there is a lot of variation. Some, like Godel, will commit themselves to a thorough metaphysical platonism that extends to ethics, hence his ontological argument for the existance of God, for instance (although note an important difference, Plato would not go to the same extent as Godel to see if some Form exists or not). Others, like Russell, do not think there was an objective Good; to see this read over his very pithy "Is there an Absolute Good?". Note that with Russell it is a little difficult to see if he held mathematical platonism and his moral positions at the same time, given that he went through at least three distinct stages and mathematics is mostly early Russell while ethics is middle and late Russell. However, from my personal experience, many mathematicians would not be platonists with respect to ethics. For a second example, let us consider epistemology. For Plato, we simply 'remembered' the Forms, we do not discover them. A lot of mathematicians might object to this perspective. Although again, there is some heterogeneity here, for some we simply 'see with our intuition' (not that different from Plato's remembering) a mathematical truth and then construct a proof to guide others to what we saw, much like Socrates might guide the slave boy. For a third example, let us consider particulars. For Plato -- most famously in the allegory of the cave -- particulars are of the same 'type' as the Forms but are degraded by being corporeal. The Forms are, in some way, causes of the particulars. I don't think that many mathematicians would subscribe to this view. I think that many of them would implicitly subscribe to a form of dualism similar to Frege's -- another notable mathematical platonist -- and think of separate worlds of the abstract and of the empirical with the effectiveness of mathematics in the sciences being either a selection-bias or unreasonable. For a fourth example, let us consider structure. As you noted, the mathematicians' forms are not solitude and the universe mathematicians imagine is structured in some ways and they use that structure to navigate that universe. It is not clear that Plato's Forms have this structure, under most readings the various forms are rather isolated from each other. 

This being a moral question, I would say that it depends entirely on whether Country B is both directly and indirectly responsible for Country A's political and economical situation. Also, a rather huge factor would be whether half of Country B used to be Country A until the former practically stole it from the latter. 

Christof was on target when he said that there is no more truth in the real world than there is in Seahaven, - if and only if you believe that truth is relative and subjective. In that case, had they surrounded Truman with Muppets all his life and made him believe that the entire planet was populated by Muppets except for Truman because Truman was an alien wizard; then that would be the truth too. I can't accept that. On the other hand, if you believe otherwise, then Christof was wrong and was just desperately trying to keep his show in business and his star/slave from quitting. It is worth noting that his argument for there being no more truth outside than inside was: "Same lies. Same deceit. But in my world, you have nothing to fear." That seems dubious and weak, so even if the statement had been true (and Christof really believed it), you could argue that Christof was not right since his belief was not justified (a.k.a. he believed it for the wrong reasons). Completely unrelated to Christof, however, there would still be people who believe that that the truth inside is true inside and the truth outside is true outside; and that both are valid truths. I can't believe that the Muppets could be a truth, and by extension I can't believe that there can be multiple truths. Similarly, I can only think of two famous proponents of this, like Gandhi: