It's not necessarily a contradiction. (By the way, the question the way you have put it has to do with logic and the philosophy of language and has nothing to do with psychology.) Before we begin, let's take a look at what definitons of the words "trust" and "anxiety" Merriam-Webster gives: 

What philosophers argued that in a complex situation, every individual who's involved in the situation has the same value, so to speak? So, in the case above, do the faults of Mrs. Watchit, the jeweler or the poor bastard (and of all the other individuals involved in the situation, including the robber, the protagonist that had decided to walk in that park that day, etc.) have the same "size"? 

Lately there have been a lot of hot debates on how much mathematics should be taught in high schools and in which way (especially in the West). In this way, mathematics plays a role of a subject that gets people thinking about how the education system in a given country should be laid out, which in turn is very tangential to politics. There are a lot of amazing papers on the subject, see the results of this Google search. 

The quotation about Tristram Shandy appeals to the fact that every page will eventually be finished. This condition is not sufficient to ensure that the task of writing the biography will ever be complete. In an infinite series like this, there is no inconsistency between saying that Shandy will never finish his biography, and saying that any given part of the biography will eventually be written. Intuitively this occurs because the written component increases without bound, but the unwritten component also increases without bound. This is explained in greater detail on mathematics.SE. 

You seem to be asking a few separate questions in your post, but if I understand the essence of your confusion correctly, you are asking why Marxism "equates to communism", as opposed to just being a milder and more mixed critique of capitalism. Firstly, if you would like to understand this more, you should read The Communist Manifesto and read some secondary analysis of Marxism. For a clear and cogent introduction to Marxism, you can do little better than Sowell (1985) Marxism: Philosophy and Economics. Notwithstanding this little reading list, I will do my best to answer the thrust of your question. 

Is this really so? Imagine the whole English-speaking world and the people behind making leading English dictionaries gather up and collectively decide that from now on, the words 'tail' and 'leg' are synonyms. Would then the answer to the question 'how many legs does a dog have' be 'five'? What does modern philosophy of language have to say about this? 

Does the difficulty of making sense of quantum mechanical phenomena, (i.e. arriving at a nice philosophical interpretation of QM) taken together with Everett's many-worlds interpretation, constitute real evidence for accepting modal realism? I understand that Everett's worlds are just nomologically possible worlds, not possible worlds in general. Has this already been discussed somewhere philosophically? 

Does this apply to humans? I'm not referring to any hypothetical intelligent designer. What I mean is that out of all animals, only humans (at least normal ones) seem to conceive children with an intention (e.g. with an intention of having another loved one, etc.) and not just because they desperately want to reproduce. 

It is clear from Rand's writing and recorded talks (as well as bibliographic works about her) that she was influenced by Nietzsche in her youth, and had a detailed knowledge of his philosophy and works. However, it is incorrect to regard her philosophy as a blending of his work with individualist philosophy. Though Rand was clearly influenced by Nietzsche in certain respects, her philosophy is contrary to his on all major points in metaphysics, epistemology and ethics. Rand addressed the differences between her own philosophy of Objectivism, and the philosophy of Nietzsche, in detail in a recorded talk in 1967 at Columbia University. She speaks in detail on Nietzsche's views in these fields, and the divergence of his views from her own. Like Nietzsche (and perhaps partly due to his influence), Rand rejected the moral philosophy of altruism as evil. She uses similar terminology to Nietzsche here, referring to it as the "philosophy of death" and explaining her rejection of altruism in a way that is reminiscent of the way Nietzsche wrote about it. (In her talk in the link she makes the point that Nietzsche has some very wise quotes on these matters, and so it appears that she has been influenced by him at least stylistically, in the manner in which she portrays altruism as evil.) Although Rand agrees with Nietzsche that this is a false and evil moral philosophy, and she adopts certain stylistic similarities to him, they disagree profoundly on what the correct moral philosophy is. Nietzsche regards it as good for man to evolve into the "overman" by pursuing the will to power, whereas Rand argues that man should pursue rational egoism, under which man does not sacrifice himself to others or others to himself (for a more details comparison, see e.g., Hicks 2000). 

In the movie Time Machine (2002) there is a scene in which the protagonist and his girlfriend are walking in the park and the robber they meet wants to take her ring (bought for her by the protagonist). The protagonist refuses to give the ring to him which results in the robber shooting the girlfriend and killing her. After that, there is a scene where the protagonist is talking with his friend about this: 

Did Aristotle mean by 'Mean' exactly the middle between two extremes, or just some "sweet spot" that need not be the middle at all? 

English speakers put the definite article "the" before the word "future" when they refer to the future (no pun intended). For example: 

When an atheist says she's spiritual, she means that she finds beauty and balance in the world around her and in her very own self. There are lots of activities other than the ones that have to do with religion that you can participate in that will get you that outlook on life: art, science, philosophy, etc. 

Most of science is a matter of testing the nature of external things to establish their properties and test causal relationships. That kind of work presupposes confidence in some stability of the nature of things and the causality of action, and it presupposes the validity of sense data and its ability to establish objective knowledge. Hence, philosophically speaking, I would say that the groundwork for science is the philosophical conclusion (not really an assumption so much as acceptance of certain philosophical arguments) that existence exists (i.e., the world external to the mind is real), that things in existence have a nature and follow causality, that the senses are valid and are able to objectively establish the nature of things (through various processes like the scientific process), and that objective knowledge is possible. Now, all of that involves a lot of philosophical conclusions. Many working scientists take those things for granted and do not explore these philosophical issues, but those who are interested study the philosophy of science and study metaphysics and epistemology more broadly in order to form conclusions on these kinds of issues. No doubt there are scientists that disagree with the above positions, and interpret their scientific knowledge differently (e.g., as subjective knowledge, or as knowledge of mere "phenomena", etc.), but I suspect that the majority of scientists hold an implicitly objectivist realist philosophical stance. 

I would say that there are three kinds of 'value' at play here. 1) The price that is charged for a commodity. This is what your friend was referring to in 1. Usually, it closely approximates the intersection of the supply and demand curves, but that is not always the case. In somewhat simplistic terms, the value of a commodity is what people are willing to pay for it. 2) The price that a particular individual is willing to pay for a commodity. Of course, this price may be higher or lower than what the average consumer is willing to pay. Obviously, this kind of value is closely related to 1). 3) The third kind of value is different than the first two and, essentially, is the benefit that a commodity will have to a person. Of course, benefit is a bit of a difficult philosophical problem. To me, it is, within applied philosophy, satisfactory to say that benefit is the difference in pleasure, brought about by some factor X, from what a person would have obtained without X. Ie. benefit = (pleasure with X) - (pleasure without X). Benefit can therefore of course be negative if X makes your situation worse. It's important to note that pleasure is calculated as the total pleasure that a person will experience over the remainder of their life (and thus shortening your lifespan decreases pleasure), and also that pleasure is calculated as (pleasure - pain) so that pain factors in as well. If I understand your reasoning correctly, the concept of benefit is equivalent to your concept of 'real value'. Thus interpreted, the concept of real value/benefit is referred to as utility within economics and philosophy, and is probably most fully explored within the philosophy of utilitarianism. However, you will find that in both fields, especially economics, defining exactly what utility is is often neglected. You will also find that, if you scrutinize the concept of utility, it comes down to pain and pleasure (see also hedonism). You seem to be taking the utilitarian perspective here and saying that we should adopt policies that maximize the collective benefit. There are multiple reasons why, for a particular person, values 2) and 3), as ascribed to a particular commodity, might not be congruent, but they all come down to a failure to accurately evaluate the benefit of the commodity relative to other available commodities (see opportunity cost). A special case where people fail at this evaluation is when they erroneously bias immediate pleasure over long term pleasure (which happens largely due to evolutionary reasons that reflect (and over-bias) the reality that neither future life, nor the success of long-term efforts, are guaranteed). More generally, failure at this evaluation results from ignorance: ignorance of the benefit of commodity A, of the benefits of commodities other than A, and ignorance of even the existence of commodities. Ignorance, in turn, can result from lack of exposure to information, inability to interpret information, or deception. Since education addresses most--I would argue all--of the above stumbling blocks to accurate assessment of utility, I would guess that you already have a good awareness of those. 

For axiomatic concepts, any denial of the concept implicitly assumes it to be real, and so it is self-refuting. By the same token, any affirmation of the concept, or attempted justification or "proof" of the concept is "circular" or "question-begging". This circularity of reasoning does not invalidate the axiom, since circularity is a legitimate property of axiomatic concepts. Since axiomatic concepts form the base of reasoning, any discussion of these concepts (including any purported denial of the concept or proof of the concept) implicitly accepts the concept in the first place. 

This is an important point to understand with regard to the whole of the Objectivist theory of moral philosophy and rights. Since Objectivists appeal to reality to ground their philosophy, the Objectivist moral philosophy is thus necessarily grounded in consideration of the consequences of action. This is the source of the moral principles, but those principles must then be framed at a level of generality and applicability that does not require exceptions that appeal to the ability to fully project the consequences of a particular action. 

What exactly did Hardy mean by "ugly mathematics"? For example, would Hardy find the number π ugly if he found out about the tau manifesto? 

It seems like in (ii) we posit consciousness, this complex unexplainable "thing", on billions of people. So, the natural questions are: Does Occam's razor actually favor (i) over (ii)? If so, then why is (ii) so widespread, even among philosophers? 

Many years ago I read somewhere that metathinking is absolutely impossible without ordinary language (be it a natural language like English, or a constructed one like Esperanto). After this statement a very persuasive argument followed, however I am not able to reconstruct it at all, no matter how hard I try. Internet searches are of no help. Can somebody present a persuasive argument defending the abovementioned view, or a refutation of it (in case I misremembered the whole thing)? This is not a homework question. 

Now, here's the catch: trust is something you have to a certain degree, but anxiety is something you either have or you don't. In other words, predicate like "I trust in X" "belongs" to the fuzzy logic, while the predicate "I have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" "belongs" to both the fuzzy logic and classical logic. It is surely a contradiction to say "I trust X completely and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" , but it's not a contradiction to say "I trust X a little bit and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not". Taking this all into consideration, we can understand now why you even have this question: you speak English, and English (like virtually all natural languages) is vague. You cannot know for sure whether a person claiming "I trust X" really means "My level of trust in X is 100%" (i.e. "I trust X completely"), or if she really means "My level of trust in X is 99%" (can be obviously any number reasonably close to 100). So, in short the answer is that the statement "I trust X and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" is a contradiction if and only if by "I trust X" the person claiming this really means "I trust X 100%". In all other cases, it is not technically a contradiction. 

Now, the problem with this statement is that it derives a normative conclusion about an action from impossibility of that action. Any sensible theory of normative modal logic sets desiderata that will determine the permissibility/desirability of actions from among the possible actions, and hence, this statement would be false. An impossible action is not within the class of available actions, and hence, a sensible normative theory would not prescribe a normative status for such an action. One could say that any sensible normative system of modal logic ought to obey a rule of "inapplicability to impossible action". A system of modal logic that yields this implication as a true statement is open to the objection that it applies the scope of normative theory more broadly than it should actually apply. In my view, the error that is operating in this statement is the breach of this principle; obtaining a normative conclusion about an impossible action sets the scope of normative theory more broadly than it should actually apply. There is no particular name for this that I am aware of, but it could be regarded as a "fallacy of inapplicability" ---i.e., deploying a concept beyond its allowable scope. This is a little bit similar to the stolen concept fallacy, but it is not the same thing, since the latter involves the use of a concept to undermine the existence of a preliminary concept. In this case you are merely obtaining a conclusion that deploys a normative concept beyond its proper scope.