This is an "I want X to happen, but I don't want to deal with the consequences of X" question. Anything that would evaporate that much water would devastate all life on earth. Nothing man can do (today) can do that. So, let's look at a natural possibility, no matter how fantastic. The water needs to go somewhere inaccessible. The only place it can go is down. Can we super-charge the aquifers? How about a geologic/volcanic event that pushes land up and draws water down? Open a big enough hole (a whomping huge hole...) and the oceans would fill it. Of course, geologically, over time the pressure of all that rock atop it would eventually squeeze the water back to the surface.... but that would take a very long time. (A nice ending to the story, someone watching the first spring appear. You could create a religion based on that experience.) Frankly, your biggest problem is how people survive. Water=life. If you haven't read Frank Herbert's Dune you should. It's primary plot element is a desert planet and how people survive on it. 

1) It doesn't matter what stage the ice age is in unless your story covers thousands or tens of thousands of years. 2) Mountain ranges are a consequence of plate tectonics. Plate tectonics are a consequence of an active, liquid core. If your planet doesn't have an active, liquid core, it won't have mountains (other than those caused by meteor strikes). Check out this post from Astronomy.SO. 3) Here's where you need to make a choice. Frank Herbert's Dune is a story about a desert planet ("never one drop of rain falls on Arrakis..."), which includes the windtraps used by the natives to capture water. If yours isn't a desert planet — in other words, it has regular ground cover if not large bushes and trees — then your solution is aquifers with a shallow water table. Plants would develop deep roots. Pumps would access the water, but you'd need serious sand/dirt filtration and you'd need to worry about contamination from the surface (or dig deeper wells). The colony ship itself would likely be sufficient to use as a windtrap, but only to a point. Eventually population growth and the amount of cultivated ground would exceed its abilities (although six klicks long is a lot of ability... building in a series of wind traps actually sounds pretty cool... After all, "Luck favors the prepared". 4) Actually, winter wheat is a great idea and as described by Asimov in his Foundation series, large planet populations need other planets to supply them food. 5) Yes! Lightning is caused by the potential imbalance between the atmosphere and the ground. Rain and temperature are, basically (from a certain point of view... it's fiction, after all), irrelevant. 6) Rather than deal with oil here (and thereby start another argument), I'll direct you to this worldbuilding answer. The other answers are likely more valuable, but hey, it's my answer! :-) 7) Cloudless? Yes. Warm? Well... (it's an ice age and you've covered 67% of the planet in ice... that's a lot of refridgeration). The average planetary temperature during the last of Earth's major ice ages is estimated to be -4.5 degrees C (check this out). The arable land would certainly warm up (maybe 20C), but wind coming off those two polar caps would keep things generally cold. 

I've answered the question, but here's a little background to help explain it While using water as a metaphor for electricity is highly oversimplifying, it's useful for those who don't have an engineer's background in electricity. 

The polar ice caps would be much smaller, if they existed at all. The consequence is that one of the primary cooling processes for the planet (wind coming off the caps and northern latitudes) would not cool the planet as it does. Your ocean levels would change, deserts would be larger and there would be more of them. The water cycle would also change as there would be less water for run-off during spring thaws. You could still fill resevoirs, but their fill patterns would change drastically. But the worst things of all: no ice-cold drinks or ice cream. Because your body wouldn't be capable of withstanding the temperatures required for ice. 

Then you realize that you can apply these basic rules everywhere except deserts and the arctic. With a sigh of relief you turn to tell Lrrr you've figured out the problem... only to realize he actually meant "Now!" Jelly beans... 

There isn't a plausible reason Yours is an example of what I call a "technology dichotomy." Technology exists that depends on an earlier technology, but that earlier technology doesn't exist. This can't be so. The technologies you describe depend on ground transportation. You could claim that the city jumped over wheeled, combustion automobiles and went straight to hoover craft or gravitics, but that's just sophistry. The truth is you must move materials. Raw materials. Manufactured materials. Food, metal, wood, you name it. The amount of goods that demand transport for a high-tech society of any reasonable size (and you'd need tens if not hundreds of thousands minimum to support nuclear power and a space program) is astronomical. And before you had a space program and nuclear power, you had carts, which would lead very naturally to motorized carts (aka, automobiles). And it's the nature of all things (from evolution to working in an office) to take the path of least resistance. If it's cheaper to build a wheel, you'll use it to pull potatoes, even if you have gravitics. I'd say you were trying to put the cart before the horse, but in reality, you're trying to put space flight before the cart — and that's impossible. 

I'm promoting the Chitin version of wood burning. I'm thinking about the beautiful Maori tatoos which, anciently and usually during modern times, does not apply color. It's all about the pattern, and the burn can be almost vanishingly thin, protecting the Chitin, and remarkably precise for crisp, clean lines. Wood burning would be more like our tatoos that are near the surface of the skin. Besides, Maori tatoos would look smokin' on crabs. 

1 You didn't mention the conditions of the world, but you did say Fresno was in ruins. I'm jumping to the traditional and reliable standby for these situations, the good ol' apolcalypse. You can never go wrong with an apocalypse. 

Steam just got lucky The Industrial Revolution was more a series of events and inventions than a period of actual dates. It is therefore considered to be the approximate period of 1760–1830. The first liquid fueled (gasoline) internal combustion engine was built by Robert Street in 1794 — about half-way through the Industrial Revolution. It could be said that had coal not been so easily obtained and plentiful that gasoline and the combustion engine would have driven the Industrial Revolution, possibly having no more effect than to delay the final outcome of the period by 10-20 years, which would have ultimately had little to no effect on the presence of modern technology today. Now, specifically addressing alcohol. The Hot Rod Network explains the following about alcohol vs gasoline fuels: 

Edit after considerable changes to the question It can't be done Here is a list of our world's largest empires. As I mentioned, Britain tops the list, but if you look at the map of their greatest extent, you'll realize that they held only as much of the world as they did because of a MASSIVE difference between their tech level and that of the indigenous peoples. As the difference in tech level began to even out, the colonies and holdings began demanding independence, and England couldn't fight such an extended war. (If you think about it, how loyal is a colony, really? Easy to grab. Very hard to keep.) There isn't a small amount of tech that will make your empire come to be. There isn't any tech that will make your empire come to be. You can't keep the world in the dark. People learn about the technology, and soon thereafter, they have it (the American First Peoples are a very good example — they couldn't manufacture rifles, but it took very little time for them to obtain them). It's only the technological difference, and the fact that it's a considerable difference, that allows you to stay in imperial power at all. So, unless your god decrees it, you're chasing a solution that doesn't exist. It's too much land mass, too many people, too little tech, and people learn too quickly. If your empire successfully gained the entire world, it would be a false claim, as there would be fights, battles, and wars everywhere — and all the while your empire is losing men and materials that are fairly difficult to replace. I regret this response, but people 2,000 years ago were as capable of resisting the technological advance of superior forces just as they are today. There's a reason there's never been a militaristic, political, or economic one-world-order on Earth. Big planet, small controlling faction.