For the first option: do you really want to stay in a company, where you feel you've been cheated? And forcing your way to stay is probably not going to improve your image within the company. Plus they will probably use any opportunity to make you leave. The second, might feel tempting. But that's called burning bridges. It means that any further professional relationship with anyone involved (company, people), would be awkward at best. Plus you should also consider that these people know other people. You might get some satisfaction, but you certainly won't save your professional image. The third option is probably the most accepted one. You take the loss gracefully. And accept that you misunderstood something. In the future you'll make sure to always know where you stand. If, as you say, it's due to a personality difference with a single person, acting in a professional manner, would open various possibilities. One of them, being the reference provided by your boss. As for the question whether it is legal, do check with a lawyer. 

On the one hand, waiting till your alma matter acquaintance suggests the idea, might lead to it never happening. On the other, being pushy and putting him or her in an awkward situation gets you no further. Having previously been in the awkward position of having a few multiple former classmates, not all of whom were all-star performers, persistently ask me to forward their resume to my boss, I would hesitate. You might want to ask your contact whether s/he thinks you'd be a good fit for her company. If she has any reservations, ask lots of questions, and give him/her some ammo to sell him/her on the fit being good. Do all of that before suggesting s/he approach his/her boss, so you get a glowing recommendation rather than "apologies in advance boss, another classmate asked me to forward you their resume, I don't even know this guy!". Even if she tries to be polite, if she's curt and enthused in her language on one forwarded resume, and glowing in another, the boss may realize this was sent "just as a favor" and not follow up. Your acquaintance certainly doesn't want to risk tarnishing her reputation by endorsing an unknown quantity that turns out to be a bad hire, so make sure s/he has gotten to know enough about you to feel confident recommending you. You could broach the topic by asking whether s/he gets people asking to forward their resumes all the time? Is that super-awkward? "well, then I probably shouldn't ask, should I?" ;-). Ask her/him whether it's better to apply through internal channels (like forwarding her resume) or through the formal channels (it depends on the company!). Give her an easy out if she's really uncomfortable with the idea of forwarding your resume, but at some point, if you don't ask you will not receive. Consider, also, other alternatives. Would it be just as good to take her and her boss out to lunch sometime so they can get to know you better? Introduce you to someone in the department you're looking to apply to? Etc. 

Talk to your boss. Your boss can only manage when he gets the info. For whatever reason, he might not have realised the increase of workload, and the weariness you have. It's perfectly ok to tell them. If you don't want to be too abrupt about it, start by asking what are the perspective for the new hire. And if you don't want to appear as complaining, don't complain, simply keep to the fact: you have a lot of work for you to handle and you're not sure you'll make it. If you're really overloaded, your boss might prioritize things, or find other resources to, temporarily, take part of it off your shoulder. If you wait until the last moment, and don't make it, it would be much worse and take out any chance for your boss to think about an alternative solution. 

If you divulge information on an ongoing lawsuit your current employer might decide to sue you (e.g. if this leads to loss of business - they might then try to blame bankruptcy at you. That your grievances with your employer are factual does not necessarily help in that case). So you don't bring it up. Either the interviewer does not know about the lawsuit, in which case there is no need to bring it up, or they do know about it, in which case they'll understand why you cannot talk about it (plus they'll probably would not want to hire somebody who is indiscreet and thus a legal risk, so it is in your best interest not to bring it up). 

I would sit down with your boss and let him know that although you love working there, you just can't afford to keep working there indefinitely if you aren't getting paid, and see how they respond. I wouldn't give them a full-out ultimatum that they pay you "or else", it's more a courtesy to let them know that they have a problem they need to solve if they really value your contributions and don't want to risk losing you. Your living expenses don't pay themselves. Benefits are worth little if you're not getting paid and going into debt. You do not owe them an obligation to stay around because you are "hard to replace". Begin updating your resume and sending out applications to other companies, regardless of whether they promise to pay you the money they owe. If your company still hasn't come through with the back-pay they owe you by the time you have a solid offer in hand from another company, it's time to jump ship, and I'm sure they will not be terribly surprised at that point, even if they're disappointed you won't work for free indefinitely. 

The fact that it is a scolarship does not change the equation. And generally, it is recommended not to tell anything at your working place until you get something clear (job offer, contract... or scolarship acceptance). Your work probably includes a trial time (typically a few months) which is also for such cases. So for the time being, no need to tell them anything. But as soon as you get a positive confirmation (possibly in paper form), do tell them as soon as possible. You might want to check your contract to see how long you have to work when resigning. It's usually different during the trial, but both should be in your contract. 

Generally, the most suggested approach is not to recommend anyone when you're fresh into a company. There are different reasons for that but you can consider at least that 

There is a law in Germany, which somewhat unsurprisingly called the "Bundesurlaubsgesetz" (Federal Law on Vacation). Rather more suprisingly the law does not say you have to take vacation at all - you have to claim your vacation days within a given year, if you do not you forfeit your claims. There are very few exceptions, the one pertaining to your case is that vacation days can be moved to the next year if it is determined that your employer for some valid reason cannot do without you (i.e. contracts to fullfill that require full manpower). You can try to convince your boss that this is case, however at the end of the day it is his call, not yours. Employers usually loathe to permit this, because it affects the balance sheet (if that is the right word - they have to put money aside to account for the case that they might be unable to give you the missing vacation days, so that goes down on the side of the liabilities). However if you need to finish a project the benefits might outweigh the cost, so your boss might be okay with it (in fact moving vacation days isn't that rare in Germany). If you move vacations days to the next year you have to take them within the first three months of the year, else you forfeit your claims (as far as the law is concerned, the company might decide to handle this differently). Usual disclaimer, I am not a laywer, I just googled one on the internet (plus, some personal experience). 

At my husband's work his team does a lot of team building events. Recently, one such event (on the clock during normal work hours) involved carpooling to an Asian restaurant to learn how to make sushi. This got me wondering how I would handle such a situation, if I had been on that team, since I suffer from some food allergies, and would likely experience headaches from the airborne allergens if I attended, or worse symptoms if I ate anything that was cooked on cross-contaminated equipment. How should one respond to such a situation? 

One popular solution to overly bright lighting for computer work is to reduce the percent of the fixtures that are switched on. In some offices, this may be as simple as wall switch that allows half of the fixtures to be turned off, while leaving the other half on. In others it might actually require having maintenance unscrew one of two bulbs from the ballast nearest your desk. If many of your co-workers are bothered by the intensity of the light, it may be easy to get them to agree. Don't automatically assume "it's not an option" without actually asking your boss or maintenance whether it would be an option to solve the problems of eyestrain (often the cause of headaches) from excess lighting while doing computer work. At my husband's work, enough people on his team were bothered by the brightness of the light that they successfully petitioned to have the lights over their desks turned off. Finding other ways to block the light from your computer screen or eyes, such as building a monitor hood to block light from glaring on your screen, or wearing a billed hat may help as well. The angle of your monitor to the bulbs can make a difference as well, especially if there are diffusers on the bulbs overhead. Try turning your whole desk 90 degrees or move the screen a foot to the left or right to see if the lighting is less bothersome that way. 

You should just quit. Probation period works both ways - it is not just the company testing you out, it's also you testing the company, and obviously the company has failed your test. Six months probation period sounds German. So if you wait to long for the company to implement changes probation might end and you will most likely find yourself at the wrong end of the customary German three month notice period. Do you really want to be bogged down for three quarters of a year ? So quit - this is not you being spoilt, this is what a probation period is for. Also that way the company can look for a replacement and does not have invest any more money into an unhappy employee. Plus with markets being as they are at the moment you should be able to find a new job quickly, so there is not point in dithering. It's just when you find that being unhappy in your job becomes a habit that you should reconsider if the problem is with you and not with the companies you work for, but for now looking for a better fitting opportunity seems the thing to do. 

If your wife is unemployed, meaning that you have a need for her to get a job, you might consider asking your direct boss, or the person responsible for the new customer service hire, depending on the size of the company, and how familiar you are with people around. 

We all love some gossip, but they can be harmful to the subject. While it's reasonable to ask some help to deal with it, I would recommend to avoid doing it in written form. She may behave like a 3-years old child, but she's a grown up, you're not her mother, if she decides to leave, let her do it. It might even be good for her, for all we know. Clarify with HR the whole situation. But you're 8. HR probably know how you behave usually, so I would not worry. Never, ever again, leave your computer unlock when you aren't working on it. Especially if you have potentially sensible documents on it. I have heard/read about people being fired for exactly this. (Even if, hopefully, rare). Don't use your professional mail for personal discussions. While often tolerated, it is usually not allowed. And your professional mails are often stored, meaning they might be fully accessible to your boss and/or the IT. 

Let your HR departement manage that. Unless your former colleague has completely changed the field he will now be working for a competitor and might not even be allowed to help you (and when in doubt HR is better prepared to handel legalities that might have to be dealt with). Even if he wants to help you cannot expect him to work for free. You are probably not authorised to offer him payment, so again, let HR handle this. Or even better, don't do this at all. It is unlikely that after 6 months he remembers enough details to be of much help, and nobody I know of likes to be stalked by their former workplace. 

From a point of view of human decency yes, this might be called lying. From the POV of professionalism your superior has decided that there are no resources available, even if you scheduling system does not reflect this. So as far as you are concerned you are not lying, your are relaying a company policy. If you have an issue with that you should probably take this up with your superiors instead of ignoring their orders. Kudos, though, for thinking about your clients first (to the point of risking your job for their convenience).