Don't pay for health care during that week. If you get injured, pay for it out of pocket. If the expense is catastrophic then you can sign up for COBRA retroactively up to sixty days after your last day and your coverage extends backwards in time to the day you left your job. It's expensive but it is cheaper than catastrophic care. Do not take my word for it; I am not an expert on COBRA. Today would be a great day to research COBRA and learn for yourself how the program works. You're fine. Go enjoy your vacation, and try to not break any limbs. 

You expected fairness and loyalty and thoughtfulness from a corporation. That's a great mistake to learn from, particularly since this mistake cost you nothing. Don't make that mistake again. 

Though this video is about a far more severe example of the issue you face, the conclusion reached by the presenter is applicable to your situation: $URL$ The relevant quote is: 

So don't burn bridges. Be polite and professional. People quit. That's business. If they don't get that, then that's their problem. 

Give huge bonuses for cooperation that leads to good outcomes, and fire people who sabotage their coworkers. Huge bonuses. Like absolutely enormous. You know, like the bonuses that CEOs routinely grant themselves at the expense of the company. 

One day shortly before I left MSFT they gave all of us personality tests, because middle management was obsessed with faddish metrics. Those personality tests showed that, SURPRISE, the people who were hired to build code analysis tools in a highly competitive environment were (1) analytical, and (2) competitive. Being competitive is great. People who enjoy competing should be hired for competitive industries! The trick is to incentivize competing with your competitors, not each other. A question you did not ask but seems germane: 

"When I started working, I felt overwhelmed because there was so much I didn't know but needed to know to fulfill the responsibilities of my position. I felt like I was not qualified for the position, and had somehow "lucked out". But since I didn't want to just quit, I decided to learn the things I didn't know and get to that point where I felt like I was right for the position, as fast as I could." Welcome to every job I've ever had. This is really how internship and entry-level employment works, as far as I can tell. The early stages are not just you doing work, they're extended training for the position. And since you say that you felt much more qualified at the end of the internship, the training worked exactly how it was supposed to, and all is right in the world. For entry-level positions especially, employers will hire based on potential as well as current skill. They'll expect you to be a little out of your depth at first, and they'll give you the guidance you need to be 100% qualified. Employers aren't charities; if they say they're happy with your work, it's because they are. If they've seen your work and they're happy with you, then you're qualified for the position. The only barrier is your own confidence. As @simbo pointed out, the people who feel the least qualified can often be the most qualified. Keep plugging away, and don't worry about how you think your work is. Your employer's evaluations will be far more objective (and more important). We are our own worst critics. 

No one wants to be in that situation. Everyone is in that situation. So step two: Get used to it, and stop caring. The question that should be on your mind is not "do my undeserving no good slacker coworkers deserve their bonuses?" The question on your mind should be "am I getting an adequate compensation for the amount of work I'm putting in?" The answers to those two questions have nothing to do with each other. Put another way: the only way to control what bonuses your slacker coworkers get is to sabotage and badmouth them. Do you want to work at a company that encourages that kind of behaviour? Worry about what you're getting, not what anyone else is getting. Make yourself look good by enabling everyone around you to share in your success. 

Beyond simple honesty, you tailor your answer the same way you tailor every answer in an interview: by considering the motives of the person doing the interviewing. Presumably they have a business problem and they believe that going to the enormous expense of interviewing and then hiring you, they might have a chance to solve that problem at a reasonable cost. (This is assuming that the interviewer is acting in good faith; see my comment above for thoughts on that.) If you want to make yourself seem attractive, make it clear that your motives are aligned with the business problem that you are solving. (This of course requires that you understand what business problem you are possibly solving in the first place; use the interview as an opportunity to clarify that if it's unclear.) For example, if the position is sales at a car dealership, "I want to make a lot of money" is a perfectly acceptable answer. It shows that your goals and the goals of the business are totally in line. Commission-based sales generates profit for the dealership at the same time as it generates commissions for the seller. It's a terrible answer if you're applying for a job teaching math to high-school students. (Unfortunately.) 

I feel like if you weren't allowed to apply for both company A and company B, they would integrate their two hiring systems into one. Plus, if you did end up potentially getting offers from both companies, it would probably be easy for them to realize what has occurred and come to their own resolution about what offers they should give you. Under normal circumstances, a company that you are interviewing with will generally ask you if you are looking at any other places. That would be the appropriate time to tell them that you're also applying to this other position at the other company, and let them sort it out. You don't have any additional responsibilities beyond that. 

You say no, and you are mercifully cut off from a job that you can't live with. You say no, and the company offers to work with you on hours or wages to try and make the job more acceptable to you. (Or you specifically bring up the part-time/full-time issue as your response.) You say yes, thus committing yourself to a wage that you admit is unlivable. 

As a software developer on a relatively small team handling a big job, I have never found myself with no tasks on my plate; new work comes frequently, and completed tasks are quickly replaced with new ones. However, I will occasionally find myself with short periods of time (think fifteen minutes to an hour) where I don't have any work to do. There can be a handful of reasons for this (code is compiling, I'm waiting on other people to do things, etc). Part of me says I should enjoy the downtime, but if there are several instances of it in a week I start to feel like maybe I'm not working hard enough. What is the best way to deal with these very short periods of not having work to do? 

then you answer the question truthfully. Many companies have entirely reasonable policies that employees who have signed an offer letter with a competitor are security liabilities. (Whether you have to volunteer that information depends on your agreement with your current company; read your employee handbook.) It ought to go without saying but I'll say it anyway: Be prepared to be escorted out of the building by security at any moment after you announce your intention to resign. Make sure your personal items are already cleared out or nothing you wouldn't mind leaving behind. Another thing that ought to go without saying: if your current company asks you to sign anything other than your resignation letter or your final paycheque, do not sign it. Some companies will suddenly produce a noncompete agreement on the day that you're leaving that they "forgot" to ask you to sign on your first day. They are not in a position to get you to do anything; they can't legally withhold your pay, and threatening to fire you on your last day seems ineffectual. If they pressure you to sign anything, the right response is: 

That was the wrong response. Whoever says a number first is at a disadvantage. Make them say the number first if they want you. The correct response is "I'm sure your offer will be both fair and competitive, and I look forward to reading your offer letter." 

Since they are punished for doing the latter and rewarded for the former, it's not clear why you expected otherwise. Incentives matter. I am reminded of a question on another site -- posted by a professor! -- about why so many college students are fixated on their grades, rather than their mastery of the material. Because they've been told their entire lives that all that matters to their future ability to live comfortably is their grades. Why would we expect them to behave any differently? We built these Skinner boxes; we should not be surprised when the human animals in the boxes try to maximize their rewards and minimize their punishments. 

You are definitely not being greedy for wanting equipment that makes it easier to do your job, and your conversion to full time seems like the perfect time to ask. It's possible that your company has a specific waiting period for asking for new equipment (i.e. you must wait three years in between requests), but your manager probably has some pull in that regard. Talk to your manager and ask them about their refresh policy (or whatever they call it). It's possible you've been at your company long enough that you've earned a new work machine with no questions asked. If you haven't, you should ask your manager about it anyway; tell them that your ancient machine is impacting your ability to do your job, and ask about the possibility of a new one. The worst that could happen is that they would say no; you wouldn't be leaving a bad impression. 

You mentioned that the interviewer told you the starting wage "plus or minus a few dollars". It sounds to me like you were being given the acceptable range of wages specifically because you would not be able to negotiate something closer to what you wanted. That was the interviewer basically asking you if she was about to waste her time on a non-viable candidate. Had your wage expectations been more in line with theirs, I doubt it would have come up so early. Basically I see three possibilities here: 

Because, as Chris G said, you asked for double their budget. They need to know that you'll be worth their time before they start the interview. If you don't want a poor wage hanging over your head for the entire interview, then it's on you to say something about it at the start of the interview, either to end it early or to resolve your concern. The moral of the story is that you should always have a plan for what to do if the company isn't willing to pay what you need to make. It sounds like you said "yes" because you were blindsided by the low wage. Hopefully that won't happen again. 

That was the correct response. An even better response would have been "I look forward to receiving your offer letter; please email it to blah@blah.com and I'll give it my prompt attention. Have a nice day, goodbye." 

and hand it to your manager. Notice that Company A was not mentioned. If anyone asks any nosy questions about your personal life such as where you intend to work next, then the answer is: 

Of course you do. If you're only going to be comfortable by controlling the behavior of other people, then you're not going to get what you want, because you can't do that. So find a way to be comfortable without controlling the behavior of others. 

The specific algorithm is totally unimportant. It's a jumping-off point for the real task of the interview, which is determining if the candidate can reason about code using the tools in their toolbox. I have never once had to solve the tower of hanoi problem in my job. I have many, many times had to rewrite a recursive algorithm into an iterative algorithm with an explicit stack in a stack-constrained environment. A candidate who cannot do so is unlikely to succeed on my team. So, the answer to your question is: solve the problem in good faith. If the problem is really a "fizzbuzz" -- just a test to see if you can write code at all -- then you will pass it quickly and the interviewer will move on. But I would use a simple, standard problem as an opportunity to probe the candidate's skills more deeply. 

I think you are setting yourself up to be fired. First, and most importantly, you have broken the contingency on which your higher salary rests. Your manager laid out the conditions for your increased salary and you violated them in less than a year. By bringing up the other job offer in any capacity, you will be showing your manager that he cannot trust you. Second, I wouldn't expect that you could negotiate a higher salary twice in five years, let alone one. You would be sending a message that you are not committed to the company at best, and that you are manipulating them for higher salaries, at worst. I would not bother with an employee who threatens to leave twice in one year. I'd either let them leave or shove them out the door myself. So the short answer is you don't negotiate for a higher salary twice in one year. You did a good job of it the first time around, but that is the kind of move you only get to pull a handful of times in your career. If you want a higher salary, then you're probably going to have to leave your job to get it. I don't know how you are going to do that without burning bridges with your current manager/employer, for the reasons outlined above. 

This should have been part of your response. "I can work with $X/2 if I can work Y hours per week" is still a good starting point for a discussion, probably even better than a simple "no". You should never feel like you're in the wrong for trying to ensure that you make a living wage. They clearly want to ensure that you're happy with the pay before they move forward, so I can't imagine the interviewer wouldn't want to discuss hours right then.