I like using small boats for duck hunting. I was recently given a sit-in two-seater kayak that I have painted and I am ready to take out on the marshes. Although I have used small canoes and the like before, this will be my first time in a kayak. I specifically want to use this boat where the paddle is more difficult because of length, wind, or current, and I want to use the double-ended paddle, lower profile, and lower weight of my kayak to get to further places. I am trying to figure out how to transport my shotgun. My shotgun doesn't need to be at the ready because I will be kayaking to a location, setting up and hunting, then kayaking back. I could bungee it in place on the deck or throw it on the floor of the kayak in the floating gun case I use, but I am concerned as it is a high-dollar item and I want to do all I can to make sure I don't loose it. Getting it wet is inevitable so some water will be fine. What are the options for transporting the gun in the way most likely to be retained in case of an accident? My kayak is a two seater with no spray skirt. My dog will be riding in the front seat and has been trained to do well on all manner of boats, so she will be fine but taking up the front seat. This will be in fresh and salt water. The temperatures will be about 35 degrees F to about 60 degrees F. Any tips or tricks for transporting high-value cargo in a kayak like my shotgun? 

Often when we say "Fibreglass" we're actually referring to a composite of both fibreglass and resin (usually polyester for glass, epoxy for carbon/kevlar - sometimes glass). This is important, that resin is a distinct component was missing from the question. The composite is formed when glass fabric is shaped in/on a mold and saturated with resin. The resin then cures, forming a rigid structure. Is this waterproof? Yes. If the resin completely surrounds the fibre. In production (after initial curing), loose strands will often have to be sanded down and additional resin applied to ensure a compete seal. If, through faulty manufacture or damage, glass is exposed to water (especially salt-water) this will cause to composite to break apart/de-laminate. So why gelcoat? To protect the glass/resin composite, primarily from UV. Exposing resin to UV will cause it to degrade and crack over time, eventually exposing the fibres to the elements. Gelcoat has other benefits - it's often more durable and a convenient way of adding a coloured layer. Gelcoat can be applied directly to the mold to form a convenient and better bonded composite, but can also be applied later. So why doesn't it matter if gelcoat is used on the inside? As above, if the glass is sealed properly with resin, the inside of the boat won't need the extra protection from a gelcoat. Note: fibreglass roofing should have a clear/colourless gelcoat for UV protection, but of course manufacturers will make whatever they're paid to make. 

The type of berry may matter. I am often picking very ripe blackberries, so you can't do much like shaking or tumbling without damaging the berries. What I do pick for speed, letting whatever get into my box or pail, then when I am done, transfer the berries one by one into a new container. I don't have to really look at them or pick stuff out, I just quickly pick one out of the first container and dump it into the second and it actually goes very quickly. When you are done with the transfer, the little sticks and bugs and whatever generally ends up in the bottom of the original container. Spiderwebs are too hard to clean off, so I usually just pitch those berries, and I do a little quality control and throw out any obviously rotten or unripe berries that made it in. And then.... blackberry liqueur! If a bug or other contaminant happened to make it it, the alcohol will sterilize it and the berries get strained in the final step anyway. 

In most ways, it looks like porcupine to me. The scratch marks going perpendicular to the tree trunk make it less likely to be bear, deer, or elk. Bear will strip a tree like this if it is rotten and there are lots of bugs underneath the bark, but generally you see this in the fall, not this far into winter, and it is more often stumps and rotten trees. This tree looks healthy. Deer or elk generally don't strip it down to the ground so completely, and the shavings are much bigger, with the scratch marks going vertically. The only thing that is slightly different than my experience with porcupines is the amount of the tree that was stripped. Porcupines often take of a band around the tree about two feet tall about 7 or 8 feet up and it doesn't always go all the way around. That said, I still think it is porcupine as all the other details match. Did you notice any smell? On a deer/elk rub this size, I would stick my nose right up close to the ground and sniff. If you think you are at the State Fair animal barn, it is elk. If it smells faintly like animal, it might be deer. If it smells like nothing, it might be bear or porcupine. See this link "ASK A MASTER GARDENER: Porcupines likely culprits in stripping bark from maple trees" for a similar looking tree. 

The stopper knot is purely a backup to prevent disastrous slippage (i.e., the end pulling through the knot). For most cases, the stopper knot will not be loaded. Even in the case of slippage, the stopper knot is only taking a fraction of the weight so will probably not become overly tight. If your use case is going to likely result in the heavily loading of the stopper knot, you probably want to consider a different tension hitch. 

It is hard to tell from the photo exactly how the carabiner would be loaded if clipped directly to the bolts. I think of cross loading as when the carabiner is weighted along the minor (short) axis. I wouldn't use the term cross loading when a carabiner gets weighted over an edge or weird bump in the rock. In general, if you do not feel confident in the setup of the anchor, choose a different climb. Also sometimes belaying from the top can make difficult belays much easier. Top roping on a top belay has advantages (e.g., less rope stretch) and disadvantages (cannot see climber while tying in). For your anchor. I don't like your setup at all. It is not clear to me why you used slings on the blots and then your Trango Alpine Anchor. Seems like you should have been able to simplify things. The thing I really do not like is that the webbing appears to be a single point of failure. Further, it is run directly through the bolts and is rubbing against the rock which increases the chance of it getting cut. There also appears to be a weird edge on the bottom left of the photo which might cut the webbing. There is also what looks like a rope pull grove on the bottom right that might have sharp edges. In an unattended top rope anchor I will trust metal over webbing every time. A carabiner should be able to hold all top rope falls no matter how weirdly it is weighted. I would have most likely clipped the Trango Alpine Anchor directly to the two bolts. 

You field dress the deer as soon as possible while maintaining your own safety. That really means that as soon as the deer is down, I go take care of it, except if I have shot it during the last few minutes of shooting light and I can't safely track the deer and do the work in the dark. Often I can do it in the dark if I have tracked it with enough light, but I once pushed this a little too far and had a really bad night and an extra 20 mile hike to get out. I won't do that again. Outside of your personal safety, you should get the chest cavity cleaned out and the animal started cooling as soon as possible. If you do shoot it in the evening and are going to let it cool overnight, try to prop it up on some logs so air can get underneath especially at the hind quarters, and tie the legs out so it is on its back with the chest cavity wide-open for good air circulation. Hope that a bear or coyote doesn't discover your deer in the night. Fur is a great insulator, so you need to maximize the air getting to the un-furred places on the deer. If you are hunting in warmer weather, you may have to work quickly to get the animal to ice, but since the answer is "as quick as possible", that means you are just going to have to do what you can as quickly as possible. You can't convince a deer that bolted and fell down a cliff that he should really have died in a better location for the haul out so you just do the best you can to be as quick as possible. :) If the night time temps are 40 deg F, you can let it cool at night and haul it out during the day. One trick is to take an old sleeping bag and let the deer cool overnight, then wrap in the sleeping bag to keep it cool for the drive home, or if your buddies are still hunting, using the bag to keep it cool during the day can let you hang it for three or four days while they finish up. Make sure you have a thermometer to monitor the meat temp. It should be less than 45 deg F all day. I hang mine in the shed with a remote thermometer I can watch from the house. If the temp gets up too high because of the weather, I go take the skin off and hang it in game bags in the fridge, rotating and moving it around 2-3 times a day. 

All the major manufacturers have their own models, often a range. There are different designs, some are a bit more focused on whitewater, some a bit more on sea, touring etc. As another poster said, skills are the most important thing. Going from flat to moving water isn't hard, but there's very important differences in safety, rescue, and skills. It's not about the boat - a paddler with the right ability will paddle a river more safely in an inflatable rubber duck than someone else in the right boat. If you have a club nearby, join up. 

The last two are why it's being done in the linked video. Re: your concerns, it's something you only do on pool drops where you can just hand-roll up (if needed) and hand-paddle into the eddy - or at least have someone at the bottom fetch you your paddles. You'd never do it if the drop is followed by a (significant) rapid. Are they swimming at the bottom? No. Why would they, that's too much effort and you'd get all wet. Note: you never have to do this. Just holding onto your paddles and tucking in to the side is the standard way to run a bigger drop. 

For UNTRAINED people, it ends here. You can't go further down this list without putting yourself or others in greater danger. (But I'll finish anyway) 

There are a lot of different types of bears. Protecting a llama from a giant panda should be quite easy as you are unlikely to see one in the wild and their diet is almost entirely bamboo. If you are in polar bear territory, you should probably be more worried as they are natural hunters, curious, and powerful. That said, I am not sure a llama is a good choice for an arctic pack animal. The American black bear predominately eat vegetation, although when food sources are scare they have been known to prey on large animals (e.g., horse and cattle), but prefer to prey on smaller animals. Outside of early spring, there is probably little risk to a llama. The grizzly bear again predominately eats vegetation, but will attack large animals. Again, they prefer to prey on smaller animals. A hungry grizzly definitely presents a risk to a llama, but also presents a risk to you. 

Depending on the type of wood, 50 kg of wood will take up about 0.1 m^3 when stacked. Depending on local rules, I would simply bury it in a cheap plastic tarp. Just make sure you remember the location and bring a shovel. This would be best if you can bring it all in one trip, but if not, just dig the hole deep enough for all the wood on the first load.