Your current company has proved that they cannot be trusted; otherwise they would have paid you what you were worth without you having to show then a job offer. Likewise they will never totally trust you as you tried to get a new job. But if the take the job with the bank and it goes wrong, then don’t expect a helpful reference from your current job. Whatever happen expect to have to work a lot harder or smarter, as when a company pays more, they expect more. 

There are a few differences. If someone is currently out of work, and does not have other job offer, the employer does not know if they truly want to take the job, or if they are just taking it due to having no other options, or to keep their unemployment benefit advisor happy. In the UK anyone on benefits has to prove they have put in enough job applications and list all interviews have had, often the benefit advisor will phone up an employer to check how some ones interview went. Therefore don’t expect them to tell you they don’t want to job, or know that they can’t do the job. Likewise it is required that someone takes the first job, even if they know they have another job starting in a few weeks time. On the other hand, no employer likes “letting someone go” within the probation period, but if a person is out of work, the employer can over then a few weeks extended trail, without feeling bad if things don’t work out. 

Background I have a colleague that likes to pass on knowledge he has learned from others as his own hard-earned experience, this is seldom a problem as most know who taught him and can ask the source directly. We work in a specialized mechanical setting, it has a special jargon. This gets problematic however when he claims to be good at programming. In our office there are few who have anything but the most basic programming experience and many have none at all. At break the other day we started discussing a program he had written, as I had done something similar a few months earlier I was curious to see how he had done it. (I enjoy to program but I am not skilled at it). Seeing as he claimed to be a skilled programmer I wanted to see if I could learn anything. I was rather surprised when his solution had a cycle time of 5 minutes where my solution took 10-20 seconds. Asking a few more questions it became clear that he only had limited knowledge of the language. The other problem is that he keeps changing his story when he talks about his previous employment, one day he wrote something in C++, the other day it's Java and so on. Same story, different implementations. When prodded he changes back to his original story. We work in a mechanical setting, programming is not out main line of work. The colleague is implementing a mechatronic system in a low level setting, structured text or ladder (PLC). We have safety means implemented to ensure that nothing goes boom, but it is making me uneasy that his skillset in a high-level language are so poor. Unfortunately, my own experience of low-level programming is insufficient to judge his solution, and there is no one else readibly either. Question 

It is a very bad question to ask at an interview without telling the candidate ahead of time you are going to ask it. However it would be a great question to ask at an interview if you ask the candidate to bring with them a printout of some code that they like, saying you would expect them to discuss it at the interview. The candidate should be given at least a few days warning of this. A variation on this, is to ask a recent comp sci student to bring a printout of their 3rd year project code, then pick a few pages at random and ask them what the code does and why they wrote it in that way. You are looking to see if the candidate can reason about the code, and show that they considered other options, and can accept that there is more than one correct way to solve a problem. Follower up questions can be like. 

Companies are mostly looking to see that you have written a lot of code (many weeks to produce one program, not a few hrs like most university course work.), ideally working in a team with other people on a real problem. Failing that contributing to open source projects is a 2nd best. Your internships should put you in good standing if you wrote a lot of code on them. To rise above male colleagues, you can stand out by showing basic social skills like looking people in the eye when talking to them, provided you are good as the technical side. I believe the real issue is that women tend to underrate their own skills, when men tend to overrate them and other people tent to rate you as you rate yourself. 

I have been made product leader for a big international customer, designing a physical product for them that will have to perform action A, B and C. But seeing as the needs of the customer will change and we wish to include other functionality the design needs to be flexible. Now, my German colleagues have completed a design that does A, B and C and some additional features that were not asked for but that are really handy and nifty. They presented this to the client as a part of the joint-development-agreement. They claim that the design is complete and all that is needed is some finishing touches. The problem is that after studying their design I have found a number of weak design elements and decisions that basically will lock us in one design path that may not be optimal. The weak elements are easily corrected, the wrong design path is not. I have had my fill of monumental Charlie Foxtrots when it comes to inheriting a design and I am not keen on doing it again. I told them that changes may be needed on the design but they become defensive whenever and regardless how I voice my concerns. I believe they have invested their pride in the project for better or worse. I have discussed the matter with the team's superior and we are in agreement, but the team does not see it this way. I could pull rank on this issue, but for obvious reasons I don't want to spoil a good working relation, we will work together again in the future and it would be nice not to have an ongoing grudge. How do I scrap the design without spoiling the relation? Is it even possible? 

Your client’s staff still have to do their day job, just because someone has called you in to do a project does not mean any of the client’s staff have been told what work they can drop, so as to be able to help you. There is often a high level of resentment of past consultants that have taken the work that the client’s staff have done, and presented it as their own work. While at the same time the management refuses to ask their own staff the same questions directly. Remember you may have chosen to work 15hr days to get your next report in on time, but you can’t expect someone on normal salary to drop everything in their life just so you can do so. I have seen too many cases in the public sector in the UK, when a consultants will be called that costs £100K to do work, that could have been done in house if the people with the real understanding where resourced better so they were not at 100% capacity all the time. When it can take close to one year to get approval to bring in a £20K admin person, but the management has no problem finding the money for you, how can you expect any of the staff to respect what you are doing? So you need to find out how you can make the clients staff look good and feel better about their jobs, then do it. 

Thereby you are politely declining at the same time as you are showing that you have an interest in hanging out with him. It also allows you to plan your time. Being straight-forward with the chap and telling him that you think he is too pushy might back-fire and spoil an otherwise good working relationship. 

The important thing is to take the initiative, if you show that you are willing to work and that you are not simply wasting company time then your tasks will increase again. 

You can always ask, but if there is a non-disclosure agreement between the agent and the company you are unlikely to receive a reply. The job agent is likely more concerned in keeping a good relation with his employer than with potential employees. If you work in a specialized field you can ask what the company produces, size etc. and try to figure out which company it is. The more general the company the harder it is to pinpoint though. There is a risk that you apply to a bad reputation company in that case you can still use the time to fine tune your CV, presentation etc. 

This focuses on the tasks you need help with or your boss's input, not whether or not the boss will be in the office. If needed you could also add that a direct input onsite is necessary, but only if this is the case of course. 

Take the initiative, rather than him giving you different things to do counter with a proposal of your own. 

Reporting in sick must be easy and quick. I have worked for companies that require you to PHONE in and SPEAK to your manager, that can take 30 minutes on the phone if someone has to go to find the manager. It also has to be done at a time when the manger is at work – not good if someone wakes up sick at 6am and knows that are not fit to go into work that day. Therefore allow email and/or txt to be used. Never say anything negative to someone that reports in sick, they are helping you by doing so. Don’t question if the sickness is real etc. Leave all the questioning until the person is better, or let HR contact them after a few days. (Remember some people don't have a phone line or mobile coverage at home, there are even people without internet access at home.) 

Let’s assume you are out of work at present, that you will not be moving house for the job as it is a short term contract and that the notice period is 7 days each way. (Often with a contract the notice period is 0 within the firsts 14 days.) An employer can bring you in for an interview, take up a day (unpaid) of your time, and a day of the time of at least one of their staff, at the end of the interview they don’t truly know how well you can do the work, you also don’t know how well you will get on with the rest of the team. Or they can bring you in for a week, pay you to do useful work, and be willing to end the contract just paying you for what you have done. If they do end the contract after a short time, you don’t need to show it on your CV, as you where between contracts anyway. (You can also end the contract if you don’t like the work.) From your CV the employer will know you have done lots of contracts like what they are asking, and therefore will know that other employers have decided to take you on after an interview and not terminate you after the first week. For contract work, the employer is looking for someone that has already used the required skills, rather them someone that can learn, so it not interested in “potential”. So what have you got to lose….. 

Edit As it has been pointed out in the comments below, it is presumptious to assume that someone is working in a code environment. Given the nature of many questions it is an easy mistake to make, the answer has been corrected to be more general. 

As this is a question that in part regards Indian law I recommend contacting a lawyer or someone that is specialized in indian law. That being said, withholding salary and not paying it until 2 months later sounds sketchy and you could probably argue a breach of contract. Given that they are not paying you and threatening you with the labour contract I wouldn't be overly concerned about leaving smoothly, they do not appear to be serious in their dealings. I would hand in a resignation stating the last day you will be working and explicitly stating the reason you are leaving, the withholding of your payment. If you have any outstanding salary with the company you might have to drag it through court if they do not settle. 

If you use another work as an argument why you should receive an increase in your current job there is a significant risk that you will lose out. Threatning to leave if you don't get what you want, as this will be perceived, can be taken as a lack of faith in the company and a will to leave, among other. If you decide to keep working at the company your reputation and relation with your superiors will likely be soured. A company is primarily interested in what you can bring to them in term of experience, output etc. If you are a key-member with special knowledge, skills etc. that are key in order for the company to continue and not come to a grinding halt, yes then maybe that would be a valid tactic. Once. Creating that kind of bus-factor is a sure way of being replaced or made obsolete, but there are scores of questions that can tell you more on that. TLDR: Being a rank and file employee this will most likely not work, and any threat you make that you don't carry through will harm your reputation and will damage your relation with the company.