That theorem (overview) is often taken out of context. His suggestive naming of the behavior or elementary particles as "free will" irked a lot of people, especially as the connection to what we consider free will is phenomenally vague. It's almost akin to noting that Heisenberg Uncertainty suggests a lack of determinism (for the more quantum-mechanically literate, look into Bell's Theorem). So the theorem is taken very seriously, but not necessarily having anything to do with what we consider free will. 

I'll answer from the completely math-style logic POV. We know this person has a brother. What is the probability that s/he's male? Let us assume that half of the population is male and the other half female, that this is very uniformly distributed, that the gender of previous children doesn't affect gender of any future child of a couple, etc. Let us also assume for a moment that the figure has exactly 1 sibling. Then a priori, there were four equally likely possibilities in his family were BB, BG, GB, and GG. Now we know one is a boy. So we are left with 3 equally likely possibilities: BB, BG, and GB. In two of the three, the shrouded figure is a female. Correspondingly, 1/3 that he's a guy. Now suppose the shrouded figure has 2 siblings. Each of the previous possibilities can be modified 'in pairs,' so that we get BBB/BBG, BGB/BGG, GBB/GBG, GGG/GGB. Knowing one is a boy leaves BBB/BBG, BGB/BGG, GBB/GBG, GGB. Thus we have 1 situation in which he's a guy, 3 in which s/he's 50/50, and 3 in which she's a girl. So now the chances are smaller - 5/14 that he's a guy (approximately 1/3). And so on. In general, it's more likely given these assumptions and that we don't know the relative ages that the figure is a girl. It is Monty Hall style. 

The standard argument is a reductio: assume that physicalism holds; therefore, consciousness is strictly reducible to physical states; Zombies possess exactly the same physical states as humans but lack consciousness; therefore, physicalism cannot hold. 

Here's a website that collects a number of relevant quotes; but as you say, it is really a ubiquitous theme in Nietzsche's corpus-- in fact, Beyond Good and Evil, On the Genealogy of Morals, and The Antichrist consist of little else. There's also a fair amount of secondary literature on the subject-- you might want to start here, as this will provide context as well as citations. 

What you are actually asking about does not really relate to the philosophy of science or epistemology (the philosophy of knowledge) but rather, to the ethics of intellectual property. Broadly speaking, there are three main options one has with regard to a new discover/creation; one can keep it a secret, one can put it into the public domain so that anyone may make use of it, or one can publish it while retaining some exclusive rights for a limited period of time. (The notions of "copyright" and "patents" have been developed as methods to achieve the latter.) I don't really see how your notion of "elitism" has much to do with anything; if the idea is published (regardless of whether you protect it via patent/copyright or not), it is now out in the open and available to everybody (after a suitable waiting period, if appropriate.) If the discovery is of genuine value, it will be exploited by somebody-- that could be you or your designee, for a time, but ultimately, could be anybody. There's no "elite" about it. On a practical level, in order to get the discovery taken seriously by other people, it would need to be published in a peer-reviewed form. It's always possible to attempt to bypass this channel, but it rarely works; usually, the reluctance to attempt peer review is the calling card of a crank. 

Is the presentation of the disjunctive synthesis as a series "either.... or.... or... or..." a series of equivalent means of describing the 'location' of a particular body-organization in different sign-systems? Does the illegitimate use of the disjunctive synthesis then consist in restricting such to some finite set of sign-systems? How does the unconscious contain the Body without Organs? How can it contain all possible configurations of organs, since this is of course an infinite amount of information? 

If we resolve the problem of information overload by simply calling the BwO the 'attained' phase space or as consisting of those configurations which have been 'experienced', then it would seem we have a fairly cohesive picture: At the climax of the desiring-machine or equivalently, the experience, e.g. when the baby has had its fill of milk, the connective-synthetic bonds dissolve and their energy records a 'memory' of that experience in an (indeterminate) code of representation. Yet this seems to clash in some respects with the language D+G use to describe the recordings, specifically how they are "on" the BwO. We could instead take the BwO to be an image of the body as an undifferentiated mass, or equivalently at the point where every organ is in a state of quiescence; the disjunctive synthesis would then attach to each quiescent organ the phase space of possible (or attained) assemblages grafted onto that organ. For example, we have the series "either resting hand or hand-object A or hand-object B or hand-object C...;" all of which are written in parallel on the BwO's hand, so to speak. 

The difference between the Law of Non-Contradiction and the Law of the Excluded Middle is subtle; fortunately, it's also irrelevant to most purposes. The distinction becomes most evident if we contrast classical logic to the Indian Catuṣkoṭi, where four positions are available: 

At this point you've answered your own question. The mathematical formulations approximate the the reality of the wall in some register, but there is still a significant distinction to be drawn between the (abstract, intelligible) mathematical object and the (empirical, sensible) physical object it describes. No empirically found circular object is actually a circle. 

The key distinction between a definition and a simple list of characteristics seems to me to be that the latter would include accidental and contingent properties, and the former is more concerned with the essential properties. So, while the ability to hold down papers in the wind is a property of an avocado, it is not an essential property; on the other hand, it is the essential property of a paperweight. And, as you indicate, if the avocado is functioning as a paperweight, any definition will have to be contextual-- are you being asked about the avocado qua avocado or the avocado qua paperweight? 

I think this may be easier to answer if we reverse the question: off the top of my head, I don't know of any ethicist who has drawn a substantive ethical distinction between outright lying and speaking with the intent to mislead. As far as I recall, everyone treats them as morally equivalent. Naturally, I'd be happy to defer to counter-examples I may have overlooked. 

I think that one of the biggest changes in war came with the apparent end of conventional warfare after the Gulf War. It is simply unreasonable for almost any state (a few exceptions, perhaps, but not so many) to expect to confront NATO in so-called 'conventional' ways and be successful. The Art of War speaks at great length of how generals should command, Sun Tzu even mentions that "All war is based on deception." But he took this only insofar as to attack when your enemy thinks you are weak, and to appear strong even when you are weak so as to discourage attack (Baden Powell truly embodied this in the Battle of Mafeking, which also led to the development of the Boy Scout Movement). Yet modern forms of deception are far more complicated, and warfare conducted in ways that appear far less ordered, than ever before. I think that some of the seminal works now would include On Guerilla Warfare, by Mao Tse-Tung, and Urban Warfare. These include some philosophy, some straight-up strategy and tactics, and some ideology. With the current trends in combat ranging from conventional to highly asymmetric, I think that these texts should also be included. 

Nothing at all. This is the same base idea at the heart of non-inertial reference frames. This is like Einstein's claim (at the heart of his idea that grew into relativity) that it is impossible to distinguish between an accelerating frame or reference and an inertial frame of reference in a gravitational field. That is to say that if we are in an elevator that is accelerating upwards at 2 m/s^2, or on a planet that happens to feel 12 m/s^2 of gravity (that is to say that the force or the acceleration are indistinguishable). 

To summarize, so far I have found two understandings on the BwO, neither of which seems completely reasonable. a. The BwO is a phase space (or attained phase space) for what D+G call the various "organ-izations" of the body, i.e. the various configurations of body parts into desiring-machine assemblages. Disjunctive synthesis operates at each configuration in the BwO (point in the phase space) to link together the representations of that configuration in the various sign-system. So for example we have "either a hand or una mano or la main or die hand or..." b. The BwO is an 'image' of the physical body as an undifferentiated mass, where every body part is in a state of quiet. The disjunctive synthesis attaches to each body part representations of all attained assemblages containing that part as an organ-machine. So for example we have "either a resting hand or a hand touching something or a hand touching something else or a hand making a rude gesture or..." Which of these is what we are going for in Anti-Oedipus? Buchanan remarks off hand that the "disjunctive synthesis... is functionally equivalent to Althusser's interpellation" - a statement that I can't quite make heads or tails of. 

Reading Deleuze and Guattari's Anti-Oedipus, I am unclear on the nature of the Body without Organs. Most literature seems to describe this body as a phase space in the mathematical sense of the term, i.e. as consisting of all possible configurations of organ-machines into assemblages. This leads to the following characterization: Since D+G propose a materialist theory of psychology, the unconscious must 'experience' the world through the body's organs, which in the language of D+G means that all of our experiences (in the phenomenological sense of the word) can be characterized as machines 'grafted onto' our body parts, which they refer to as organ-machines. For example, the baby's mouth connects to the mother's breast to gain milk; this experience takes on the form of a machine: the mouth machines connects to the breast machine. The objects involved in these experiences are 'partial' in the sense of only existing in the unconscious as components of the machine, rather than as objects in of themselves. Hence the it is not really the mother's breast, but merely a breast, that is contained in the aforementioned machine. Since each such machine involves the body's organs into some machinic assembly, it can be identified with an 'organization of the body' or a point in the phase space (Body without Organs). The 'location' of this point is then recorded, with D+G's multiplicitous sign-systems consisting essentially of multiplicitous coordinate systems on the phase space. Two questions follow: 

There are many things that are unclear or uncertain in this question. What does it mean to be "scientific?" Since you use the phrase falsifiable, I will assume you refer to the idea of science as put forward by Karl Popper. In particular, the scientific method is about testing ideas through empirical falsifiability. A theory cannot be proven right, but it can be falsified. In this context, the act of declaring any one thing or another is not the pertinent question. You ask if "saying something has existed" is falsifiable. This is broad and depends on many things. Let's say I claim that I have existed for 200 years. To better ignore metaphysical questions about what it means to exist, let's rephrase this as I have been alive for 200 years. Sure, this is a lousy theory. My parents and governmental records could easily say that I wasn't. In that sense, it is falsifiable - but it's mostly an uninteresting theory. Whether or not one calls it scientific, it is utterly irrelevant. But it may be that you are asking about whether the actual techniques that scientists use to date events in the past are scientific. And here, the answer is yes. There are very many interrelated theories about dating. Some can be found on the Wikipedia page Absolute Dating. The important aspect is that we have theories involving dating from carbon-14, or potassium-argon, or argon-argon, or thermoluminescence, or relatively simpler tasks like counting tree rings or cross-examining found fossils or the like. The Earth's magnetic field changes from time to time, and we believe we understand how this affects rocks. So some rocks can be roughly dated through paleomagnetism. Or we can use volcanic ash. We build up larger cohesive theories about dating from these smaller, individual theories. Counting tree rings is a particularly easy to imagine theory with clear testing mechanisms. Grow some trees, take core samples, and count the rings. We can get a little more involved by noting that particularly large rings occur during seasons of particularly favorable weather. Matching these up across many trees (and fossilized or otherwise preserved trees from the past) might allow one to get even deeper. Now someone might come along and start to compare carbon-14 dating to tree ring dating. If there was disagreement, then something is wrong. Ideas must be adjusted or thrown away. And so it goes, each part tested and honed against each other. I haven't even mentioned that each technique is interrelated with areas of science. Nuclear physicists and geologists have a lot to say about the science going into their respective techniques. The fact that we now have a rather large and interconnected set of resources for dating suggests that dating is highly scientific. As a final reference, you might consider reading about the Problem of induction, which is a related concern. 

True. Naturally, since no one (yet) has proven to be immortal, the vast majority of that infinite time "ahead of you" will also be "without you"; but either way, we can conceive of, say, the year 2090, or the year 20000000[...insert zeroes at leisure...]000090. 

This is correct. A standard (deductive) syllogism moves from the general to the specific. In this case, the argument is structured inductively: that we should induce the general rule from the specific case. If you are using this textbook for a course, I'd talk to your instructor. If you're studying on your own, I'd look for a better text. 

The translation/commentary by A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupāda, Bhavavad-Gītā As It Is translates the term praduṣyanti as "polluted" in the text, and explains in the commentary that this refers to a failing in the "chastity and faithfulness of womanhood" and "being misled into adultery." He adds: 

...is not true. (If p then q) and (if r then s) does not in any way allow us to claim that one of (if p then s) or (if r then q) is true. So, we're not dealing with valid formal reasoning here, but fallacious reasoning. Now, as to the larger issue of whether or not formal logic is appropriate for arguments. The short answer is: yes, it should be used, as far as it can be-- but the meat of most arguments lies in the definitions, and the implications to be drawn. It is rare that you will see a philosophical argument fall due to an error in formal reasoning; much more likely, it is attacked because of some unquestioned assumption implied in the structure of the claims. Finally, it is dangerous to think that formal logic is the "one reliable tool for reasoning", because it raises the question: by what means do you reliably know that formal logic is reliable? Logic is (famously) not self-grounding; there is no logical proof that the axioms of logic are valid. For a nice (and canonical) example, see Lewis Carroll's What the Tortoise Said to Achilles. EDIT: I just want to clarify that I know that the "tautology" listed above is, indeed, tautologous according to the truth table. However, in order to be able to apply the formal logic encased within to something less abstract than the truth table, we need to construe the material implication operator as having some real-world significance. In this case (and in many other cases), this translation fails to obtain. This does not mean that formal logic is wrong, per se, as much as it is not applicable to the domain (of facts, and not the domain of truth tables.) I suspect that this is the very point the OP's professor is making, and his warning should be heeded. 

Too long for a comment: I think at the heart of this question is the common belief that religion and science are diametrically opposed. But I would also say this is a misnomer - the real key is that they do not cover the same material. It is possible for the concept usually described by the vastly unspecific and overgeneralized word "science" to address religious issues - though it's unlikely. In particular, if a god or gods were to appear, demonstrate their powers, and the like, then it is not the case that the scientific community would still refute this. In some freshman physics class I took in college, I remember there being a student who had a really hard time separating the concept of theory and fact. Really, he had a hard time acknowledging that 'science' was not based on facts, but on approximated theories founded upon approximate observations - they can compete, multiple theories can both be brought forward, etc. What I'm getting at is that the idea of a 'scientific perspective' seems poorly defined. If you mean from the perspective of coming up with ideas and subjecting them to the test of being compared with observation and logic, then that's one thing. If you mean describe the sort of deity-like perhaps-sentient Designer(s) with a set of rules governing behavior, or to mathematically demonstrate sort of property, or to see what would happen if we shot two of such creators at each other (as I continue to poke at my physics buddies) - that's another thing. Further, it's not so clear what you mean by intelligent design, or even intelligence? Could you clarify, especially on what sort of characterization of this 'intelligence' that you mean?