You don't specify which sport or league you're interested in, but I'm assuming it's the NFL since I know that's a criterion used there. If that's the case then by the NFL's tiebreaking procedure, they use the "best won-lost-tied percentage in common games." For your example, Team B would then win the tie-breaker. I think this makes perfect sense, too, and would expect to see the same method used for any other league that uses this criterion. 

I don't think you'll find any explicit historical events or conditions that led to the absence of ties (mostly) in U.S. sports. I think it's just a product of the sports fans' sentiments that frown upon ties and draws. For most sports, it's not incredibly difficult to "untie" the game either. Since baseball is one of the most influential games in American sports history, I have a feeling that sentiment would be a little different if draws were used in the early days of play instead of extra innings. The common perception in American is that ties are a waste of time and pointless. People like things black or white, good or bad, won or lost--ties are a shade of gray that's not very exciting, and excitement is one of the aims of sporting events. Each game is billed as a contest to determine the better team and American fans don't like inconclusive results. A lot of people see it this way--why play 2 or 3 hours to a tie when the result is basically the same as if the game was never played? For places around the world where draws are common, there's probably a little more nuance in how to look at this. A tie could be seen as a good or bad thing depending on the teams and it's all part of a long season. But Americans are more likely to want to know right now and keep it simple: who won and who lost? "Neither" just isn't a satisfying reply. 

The only practical preference for lane assignment in the 100m sprint is for a matter that's no longer the case at the Olympic games and many other large competitions. In 2008, research was published that showed that sprinters nearer to the starting gun (which is always inside lane 1) had slightly quicker reactions to the gun. This is because of their proximity to the gun as well as the shot having just a little more volume to their perspective. The use of electronic pistols began in 2012 for the Olympics and you can see them today sitting just behind the starting blocks in each lane to provide a uniform starting shot for everyone. I perused a few scientific studies that explore factors in straight-line sprint times and didn't come across any mentions of lane assignments being a factor in any way (other than what I described with proximity to the starting gun). As far as psychological impact, it's a possibility but I think that comes down to the individual--two people could view the same situation in difference lights and a third might not think about it at all. For example, one sprinter may feel uncomfortable being on an outside lane because they might not feel like they're "in" the race as much; while another may enjoy that situation because they can keep track of everybody else by simply eyeing in one direction and it could feel like it's them against this block of "everyone else". One could argue that a middle lane is best because you have other good runners pushing you from either or both sides. Bottom line, though, I think it just comes down to personal preference and no lane has an inherent advantage over any other. 

According to the book Football Oddities by Tony Matthews, under the section "Discipline", subsection "Football League" where Mr. Matthews lists various random-ish facts: "The first manager to be sent off in a League game was Ronnie Rooke, as playermanager of Crystal Palace v Millwall in October 1949." 

For the NHL at least, the term "team possession" can be a little bit of a misnomer considering how it's calculated. It doesn't actually come from somebody holding a stopwatch and keeping track of the time that each time controls the puck. They have tried that method before, but there's the problem that you pose which happens quite often where it's unclear which team has "possession". Instead, there's a couple of statistics called Corsi and Fenwick (or FenClose) (scroll down to Possession Statistics) that have been shown to be good indicators of time of possession, as well as other things. Based on shot attempts, they're sometimes translated to a time, which is the stat that you've probably seen. 

One of the appeals of using WHIP as a statistic is that it's very simple to understand and calculate, and the resulting numbers hold some real value as far as describing a pitcher's skill. If you were to add something to the formula (namely HBP numbers), you'd want to first look at how it affects the balance between 1. ease of use and 2. value of adding the new part. In this case, we already have a statistic that can be easily understood and calculated by any average fan. Yes, an average fan should be able to handle adding in the HBP but is that small burden worth it? Just choosing a random league and year, I looked at the National League in 2016 and Jimmy Nelson led the league by hitting 17 batters. His actual WHIP of 1.517 would have been 1.612 if you include HBPs--a difference of about 1/10 of a point. Keep in mind that that's the biggest effect you would have seen for that year in that league. Also, practically every pitcher would have a slightly higher WHIP, just not by 1/10 of a point. For a simple stat like WHIP is intended to be, there's probably not enough value in adding the HBP numbers to be worth the trouble. On the other hand, you're right that HBP is often a controllable thing and there are plenty of advanced stats that do take it into account, for example Field Independent Pitching. These types of stats, though, are called advanced for a reason--they're not for the casual fan to memorize and calculate on the spot, but they do have a lot of value for people who love to dig into the numbers and value precision over ease. 

I'm interested in the following situation: a team in American football possesses the ball with less than a minute left in the first half of a game and is facing a long field to score. Oftentimes, teams will have their quarterback take a knee here to effectively end the half. This seems to be pretty common and it's commonly accepted as sound strategy, but I'm struggling to see how it is the most beneficial choice for the team. You can sometimes see teams do this at the end of a tie game--"playing it safe" and taking their chances in overtime. From my point of view, the only outcomes that matter from running an extra play or two are either A) Your team scores, or B) The other team scores --any other result is meaningless. Do you teams really think that running a play (even a "safe" one like a run up the middle) will result in an opponent scoring more often than their own scoring probability? If so, what makes this different than any other play; i.e., why run any offensive play at all at any point? Another consideration that I've surmised is that a team may be worried about having a possible injury. That seems like a pretty small risk to me and you're just as likely to have an injury happen to the opposing team. I know that these plays aren't usually a big deal, but what am I missing that makes this strategy so well-accepted? 

Importantly, the foul lines are included in fair territory and the perpendicular property is stated. 

For the 2016-17 NBA season, there were 50 such double-doubles and 16(!) triple-doubles where 40 points were scored (thanks to Harden and Westbrook, and one time from Lebron). To recognize how rare it is though, there were only 8 of these triple-doubles for the whole period between 2000 and the start of last season. It might be more helpful to show you how I got these numbers though--I'd suggest getting familiar with the Basketball Reference site (check out the full site menu). Besides finding specific player stats, you can find different kinds of streaks, team stats, season stats, and all kinds of interesting things with the search criteria. For this particular question, it was rather simple: use the Player Game Finder page, select the season(s) you're interested in or any other criteria to narrow the search, and then under "Additional Criteria", choose PTS >= 40, and check either the "Double-Double" or "Triple-Double" box. 

Note there that the foul pole is included as being part of fair territory, that the relative position of the ball to the foul line is what matters (so it never has to touch anything), and in the case you present of a ball flying over the foul pole--this is the point of the ball passing "out of the playing field in flight"; this all leads to the ruling of a fair ball and thus home run. 

so yes, an incomplete pass would warrant the play being dead. There are plenty of instances of underhand passes being used in the NFL and other levels of play, usually as a shovel pass (a kind of screen pass), but also sometimes when the quarterback is being dragged down and wants to get rid of the ball as quickly as possible. 

They also suggest that injuries are reduced (fewer moving parts) and the wind-up can basically be added on after mastery of the stretch. Former MLB pitcher Steven Ellis says: 

After reading Joe's and rrirower's answers and having some time to think about, I'm now comfortable with an answer to the crux of my question which is: if running a play here is a net negative, why run any offensive play ever? The difference between this situation and a normal drive with ample time remaining is that in the kneel-down situation where you could run one more (or two or three) play, the defense actually might have a better chance of scoring than your team...with an entire drive, your chance of scoring is higher than the defense's. It's counter-intuitive at first (at least to me), so here's some completely made up numbers to illustrate the principle. Say you have the ball at your own 20 yard line with a few seconds left and you want to run a play. Your odds of scoring might be 0.5% while the defense has a 1.0% chance--the upper hand goes to the defense. The difference with a drive where you have time for more plays is that in the 98.5% of the time where nobody scores, you are hopefully advancing the ball a little further. Each subsequent play garners little chance of a score for either team, but you increasingly improve your odds of scoring while decreasing the other team's odds of scoring as you advance the ball. By the time you make it to the other team's 20 yard line, your chances of scoring on a given play might be 12% (again, completely made up) while the defense now has a 0.25% chance. Like I said, those numbers aren't real, but the principle stands that in being able to put together a drive, you continually increase your odds of scoring compared to the other team. There exists an inflection point somewhere on the field where anything before it is a net negative for that play (as illustrated by Joe). So a single play would not be a good idea. But a drive has a sort of cumulative effect wherein the plays taken as a whole are more often a net positive. 

Taking your description on it's face (hey, nobody ever thinks they fouled!), it seems that the referee was wrong in saying that these were reaching fouls. They would have been blocking fouls if you were truly in the wrong. You say that your feet were planted and arms straight up when the opponent runs into you, but the determination of whether it's called a blocking or charging foul then comes down to the timing of when you got set--was it before the other player started his upward shooting motion? At least that's how it works in the NBA and NCAA rules, but it may vary so might to see what rules your league abides by. The only explanation I can think of that's compatible with both your description of being in a set position and the ref's comment about your arms blocking is that although you had your feet set and arms straight up, you leaned into the offensive player. Might that have been the case? At any rate, next time try keeping your hands behind your back as the player comes toward you with your shoulders squared up toward him. If a reaching foul is called then, you really need to look into how to get a different referee!