Unfortunately, what you describe is not at all uncommon. If a "Knowledge Transfer" covers 30% of the job, that's pretty awesome. The most important thing to do is identify other people in the area/department who are also versed in whatever you're doing. 

You're being too sensitive. If someone wants to break into the employee records, someone's password is not the vector they would choose. And if they do try, there is a near 100% chance someone's administrative password is far less 'secure' than anything you would choose. If it's a 'large company', their internal security personnel, auditors and lawyers are probably aware of this and are ok with it. A 'large company' is not going to change their policy over this, sorry :( 

For organizations that subscribe to the 'Process Model', yes, and 99% of the time, the documentation has 0 ROI due to the exact circumstances you describe. This is just bureaucracy. Keep in mind though that there may be some regulatory benefit to such schemes and that should be well known to everyone. 

Actually I've realised the only way to deal with this is be blunt. State my circumstances, two young children with dead mother, if I have to explain further then, there is more serious issues with the job than worrying about having to stay late 

I'm being treated for depression and I'm "cursed" with honesty. The titles I held with former employers and my specific job roles I held don't match what I want to change to. In many of the roles I've had as senior developer & technical leader, I've written realistic project plans, lead scrums, written project documentation, done the actual project management work of resource allocation, timelines, meetings, negotiation, task allocation, epics, user stories, managed sprint planning, standups and retrospectives and designed effective sprints so that networking,infrastructure and operations are factored into the development plan and kept up to speed with where they fit in and are required. Often I've either been asked to do that by the actual project manager or "helped" to write realistic plans to match the actual work to be done and manage the team doing it. I know I have the skills to do project management, but I have a block when it comes to re-writing my CV to remove the development aspects and (in my mind) dramatically change what I have done to focus on Agile Project Management. I feel very dishonest about changing the official job titles on my employment contracts from my former employers as they mostly include the programming language (senior c# this, .net team lead that) and the descriptive text in my resume is written to back up that title. I've been tasked by my psychologist to re-write my resume to better reflect the roles I would like to do and jobs I want to apply for. I feel very hampered by my employment history and that's also compounded by not having any agile or pm qualifications and my MSc is CS as well. Frankly, I feel typecast and as recruiters with my existing resume keep on phoning and emailing me for programming roles - I'm finding it hard to see how to get out of the trap. In my mind if I was to leave in the official job title and focus on the leadership, agile and PM duties then there is a screamingly obvious mismatch between title and duties. 

My opinion, you're overthinking this. Breaks in monotony are work time just as much as typing in the editor. It's part of the creative process. So, chatting with teammates, getting a snack, checking SO while waiting for a build to complete just come with the territory. The situation is the same for ancillary distractions such as random phone calls and such. No one stops the clock for two minutes to answer a call from their mother. Over time, you'll develop a professional sense of what a work-break (billable) vs. a break in work (not billable). Yes, this is different then task based work, such as answering phones or data entry. Also keep in mind that tracking such trivial 'breaks' can take as much time as the breaks themselves. Finally, this is an impossible thing to judge. Some very productive people don't appear to do much work while some other work hard for relative average output. Lunch is a grey area. If you billing as an FTE, then the daily rate may include that but generally, you don't bill the hour you take for lunch just as you would bill any time taken for doing random errands during the day. 

Context: the technical development staff stands at 31 individuals, of which I am the ScrumMaster/Development manager responsible 3 cross functional teams of 5 people in each team. Over the last year the business has been turning over (averaged out) 4-5 developers per month, of which I am now one of them as I have given my weeks notice. From my understanding it is attributable to a mid level manager who joined just over a year ago. I've given notice because this individual is too difficult to work with. Staff prior to his arrival say that the company was different. No one post his arrival has stayed longer than six months. Some of the turnover is down to individuals resigning, like my self. Other situations are down to sackings because the developers didn't "deliver" the user stories acceptably. SideBar 1: User stories often are in the from of; New Product Database, 2 days work. What that actually translates to; Re-factoring the existing database, creating new relational structures and ETL-ing from old to new. Re-factor all sprocs and sql statements for applications and place into production. I sat in the meeting where it was decided to dismiss him (the DBA) for being obstructionist, argumentative, not capable of delivering (my first warning signal something was wrong - given I was defending his (the DBA's) position). SideBar 2: The Mid Level Manager is on the business side rather than technical. He has shown some very unsavoury behaviour sexist, racist, Anti-Semitic, physically manhandling people out of meetings: generally obnoxious. What amazes me is that this individual has a huge list of "reputations" on linkedin, gushing about his marvellous skills and great to work with. I would like to exit the company gracefully, but I face with an "ethical" conundrum on two levels. A competency based one as I view his managements skills to be exceptionally poor and then the one about his disgraceful behaviour in the modern workplace towards colleagues (peers and direct reports). I do not, in my last week, want to raise a grievance, but as this company is a highly respected British organisation, who prides itself on it even-handedness to its consumers. I feel that this is a very toxic environment and it should be brought to light. So given I have five working days to go (as of 8 April 13), How do I; 

Yes, chat tends to be must less formal then even email. I used to try to be correct, but, really, it's just not worth time. 

You have to look at this in the abstract. If you feel the employee was truly negligent in handling company resources, then you can discipline them on that basis. It doesn't matter what they were handling or the value. You would have to prove a very high level of negligence, in the US at least, to get the employee to actually pay for the loss. Leaving the money next to the other money would sound perfectly reasonable to most people. 

You can address the "unprofessional" comment by essentially conspiring with your manager to have them close the door. Meaning, you manager can swing by a couple of times for whatever reason, then on the way out ask "open or closed?". The three of you say "closed". Manager, hearing the clear majority says "no problem, thanks for the...whatever..." then closes the door. 

Its your choice to share medical information. Somehow the notion of continuous employment is still prevalent as well as the "job for life". There are many circumstances that take people out of the employment market. Travelling is a legitimate reason for taking time out of work (some people are fortunate enough to turn it into means of income - travel writers for example). Having children, long term illness, return to education even being in prison are all reasons why people are in and out of the labour market. Resumes are presented to employers as a linear timeline to explain how you got your skills and experience. Your references don't necessarily have to be from former employers, but common convention dictates that there should be a continuous timeline and reference from current employer. It also makes it easier to slot someone into a new or existing role if they are currently doing that role somewhere else. For example if an employer has a vacancy for high altitude, deep sea welding its easier for them to take someone if they are currently employed as a mountain top underwater welder. If you choose to be fraudulent on your resume to cover the gap because a friend has recommended you do it because they have a common convention view of traditional resumes, then you may get caught out and have to take the consequences of your choice. Alternatively, embrace the lifestyle choices that occurred and see that it nothing to be ashamed of. The only issue I could see from presenting a gappy resume is that it may take longer for you to find an employer who is prepared to see past it. 

You can omit anything you want from your resume but be prepared to explain any gaps and make sure the application requirements don't specifically require all employment be listed. From there... Put it this way, if you include the nuclear work and they... -Reject you. Accept you're not a good fit. -Accept you. They are accepting your previous work and you don't have to hide anything. If you omit the nuclear work and they... -Reject you. You'll wonder if they would have been willing to over look the specific nuclear aspect. -Accept you. You'll potentially have a secret this is either exploitable or may cause distrust if ever learned. 

Unless there are significant legal (DUI, criminal investigation, insurance fraud) or regulatory issues surrounding the test, no one will be watching you ;) Being alone in the contribution room (bathroom) is usually enough for a regular employment drug screening. If you've given a sample to you doctor, it's pretty much the same thing. 

From what you've described I would see it as the standard negotiation and barter that goes on in offices on a day to day basis, which results in compromise. Reading between the lines the only person out of the three of you who has an issue with what you did and what happened is yourself. You express a frustration at two other people having differing opinions and basically faffing around making a choice. That's normal, that's ordinary that's the basics of making any decision. It's subjective whether you did the wrong or right thing. The outcome appears to be amicable and satisfactory and I feel from what you've said is that the only person who appears to be dwelling on the situation and possibly tuning it into an issue is yourself. So to answer your question it's neither right nor wrong but rather the middle ground between the two. Sorry it's not a binary answer, but there are things that will always be on a spectrum of answers. Finally its always right to have your own opinions and put them forward in a consistent coherent way and arguing your point is OK. I would say that your headline question is it OK to argue is at odds with your context. 

It depends greatly on who is taking the most initiative in the deal or who want's the deal the most. For example, if Contoso needs a new widget supplier and they think Fabrikam makes the best widgets in the world and really wants them, Contoso will pay to send their personnel to Fabrikam to inspect the factory and negotiate a deal. But, if Fabrikam is trying to sell Contoso their amazing widgets and get them to switch suppliers, then Fabrikam will invite at their (Fabrikam's) expense Contoso personnel to inspect the factory and discuss a deal. In other words, whoever has the most initiative usually pays. 

Bluntly, yes. But, neither of you are at fault. In the case you describe, you work style and the professor's management style simply do not blend well and this is not at all uncommon. The long term problem is that it's highly unlikely either of you will change. 

Your employer has specifically asked you not to undertake an activity, they have stated the reasons why they do not want you doing it and continuing to do so they will terminate your employ, you have stated to your employer that you disagree with their request and will endeavour to find ways and means to do so and still be visible to them doing it. At some point a decision will be made, either by you to leave because this is disagreeable to you or by your employer as you are will-fully disobeying an explicit instruction. 

It's so they know how close you are to the place of work I would suggest it's so they can work out your geographic closeness to the business. Although there is a lot of "noise" about remote working and work from home, the vast majority of employers want staff who are within an hour /hour and a half commutable distance. The main reason being is that your "fresh" in the morning and if there is an emergency work problem, they know roughly how long it will take you to get in.