Is it possible to control permissions on a single stored procedure level in SQL Server 2012? It seems that SQL Server Manager doesn't expose such functionality via GUI. Can somebody advice me how to view/set permission on a single stored procedure level? In particular I'm interested in removing "Connect" right on one procedure for specified account while leaving Connect rights for this account on all the others procedures. Is it possible? 

I have the following task: I want to execute fixed SELECT statement against SQL Server table with some fixed condition and I need to do it after specified period of time multiple times... Let's say N times with 1 minute interval between each execution with final goal to display only records which were returned all N times... Final goal is to check if some specific records persist in select results over time or maybe even order them by time they were returned - i.e. one record was returned in 3 first SELECT executions and interval was set to 1 minute hence I can say it was persistent for 3 minutes, another record was returned 5 times - so I can conclude it persisted / met my condition for 5 minutes. Nature of my condition/data dictates that records not meet this condition for more than one minute and I want to catch abnormal records which meet my condition for prolonged period of time. From explanation above it seems that it all involves some cycle, temp table and condition to put results in yet another temp table. But I'm posting it here to check if I maybe missing some simpler approach/solution which will allow to achieve the same result? 

I've searched questions but can't seem to apply to my scenario. Please see attached code below. I am trying to join two subsets of this data but am getting duplicates/too many rows please see subsets below main query and main results (i'm hoping you can understand by providing data/examples without table defs as tables are enormous) (please excuse formatting i don't know how to line everything up in this) : 

Hi all please see attached data below. I'm trying to get a row based on various conditions. scenario 1 - get highest row if no hours exist against it that has (setup + processtime > 0). scenario 2 - if there's hours (like in this example) show next operation. (which would be 60). 

I have application / service which connects to Oracle database (11g) which shows me "ORA-00942: table or view does not exist" in its log file without any indication of particular table/view with which it has problem. And there is no way on app side to increase log details to include this data. I have direct access to the Oracle database which is using by this app (not DBA level privileges, but quite high level of access) any advice on how to check with which table or view my app having issue? Probably I can use some query to check this? I'd like to find out object name so that I can check granted access and any locks on it. 

we have a DWH load job that sometimes hangs. We have not been able to determine why this is happening it seems to be random and network/hardware related (which we have no control over). We are ordering new hardware which will isolate our processes but this is weeks away. Therefore when our job hangs, we would like to specify a timeout option if any of the steps reaches a certain amount of time and have it automatically restarted. How can this be done? Thanks! 

Which says is the costgroup repeated and is it standard material, if so mark substitution variance as 0. I thought you couldn't use OVER within a CASE statement? Or is it only certain window functions you can't use within CASE? 

The only strange/suspicious thing about this machine is that it had multiple versions of oracle client installed (10, 11.1, 11.2) - removal of all versions apart from 11.1 & reinstall/repair of 11.1 haven't resolved this issue. Also it seems to me that v10 of client was not removed properly - it disappeared from Programs and Features, but files in installation folder had not been deleted. Any advice on what to check / how to resolve this issue? 

I have Windows Server 2008 R2 with Oracle Client 11.1.0.7.0 client installed. TNSPing to 100% available databases (accessible from other machines, i.e. I can do TNS ping to these databases from other machines) returns me following error: TNS-12535: TNS:operation timeout. At the same time I can telnet to database host/port and see that proper tnsnames file is being used. Environment variables are configured as appropriate (ORACLE_HOME, TNS_ADMIN, Path). Also I can connect via telnet using service/host name + port - so this is unlikely a firewall issue. After enabling Oracle client logging I can see following error related details in tnsping.trc: 

There's a simple answer to this. If the relationship between the tables does not exist to give you the results you want, you need to CREATE your own relationship. I used ROW_NUMBER OVER (ORDER BY PALLETID) to give me unique ID's for both datasets. THen simply join (make sure you check different joins to make sure you don't exclude rows from one side or the other) ACODEID = BCODEID. Simple! 

Whoops my bad! I was sure I had set the sort key on the advanced editor on ole db source but I hadn't! 

but this gave me 6 * 6 36 rows... I want to just bolt the right query on to the end of the left query. exactly like a union