Therefore, we all know the mechanism, and we can share thoughts. You will probably agree that if you speak to a rock, it will not answer as a person would do. Therefore you and me can find the same proof. If we don't agree with causality, proof is impossible. Objectivity about causality is probably the base of all science. There is no deeper truth (for now). 

The problem here is the concept of existence. If existence means "occupation of space" you don't need a proof of work. You can just use any proof of occupation to validate existence. If existence means working (as in cogito ergo sum) then you can use a proof of work. Anyway, there are trivial proofs of work that can overcome services using proof of work validations like greylisting, then proof of work is not a perfect test. So, a deeper problem exists with defining existence for different types of things: you cannot apply the same test to a rock, a galaxy, an atom, an idea, a software application, etc. In consequence, commonly there are several different concepts of existence. The solipsist concept of existence is related to the systems theory (didn't existed before 1900). Systems are a wide concept that describes the mechanics of all imaginable groups of related parts. Systems are the supra-group of things, concepts, ideas, objects, entities, beings, etc. A cell is a system and has certain similarities to an equation, like having inputs, outputs, and a mechanism of causality that gives a sequence to inputs and then outputs. You interact with them if you provide an input and receive a different output. There's not so much written about generic/systemic interaction, this is a growing discipline, but you can take a look to my book for some ideas and references, check my profile. So, for solipsists, something exists if you can interact with it (esse est percipi). This is a better definition of existence, since it does not apply only to physical objects: it applies to all imaginable things, that is, systems. In consequence, we don't have different concepts of existence, depending on the domain of the term. So, for solipsists, a cell exists if you can interact with it in some way (for example, by discussing it with your teacher). We know that Einstein existed because he interacted with some people who interacted with others who interact with us (that's out of the scope of a proof of work). The center of the earth started existing since we got aware that the earth is a sphere. An idea exists if you can think about it, examinate it, correlate it with other ideas, etc. A planet does not exist until someone interacts with it in some way. And we interact in some way with that guy. If there are living beings of alternative dimensions walking on our planet, they will not exist until we find some way to interact with them. A box of chocolates can simultaneously exist and don't for two different people depending on how do they interact with it: if it's empty, some could tell that it doesn't exist. If you think on it, this means that existence is subjective, and even if shocking, that has sense. Of course, the theory of systems didn't existed when Berkeley stated that esse est percipi. His ideas didn't belong to his time. In fact, even today, solipsism is usually qualified under pejorative terms. 

For the theory of systems, a system is a group of parts. (=aggregate!) Feynman stated that everything is built of atoms. So, if you think, nothing really exist, nature is only atoms and it's we who interpret groups out of it. We give existence -and a persistent name- to the river, even if it changes permanently. This point of view is coherent with solipsism. I'm working a book about it. But you can find my previous book with related ideas on the link in my profile. 

Your question has a common language issue: what is "value two other persons equally"? So, the answer is yes and no. Yes, because all our interactions end up in one final and binary outcome: attraction or rejection. So, if you feel attracted to your father and mother, you value two other persons equally. No, because for the outcome above, we assess hundreds of features of each person. Your father can have a funny conversation, your mother not so much, but she's patient and he isn't at all. While you feel attracted to both of them, you have a completely different assessment of each one. In such case, you do NOT value two other persons equally. 

Physically, the present should be a dot in the line of time. Past would be on the left side of the dot, and the future would be on the right side. But not for our perception. Our perception is based on memories. The past is not a line, but a set of segments on the left side, inside what we call the long-term memory. The present is also a segment, on the short-term memory. Think on sounds. A sound has only a meaning when it has a duration. If the present would be a dot in time, the state of the air on such instant wouldn't be described as sound. Our memory creates the present by means of memory. How long is the present? Difficult to say. You can ask yourself "what sound am I hearing now?". Short term memory is on the range of tens of seconds. Did you know that we still don't know what is "duration"? Even relativity uses time, but we still don't know what a duration is. Apparently, time and space don't exist at all. They are only in our perception. 

Perhaps this question fits better on the math section. There's no relation between the representation and the actual information. You are trying to make a direct relationship between information and representation. A representation system approaches data on a different format than the original. So, if you want to represent the number decimal-9 in binary, it is just 1001. The information does not change at all. There are no limitations. Perhaps your concern is related to the analog-to-digital (ADC) or reverse (DAC) conversion. A philosophical assessment: Theoretically, depending on the approach of your representation (e.g. using a high number of bits) you can get more resolution than reality.