I am inclined to the view that anything with a laid back seating position and a backrest is probably a recumbent. Note that the racing world has side-stepped the whole definitional question in favour of using "human powered" to describe what they care about. You get the "International Human Powered Vehicle Association" which sadly doesn't have a space vehicle category yet. They do have categories for number of riders, multitrack and single track, and age/sex ones. But no "recumbent vs prone vs upright" rider position ones. 

(edit in comments) People suggest I DIY, but this question arises from my attempts to DIY. I have built my own bike lights before, and it's hard to make something robust and reliable. Waterproof is a particular issue. Since the original question I have run a light designed for two AAA batteries off the rectified and smoothed dynamo output for a couple of months. Despite my efforts to seal around the hole where the wires went in the light failed after about 3 months of winter riding. I'm currently running the SeeSense motion sensing battery light and liking the fact that I only have to touch it when I take it off to charge it - it goes into standby automatically when the bike isn't moving. But if I charge it, it stops flashing and has to be manually turned on once charging stops. So I can't possibly use that as a dyno powered light. 

Yes. All those tools require is that the chain moves through them. They do require the chain move through in a particular direction so you will probably find that you end up with the handle on the bike side of the chain rather than on the outside, which will be mildly inconvenient. But it beats not being able to clean your chain at all. Here's what I do, I took the handle off and set it up so the rear derailleur is pulled forward far enough that the chain cleaner can rest on the mech rather than hitting the idler. That lets me pedal with one hand and have a hand free for wiping the chain, chainrings, idlers etc. I also find disposable gloves essential for this, there's no chain lube that's good for your skin. 

The same guy via Pinterest Lots of the "unicycle touring" I've been able to find is fully supported - it's one or two people on unicycles, followed by at least one motor vehicle carrying all their gear. This guy rode 15,478km across Australia and also claims to hold the Guinness world record (that site is all about the fundraising effort). (edit) Also, the legalities can be difficult - in many countries unicycles are technically not allowed on the road, or the rules are bizarre (unicycles are bicycles, so riders must keep at least one hand on the handlebars at all times, for example, or must have two brakes). In Australia and New Zealand, for example, they are sometimes "bicycles" and other times "wheeled recreational devices" which must be ridden on the footpath. I've not seen those rules enforced in either country, but they exist. I suspect if a unicyclist was hit by a car they'd be treated even worse than a cyclist in the same position. 

At the stage you're at I normally vandalise them out. Get a big flat head screwdriver and use it more like a chisel - wedge the flat under the parts I can see and break them off, trying to break the part that has the thread on it at the same time. Plastic caps usually shatter while I'm doing that and all the bits fall out. If not I remove the bottom bracket bolt or nut now it's exposed so I have better access, then I get a knife and shave away the plastic until that remaining threaded ring falls apart. With aluminium that will be harder but is usually still doable. One alternative that I usually try early on is to cut a groove across the ring (parallel to the BB axis) and try using the screwdriver to turn the ring using that. So far that hasn't failed for me, so I have no idea what to do next. I'd probably use a dremel or a drill to try cutting that ring. (I've done this quite a lot, I've been a bike mechanic. But 90% of the "stuck" ones shatter when levered open as described, leaving you picking out loose pieces.) 

It sounds as though your problem was a somewhat loose tyre not properly seated. It may have been loose enough that it couldn't be properly seated, but in that case I'd expect it to pop off and the tube explode while you were pumping it up for the first time. You may also be running the tyres at too low a pressure, with a skinny tyre like that I'd expect them to need 70psi or more. So, seating a new tyre: 

The one you care about is overspeed. Either explosion due to too much centripetal acceleration, or an imbalance causing the shaft or mount to break. It looks as though your one failed that way, either through the trainer being knocked at some point or being slightly out of balance when it was made. I've also seen bearings fail through overheating, although that shouldn't happen now because bearings are so much better. 

Alignment is anything from trivial to impossible. Good lights have a cut-off beam pattern that is more rectangular than circular. That way you can point the light at the road in front of you and not have the central peak that's pointing up into the eyes of people coming towards you. Even expensive lights often don't do this, so you might be out of luck. The hassle with dyno lights is that you have to be moving to see the beam. I find that getting it roughly right in the workshop than nudging it while I'm riding works best. Having a nylock nut on the vertical adjustment bolt means I can set it to be "just tight enough" and it won't shift while I play with it later. Then I move the light a little while I'm riding - just reach down and push/pull the light a little until it's pointed the right way. If you don't have a locking nut you'll have to stop the bike at that point and tighten the nut fully to lock the light in place. Actually aligning the beam is a matter of deciding how close to you you want the beam to hit the road and aiming it accordingly. Too close and you have a small, very bright spot right in front of you that actally makes it harder to see than not having the light at all. Too far and you're putting most of your light into other people's eyes. With a circular beam you're going to have light going up, there's no way around it. My preference is to aim the light such that the top of the beam is just below horizontal. Or with my B&M Eyc that has a nice rectangular beam and sits just over a 406 wheel, actually horizontal. What I do is wait until I'm riding either towards a reflective sign or white wall, or next to a wall. Then I work out where the top of the beam is and push it down/pull it up until it's right. That way I'm getting the light on the road out in front of me without blinding anyone. 

Anything you can do to stay cooler while riding is good. But note that riding close to building or on roads "in the shade" is often no better than being in the sun as they will reflect and absorb/re-radiate heat. Trees are good, riverside or on a path near a creek (even a dry creek) are better. Mostly, pay attention to how hot you feel. I took photos last summer of heat blisters on my hands from resting on the brake hoods of my bike. That was at only about 38-40°C, but riding through a built up area with lots of shiny buildings and fingerless cycle gloves - you could see that the blisters were where bare skin had touched black plastic hoods. The blisters were really annoying to work around while they healed. 

The key factor here is that the air at the hub is dirty - it's been disturbed by passing through the spokes and around the rim, so it's moving faster than the still air at the rim (slower relative to the bike), and it's turbulent. That makes improving aerodynamics both harder, and less important. The damage has already been done. Having a smooth outer surface is more important, since that's in cleaner air, and keeping it as small as possible since bladed spokes almost certainly have lower air resistance than the solid hub. Mechanically a rim brake hub is a pair of flanges and a spacer. Since with bikes the goal is "everything as light as it can be", making that spacer smaller is a win. It needs to be big enough to enclose the axle, and strong enough to hold the flanges apart, but the job is not much more complex than that. So it can be very small and light. With a disk brake the hub needs to be stronger since there's a torque between the disk rotor and the flanges. For the same reason it's rare to see a multi-part hub. That braking torque means a larger centre section allows thinner walls. Some mountain bikes also have thicker axles than road bikes, and obviously with those the minimum hub core diameter has to be larger to enclose the larger axle. What definitely does improve the aerodynamics is making the hub much bigger, eliminating the spokes altogether. Which is why the UCI does not allow it :) 

I strongly suspect that you could build a SON dyno into a rear wheel by making a fixed gear cog or freewheel assembly that bolted onto the disk rotor mounts. You could probably whip one up on a lathe in less than a day. That would give you the advantage that you could use that wheel as front or rear in any bike, albeit at the cost of the rear wheel being mounted off centre. The disadvantage is that SON would rightly laugh at you if it broke, and of course you'd void the warranty the instant you did that. You could easily fit a single speed adaptor kit to the Shimano, although changing it to fixed would again void the warranty. Quite why you'd want to fix a touring rig including a trailer I'm not sure, the only people I know who've toured on fixies have regretted it, and most have gone to gears very quickly (after less than 1000km). Towing a trailer with a fixie is challenging, I did it once when the guy who started it got sick so I swapped bikes with him. Would not do it if I didn't have to. For remote touring I would be more inclined to rely on solar, unless you're touring a long way north (if you were that far south you'd be paddling not pedalling). A bottle dyno won't work, and I suspect you really want disk brakes. I would also be inclined to use a Rohloff if you want reliability, but I think you'd need to be slightly nuts to take three of them (one in each wheel). Buying a set of the Shimano rear hub dynos is quite practical, with the minor limitation that you're only going to be able to have a 9 speed cassette (you may already have decided to do that for reliability reasons). The guy I know who's riding the Canning Stock Route is using derailleur gears (although he is also meeting a bit of traffic, so it's perhaps not as uninhabited as its reputation would suggest). 

(edit - thanks Carel) It looks very much as though there are "self extracting" crank bolts - if you undo the bolt in the crank it will hit the ring that's been screwed in (you remove that by gripping onto the two little holes in it), and push the crank off. If it's been there a while it will help to lubricate the bolt/ring interface, ideally with grease but oil will also work. Removing that crank will give you much better access to the lock ring. You can do this two ways: find a replacement lockring and BB cup and just swap those. The parts should be nearly free... if you can find them. It's not worth paying someone to do this, so you'll need to rely on the friend who has the parts also having the tools. The other way is to buy a modern cartridge/sealed bottom bracket and fit that. You really need to know which threads are on both sides of the BB to know what BB to buy, so first you need to pull the cranks and extract the existing BB. Personally, I would buy a sealed BB to replace that open one, so I wouldn't be too fussy about how exactly I removed the bottom bracket. But keep the axle, you need to measure that to determine who long it is because that's the key measurement when buying a replacement. Be much more careful about pulling the cranks, you need to keep those. This is what a bike shop will do. You're probably looking at $40 or more for the bottom bracket and $20-$30 minutes of labour. Or buy the BB and borrow or buy the tools ($30-$40 off Amazon or eBay, more from your local bike shop). Assuming it's not a standard/British bottom bracket, your choices are a non-threaded "universal" BB that just sits in the frame held by screwing the two parts together, and a threaded one that actually screws into the frame. The former will probably be easier to find, but be aware that it will almost certainly damage the threads in your bike over time, so once you put one in you can't go back. 

You can see that the "stem" is about 500mm long and extends back from the steerer tube. There was a big tiller effect (handlebars swing a long way side to side when turning), but the bike was very comfortable. With upright bikes, I've used a reversed stem to get clearance from the load area: 

Which is about $7 on Amazon, so probably $10 or so from a bike shop, plus labour. You could swap it yourself if you're a little confident - just take the wheel off, use a screwdriver to pop the lock ring, swap the cog and put the lockring back (beware: the lockring is a spring and likely to go flying). With an o-ring plier they're easy enough to reinstall or you can use a couple of screwdrivers to push it on. The only hiccup might be if you need to remove a chain link to get it to work, in which case you will need a chain tool as well. The main issue is 15-20 minutes of the mechanics time, which will cost you. It will be cheaper if you pop the wheel off before taking it in, or at least make sure it's easy to do so (but if that's tricky you probably want the mechanic to do it all anyway). 

It might be worth buying one that has spare mounts available on eBay, and buying a couple of spares. Then you could just superglue the speedo into the mount and cut it out when the battery needs replacing. 

The advantages of the Pinion are that the weight and complexity are in the middle of the bike and not being bounced around in the hub of the rear wheel, especially for a bike with suspension (the unsprung weight is lower). Also, because it sits in a custom housing it can be whatever size and shape they want, rather than being constrained by the width of the rear hub and needing to be both circular and balanced. As David says, it's easier to switch the rear wheel out either when you are fixing a puncture or because you have several rear wheels (different tyres or whatever). You could take this to the extreme with a fat tyre bike and have a skinny standard 700c rear wheel for around town and a 4" fat wheel for off road. I am considering this for my recumbent touring tandem, as the extra weight of a pair of spare wheels might be compensated for by the ability to switch from skinny road tyres to proper offroad tyres and wheels. One more subtle advantage of the Pinion is that ground speed doesn't matter. Rohloff hubs become noticeably less efficient at high speed, but one of the places they're most desirable is in velomobiles and other speedy bikes. This is compounded by those bikes often using smaller rear wheels (406 is common, 355 is about as common as 622) which further increases the rotation speed of the hub. With a Pinion that doesn't matter, the gearbox always rotates at your pedalling speed. The advantage of the Rohloff is that it's proven technology, parts are fairly widely available and the wheel will fit into a standard bike frame. Especially for long distance touring, the thought of being stuck somewhere remote with a broken Pinion is horrifying, because the only option is wait for a new gearbox or bike to be shipped to you, or give up and go home. The Rohloff alternative is both less likely (because we have seen Rohloff hubs do 100Mm trips quite often already), and less terrible (because you can convert back to derailleur gears or even single speed using standard bike parts). I'll hit 100Mm on my Rohloff in sometime the next couple of years, it's one of the early-ish ones (4 digit serial) and it's been trouble-free despite regular use in load bikes as well as touring bikes. The bottom bracket gearbox has to deal with much greater torque than the hub does. Rohloff require a 2.5x gearing down between the cranks and the hub, so all the parts can be correspondingly smaller and lighter. A fit cyclist can put a surprising amount of torque into a bottom bracket, akin to a decent car engine (but at much lower rpm). Schlumpf had a problem at one stage with their sintered gears shattering in use (I experienced that), largely because they underestimated just how much force was involved. This makes the Pinion more complex to design and build for a given weight target, and probably more expensive as a result. That it can be bigger and irregularly shaped counters this to some degree. Finally, the Pinion really can't be sold as an after-market part because you need a framebuilder to cut your bike up and fit the gearbox. It's quite possible to fit a Rohloff to almost any bike whenever you have the money available to buy one. And if the Rohloff doesn't work for you, you can take it out and sell it second hand.