It is a fact of biology that all brain activity is a physical process taking place in the material universe, requiring energy. Cheeseburger in, philosophy out. Therefore the premise of the question is simply incorrect as a matter of science. ps -- I see that you commented above that you call thought "immaterial" because you can't see it. But if you cut a person open you can't see the conversion of glucose into energy or any other biochemical process. Physical entities include processes as well as solid things. You can see a rock but you can't see the strong nuclear force holding it together. That doesn't make physical processes immaterial. Perhaps you are asking how the laws of physics manage to make rocks. That's actually a pretty good question. 

Arguments that poverty pimps (ie government social workers, professional charity organizations, and so forth) actually contribute to the perpetuation of poverty are commonplace. One could literally Google to their heart's content on this subject, here's a random sample. Failed "Welfare" Programs and the Web of Poverty Housing assistance programmes and their contribution to poverty and unemployment traps Welfare programs making poverty worse Regarding my assertion that there are more poor people in the world than you have dollars, 3 billion people live on less than $2.50 per day. Assuming you have less than 3 billion dollars, my assertion is therefore properly sourced and objectively true. I hope these references will be of use to the OP, who was looking for specific sources of thoughts on these matters. 

You shouldn't give anything to charity. Why support bureaucrats and poverty pimps whose livelihood depends on the existence of poor people; and who are therefore financially incentivized to be the very last people in the world interested in solving the problem of poverty. Instead, if you give at all (which we'll address shortly) you should give money directly to poor people. For example, the next time someone hits you up for a quarter ... give him a twenty dollar bill. Give him the means to go buy a decent meal or a pair of socks or something that he needs. Or shoot it or snort it or smoke it, in the end what do you care? If your money comes with strings it's just a means of control, not really a gift. It's your way of bullying someone with your money. Instead, if you choose to give a fellow human a gift, give it without strings. Allow that human being the exercise of his free will to use it for whatever purpose he pleases. Be willing to respect his choice, whatever it is. Even if it's not a choice you'd make. (I can hear you objecting to this last point. I'll give them money for socks but not for beer. It's for their own good. But you're wrong. When your boss gives you your paycheck she doesn't say, "You can only have this money if you spend it wisely." Nonsense. The money is yours to do with as you wish. And why should a gift be any different? It should be freely given with no strings. Otherwise it's just using money to control people for your own self gratification. Not far from exactly what that sounds like.) Do this four or five times some afternoon. Spend $100 where it will really do some good: On a relatively meaningful sum of money for several people who need a break, who really needed an angel like you to come along at that moment. Do that once a year. On your birthday. Asking nothing in return: not even a tax deduction or the pleasure of feeling morally superior. That's how you should give. As to the question of if you should give; well, if you gave a dollar to every poor person; you would run out of dollars long before the world ran out of poor people. You'd become a charity case yourself. It logically follows that it is ultimately moral to say no at some point. And since that point varies for each person and is only a matter of degree; it must be the case that you have no absolute moral imperative to give any money at all. You may do so by choice, to the degree that you wish; but if you choose not to, you have committed no moral wrong. (edit) References by request I originally had the idea on my own of giving $20 to a homeless person instead of a quarter. I have done so in real life. I later read the same idea from a columnist in the San Francisco Chronicle named Jon Carroll. He calls this method The untied way. In that article, Carroll quotes a Rabbi Schmelke as saying, 

I have a problem with (1). Why do you assume the time scale doesn't matter? If a human brain ran really really slowly, we would not be conscious. Or at least it's an open question. So I think (1) is the first problem. But really T does not follow from H and I don't think any of your argument holds water. But the idea that running the simulation slowly would still give you some sort of (slow-witted?) consciousness, I find highly doubtful. As evidence, consider chemical reactions. If you slow down a reaction (for example by lowering the temperature of the apparatus) you kill the reaction. You can't build a slow fire. Many physical processes, especially biological ones in the brain, involve time in a qualitative manner. If I understand your argument, you are saying that we can write down the state-transition diagram for the simulation, and then read it really, really slowly. Clearly there would be no consciousness generated. Your example disproves your argument. You have provided a counterexample to your own idea. Because it's manifestly absurd that I would generate consciousness by reading down the transition table and "playing computer," as we are taught to do in programming class. 

Now let P a numerable infinite set (like N), it becomes harder to think that I can hold simultaneously all the elements of N, It seems that I know the set of natural numbers less than one of its subsets. But that's true about every object, physical OR abstract. Suppose I hold in my hand a rock. I have a direct physical experience of the rock ... its size, weight, texture, and visual appearance. But I have no knowledge or experience whatsoever of the atoms, quarks, gluons, strings, etc. that make up the rock. There are parts of the rock that physicists haven't even discovered yet. Is this an epistemological problem? I don't think so. To know a thing, I need not know all of its parts. I know about China, even though I don't know each and every citizen of China by name. You are correct that we have an intuition of N. But we do not have a direct experience of each and every one of the number 1, 2, 3, ..., let alone each element of the uncountable power set of N. But as I say, this is no different than anything else I know. I know the sun will rise tomorrow morning; but I do not have a direct experience of each and every one of the photons that it will send out in my direction. 

Abutment. [It wants more characters. Ok. Abutment follows absurdity in the dictionary. That's an absurd answer ... in the spirit of the question.] 

Math doesn't describe a universe any more than a hammer describes a skyscraper. It's just a tool. From the mathematician's point of view, if the physicists find it useful, then good for them ... but math doesn't care one way or the other. On the other hand, the greatest of the mathematicians have been great physicists. Newton and Gauss for two. So there's some kind of symbiosis between math and physics. But math doesn't describe "the" universe and it also doesn't describe "a" universe. If I give you the number 5, that's math. If I tell you 5 miles per hour, that's physics. If I say 5 trees, that's forestry. Math is a tool. On its own terms and in isolation it applies to nothing and implies nothing. Also, math doesn't claim to be "true." In the twentieth century a lot of really smart people used math to study math itself. And from a syntactic standpoint, the best you can do is agree that 1+1=2 follows from the Zermelo-Fraenkel axioms of set theory, with the usual von Neumann interpretation of the natural numbers. But is 1+1 = 2 true? It is, about the world. But in math it's only true because of the way they define the symbols '1', '+', '=', and '2'. So this is tricky business, with the usual suspects having their say, from Russell to Frege, Wittgenstein, Godel, Turing, and all the deep thinkers about what it means to sling around strings of symbols according to rules. As I understand it, I've stated the formalist position. But it seems to me that the math means nothing until you assign meanings to the symbols. It's true that math is inspired by physics. But math isn't physics. 

Would Cantor's results be more palatable if they were stated thusly: IF you accept the axioms of Zermelo-Fraenkel (ZF) set theory and the rules of basic logic; THEN Cantor's results are true. Nobody is saying these things are true "in real life" or in the physical universe. The Hilton corporation doesn't own a hotel that has infinitely many rooms. Rather, these results follow from logic, once you assume ZF. Hilbert's hotel is just a story, a fable whose purpose is to illustrate the ideas of bijection and cardinality. There really isn't any such hotel in the world. One is free to disbelieve the Axiom of Infinity, which gives us infinite sets. In fact it's perfectly sensible to consider ZF-, which is ZF with the Axiom of Infinity negated. This is a consistent system in which the collection of natural numbers is not a set; nor is there a set of real numbers. Would this be more satisfying to skeptics? Then they could aim their objections at the true culprit: The Axiom of Infinity, which says that there is an infinite set. This is manifestly false in the everyday world. So the skeptics could simply accept Cantor's results as a fallacy originating from the acceptance of infinite sets. And we could answer them plainly: Fine, no problem. You're a finitist. Nothing wrong with that, it's a logically sound position. We have no fundamental disagreement. I accept a particular axiom, you reject it. There's no right or wrong here. Would this satisfy the OP? 

Yes, we live in one. What was regarded as mathematics 2000 years ago is not what we regard as mathematics today. Gauss published the first acceptable proof of the Fundamental Theorem of Algebra; but Gauss's proof would not be acceptable from an undergrad today. Standards of rigor, as well as our understanding of the topology of the real line, have changed considerably since then. Mathematics is a historically-contingent activity of humans. Not only could mathematics be different on a different planet or in another universe; which are of course unprovable one way or the other; but mathematics could and actually has been different at different eras on this planet. Just consider the rise of computers, experimental mathematics, machine proof systems, and computatibility theory. It's likely that math in 100 years will be very different than math is now. Zermelo-Fraenkel set theory is less than 100 years old. What if on some other planet they never discovered it, but rather skipped to some other framework? Now, you may be referring not to the mathematics as a historically and culturally contingent human activity; but rather as some sort of Platonic thing that is "out there" that we can discover. To which I'd ask: Where is your evidence that such a thing exists? And if it does, then which human mathematics is the one, true mathematics? The math of 1000 years ago? The math of today? Or the math of 1000 years from now? I do realize that you're asking if it's possible that in some other universe, 2 + 2 is 3. I have no idea. I don't think the question is meaningful. I think I'm wearing my formalist hat today. 

... how to make sure a definition captures the intutive reasoning correctly, taking all special cases into account? Well that's the art! In his preface to Calculus on Manifolds, Michael Spivak says: 

Remember Kirk and Spock. Spock is the man of logic. But Kirk is the man of reason. Kirk always figures out the right thing to do in any situation; even when Spock raises an eyebrow and says, "But Captain, that's illogical!" Reason is not the same thing as logic. As is so often the case, Wikipedia supplies valuable context.