When you're healthy, train for the sport(s) you want to play. While there is sometimes some crossover, your ability to run 30 miles will have little to no bearing on your endurance on the hockey rink or in the boxing cage. You want more endurance for sports? Which sport? Pick one or two you want to train in, then train in them. The training for hockey is going to be worlds different than the training for tennis. You use different muscle groups in different ways. That said, as I mentioned, there is some crossover - general functional strength and flexibility will help you pretty much everywhere. Things like kettlebell strength training, Yoga, body weight strength training, and barbell strength training, can help you in most sports (though the specifics may vary). You can't spot reduce fat. The above information should be enough for you to trim off the excess fat, barring any medical issues. However, even when you're back at peak condition, you may not get the results you're looking for. This is because the fat's going to come off where your body says it's going to come off. That means that it may suck dry the fat deposits in your neck and arms before it even considers your chest, waist, and thighs. There's nothing you can do to change that. Just keep working on the other points (eating healthy, training in and playing your chosen sport) and the weight will come off in due time. 

Stretch it. Toe touches and forward bends are a great way to stretch the back out. There are also a ton of Yoga poses that can help you stretch your back in various ways (I recommend checking out yoga.about.com, which has a ton of poses that you can filter by anatomy). You can do these before, during, and after the concert to help your back feel better. Watch your posture. A lot of people have a tendency to over arch or flatten their back out too much, messing with their spinal alignment. Every so often, check in and make sure to correct your posture. If you have lower back pain, make sure you're not tilting your hips to extremes one way or the other. Do hip tilts. Assuming here that it's lower back pain, work your back every so often by doing hip tilts. That is, tilt your hips forward or back to lengthen and compress your lower back. Working it will increase the bloodflow to it and forces you to change its position for a little big. In the long term, strengthen your back. Most back pain is caused or exacerbated by weak back muscles. Even when people work out, they think of the "core" as the abs, but your core is all of the muscles that help you hold yourself upright (and there's a lot of them!). Very often, the back gets neglected, which leads to pain. To help prevent it, strengthen the muscles so they can provide good support for your spine, ribs, and entire upper body, and ultimately, reduce or eliminate pain. 

Dumbbell Rows and Deadlifts have helped me while shoveling. Also a strong core is going to be huge in the overall movement. Try Cable Choppers for core development, single arm rows, or conventional deadlifts. You could also push a sled with 45 lb plates on it. I forget what they are called, but that should give you that positional form similar to shoveling and the calf/quad strength to PUSH THAT SNOW -Midwest Winter Bearer :) 

So I was just thinking I got a home gym set up, and I can't really approach the bar under a power-rack as of yet...so I just clean it up over my head. I was interested in doing a back squat. But this got me thinking - I know it's much easier to unrack the bar from a standing position, but would there be any benefit to having your starting position being at the bottom? I think it would help activate your glutes and really force you to use those muscles and really "find" your hole... What do you guys think? Any benefit? Any negatives? Other than the trouble with unracking the weight in a hole? Thanks in advance! 

Bigger and Stronger are not necessarily synonymous, you may want to get bigger looking, but you might not get stronger, and vice versa. I think the term you're attempting to describe is like progressive overload. I think what you're doing now is somewhat futile in that, you need to build your muscles, and condition them to handle more weight, more reps, etc. The weight increase should be steady and progressive. You may want to try and use those 25 lb dumbbells for some higher rep pyramid sets, doing things like 5 sets 20-15-12-10 and for example supersetting standing bicep curls with tricep extensions with little to no rest will create an environment for muscular hypertrophy. and muscular endurance. Both of which will help you when you want to increase the weight. If your interest is in Body Building or getting bigger, you will want to keep the moderate-high reps (9-12) with a somewhat heavy weight. If your interest is increasing your strength//oppose to getting bigger, you will want to increase the weight to roughly 80%+ max load, and do low reps (6 or less), pushing your central nervous system into extreme acts of strength, oppose to high consistency patterned demands on your muscle. I would say both activate a high amounts of fast twitch muscle fibers, but the high weight/low rep will activate more... I would also not leave until you did 4 sets of at least 2 compound exercises, and then add some isolation movements to a particular muscle group for that given day of the week, whatever you want to focus on. This will create your split. If pushups are your only chest exercise, you should be doing them to failure every time and constantly increase your reps per set, even if you have to collapse in between cranking them out, same for pullups... I was planning on sticking to the same weight each day until it became "easy", and then increasing it and repeating that process. Is this approach somehow flawed? It's not flawed, it's just not that convenient for a progressive system, usually you want to increase the weight or the reps in order to push yourself, sometimes it's easier to do 10 reps of 200lbs oppose to 20 reps of 100lbs. It's also about time under tension which you should google. So if you can't do a bunch of push ups, you can do them slower, creating more resistance. Are there any significant changes I should make to my program? What kind of results should I expect to see? As it stands you are missing a vital part of your strength training, and that's your legs. Working out your legs will boost metabolism and burn more calories at the gym due to the size of the quads and hamstrings, glutes and more importantly the core. I would research a lot about proper form on two main compound lifts, the deadlift, and the squat. Without those, you are just training your upper body, and you would really be cutting yourself short. Also, implement progressive overload system into each routine. You could expect to see fat loss within a week honestly, depending how strict your diet is, and how much you push yourself. Your body fat between 12-16% is probably ideal, so you're going to have to change it up eventually, probably have an active rest day with some HIT. Hope this helps some. 

Most of these programs will have either a 3x/week plan (ie - full body, three days a week, with 1-2 rest days in between), or a rotating 5-6x/week (ie - upper body M-W-F, lower body T-Th-S, day off completely on Sunday). Rest days are important! You're "breaking down" your muscles when you work out, and building them bigger and stronger when resting (the act of lifting creates microtears, resting rebuilds those and makes those parts stronger). Keep in mind, too, that getting the 6-pack is considered "80% diet." That is, what you eat matters, especially once you're body fat percentage gets down close to and into the single digits. Some tips: 

The best thing for you to do right now is recover. Your body is already working overtime to repair your damaged ankle. You don't need to be taxing it further by trying to exercise and risking injuring it more, particularly with the options you've listed. Want to exercise, anyway? Do rehabilitation work, if you can, and ideally under the supervision of a physical therapist. That's your job right now. I cannot stress this part enough. Even though it doesn't feel like it, your body is already doing a lot of work repairing. Think about it this way - if you do advanced training for something (let's say weightlifting), one of the big things trainers stress is rest days, not? Most programs are 3-4 days per week. This is to provide the opportunity for the body to rest and repair itself. Likewise, getting enough sleep is of utmost importance. Why? Because during these rest times, your body is actually doing things, and it needs the resources to do them. If you divert them to other things, then your depriving your body of those resources, and risk setting yourself back even further. Abs are revealed in the kitchen. You want to shed fat? Then turn to your diet. No amount of exercise will trim the fat off your body if your diet is crap. 

Sure you can, but it's going to take time. One of the major things I've noticed is my dominant arm is stronger than my non-dominant. In this case I happen to be a lefty...sinister, I know... Anyway, what I found worked for me is to start all my single arm movements with my weaker arm, and finish with it. Basically forcing my weaker arm to rep 1-2 more reps than my stronger arm. Keep doing this with all arm-isolated or shoulder-isolated movements. Depending on your frequency, in about a month you should be able to see noticeable improvements in the strength of your weaker muscle area. 

If you want to be a runner, I think you should continue running, just keep in mind a few things. You have a pronation issue and a gait issue. You should focus on the roll of your foot when you run. I am flat-footed and when I run my shins always hurt afterward, because my forefoot takes the most of my overall load. I believe there are two methods to overcoming running issues. You can a. Run barefoot, or get into near-barefoot running, using low profile shoes will help your feet develop natural arches and your stance will get better as time goes on. I would caution this can be painful. b. Purchase some shoes that are for your type of foot, under or over pronating, comfortable with a strict and thickened arch support, this will keep the pressure off each step essentially/hopefully relieving some of the pain you associate with running, and you can focus more on clean strides and landing properly. If pain persists after trying some corrective methods you might want to consider doing strength training lower body specifically - squats, this will strengthen your calves quads and butt creating a pro-active environment to develop better strength patterns in your legs, which will in turn effect your running. Also in order to isolate the incident to your running try an elliptical machine, this should help establish where the pain is coming from, or try running slowly so you can see at which point in your step you are experiencing the pain. Good luck! 

How do you have the activity level in MFP set up? If you have it set to anything less than "active," are you logging your exercise? If so, are you eating the calorie allotment that MFP is giving you? MFP calculates your calorie needs based on your height, weight, activity level, and your weight loss/maintain/gain setting (for those that don't use MFP, it's basically the Katch-Mcardie formula). The deficit is built in to the number it gives you, and so, when you log exercises, you'll see that number go up. That's because it's programmed to keep you at the calorie level that you need in order to change (or not change) your weight. If you spend calories by exercising, you have to "eat them back" to keep the difference from your usual calorie expenditure. Additionally, your weight fluctuates throughout the day, and week, sometimes by more than 5lbs. Judging by your name, it's also possible your hormones are at work, too. Women often retain water the week of or prior to their period, which packs on the pounds. I wouldn't worry about a 3lb or even 5lb change if you haven't been doing the same routine for more than a week or two. Finally, 5'6" and 137lb puts your BMI at 22.1, which is squarely in the "healthy" category. I wouldn't worry about your weight too much, and I recommend getting your body fat percentage checked and consider doing a "body recomposition" routine, which is designed to lose fat and gain muscle (usually in a cyclical lose fat/gain muscle manner). The MFP forums contain a number of valuable posts. I highly recommend checking out the Success Stories section and looking for the ones from women who have taken up lifting programs to get an idea of how body recomp programs affect the body. 

No it won't cement itself. Mobility is very much a "use it or lose it" addition to your strength arsenal. As you say stretching is temporal. So is mobility. For overhead stuff say you do shoulder dis-locators, for example, then when you're done working out, say 3 days later, you haven't done any more mobility stuff. You will lose that mobility and need to warm up (mobility wise) to get back in the swing of things. Keep at it! However, the motion of the movement would cement itself. It's called muscle memory. This also supports the reasoning behind: When you take a break and get back into the same sport, you will get the strength gains back quicker than if you had never played before. This is because your body remembers the pattern of movements and can therefore apply them quicker. 

CT Fletcher will make your workout more interesting... CT Fletcher has a great story behind his going from cardiac arrest into world record holding weightlifter. Here is his channel, and a nice play list CTFletcher Mike Rashad - does work outs that are INSANE and motivating. 200RepBench Really it's a matter of pushing yourself. Or finding the motivation...do you work out better with a partner? Perhaps a personal trainer can motivate you (I highly suggest interviewing first)? Another thing, Goal Setting. If you set goals, and you can achieve them, at the end of the "boring" training session, you will feel the satisfaction of achieving that goal. Make the mind/muscle connection. That is important. The natural high you speak of, comes from a mixture of mind/muscle connection + the desire to achieve + your own inner voice telling you to push. Get off the exercise bike? What the hell is that supposed to do? You sit there and pedal so you can watch TV? Get off the elliptical. Those are not fun exercises. Go pick up some free weights, and give yourself a 4 week 8 week and 12 week goal, whether that goal is to become stronger, leaner, lose fat, complete 50 pushups, curl some weight, or a combo goal, it should be the motivating factor while yo're in the gym. BTW where are you working out? Home? Gym? What equipment do you have available? 

Getting muscle definition (including the coveted 6-pack) requires reducing your body fat percentage. How that's done is generally two things - eating right and strength training (generally either lifting heavy or doing advanced bodyweight exercises). Most sources I've found say that you do not need to run to achieve this. However, 3km isn't much, so it probably serves as a decent warm-up/cool-down (additionally, cardio is good for the heart). Whether you drop it or not will be up to you. There are a number of programs out there that you can do to build strength. Pick one that appeals to you and that you can stick with ("the best program is the one you can stick to"). Here are some resources/options to get you started: 

Capsicum is an extract of the compound in hot peppers that make them hot. As such it has side effects similar to that of eating a bunch of hot peppers. From WebMD "Side effects can include stomach irritation and upset, sweating, flushing, and runny nose." That said, technically speaking, any compound that causes the body to heat up will burn more calories, and no, it doesn't target fat cells in particular. However, how much of an effect is questionable. Ephedra, the active ingredient in the original Metabolife supplement (now referred to as Metabolife 356), enabled weight loss through a similar "heat the body" mechanism. Since there don't appear to be many studies on the efficacy of Capsicum for weight loss, we'll assume here that it has the same efficacy as Ephedra. You're looking at, then an extra .9kg/month loss, or about 2lbs per month. For the short term, that's great, but there's not much evidence to say that it's a long term solution, nor that the test subjects kept the weight off in the long run. Frankly, I say save your money and spend it on something more worthwhile. Try logging your food for a while, if you aren't already, to make sure you're eating how much you think you're eating, because too many calories is too many calories, even if all those calories came from lettuce. If you have been tracking, and you're within your goal for the calories, then I recommend seeing a medical doctor (especially if you're female). Many people (women, especially) are prone to a number of conditions that can make losing weight nearly impossible without medical help. Some of the conditions can lead to even more serious consequences if left unchecked (for example, anovulation, often caused by hormonal imbalances caused by polycystic ovarian syndrome, significantly increases a woman's risk of cancer; and, of course, insulin resistance by any cause very often leads to Type 2 Diabetes). If nothing else, the doctor can refer you to a nutritionist, who can go over your diet and help you improve it even further. The "quick fixes" are often a waste of money. Even if they're successful now, they won't do you good once you've lost the weight and try to "go off" the supplements. The only thing that will allow you to get to and maintain your goal weight is to make changes that you're willing to stick with for the rest of your life. As the saying goes, "it's a marathon, not a sprint."