Now on to your sister-in-law. Maybe she is going to be feeling this new incredible feeling as a born again runner. Try to avoid feeling threatened by her. Think about your own running journey, your own goals. Take it as a positive: maybe you'll benefit by having her burning a fire under you, helping you to keep your goals. And if you stay cool and keep running for you, hopefully her running won't bother you as much. Maybe you can go to one another for advice. Or even enter races together some day! 

Flipping the explanation in the answer provided by Mârten, I believe the downside of barbells is that they could potentially prevent you from developing both sides of your upper body equally. Put another way, a benefit of dumbbells is that they force both arms to work independently of the other. Working each arm individually may help you to develop the ability to lift heavier barbells. So I thought the opposite was true, but to answer your question, this article from Men's Fitness says that each method has its advantages. Dumbbells 

I'm interested in using spinning (group stationary bike class) as part of a long-distance-running training plan (from half marathon to ultra marathon). Typical plans include running at least 4 days/wk and weekly mileage of 20mi to 50mi (or more). I've completed marathons before without including cycling (or much cross-training) but I want the added benefit that comes with cross-training on days off from running (avoiding injury and adding fun are also motivating factors). It should be given that I go easier/harder based on feel, I do not spin the day of a long/slow run, and that there are day-to-day variations (e.g. the instructor and their plan for the day, the bike itself, etc.). I'm wondering how to choose the right level of intensity and whether it is more beneficial to focus on cadence (speed) or resistance. Or is the random nature of this form of cross-training the main benefit? (I'm thinking this is similar to the fartlek run style of training.) Lastly, classes are 1 hour long - is it wise to let this type of training actually supplant some amount of running? i.e. each week let N hours of spin reduce running by N hours (up to a point). 

I'm rehabbing a pulled hamstring, so I'm doing weight lifting for the first time, on the instructions of the physio. She has me doing both "Good Mornings" and "Romanian Deadlifts". It seems like the action in both of these is exactly the same? (except the arms/ upper body, obviously?) Should it be exactly the same action? Or is my technique wrong for one or the other? Assuming that it is the same action, then I assume that the different position of the weight changes the biomechanics of the action, thus putting stress into different muscles / different parts of the same muscle / etc. 

Suppose I have a gym routine that I want to fulfil, with the goal of strengthening a particular set of muscles. (I don't care about increasing bulk or definition at all). The current plan is gym sessions that are 3 sets of 10 reps on each of a couple of excercises that work those muscles. Done in an ABC_ABC_ABC pattern. The sessions take me ~30-45 minutes and get me moderately sweaty, and I'm gradually increasing the load on all the excercises. Currently my biggest problem is actually DOING the session - I put them off and skip them :( One way that I think would make it easier for me to actually do them would be to split the excercise up. Say first thing in the morning I do just the first set, or the first block of set, then a few hours later I do another set/block, then I do my last set/block at the end of the day. I think that I will be more likely to succesfully DO that routine. What would be the effect of that change? Does doing the excercises all together make a difference? Or does it not matter when I do stuff as long as I do the whole routine by the end of the day? 

As JJosaur says, calorifically, it's a definite "No". However, Metabolically, you may well find that you are more tired an hour after drinking a Coke (or any other sugarry drink, or a chocolate bar), due to a "Sugar" or "Glucose" crash. This is period of low blood-sugar caused by the body over-compensating to the sugar spike (the initial 'high', or 'sugar rush'), and over-producing insulin which then draws that glucose out of the blood stream into the liver for longer-term storage. The low blood-sugar can be experienced as fatique or loss of energy (amongst other symptoms), which might lead one to believe the original claim. 

First, let's think about this in a more general sense (i.e. it's not a specific person that causes this problem). For example, when you haven't run for a couple days, and you pass a runner while you're driving, do you feel strangely jealous? Do thoughts go through your head such as "Ugh, I haven't run in two days. And look a this person trying to rub it in." Have you ever heard about a race that you missed or forgot about and think "Why didn't I run that race? I'm such a slacker!" I think it's common. That's how I feel sometimes. A similar thought I have is, "How was my last run?" If it was "too short", or "too slow", then similar negative feelings can come about: "Why didn't I push myself more?" As with any sport or hobby, I think the best way to deal with this (fear? jealousy? insecurity?) is to remember that you really should just be competing against yourself. The reason that you run is because you enjoy it, right? You run for you. I run for me. Aren't we all just trying to get faster or better at longer distances than a former version of ourselves? 

I agree with the other answer to this question. I like the "if it isn't broken, don't fix it" mentality. However, I'll add advice regarding the transition to VFF or barefoot running. Follow the guidelines mentioned in Barefoot Running Step by Step. Overall, you want to avoid Barefoot Running Exuberance Syndrome (BRES), which is what the author calls it when you go all out with this new, different form of running before you are ready. As with any workout, don't do too much, too soon. Also, the book specifically recommends going completely barefoot for a while, before going to the VFFs. Going barefoot first helps you to strengthen your feet and ankles. It helps your body to get used to this change if you do it gradually. Once you do this for a while (the timeframe might be different for everyone), you can slowly transition to the VFFs. The author actually believes (and I think backs up with data) that your shod running will improve even if you're just doing some light barefoot work. So given that you asked this question about 5 or 6 months prior to the marathon, I'd say no, you shouldn't work VFFs or barefoot running into your routine. However, after the race you should be able to try some barefoot running, then work up to VFFs after a period of time. 

I have had the exact pain experience as you have albeit not with skipping but with running. And through this ordeal, I have discovered a solution to this problem through self analysis and trial-n-error which eventually work. I said 'self' analysis because various consultation to the doctors did not lead me to the right conclusion although their protocol was perfectly correct. Modern medicine tends not to be poor 'wholesome'. Since about 2 years ago, I started having debilitating ankle pain with big swell, redness and pain that is so bad I could not move my feet even while on bed nor stand to go pee. Went to doctors, had my blood checked and found that I have high uric acid which they concluded was causing me to have the gout pain. Put me on medication and the uric acid went down to within the normal range. But I was still having those severe pain. Self analysis - like said, my pain pattern was exactly like yours. Long story short, I realized that the culprit was the 'impact' I experienced when running on hard ground such as tarred roads, terrains etc. The impact hit at my ankles the hardest and not as bad on the knees which did exhibit 'noises' and slight pain after runs. BTW, I also trained with skipping for a while and stopped in no time after first experiencing your type of pain. I believe that the 'springing' action during skipping puts tremendous strain on the lower leg region [knees and below] by which tendons and ligaments get overworked easily. This also has lots to do with how heavy the body is that those lower leg muscles have to 'lift' during the spring action of skipping up. Doctors - they could not figure out why I still had the pain despite the uric acid being normal and could only referred me to more specialists for MRI etc. I did not want to go that route as they can probably only propose physical therapy and perhaps try surgery. What I did / am doing - 1. Continue with the uric meds so that there is no high uric acid to cause future damages to joints and bones [this is just for long term avoidance of possible ramification due to high UA] 2. Stopped my running all together and switched to swimming for cardio ever since. Surprised benefit includes - more intense cardio-vascular workout than running. Swimming restricts the breathing [when under water] and this trains the lungs better than the free flow of air while running. It trains and transforms my upper body which gave me bigger triceps, lads and delts. This is the beautiful part - when I missed running, I could run on the treadmills - the 'floating' belt provides good absorption of the impact - or use the elliptical machine which removes the feet pounding onto surfaces and I never got the pain returned once. So that's my experience on how I resolved this [literally] painful 2 years plus of agony - with non medical intervention. Perhaps you can consider this approach too.