I'm not an astrophysicist, but I'm not sure why either of these options would limit the other. First, Phobos, one of the moons of Mars, is probably going to collide with Mars in ~30 million years. Maybe... speed up that process and not waste an asteroid? Assuming all we need to mine these asteroids for is solar panel materials, we shouldn't have too hard of a time telling which are prime targets for such use, and which simply do not have any valuable resources on them - at least, valuable to us now. So, mine the useful ones, slam the empty ones into Mars - best part of this is when you do want those resources back, you can find them on Mars. If we truly must choose one over the other, I'd have to say make a Dyson Array first. The energy you get back from it is more valuable in both the short and long term than another Earth-like in the same solar system. Even if you're suffering over population, the self powering space colonies you could form on the parts of the array solve that problem. If you still need to terraform Mars, you can easily do it in the future thanks to all of the solar power you've farmed. 

Persona 4 uses the greater arcana to name various "personas" (demons that are essentially strong helpers for the characters who have mastered calling upon them), but the theme ends there, since the magic attacks are Shin Megami Tensei series staples. JoJo's Bizarre Adventure Part 3 names many of the "stands" (spiritual energy beings that are basically what personas in the Persona series are based on) after greater arcana cards. Their abilities and appearances are often not based on any percieved meaning of the cards themselves, however. In the end, like @MichaelK said, there is no real world "canon" to what the trumps of a Tarot deck actually mean. All of that stuff has been cooked up by mystics and charlatans to make a quick buck off of gullible people, and no doubt it varies between person to person. @a4android did a good job putting down the most common spiel on mystical Tarot. It may be best to just come up with magical associations to the Tarot deck yourself, as most people who want to play or read the lore of an RPG aren't going to demonize its creator for having "improper" ideas of what power each spell named after a card would have, or what powers the card would bestow upon a user. 

The Decline of Human Civilization The global human population gradually fell over several generations as its least social members eschewed human company in favor of androids, and died without reproducing. Eventually, the worldwide population stabilized at about one billion humans, gathered into a handful of cities. These humans were highly social among each other, and were predominantly artists in some form or another. Very few humans bothered to master 'ancient' technological skills, and that number dwindled with every generation. However, the billions of androids which had previously belonged to humans still roamed the world. Given their almost human-level intellect and emotional capability, they were not content to simply sit in abandoned homes to wait for commands that would never come. So, they began to form their own civilization. 

Flexibility with timing. You could have the conversion take a dozen feedings over the course of a week, or three feedings over the course of a night. You can even make it take longer for stronger or "hardier" humans. It keeps the nature of vampirism obscure. This feeding method could be caused by virus which requires a weak host in order to take hold, or it could be a mystical curse which requires that the human's soul be weakened. It could arise by chance. If any human might turn after repeated feedings, it's imaginable that the first vampire[s] might have captured and fed on ancient humans as cattle, and passed on their affliction by accident. It gives a lot of room for tension. A character could have a longer period of time to worry about conversion, wait for rescue, or plot an escape. 

There are two ways I can see which would wreck the ability for humans to hear speech: White Noise: This is along the same lines as John Robinson's answer, but on a smaller scale. Rather than a lot of wind, the wind would only have to be chaotic enough to destroy sound waves. Rather than areas without wind, you would have periods of time without wind, though they would be extremely brief (ie, every other microsecond). This could possibly be justified by the presence of microscopic, ferrous particles suspended in the atmosphere all over the planet. The dust could vibrate as a result of fluctuations in the planet's magnetic field (some process occurring in the world's core, unique to this planet?). This would create a constant buzz or hum which would disrupt all spoken language. Active Noise Cancellation: The same concept as ANC headphones-- incoming sound waves are duplicated, but 180 degrees out phase. The two contradictory waves meet, and cancel one another out. In the case of an entire world, this could be managed with nanoscale machines (or the ferrous particles being manipulated by a controlled magnetic field) spread throughout the atmosphere, either intentionally or as a remnant of some ancient technology. Alternatively, there could be microscopic flora or fauna throughout the atmosphere which actively counteracts any sound waves which would disturb their position as they float. Since every individual microorganism is counteracting the sound which it encounters, this wouldn't just cancel human speech, but all sound below a certain volume. 

If you're a robot who founded the robot's liberation army, that most likely means you've got robots of varied talents running around. Not everyone is a rough and tumble human fighter. Surely we have robot "shop keepers" (possibly more like robbers who can bring you important goods and maybe a little intelligence?) So, why not have deep infiltration robots? Non-combatant agents who dig deep behind enemy lines, and set up counter-jamming to provide our hero(es) a place to back up before things get out of hand. Assuming every assault on an important human controlled asset is a well planned operation, you don't even necessarily have to answer for why the humans didn't shut down the counter-jamming: it only just happened when you got there, and by that time their resources are more focused on stopping you than killing your save point. EDIT (Per question author's request): Outside of the "robot" theme Theme agnostic, another reasonable idea that might fit all scenarios - especially if we leave the standard RPG fare of infinite amounts of random battles - is that the save point is right before the boss room because the hero(es) have defeated all of the enemy forces and now have a chance to rest before opening those massive doors or heading up that long flight of stairs. Here our protagonists can take the time to eat, write a journal log just in case this is the end of the line, or depending on the scale of the battle, set up shop in this area. "Setting up shop" is basically how the Fire Emblem or Wars series handles saving - saves are only done after skirmishes when key assets have been captured, such as a fort or a castle, or after the enemy has been beaten back from what was already well fortified. 

The comments do a great job pointing out just how fast a bullet from a sniper rifle is, so it's probably not within the scope of realism in your narrative for the vampire to hear the shot and be able to react, especially at a close range. When you say sniper though, I don't often think of the action movie cliché where someone with a high caliber rifle is across the street on top of a parking garage - that's honestly a waste of the potential of the gun, not to mention (even more of) a hazard to bystanders. If the sniper is acting at near maximum range for the weapon, like in a war zone, there are lots of variables that could make him miss his mark. Long distance sniping is like trying to launch a spacecraft - everything is your enemy in the pursuit of precision. I can't speak for the possibility of hearing a sniper and his spotter setting up shop from a mile or so away, but if we were to say our "hero" had some insider info that the victim was about to be sniped, redirecting the bullet through use of force would probably be a better option than just setting up a force field to stop it or catch it. If we're following the action movie cliché, though... @Schrodinger'sStat probably provided the best answer. Noticing the gunman setting up shop would be within the realm of possibility, assuming victim, vampire, and gunman are all close to each other. 

Hopefully some of this is useful for you, but if it doesn't fit with your existing system, I suggest posting a few more examples of what you've already created and we can try to work along that same theme. EDIT: Added a fourth suggestion, since I saw your example of "Spirit Magic" had four aspects. 

Setting: Earth, no more than a century in the future. Premise: Certain US soldiers volunteer to receive genetic modifications that grant increased strength, endurance, and healing capabilities. Most of these capabilities are only technically superhuman--they are slightly above what a normal human can achieve. They can't lift cars or punch holes in steel bulkheads. The greatest advancement is their endurance: an engineered soldier can theoretically run at a full sprint indefinitely, given a constant supply of calories and water. Problem 1: The soldiers tend to push themselves beyond their new physical limitations, as they no longer experience the fatigue of a baseline human during exertion, and they do not have evolved instincts for their new capabilities. As a result, an engineered soldier can accidentally raise their heart rate and blood pressure to the point where they'll suffer instant death due to cascading burst blood vessels in their brain. Solution: The engineered features include a pea-sized gland within the soldier's brain, which will create phantom physical sensations to warn the soldier when they begin to approach their limit. If they ignore these sensations (like a buzzing cell-phone over their heart) and get too close to the fatal limit, the gland will instantly render the soldier unconscious, and gradually slow their heart. Question: What are the potential flaws in the warning/killswitch gland? More specifically, what are the potential flaws in a safety feature which will instantly knock a soldier unconscious in a situation where they would otherwise have a very good chance of dying (>90%)? Are there any obvious ways that an enemy force could exploit this killswitch to their advantage? [Edit]Problem 2: Why not use the gland to mimic the fatigue sensation? The genetic engineering technology is still relatively new, and geneticists are able to create very straightforward sensations (ie, a given patch of skin, of a given diameter, will feel like it's buzzing). More abstract sensations, like fatigue, vary wildly from person to person (in terms of brain chemistry), so they've not yet developed a safe catch-all. A second issue with mimicking the fatigue sensation is that soldiers are all trained to push past it as part of basic training (not just in this future setting, but in reality). The difference is that non-engineered--but otherwise healthy and fit--soldiers will typically reach muscle-failure before hitting any fatal heart rate or blood pressure. 

If there's enough evidence of wrongdoing, of course it would be possible to prosecute, it would just be a long process - but also, I assume this teleporting person isn't just shoplifting, but is in fact breaking major laws. I say this because a years long investigation into a rash of shoplifting incidents doesn't seem realistic. Even with major crimes, this person would have to be committing them over and over in places extremely far apart (which seems like a massive lack of awareness on the part of this criminal) First, we'd have to know the suspect is committing crimes. We'd have to have some kind of evidence that it was this portal user. Eyewitness accounts, video footage, you name it. Unless this portal system is invisible to camera and to the naked eye, both of these would probably result in the witness or viewer of the camera footage saying that this person's method of travel was some kind of portal, or some form of teleportation. Whether that gets believed immediately, especially from an eyewitness, is a different story. With the suspect identified, it's up to investigators to find and present evidence of the fact that the teleporting suspect committed the crime and has the means to teleport. Police would also have to find a way to bring the suspect into custody in a way that mitigates their teleporting, since it goes without saying that they are nearly impossible to contain while still able to use the technology. With all of that in place, a court case only needs evidence compelling enough to convince a jury. Alternatively Let's assume the teleporting criminal is smart and doesn't have the cliché character flaw of being oblivious to the implication of being over 200 miles apart on camera within a matter of 15 minutes. They travel disguised, make sure to come and go in places where there are as few witnesses as possible, commit their crime cleanly and efficiently, and in general leave as little proof as possible... At that point, I think the odds of successful prosecution are slim to none. Various areas in the world would have different accounts, eyewitnesses would be describing a different perpetrator (as would video footage), and if the teleportation was done away from as many people and cameras as possible, the act itself would never be seen. After long enough, if enough eyewitnesses in enough places say they're seeing the perpetrator literally disappear, it might be a detail of interest to police. This person would probably remain an uncaught criminal for the duration of their life thanks to this technology, and until it becomes publicly available (or at least more widely known), no one would know to suspect it. Think about missing persons like D.B. Cooper or unsolved cases like the Zodiac Killer - even without crazy teleporting technology, they got away. All it takes is covering your tracks. 

The shelter can be designed and constructed using all modern capabilities (such as using a computer for engineering simulations, automated construction vehicles, and 3D printing), but the shelter itself must be relatively low-tech: no electronics or complex moving parts, no steam power, etc. Essentially, tech no more advanced that ancient Egypt. The shelter must be self-sustaining for 10,000 people. This includes being able to grow food which can survive without direct sunlight (such as mushrooms and insects, most likely). It can use things like coal or natural gas to provide heat (those substances will still burn), but any attempt to use those substances as fuel for an engine will fail (the engine will, at best, simply not function). The shelter may be built in an extreme hurry: everyone involved is aware that these shelters may be humanity's last hope for survival. Existing subterranean infrastructure (such as subway tunnels) may be used to expedite the process. 

Samuel's answer is very good, I just wanted to add another idea that can possibly make this work within a futuristic setting: Radio wave cancellation: The idea of mimicking noise cancellation on the RF spectrum is good, but would be ineffective for all the reason's master_gibber described in his answer. By the time the canceller receives the communication and transmits the inverted signal, the original signal has already passed them by, and rendered their attempts at cancellation ineffective. In our current reality, there's no way around this...but in a futuristic setting, we have some other options. A literal man in the middle: To cancel a signal being sent from Mars to Earth, an agent on mars could place a device on or near the transmitter (near enough to be able to communicate with it "instantly"). This device would be one half of a quantum-entangled "walkee talkee" that would communicate with an electronic warfare platform/ship at some point between Earth and Mars, to tell the canceller exactly what is being transmitted, and allow them time to prepare the inverse signal before the original signal reaches them. Ideally, the canceller would be only far enough from the original transmitter that the radio signal would take exactly as long to reach the canceller as it would take the canceller to calculate the inverse signal. This way, the electronic warfare platform would be able to generate the largest cancellation shadow...though it would have no margin for error. The man in the middle (or even the Mars agent) could then replace the signal with whatever message they wanted Earth to actually see. Pros: This idea is based on a logical extension of technologies that already exist (though quantum entanglement is still in its infancy), so it wouldn't be too much of a narrative stretch to include this kind of application in a story set within the next century. Cons: This raises the obvious question of "if there's quantum entangled communicators, why would you use radio?" The best answer (depending on the story you're planning on) is that one side of the conflict would have better technology/resources than the other. Alternatively, the nature of the signal being sent may require more than one recipient (since the quantum-entangled communicators would only be point-to-point).