Icy wings don't work Wings lose lift in icing conditions because the ice changes the properties of the wing, causing it become less capable of producing lift. This is a far more dramatic effect than it sounds at first -- even a sandpaper-like coating of ice will produce a massive drop in lifting ability due to the air hitting the rough patches and separating from the wing in a turbulent fashion. However, getting the ice on there is harder than it sounds For ice to form on the wing, though, you need water droplets suspended in air that are cold enough to freeze on contact with the wing surface. If they're not cold enough, they don't freeze. If they're too cold, they've become ice crystals already and just bounce off, doing nothing to the wing. The higher the droplet density and/or the bigger the droplets, the more ice buildup you get. Countering ice with water There are three basic approaches to countering the problem of icing while inflight (ground icing would be trivial for a dragon to deal with themselves, so we won't cover that here): 

We've built these before Mechanical logic puzzles of levers and cogs are not a fantasy by a long shot -- railroads have used mechanical interlocking hardware for well over a century now to keep trains from running into each other. These were sometimes massive beasts, occupying a cabin the size of a small two-story house, with hundreds of inputs from and dozens of outputs to levers, indicators, signals, and turnouts (switches) at major railroad junctions. These interlockings could implement highly sophisticated logic functions, and were often called upon to do just that in order to prevent incompatible inputs from being accepted (such as trying to move a switch out from under a train's path, or clear a signal across a junction that's already been cleared across in a different direction). While the technology was obsoleted by electromechanical relay logic, it was a vital part of the railroad world for several decades, and is still in use in a few areas where installing newer systems would be cost-prohibitive. Several museums have also preserved decommissioned interlocking machines. 

Do you need to build roads anywhere else to begin with? One logical possibility for how such a city would develop is if a good natural harbor was found on an island where there's no real point in putting any intra-island roads in. It could be a logical place for ships to call in for supplies or shelter from storms, yet since all the trade would happen via sea, the residents would have very little reason to go further inland. Furthermore, there may not be much if any "inland" to build roads into to begin with in addition to the possibility that inland may be impassible due to steep terrain, asymmetric vulcanism, or other obstacles. 

How do I make sure I don't miss things like these that are not high-profile elements of society (unlike basic criminal statutes or the structure of government itself, although it's probably just as easy to forget some of the criminal statutes that don't come out in the popular eye) but are equally necessary for the functionality of an organized, writing-capable, food-surplus-based society as a general rule? 

Power sources The source of a caster's spells and abilities is often a major determinant of what they get to use, and also may influence how they use their magic. Common power sources include: 

Just look at reality If you have educated women and a good healthcare system such that kids make it to adulthood in one piece by and large, you won't need to worry much about overpopulation -- individual family planning will take care of that for you, as it does IRL. If worse comes to worse, you have family planning consultants who will help prospective couples strategize. If you doubt me on this, look at the birthrates in the US, Japan, and most of Western Europe. 

Heat. A clime that is searing during the day but cool at night year-round (such as some desert climates) would predispose anyone adapted to it to being a night owl. (This would mean either irrigation or the use of succulent crops such as prickly pear cacti, but that can be worked with.) 

how would martial arts be adapted to be more suited to one biological gender over the other? (Considering that "default male" is largely the case IRL, I wouldn't be surprised if the answers focus on women, but answers that deal with how something could specifically be adapted for men are fine too.) Conditions of development: 

Cemented carbides are an elf's best friend The reason why steel is so darn good as a tooling alloy is because it is hardenable in a very controllable way by manipulating the presence of carbide particles in the iron matrix. Iron-carbon alloys form this type of structure natively to some degree, although the inclusion of a carbide-forming alloying element such as vanadium, chromium, or molybdenum promote the formation of harder alloy carbides, giving increased hardness over plain carbon steel. Most other metals don't harden as well or as controllably when alloyed as iron does, making them less suitable for tools; those that are hard by default have other undesirable properties (rarity, density/weight, ductility or lack thereof). However, the nonreactivity and hardness of refractory carbides (such as tungsten or zirconium carbide) means that they can be mechanically mixed with a molten metal to produce a structure similar in nature to modern-day cemented carbide. This material has the advantage that the matrix and carbide materials can be chosen separately to tailor the properties of the resulting material, in addition to being able to vary the carbide concentrations in the matrix. Modern-day cemented carbide tools use tungsten or tantalum carbides in a cobalt matrix -- this gives them hardness superior to any steel, but at the price of being somewhat brittle. A more suitable material for bladework for your elves would likely be zirconium carbide in a titanium matrix -- this takes advantage of the superior resiliency of titanium along with the hardness and aggressive cutting abilities provided by the embedded carbide particles. 

The trope of a sapient species (most often elves) that is allergic to/poisoned by iron is a common one in fantasy works; however, there are quite a few ways to make serviceable cutting tools without iron or steel once you have enough metallurgical knowledge under your belt. However, before iron tools were ever a thing, copper and its alloys were the go-to toolmaking materials. Copper was developed and alloyed first as it can be simply refined from its ores or obtained natively on occasion, and is easily worked and alloyed with relatively crude tools compared to what it requires to make even decent quality iron. This leads me to a question: how would a sapient species which can't handle copper develop tool metallurgy? Are there alternate routes they could take to get to the point of being able to work iron, or would they be forever stuck in the Stone Age, unable to get past their own aversions to copper? 

The main problem for an iron-less advanced civilization is machine tooling. Modern tool steels are incredibly versatile materials, capable of being forged and machined into highly complex shapes yet made hard enough to cut through most materials and durable enough for repeated hard use, such as in jackhammer bits (if you think a sword has a hard life, it has nothing on what jackhammer bits go up against day-to-day). This is something almost no other metal or alloy can pull off -- even high-tech metals like titanium struggle to match tool steels in hardenability. As a result, this civilization would have to develop a tool technology akin to cemented carbide very early on. If they were able to refine a titanium-like metal to serve as an elastic matrix material, and had access to the relatively common mineral zircon as well as a supply of graphite, then zirconium carbide can be made by calcining the zircon then performing a carbothermic reduction on the zirconium oxide produced when the zircon (zirconium silicate) is calcined. Otherwise, aluminum carbides can be formed by mechanical alloying of aluminum with graphite, and silicon carbide is another option (it can be produced by intensely heating a mixture of coke (amorphous carbon) and aluminosilicate clay in an inert crucible, or is common naturally in the universe albeit rare in Earth's crust). Once you have carbide particles, you can then basically mix them into molten metal without too much worry about them dissolving due to their refractory nature. The resulting cermet material is suitable for tooling due to its aggressive, abrasive cutting nature and good wear properties. It requires an aggressive tool to machine, though, which would mean that getting started with it would be a bit...tricky. An added bonus is that once you have a suitable machine-tool material, especially for shock-withstanding tools such as cold chisels and jackhammer bits, you have a suitable blade material as well.