The presence of a single canon has never been enough to stop language development. As Colin Fine says - diglossia is quite a common condition. Arabic, Indic Languages, Sinitic languages. Even the many languages developing from English are all evidence of this. By the time Christianity became the official religion (and certainly by the time it became dominant and much later universal), the diversionary processes had been long under way. And, of course, Christianity was not originally identified with Latin nor did much of the early intellectual ferment around it happen in Latin. So by the time Latin came to have the sacred liturgical status in the West, it was long gone as a daily spoken language the presence of which could be bolstered by religion. The processes that kept Latin so strong for so long were political and bureaucratic and it was the association of religion with power that solidified the role of Latin in Christianity, not the other way around. It is fairly well accepted that the organization of Western Christianity is the one surviving feature of Roman imperial bureaucracy that persists (albeit in trace form) even till today. 

You (and the source) are confusing the technical and colloquial sense of the word logic here. When you say There's a certain logic to language. or Even language is logical. you're saying something like, The way language works make sense. But this is radically different from saying, Language can be described using the apparatus of formal logic. Most linguists will agree with the former but many fewer will agree with the latter. No historical linguist believes that historical changes can be described by logical formalisms but many of them believe (particularly in the past) that it is governed by laws similar to those of physics. For instance, Grimm's Law. Today, most historical linguists will talk about tendencies or regularities but no one believes that even sound change laws are a given in the same way that the laws of physics are. William Labov gave a great overview of the history and present of the thinking on language change in the first chapter of Vol 1 of his Principles of Linguistic change. 

Does your native language determine absolutely the type of errors you will make in English? Then the answer is no. Not all features of native languages transfer over. And some features you would expect do not. So for example, even native speakers with rich verbal morphologies continue to make mistakes such as 'Jane walk.' even at intermediate level. So even though English verbal morphology is almost non-existent, it is still a challenge for them. Also, speakers of languages with very different syntax from English don't often transfer their word order into English in obvious ways. The interference may occur only in certain contexts and with certain constructions. 

The area of research you want to look at is local grammars (an approach developed in the late 1990s). It's been used for identifying things like commands, definitions, etc. in text. The idea is that certain functional areas can be identified through certain construction patterns and keywords based on their distribution in a corpus. These patterns constitute a sort of island of regularity (a local grammar) and can be spotted in the text. Here is an example of their application and here's some more background. I think the linguistic community outside NLP and corpus studies should pay more attention to local grammars because they have the potential to reveal aspects of how humans deal with complex patterns in texts. 

However, the fundamentals would be the same. You always have to start from a fundamental understanding of language. You always need a starting point. And you also need a decent corpus to use whatever quantitative techniques you have on. That's why so many scripts with only fragments and no language available remain a mystery. But even parallel texts may not be enough. The difference between cryptography and Rosetta stone is that in the first case you're dealing with at least one known language. (That's why Germans couldn't crack Navajo communications.) And translations are never exact parallels. So one fact Champollion relied on was that 'cartouche' - oval around some text - was used to indicate royal names. That gave him an anchor from which to work backwards. But he still had to come to an understanding that the hieroglyphs are not strict ideographs and then rely on his in depth knowledge of Coptic (he kept a diary in it) to make something of it. None of this could be achieved by pure pattern analysis but it could certainly speed up some aspects. Similar thing happened in the decipherment of Hittite which relied on sound philological work once a large corpus of the language was found in a known script. However, no computer method can help with the decipherment of scripts like Linear A because of the tiny corpus from which to work. Even where a much larger corpus is available as with the Indus valley Harappan script, it's hard to know what to apply modern techniques on since it's not even clear the script represents a language in the conventional way. 

Skilled readers are known to rely on morphology to help them segment words and support fluent reading. However, it doesn't matter whether this segmentation is correct. For instance, the -er in 'teacher' and in 'corner' is equally useful for somebody who is trying to quickly decode those words. Somebody who cannot do that will have to develop a greater inventory of words they have to learn to read as disconnected chunks. Any way that can support learners metacognition is likely to be helpful in reading as well as writing and speaking. Showing both first language and additional language students the principles of word formation is likely to be extremely helpful for any language (perhaps even more so in English where segmentation at the level of morphemes can help overcome the irregularities at the level of grapheme-phoneme correspondence). Just be aware that the point is not to get the analysis right as long as you can use the analytic strategy to help you with a word or an expression. 

Is Hindi easier to speak for children? No. All languages are about the same level of difficulty for children. How come the child is learning even when she is getting less attention from adults? Adults are only one source of language learning for children. Sometimes not even the main one. She is likely learning as much from her peers as from the teachers. Why is the child less willing to use English? This very common with languages that are 'put on' by parents who are not its native speakers. The child learns some of them passively but sees that nobody else is using that language for achieving important things (from their perspective). It's made worse by the child knowing that the parent can understand the other language/ Children in bilingual situations often go through stages of skill in either or both of their languages. Their two languages are never perfectly balanced. So this could just as easily be just a phase. 

They only share one lexeme completely and one with some level of similarity (plus 'tu' is also used in Czech), yet, any Czech of my generation would not even blink twice over the Slovak version. Yet, a small Czech child thought it was English when meeting a Slovak linguist on a holiday abroad. Czech and Slovak are very close (so close that there were even attempts to call them Czechoslovak), yet young Czech speakers are exposed to Slovak less and less and find it difficult to understand Slovak without some considerable effort. Slovaks tend to have more exposure to Czech and therefore, tend to understand Czech better. Things become even more difficult when you look at Czech and Slovak dialects because some of them are closer to each other than to their respective standards. This is just one small illustration of how difficult it is to make a categorical statement over whether something is a dialect or a language unless you also state what purpose the distinction is serving. But sometimes one purpose is more important than another. For instance, product labels are always bilingual in Czech and Slovak, yet, in all cases I can recall they have a lexical similarity between 90%-100% (at a guess much more than a typical utterance). Nevertheless, it is considered important to keep both languages separate for a variety of reasons that transcend questions of mutual intelligibility. So you need to be explicit about why you want to know this and what you're planning to do with the information. But if the question is just a matter of general interest then no, there's no one percentage of similar words that will suffice to labels something a language or a dialect. 

Flesch-Kincaid, SMOG etc. are measures of text complexity and not register. They only work on written language of certain length (textbooks, newspaper articles, etc.) Register can be inferred from a single word. However, lower readability will probably correlate quite well with high formality. But not in a way that you can simply translate the scores. The problem with asking for differentiation of register is that there is no objective definition of the different registers (levels of formality). So you'd have to come up with some exemplars of what the different registers represent. You'll also need some measure of correctness (how do you know your results match the levels). Is the appropriateness to the situation? Socio-economic status of the speaker? All of those in turn are hard to measure. The efforts of measuring levels of formality or register made by people like Halliday or Biber use proxies (like presence of certain words) and get pretty good results. But their measures may not be your measures. Other proxies for levels of formality is the proportion of deictics like pronouns or determiners which can then be used as input for machine learning. So to get a reasonable answer, you will need to specify what exactly you're trying to achieve and for what purpose? What are your resources for achieving that? If you're looking for a simple piece of software you can load a sample in and get a result, you'll be disappointed. Have a look at this paper which outlines some of the previous efforts in this area. It shows that if your needs are quite general, you can get decent broad results that can improve subsequent analysis. But if you want to get a single score for an individual text, you will probably not get very reliable results. 

There is generally no single policy across different countries as to what English is taught across the board. Countries in Europe and Asia default to British English - the most popular textbooks (Headway, Matters, etc.) are based on British English. I imagine this may be different in Latin American countries - but I have no data on this. A very common scenario around the world is American teachers teaching using British English materials. Students are also exposed to more American English through global media. Many teachers are only tangentially aware of the range of differences between the two Englishes leading to frequent confusion. 

If you master any Slavic language (except maybe Bulgarian), you will have a really good foundation for learning the next one. But as a Czech native speaker who had to learn Russian, I can confirm that it will still take a lot of work. The other thing to consider is how easy it is for you to get the right tools for learning (textbooks, dictionaries, software, videos) and opportunities to practice what you've learned. In that case, you may want to look around you to see, if there happen to be a lot of speakers of a particular language near to where you live. Russian and Polish are the most globally distributed and have the most online resources. But other languages may give you more local opportunities for practice. You should also look into the availability of summer schools for your language. Attending these will be essential to gaining proficiency. So if you find one that is available in a time and place convenient to you, that may determine the language you start with. Update on orthography: Since most of the other answers focus on question of orthography, I've left it out of my answer. But perhaps it is worth noting that all Slavonic languages have orthographies that are relatively transparent in both directions (i.e. spelling can be predicted from pronunciation and vice versa). For a beginner, Polish might present some visual difficulties due to its use of digraphs to represent single sounds but the relationship is mostly regular. Russian presents more of a difficulty because the pronunciation of some vowels depends on lexical stress which is only marked in textbooks but not in normal writing. South Slavic languages mostly have very transparent orthographies but Slovene does not distinguish certain phonological distinctions in vowels in its alphabet. But in general, the orthography doesn't make much of a difference in making one Slavic language easier to learn than another. And certainly any similarities/differences will be almost irrelevant when moving from learning one to learning another. 

In languages that require constant expression to gender in verbal or adjectival agreement (like Russian or Spanish), you're unlikely to come up against the issue of the epicene pronoun as you do in English. Because the pronoun does not refer to an implicit assumption about a default gender but to the agreement with the referent. So in Czech, a sequence like. "If a person likes something, he/she will buy it." will use the feminine pronoun because the word 'person' is feminine. However, you will find that men will actively avoid trying to refer to themselves in female gender. E.g. with sentences like "I am the person who said..." men would try to find different ways of saying this without having to end with a sentence that has 'I' to be the subject of a sentence with a feminine conjugation. But the issue of gendered language is not really about the pronoun. The pronoun reflects the default framing of a man being in a position of power and access to resources. So for example, the assumption that a doctor is male and therefore a sequence like "A: I went to see a doctor. B: What did he say?" reflects a male bias in the framing of the term doctor. Many languages require that professions morphologically mark gender. Therefore, in the above sequence you'd always have to say if you went to see a male or female doctor. However, this does not remove the issue of gender bias. Because in sentences like 'I should see some kind of doctor.' or 'All doctors are rich.' The default (unmarked) gender will be male. So if you said something like 'All doctors[fem] are rich.' You would be in fact stating that all women doctors (as opposed to men doctors) are rich. There are many other ways in which these languages express bias through defaulting to masculine gender. For example, in Czech the past tense plural agreement is male by default unless you are talking about an all female group. All it takes is one man in a group and the agreement switches to male. Another example in Czech is the use of feminine nouns when referring to men in a negative way. The ubiquitous marking of gender causes all sorts of other issues with which the speakers of these languages have to deal on a daily basis. For example, if the language (like Czech or Russian) expresses gender in the verbal agreement, a woman talking to man will have to work harder to switch between the genders when talking about hypotheticals. Because of the nature of gender and morphological agreement, many of the solutions proposed for English would be difficult to implement. For example, in English you can deal with the default assumption of gender relatively simply. For example: "The doctor will need to be good if he or she wants to succeed." But in a language with rich gender morphology, you would have to say something like: "The doctor[fem] or doctor[masc] will need to be good[fem] or good[masc] if he or she wants to be successful[fem] or successful[masc]. So the imposition on the speaker is much greater.