In a now-deleted answer @Alex has correctly pointed out that Stalin handed over to the Nazis many German communists who had sought asylum in the USSR. Other users have asked to name some people who have been handed over. Well, for example: 

One theory is that the early kingdom period was actually a period of Etruscan domination which the Roman mythmakers (whose work is reflected in Livy) later reworked as the tale of the Tarquinian dynasty. An interesting discussion of this can be found in the book The Beginnings of Rome: Italy and Rome from the Bronze Age to the Punic Wars by Tim Cornell. Chapter 6 is titled The Myth of 'Etruscan Rome'. Another source is here. 

The protocols of the Wannsee conference do contain a provision for a slightly better treatment of Iron Cross veterans: 

Kamen's paper is great reading but I personally am more convinced by J. Israel's rebuttal that re-asserts the traditional picture I have outlined above. A recent paper ("The decline of Spain (1500–1850): conjectural estimates") proposes quantitative measurements of Spanish economic performance and arrives at this conclusion: 

Your understanding of the factual situation is essentially correct. Here is an excerpt from a (multi-)book review by Timothy Snyder, a leading historian of the era: 

A history book I was perusing indicated that this was a break with previous Japanese tradition and explains this by Prussian-German influence. This explanation makes a lot of sens, since two Prussian experts (Rudolf von Gneist and Lorenz von Stein) were helping with the drafts. However, the Japanese did reject some European notions they didn't want in their constitution: (wiki article, "drafting" section): 

The Great Siege didn't work out but one would think that given the crucial strategic position of Malta, the Ottomans would have made another attempt at a later date. Why didn't that happen? 

Such a world-hugging enterprise was nearly invincible when operating in concord. But with the Dutch Revolt a crucial leg was sawed from under it and the empire lost a great proportion of its best merchants, artisans and soldiers. Even worse, they became its worst enemies and from that point on the continuous futile attempts to reconquer the Dutch consumed most of the Empire's attentions and resources. Since the latter were usually borrowed (see n.2 and n.3) they were wont to fail at the crucial moment. For example, time after time the Spanish victories in the Netherlands were squandered as a result of mutinies which occurred when the King could no longer pay. Of course, the ready expedient of letting them plunder and pillage just served to stiffen the Dutch resistance. To sum it up: to me it seems that as soon as the Dutch Revolt broke out, the empire became a house divided against itself - and it could not stand. What is perhaps less well-known is that the 80 Years War included a twelve-year respite during which Spain and the Dutch were at peace. Possibly the decision to renew the war in 1621 was the single worst decision Spain took - the King and his advisers did not realize that by this point they could no longer win. Ironically, the truce served to highlight just how much economically dependent was Spain on the Netherlands. A quote from Israel's article also ties this up with the other points given above: 

The methodological caveats listed by @Alex are all true. I'd also add that there was no notion of state credit so everything had to be financed out of revenues. And of course, the very notion of what government is responsible for was quite different in antiquity - the ancients were very far from the idea of a welfare state. Perhaps early 19th century England or France would be a better model for comparison. 

I am quoting it from an article in English, which however reads as if it was painstakingly translated from Russian. So - is this quote real or a fake? 

The horses of St. Mark were taken to Venice. Are there any other objects that are known to have turned up elsewhere? 

I guess the answer may be different for rich people who had their own baths and others who visited the public baths. 

The answers @bhau and @coleopterist gave are good and marshal a lot of important evidence, but there are complementary points of view someone ought to mention - so I guess it falls to me to do this. 

I am rather skeptical of the theory that leaders go to war to get people's mind off debt, but it's certainly a discussionable matter. However, I do have an example for you of a debtor invading his creditor to write off the debt : here. Spoiler: it backfired rather spectacularly. 

Today it was announced that the diary of Alfred Rosenberg was been found, after it had disappeared in 1946. Prima facie, this would seem to be a major piece of historical evidence for the Functionalist vs. Intentionalist debate. What puzzles me at this stage is this: the news article says the diary was entered as evidence in the Nuremberg Trials; this means that parts of it might have been available for historians as part of the trials' documentation. If so - what part has the diary played so far in the debate? 

A writer who published many detective books in the period 1925-1941. A priest who helped De Valera escape from prison: 

One of the versions for Arlozorov's 1933 murder (not solved to this day!) is that it had something to do with his early friendship with Magda Goebbels. This is what wikipedia says, soberly hedging its description: 

For the USA, I guess the information is reasonably googlable. But as for the USSR, I wish to point out that the answer is: 0, both substantively and formally. (1) Substantively: Clearly, no one who was really opposed to the CPSU was allowed to come within a shout of any political office. (2) Formally: The "independent" candidates were actually running as part of a "Communist and Party-less Bloc" (which pretty much covers all bases). So even if they were not card-carrying members of the CPSU they were elected to the Supreme Soviet on behalf of the CPSU. I couldn't find an English reference to the bloc, but here is a Russian one from the Big Soviet Encyclopedia itself. EDIT: Here is a contemporary reference to the bloc: $URL$ EDIT: The second source I gave is a contemporary, 1937, official propaganda press release about the elections. Curiously, it was published in a physics journal (and presumably, in other journals as well). The following passage is telling: 

For a while the West got along and staved utter disintegration by skilfully playing the barbarians against each other (Aetius was a past master at this game but there were others as well). Then the barbarians toyed with the imperial throne and crown for a while (case in point: Ricimer) and in the end (476) just dispensed with the onerous formality of maintaining a superfluous Western emperor who controlled nothing. Wikipedia has a big and serious article on the Late Roman Army where one can learn (almost) all one ever wanted to know about its ranks, pay scales, helmet types, etc. Unfortunately, this article stops short of explaining the collapse of the Western army, merely alluding to it briefly as in this passage: 

(from here) What is the source for this? The official page offers the same tale and a general reference to a book I don't have. Does anyone know more? 

Okay, based on some more reading, the answer to the question "was Blaskowitz indicted just for being a senior German general?" seems to be "yes, but that was not necessarily wrong". I'll try to explain what I mean. Blaskowitz was indicted as part of the Generals' Trial, together with 13 other senior commanders. The legal philosophy behind this case was the (essentially correct) notion that the German high command as a group was aware of and to a large degree complicit in the war crimes. Therefore, it made sense to indict all those who held senior positions in the Wehrmacht. As things stood, it seems that Blaskowitz had a good chance of acquittal (indeed, one can see on the wiki page that two other defendants were acquitted). However, that was a thing for the court to figure out and so the decision to indict even those generals against whom no evidence of particular crimes was available prima facie seems to me to have made a lot of sense in the context of the times - the generals were indicted on the strength of being members of the high command, which was deemed to be guilty as a group, yet they stood a chance of acquittal on the individual merits of their case. Here is an excerpt from the original indictment, which belabours this point in detail: