Anne Elisabeth Stengl announced in January 2017 that she was writing a new series under a pen name, but refused to disclose what the series was or what the pen name would be. The text of the announcement is as follows: 

He mentioned, among other things, the fact that the project was in such a remote location, in a town that was essentially run by the Army, as an obstacle to hiring people. Quite significantly, Dr. Oppenheimer was originally a theoretical physicist who hated lab work (not unlike Dr. Stadler). Also, one of Oppenheimer's achievements that came up in the interviews was his "theory of cosmic ray particles - that neutron particles were cosmic rays - 1936." Significantly, one of Dr. Robert Stadler's major achievements was his research on cosmic rays, and that research was used prominently in creating Project X. The editor includes the following note: 

I got to thinking awhile back: many high-level politicians (such as Paul Ryan, current Speaker of the House in the U.S.), media figures, etc. cite Atlas Shrugged as a major influence. Then I got to thinking: has anyone actually tried to measure exactly how influential it is? Has anyone come up with a quantitative measure of how influential particular books are? I assume that studies would study how be influential they are relative to something - for example, how influential something is in politics. Are there high-quality studies on this topic? 

These ideas are explored at length in Atlas Shrugged as well as The Virtue of Selfishness. (The latter book has a deliberately provocative title by the way; she defines "selfishness" as "rational self-interest" and explores what kinds of goals and ends are proper to humans). With that said: I do agree with you that the Buddha, Mother Theresa, and others present a legitimate problem for objectivism - not in the sense that they were sacrificing their personal happiness and goals, but in the sense that it seems like they really weren't. Specifically, by all appearances, Mother Theresa was largely helping strangers, so under Ayn Rand's philosophy she ought to have been much more unhappy than she appears to have been. I'm hardly an expert on either her life or on the Buddha's life, but if they genuinely enjoyed helping others it seems like they fall outside of the categories that Rand has set up. This strikes me as an illustration of Ayn Rand's tendency to set up false dilemmas: from her perspective, it doesn't really make sense that Mother Theresa could actually value strangers in the way that she did (or for the reasons that she did). I'm inclined to think that her ideology is more incomplete (due to several faulty premises and false dilemmas) than flat-out wrong or irrational. This would be especially true if, for example, we tweaked the premises a little bit: for example, the existance of God would significantly alter certain aspects of the system. See, for example, Dr. John Piper's article on the topic describing that in greater detail. TL;DR In objectivism, self-sacrifice is specifically not good. People must deal with each other by trading value for value. It's wrong to give (or to accept) the unearned. (Again, I don't necessarily agree with this, I'm mostly summarizing her argument to give a more complete picture). With that said, yes, people like the Buddha and Mother Theresa who appear to have genuinely enjoyed helping others don't seem to fit into her system very well, so her philosophy appears to be incomplete at a minimum. 

The major difference, of course, is that, unlike Equality 7-2521, John Galt never accepted the looters' creed. 

First, the book is quite explicit about the fact that spouses weren't automatically "in" - the only way you could go to Galt's Gulch is if you were fully aligned with the Strikers' philosophy and took the appropriate oath yourself. As one woman told Dagney while she was in Galt's Gulch, 

He's playing the game that the Looters created because he doesn't see an alternative. Earlier, he said that 

Presumably, too, his research staff would've known about it, as would his Mills Superintendant. That being the case, why did Hank Rearden call the formula his "personal secret"? 

Closely related: Why does the Emperor-Over-the-Sea play such a small role in the Chronicles of Narnia? Why is the Emperor Beyond The Sea in The Chronicles of Narnia named that? What sea is he beyond, and why is he beyond it? Is this implying that the Emperor Beyond the Sea has a country that's kind of analogous to Aslan's Country? If so, why are they separate countries? 

Bureaucratic logic is one of the primary themes in Catch-22. To what extent is this inspired by The Trial by Franz Kafka? Both have the sense of being caught in the cogs of a remote, irrational, and soulless bureaucracy, but are there more concrete examples of the influence of The Trial on Catch-22? 

The lyrics to Nighttime Birds, the title track from the album of the same name by The Gathering, are as follows: 

As described in my answer here, Ayn Rand interviewed Dr. Oppenheimer multiple times for a movie she was writing about the Atomic Bomb. That movie was never actually made; the only place that she seems to have published any of the material was Atlas Shrugged, where it inspired the character Dr. Robert Stadler. In an essay on how she intended to approach that film, she commented, first, that making such a movie was actually a great responsibility in a sense. In terms of the bomb itself, she commented in the same essay that 

Why could Dragons lie in Old Speech? Are they essentially telling half-truths, technically true but misleading statements, etc., or can they actually tell a "direct" lie? 

It's only due to the dissuasion of Ruben (the oldest) that they refrain from killing him. Instead, Judah convinced them (while Ruben was gone) that it would be pointless to kill him and that they should sell him into slavery instead. At this point, they decide to fake his death and make it look like an accident: 

The Emperor-Over-the-Sea is referenced at several points during the series. The Stone Table, Deep Magic and the Deeper Magic were all set in motion by him, and he is the father of Aslan. At the same time, he does not directly enter the series; he does not appear to be present in Aslan's Country during The Silver Chair or the events of The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, and doesn't appear to directly intervene. He doesn't even seem to be present at the creation of Narnia during The Magician's Nephew or the Final Judgment in The Last Battle - the entire country was sang into existence by Aslan. Given that C. S. Lewis was not a deist, why is this? Why was the Emperor-Over-the-Sea such a remote figure? 

If so, how likely would it have been that Shakespeare's original audience would've understood the reference? 

Later, when Joseph shows up wearing it to check on his brothers, they were finally so resentful by his (perceived) arrogant behavior that they decide to kill him. 

When he met with Roark about the Wynand Building, Gail Wynand repeatedly spoke of his death as if it were imminent, and his life as if it were essentially over at that point. For example: 

Given that virtually all branches of Christianity regard Christ as God, this seems like a rather fundamental change. Islam doesn't seem to be all that amenable to hybridization with Buddhism either. Why did so many of the religions of Dune appear to have been mixed with Buddhism at some point? And how does it account for such fundamental changes to the religions? Did this reflect a poor understanding of what doctrines of Christianity and Islam were important on Herbert's part? 

I only recently started the book, so forgive me if I'm missing something that's made obvious later in the book, but does the title of The Neverending Story have a double meaning? Bastian assumes when he starts reading that it just means that you can keep reading the book as long as you want, but does it mean that you might literally be unable to stop reading it or "get out of" the story? That would technically be a "neverending story." 

I'm particularly interested in the second quote. This is very much like the teachings of the Stoics, which was popular in Greece and Rome at various points. From Marcus Aurelius (Roman): 

Rand also argues that, by definition, "sacrifice" involves giving up something of greater value in exchange for something of lesser value. Again, quoting from Atlas Shrugged: 

In Golden Daughter, Sunan took an exam to become as Presented Scholar in the Center of Learning. He passed the test, but wasn't permitted to join due to his parentage: 

Jim Taggart's evil is, of course, on full display here - not only in his disgraceful physical and emotional abuse of his wife, but also in the violence and destructiveness that's central to his philosophy of life. Of course, later he does realize the truth about himself when he realizes - to his horror - that he wanted Dr. Ferris to kill John Galt (even though it would mean his own death). Is this what he's trying to evade here - the fact that he doesn't want to live, the fact that he claims to want to live while seeking to destroy everything that actually makes life possible? Or is "the unnamed" something else here?