The way some people do their pullups (there are many variations) can place some rather unique and interesting loads on the traps (even more so sometimes with an added weight belt). Your "pain" is most likely just some tendinitis of the tendon connecting the shoulder blade to the trap muscle. Make sure your traps are really solid and strong before attempting significant loads with pullups exercises. Your traps are here to stabilize the scapulae while you do your pullups --- and, as with many arm exercises, failure to stabilize the shoulder blades can have some pretty nasty consequences. Personally, farmer's walks and weighted vests are my goto for traps strengthening. 

Make sure to eat well following intense exercise. It's not low glycogen that is keeping you up, it's your post-workout catabolism (yes catabolic hormones can still flow quite freely even hours after a workout). The solution here is simply to bump up your insulin (which has anti-catabolic effects) level. Get your carbs -- simple carbs work great here -- replenished soon after exercise, and throw in some protein too. Don't try going to bed in a catabolic state -- insulin is your friend here. 

It sounds like a psychological issue, to be honest. You have 20 set as your goal and thus, when you hit that goal, you freeze up. Really, you need to push through, even if it's just one or two more. Two possible strategies: 

Start small. Drop your weight to where you can finish your sets. Walk if you need to instead of running. Then start ramping it back up. The really good news is that it comes back quickly. 

This probably ought to go without saying, but prioritize doctor advice over nostrums offered by coaches, friends, random internet people, etc. There's a lot of confusion out there between "needs supplementation because deficient in this specific nutrient" and "MOAR SUPPLEMENTS! AND GREEN TEA!" Most people are getting sufficient nutrients in their diet and, as with any sort of medicine, blindly taking substances without any indication of need seldom ends well whether it's a chemically purified substance where you know the dosage or a random herb with variable levels and extra chemicals with unknown side effects. Seriously, doctor. There are a lot of conditions, some potentially serious, that this could be a symptom for. Even if something we recommend helps temporarily, it could just be masking the symptoms. 

Generally you'll have to put in enough intensity, volume, and time-under-tension to feel sore the next day. If you're just going light on these, then that's just a lightweight workout you can do everyday. Lots of people go out on a walk and/or a short run on a daily basis too -- it just depends on how hard your workout actually is! 

I'm no expert in glenohumeral anatomy, but I've noticed that if I do "triceps-style" bar dips, I have no pain nor impingement in the shoulder joint whatsoever. This is the version of dips where the elbow go as far back as possible, almost as if they're trying to touch one another, as opposed to "chest-style" bar dips, where the elbows are much more flared out to the sides. But, taking a look at the skeletal structures of the shoulder joint, I see no reason why moving the humerus "backwards", as opposed to just flaring it out to the sides, should somehow make the movement a lot more impingement-less (mainly across the AC joint, which seems to be the most likely source of impingement). Granted, a simple "skeletal/ligament" view may omitting some other important detail as well --- if my elbow is pointed backwards (with scapulae retracted), I can move the elbow upwards only so far (I cannot raise my elbow above my shoulder joint when it's pointed behind me, for example). So, are there actually other structures in place (e.g., muscle tissue) that could be keeping 'triceps' dips from hurting the shoulder joint? My best guess so far is just deltoids, traps, and the long triceps head simply all bumping into each other thereby blocking any pain-causing or impingement-causing ranges of motion. Edit: According to the image below, what exactly prevents sagittal shoulder extension a full 360°? Is it the stretching of the deltoids, or some occlusion between the rear muscle groups bumping into one another, or something else? Since whatever it is, it allows me to do triceps dips comfortably with no pain or impingement whatsoever. 

Consider what sort of exercise you're doing by using the car. Unless you have a considerably different car than usual, it's a combination of pushing at relatively low intensity and maintaining your leg at a fully extended or mostly extended position (I personally found that, more often than not, holding the leg hovering in readiness was as much a part of the strain than not, but that's highly dependent on whether you rest the feet you're not using on the floor or on the side). So, what exercises fit that? I would personally go for one-legged leg presses if you have weight machines, one-leg squats if you're doing bodyweight. Do them on both sides to exhaustion. There probably will be some small difference between the legs, but not much. If you want to train for having your legs held in wait to shift, standing on one leg with one leg pulled up using your leg muscles will be your exercise. Train both sides there too. Frankly, I don't think you're going to see any real muscular imbalance from this. There isn't really enough exercise to count, even with an hour and a half of commuting, but these are things you can do to at least make yourself feel better about it. 

Your diet needs significantly more protein. Despite what you may think, it won't make you gain body fat. Quite the opposite actually. When body-builders/fitness models are cutting their body fat they tend to increase their protein and fat intake. 

People hold body fat in different proportions throughout their body. Weight is not a gauge of your aesthetics or overall level of fitness. Some body builders at your height weigh over 200 lbs but their body fat is incredibly low so they don't look fat. If your goal is to have a flat stomach and thin thighs, plain and simple you have to reduce your body fat percentage. You can't reduce body fat in one area and not others; the human body fat scales proportionally. This comes through consistent dieting for a long period of time and frequent exercise. The body's response to this is also different for each person. Some people can very easily loose body fat with minimal effort and some people have to work harder but it is never impossible. So in general don't get frustrated if you don't see results in three weeks. It usually takes about eight to really notice a significant difference. In reference to how long you have to exercise, that really depends on your health level and if it is even safe for you to engage in it. If you are in relatively average shape start with 30 minutes a day. Then as it gets easier through the weeks add more time or intensity (try working out harder). Keep changing your routine every few weeks (try running outside when you get bored of the machine or doing calisthenics if you can't get to a gym); your body will become accustomed to doing this type of exercise very quickly and your results will start to lag. Most importantly, challenge yourself. Your body won't change if it doesn't have a need to; create that need through your intensity and intervals of training. The main thing is diet, however. You can work out for 10 hours a day but if you aren't eating the right foods consistently every day, week after week then you won't see any change. Good Luck, Hope that helps and feel free to ask any questions. 

See "Triceps" dips completely alleviate shoulder pain? regarding shoulder pain on dips. My advice is to maintain humeral external rotation (not sure what the official name is) whenever doing any exercises either pulling or pushing the humerus "upwards" into the shoulder (glenohumeral) joint (such as dips and pullups). Also use your traps to stabilize your shoulder blades as needed for these well. 

Almost every back anatomy diagram I see draws a giant trapezius muscle across the upper back. I work out frequently and I would say (for my body type/size) I have rather large "upper" traps, but have always wondered about the "lower" parts. It looks like they are always primarily mentioned in the context of scapular "depression". However, I have never "isolated" or purposefully tried to train "lower traps", nor do I feel any "weakness" when trying to depress my scapula manually or when doing exercises (such as weighted dips or pullups) that would make use of any scapular-depression musculature. In other words, I feel no "weakness" in my lower traps when doing exercises involving scapular depression or that seemingly would invoke lower traps for scapular depression or stabilization. So, are strong lower traps really that useful for most exercises? Do they need to be isolated, or are they pretty well invoked in any exercises involving traps anyway?  It seems to me like whatever weaknesses one may have in exercises -- such as dips and pullups -- that should make the most use of scapular depression musculature, the trapezius in general seems like the least likely muscle one would commonly need to strengthen in order to progress in those exercises. 

As best I can tell, the intent is to get your spine relaxed with your lower back down to provide more or less a straight line. Indeed, the recommendation is to raise your knees or to even put a bolster or pillow under your legs to prop them up. Some people also get relief by letting the legs fall out (which reduces the profile of the buttocks). For Savasana that makes your legs look like they're in sort of a butterfly pose. When doing Uttanpadasana, it's kind of like a frog stretch. And the feeling in your lower spine and belly is likely a combination of muscular effort and stretching. Both sides are getting worked because you're suspending your legs in a position between all the way up and all the way down, forcing both sides to work against each other. 

For carrying my tablet, I actually had my mother sew me up a small backpack that slings across my back. It holds snugly to my back, so there's no real bouncing to worry about, and she made it in a way where I can rotate it around my body for when I don't feel like contorting to reach it. For the tablet I own with a strap on the back, I'll sometimes just carry it in my hand, switching hands when one arm gets tired. It adds an additional small workout and keeps it handy (it's also in a shock-resistant case so I don't have to worry about dropping it or falling). For headphones, I used to just use cheap Dollar Store ones. The wires were long enough to reach from the backpack and the low cost meant that replacement them every half year or so was a small impact to me. I now use a Bluetooth headset I picked up at Aldis for about $15. Fewer wires to worry about, although it does mean one more thing to keep charged. 

Sounds to me like you just have to increase the weight -- I mean, go even for sets of heavy singles with weight belt if you have to for that as well. The issue is not that pullups don't "target tht lats" -- they do, but lats are generally going to be the strongest muscles in that whole chain anyway. Since yours are strong enough already for bodyweight, it makes sense that you won't feel them being worked as much as the weaker muscles in that chain (such as elbow flexors and grip muscles in the arms). (The purpose of heavy singles is to workaround any weaknesses or lack of endurance in those weaker non-lat muscles). If, on the other hand, you're just seeking to do "more" pullups per set, then that will be more of an "endurance" (or technically, "time-under-tension") exercise. And consequently, those weaker muscles are really going to be hit hard going for that -- much more so than the already strong and stable lats. Edit: to be fair, assuming you're not talking about "kipping pullups, then some more time-under-tension handling would be critical here -- essentially to take the time to inhibit swinging and do pullups more strictly (kipping pullups limit time-under-tension to permit more reps). 

It really depends on which supplement you are taking. If it is a nitric oxide supplement with green tea extract in it for instance, at least from personal and anecdotal evidence you tend to get less exhausted during your workout and as a result you can do more volume and/or greater intensity. That comes from the way the body breaks down Nitric Oxide. The caffeine keeps you alert and raises your heart rate. Note though that taking it for long periods of time does tend to reduce your level of intensity during your workouts (Again anecdotal, not true for everyone). Taking it after a workout may help your body circulate nutrients better but don't quote me on that, I'm not a doctor. I do however know that some pre-workouts come loaded with L-arginine and some other amino acids which help with recovery time. So if you want you could take a pre-workout afterward and you can see some benefit but the question is why would you do that when you can get a supplement designed specifically for that purpose and save your money? In reference to your green tea question, theoretically consuming green tea or green tea supplement has numerous health benefits (Vitamin C, helps skin, high fluoride content for you bones, helps lower cholesterol, the list goes on for days) regardless of your timing, so its not unsafe to say it may assist in your recovery. Consuming it prior to your workout will yield the results I stated above, essentially a better quality workout because of the caffeine content but you don't have the added effects of the nitric oxide. Consuming it afterward would keep your metabolism up after your workout is ended but its negligible if you are doing any kind of cardiovascular training as studies show your metabolism stays in a higher state for hours after your workout anyway. So at that point you would be taking it for the nutritional value and to stay awake. So no matter what you are benefiting. Know that it does contain caffeine and like any drug/herb your body gets used to it and will require more for the same effect; in your case the pre-workout alertness feeling. As far as a difference between drinking a pre-workout versus regular green-tea, that is more of a personal preference. Taking a pre-workout consistently for a long period of time is not exactly great for your liver and kidneys depending on which brand you choose. You may also become dependent on it to get you through your daily gym routine which is also not good. Finally the affects tend to become less noticeable after extended periods of time. It is also more expensive than green-tea and does not have the same nutritional value. At least with green tea when your body adapts to consuming that level of caffeine you still benefit from the other nutrients in it. (That is not to say there are no nutrients in pre-workout supplements) Should you avoid a pre-workout completely? That is up to you but there is nothing wrong with keeping some around the house for days when you don't feel like training or you feel sluggish. Should you drink green-tea before and/or after? It is once again personal preference and there are numerous health benefits so it can't hurt your recovery. So in summary, get both if you want. Drink your natural green tea every day (before and after is fine as long as you don't have heart problems) and keep some pre-workout around for those days when you feel lazy. Try not to take the pre-workout every day though. I hope that helps, sorry it was so long but you asked a very multifaceted question.