I would guess that by running exclusively on a tread mill you developed a stride that relied on the forgiving surface. I run exclusively in minimalist shoes (Vibram Fivefingers) on pavement with no complaints now but I ran in traditional running shoes for over a decade and had occasional knee or plantar fascia problems. I also spent about five years running almost exclusively on gravel and during that time I had pretty severe knee pain any time I ran on pavement. It is clear to me now that my old stride included very hard heel strikes while the stride that I learned running in minimalist shoes does not. I can take off my shoes and run the same way barefooted with no discomfort (until the abrasion gets to the soles of my feet :-) Learning to run in minimalist shoes would probably require more of a commitment than you would want to take on, but I recommend visiting this Harvard web site on the biomechanics of foot strikes to get an idea of how to run with a forefoot strike, then practicing that with the shoes you wear now. If you can modify your stride you will likely relieve much of your pain. UPDATE: I just noticed the additional info you added. Running down steep hills definitely generates the hardest impacts so you should avoid them as long as you are experiencing pain. You could also consider walking down steep hills. Also, take plenty of time to recover between runs, perhaps several days. If you do not want to skip exercise for that length of time substitute walking between your runs. UPDATE 2: I should have linked to this video originally. It gives you a nice overview of the information you will find at the Harvard Barefoot Running website. 

I have gained little mass on my chest and belly too (15-20% fat). Now I need an advice how do I train my body- by lifting heavy weights or light weights? Also, do I need to have supplements, protein shakes or organic multivitamin tablets? One last point, when last time I did gym for a month I noticed that I have lost fat from my face too. Is that fine or an indication of malnutrition ? 

I know this may be hard to calculate but I would appreciate if you can guide me with the approximate calorie reduce (after burn) when a person do only 4 min Tabata routine 

Other than at my lower belly, I have not much visible fat in my body. Lets for an example, I limit myself to 1200 calories per day Do I have to burn > 1200 calories per day to reduce my belly fat? Is it practically possible to loose > 1200 calories per day for about a month or two, shouldn't that can affect my body? Also, I have started doing 

How much minimum amount of calorie required for my body when I am doing cardio + normal gym routine + daily home and office work? I doubt about the above formula. What is the best way to reduce weight via calorie control without damaging body. Ex. If my daily intake is 1200 cal , so do I have to burn more than 1200 cal everyday to reduce my fat? 

I have a similar build and I have an idea to test, but I'm at a point in my life where I am not that motivated to test my idea so why don't you test it for me ;-) It isn't actually my idea, I got it from Tim Ferris and you can read about it on his web site here or in his book, The 4-Hour Body. Generally speaking, your workouts would consist of one set of a relatively small number of exercises, performed until complete failure 1 or, at most, 2 times per week. This is failure like you have never pushed yourself to experience before. As I recall, Tim does basic strength training exercises like dead lifts, squats, etc. but I have some friends doing this on machines and it is probably safer to do this way, though perhaps not quite as effective. It amounts to a shockingly small amount of time in the gym followed by a lot of recovery time. Your diet consists of large amounts of protein. I could go on, but Tim Ferris can fill in the details with much more authority :-) 

I agree with others who have commented that you have to target fat loss all over. While exercise can be somewhat helpful, fat loss is probably 90% diet so you should focus your effort there. Many have had success with relative ease using Tim Ferriss's Slow Carb Diet so I would recommend that you give you that a try. 

I'm doing HIIT for VO2 improvement and wondering if that'll help with fat loss as well. I've read a lot of conflicting reports, including one fellow who said "there a study on this that will be published soon" (but no date on th article (arrggg!). 

And let me know whether you've measured positive results for yourself or if there is some citation of someone else who has measured it. The Gibala Regimen and others I've seen which are designed to be less intensive increase the Work and rest cycle and reps to: 60 w/ 75 r x 8-12 Reps. So maybe that's my answer. 

Found this research Which compared Endurance Training vs. HIIT showing that relative to the energy expended, HIIT was 9x as effective in reducing fat. (This isn't exactly the comparison I was looking for but it's a good start) But this other study contradicts that 

I'm a 46 year old male. I mountain bike pretty hard at least one day a week. I've been doing High Intensity Interval Training off and on for the last year and it's really improved my Vo2Max (which is my #1 constraint when mountain biking). Up til now I've done about 10m/day about 5 or 6 days a week plus one hard 1.5 to 2h ride with folks much faster than me. I'm considering changing things up, maybe resting every other day but doubling the amount of HIIT I'm doing. 

I've had good results following the standard Tabata Protocol (20s "max" and 10s rest). Update: I do this protocol 5 days a week and mt bike pretty hard the 6th day. In the "work" cycle on the Tabata protocol I can reach "max" in about 15s. But I got to the point where it takes me 15s or so to reach max This is on an exercise bike "out of the saddle". I could probably go a little harder by "running" rather than "jumping" onto each pedal but I find that tough to coordinate on a bike. (I am not meaning to humblebrag here: I'm the slowest person on my weekly group Mt. Bike rides. I cardio is my limitation). I'm currently on 25s /12s rest x 12 Reps. But.... I'm not completely wiped at the end (super tired for sure). And on each work rep I don't reach the "poop my pants" point . And I think I should be. On my mt. bike rides I find that I can now go "all out" for longer (maybe 1-2 minutes before reaching that "poop point", up from about 30 s or so). But the guys I'm riding with can just keep at that speed for 10 minutes. (I just want to keep up so I'm not slowing everyone down :) What is the best way to increase it? 

I've been running in Vibram Fivefingers for about 4 years, first in a pair of KSOs then in a pair of Bikilas. My typical run is 4 - 6 miles. I agree with Mike but wanted to add my experience to this question. When I switched from KSOs to Bikilas the pad over the Achilles tendon on the Bikila irritated my skin. The upper of the Bikila has a good deal more "structure" to it and this made the rubbing even worse. Even after my skin toughened up it would still be irritated after a run. For this reason I prefer the KSO, though I am still running in Bikilas. I wanted to get the Bikila LS but they are designed for wide feet and mine are narrow so I had to pull the two sides completely together to get a snug fit. My next pair will probably be a brown pair of KSO Treks because they will look better when I feel like wearing them with jeans. Learning how to run like a human is key to running in minimalist shoes. You can find some really good information from Harvard's Skeletal Biology Lab" barefoot running page. There is also a great video summarizing this work on YouTube. I used to run a mile or two barefooted each time I ran just to improve my form but I quite doing that last year. My feet never seemed to toughen up enough for regular 4 to 6 mile runs on concrete and asphalt, though I could run the occasional 5K barefooted without issues. 

I started doing this for a week and I can see a little progress on my upper belly (seems like a part of six pack - which aren't very strange because I don't have much fat over there) I have seen people has transformed completely in 30-60 days program. What am I missing in my exercise or in my diet? Also, is it true that more muscle burns more calorie? Like a car with 1000 horse power engine burn more gas than 200 horse power engine.. Do I have to really hit the gym and to do intense workout? 

In short, my question is "How actually calorie calculation works?" Now, I will try to describe my question in detail. While surfing net I found a calculator which claimed that it can identify my minimum calorie requirement. By reverse engineering I found the formula was nothing but 

I have started doing cardio from one Youtube channel which is showing that in 84 min I can burn around 1000 calories (but 1000 is not my goal). I do gym also so I want to burn till 400-500 calories. While searching on youtube I found these tutorials for tabata Burn fat in 4 min 4 min jump around tabata by searching it on google I found that it burn around 15 calorie per minute (assuming that it has been performed with 100% effort) but some of the website users claim that they have burned around 200 calories, which is astonishing because he didn't mention after burn. So my questions are,