I would say that the knee thing won't give you any real advantage and is more or less some imitation of the "coolness" of motorcycle racers. The second thing, where you push your bike down into the turn while keeping your body more upright has some advantages when used in the right situation. On a paved road -- as pointed out in your question -- it shouldn't make a difference. However, on loose or slippery ground pushing your bike down will give you more safety. Think of riding through a sharp turn where in the "standard configuration" (bike and rider lean into the turn by the same angle) you have to lean into the turn quite far. If your tires lose grip now, you will slip away and dump like a bag of rice as you have quite little possibilities to react. However, if you push the bike down and keep your body more upright it will be easier to get a foot on the ground when your bike slips away. Therefore you can in best case regain control and drive on or in a worse case let your bike go and try to catch yourself safely. 

All the usual stuff applies, lights, bags, clothes, trailers, special saddles, etc. I personally would love to receive some huge panniers. The problem with your question is there are no recumbent-specific accessories, only recumbent-specific versions of common bike accessories. The single exception might be a flag for added visibility, but I doubt it would make a good Christmas present. 

Be removing the cap from the front of the lever, a hex socket is revealed through a small opening, which can be tightened to snug the lever to the handle bar: 

I notice a lot of cyclists with massive sculpted calf muscles, especially the kind that clearly ride as a life-style without worrying about minimizing body weight. I've switched cities, and gone from a 7km round-trip commute to 25km round trip. I've been cycling hard as a hobby and often clocked 200km or more per week. After 6 months, I find that it's my quads that are getting larger, and my quads that are sore and tired after long rides, while my calf muscles feel hardly involved. Does this suggest something wrong with my technique and/or posture? Should I be working to involve my calf muscles more? Possibly relevant: I cycle with a pretty aggressive bent-over posture, on a touring bike with drop bars. I use clipless shoes and have been working on applying more power in the upwards-stroke. I ride with my seat relatively high, but comfortable and I'm certain I'm not over-extending my legs. 

I'm looking for a pump at home to use with my high pressure (100-120 psi) road bike tires. My bike has presta valves, but I would like to be able to use it on Schrader valves, should I get a bike with them. Who has a floor pump that they like? 

For similar things on cars I use white lithium grease (e.g. this stuff on Amazon)—it is a good lubricant and sticks around the joint that you apply it to. Any similar thick grease should work for this joint, but the crucial thing is getting it into the right place. Taking the joint apart and applying grease to the mating surfaces is the best bet. 

You might look at just upgrading your current approach—a lithium battery based cell phone charger (like the popular New Trent ones) generally go a lot further than AA based ones. 

I recently got a cyclocomputer that measures cadence and I'm not sure what a good speed is or what benefit I would get by altering my natural cadence. On good, level tarmac, I find myself doing about 75-80 RPM. I'll get North of 100 when sprinting away from a stoplight, and down in the 50-60 range when mounting a moderate incline. I don't know what might impact cadence, but I'm 5'11 (180 centimeters), 150 pounds (68 kilograms, 10.7 stone). In addition to biking 30-40 miles a week, I do CrossFit, a combination of gymnastic and weightlifting exercises, so I've got quite a bit of raw strength. 

The adjuster on the picture looks like a quite standard adjuster as it is also used on shifters, derailleurs and the like. If you have such a part flying around that is no longer needed you could see if you can take the adjuster from there. 

I don't think any manufacturer will give you any warranty in case of "abuse" of its products – and it surely could be considered abusive to have a crash with their clothing, even if it was sold as mountainbike clothing. There may be some exception with protective gear, but even then the manufacturer might argue that it was designed to get damaged or destroyed in order to protect you. In this case I could imagine the manufacturer might give you some discount on a replacement, as some helmet manufacturers do in case of a crashed helmet. But for "normal" clothing, I don't think you will have great chances on such warranty. 

As you already suppose, the angle does make a difference. To your first question: If you take the distance between the wheel axles as a constant measure, the handle bar will get further away from the saddle the higher the head tube angle gets, therefore the geometry gets "longer". This can for a certain amount be compensated by a shorter stem. The bigger effect is - you guessed it - on the steering behaviour. A flat head tube causes the steering to get more stable, so its tendency to go straight is higher. This means that if you compare a bike with a flat head tube to one with a steep one, the flat one will feel like driving on rails, meaning you feel like you have to "force" it into curves as it tends to go on straight. The most interesting question is if the difference of half a degree really would make a difference but I think it won't. I can remember that when I bought my last bike some time ago that the different bikes that made it to the final decision had some spread over some 1 or 2 degrees in head tube angle, but they were all from the same price and purpose class. So I would say that such a small difference will be more due to technical decisions of the manufacturer than due to better or different handling. 

I come mainly from CrossFit, where we get everyone working out at the same time, with the same intensity level by scaling the difficulty of what we do. For weighted movements, that means more weight, for bodyweight things, it's harder movements (knee push-ups -> push-ups -> clapping push-ups -> handstand push-ups). For cycling, you could do this by adding weight if your bike has a rack or riding a less-efficient bike, perhaps a mountain bike with knobby tires. 

Idaho passed their law in 1982 and it was brought up in the Oregon legislature but failed to win enough support to be passed. California and Montana have considered adopting similar laws, but they have not yet been brought to their respective legislatures. So, in the US, it sounds like Idaho is still the only state with such a law. Here is an an animation explaining the law: $URL$ 

I have a continuum of clothes that I add on as the weather gets colder. During the summer, I ride like you do with shorts and a t-shirt. As things cool of a little bit, down below 60F/15C, I'll put on a windbreaker over my t-shirt and some full-finger gloves on my hands. The next step for me is to add an Under Armour Cold Gear shirt (many companies make equivalent tops) but to stick with naked legs, they're doing all the wok after all. Once temperatures get down to the 45F/7C range, I'll add som snazzy leggings in a fabric similar to the Under Armour top mentioned above. When things start to freeze, my final move is a fleece vest over the long sleeve top, but under my windbreaker. If things get even colder where you are, Icebike's clothing page is a good place to look for further advice. Keep two things in mind: you need a lot less clothing once you're moving and generating heat than you do standing around, but you also need to be prepared for a problem that might leave you standing around for some time. Dress light and carry extra clothes in a backpack. 

Every taillight I've owned has mounted to the seat post, but when I load my rear rack the seatpost light is no longer visible. Instead, I'd like to mount a light to the rear of my rack, which has a single centered screw hole for mounting a light. What kinds of lights can I mount with this kind of setup? Are there lights specifically designed to be mounted on the back of a rack with a single screw? The best picture I can find is below: 

I was under the impression that reducing the weight of your wheels is important. However, I'm noticing that many of the extremely high-end aerodynamic rims are actually heavier than cheaper rims by the same manufacturer. For example: 

I recently picked up a Vaude Egger and have been extremely happy with it. It mounts securely, detaches easily, has a dedicated laptop slot and enough room left over for a change of clothes, extra shoes and various odds and ends. The result is a little heavy, especially when you add in my ridiculous Fahgettaboudit ulock, but for somebody who was carrying the same load in a backpack it's night and day. 

As usual, Sheldon Brown has a great page on wheel building and you can learn more about the math from the above mentioned book. 

I only ride on the street, but I use a Nite Rider MiNewt on my helmet, which gives great visibility of the road ahead. For off-road riding you will want significantly more light, but I still think having a light on your helmet that follows where you look is quite useful. Couple something like the MiNewt with a 500 or more lumen bar light and you'll be in good shape. If you're handy, you could also build your own light. 

I have a commuting/touring bike and my riding is a good bit of commuting mixed with weekend rides of up to 50 miles. In my lame knowledge, I'll assume that lighter wheels can be had when you spend more money, but what are other things to look for or avoid when choosing wheels for a non-racing bike? 

I don't pay attention to walk signals, but if I know the way a particular light's cycle works, I will indeed go through when it's red. In California we have a lot of protected left turns, where the folks turning left get a green arrow and the opposing straight-through traffic still has a red light. Protected lefts generally happen with two opposing left turn lanes simultaneously getting the arrow. Often, the turn lanes will empty before the green arrow goes away. If the turn lane across the intersection from you still has an arrow, but the lane itself is devoid of cars, then you can safely cross the intersection. In order to reduce the ire from automobile drivers, I refrain from blatantly crossing red intersections, but instead use the above knowledge to get a head start on cars before the light changes so that I can be through the intersection before they start moving. 

I have recently installed the Cyo-T head light by the German manufacturer Busch & Müller. It has a daylight riding feature that is buffered to have up to 4 minutes of light when standing without energy supply from the dynamo which powers the daylight riding light LEDs. The buffer is good enough that if I switch off the light right after stopping, it does still make the daylight riding LEDs light up after having the bike parked in the shed for the whole weekend. By that, you have at least the daylight riding light immediately after you start cycling. And since the circuitry seems to be developed in a way that the daylight riding LEDs get enough power to go to full brightness before the main light is powered, you will at least have full brightness in them – definitely enough to be seen on the road. So to answer your question: yes, there are such lights, but I don't know whether you will be able to grab some of those or find something equivalent where you live. 

This is an extremely bad idea, and it may or may not be illegal where you live. It's pretty common for the law to require you to be able to lock up both wheels on flat dry pavement. Regardless, both brakes are important, and you shouldn't remove one for something a silly as weight reduction. The contact patch on your tires is small enough already without throwing away half your stopping power. Your rear brake will slow you without impacting your steering, while your front break is responsible for ~60% of your stopping power. However, braking with your front brake while turning sharply will usually result in loss of traction of your front wheel, causing the bike to slide out from under you, so it's crucial that you keep your rear brake. If you're still dead set on this course, remove the rear brake, it's the less effective of the two. Some day when you're cornering and a car pulls out in front of you, and your options are to brake and slide out or hit the car, you'll regret not having both brakes. 

There is some natural limitation to the crank length defined by your body dimensions, which is the height difference between the lowest and the highest possible pedal position for a given leg length. The lowest possible position is the one where you just can reach the pedal with your foot at the crank's bottom position (plus some additional height to prevent that you have to stretch your leg to reach the pedal). You can set that height by properly adjusting your saddle. Now comes the important part: If you turn the crank up now to its highest point, the limitation is your knee angle. If it is lower than a certain angle (don't know what's the exact limit, but 90 deg might be already critical), you will have problems to apply a reasonable force to the cranks AND you will get knee problems sooner or later. The maximum crank length is now half of the length between top and bottom position where you can reach the pedal on bottom and have a reasonable knee angle on top position. I would guess (without any figures at hand) that for most people 175mm is fairly close to their maximum crank length while 180mm might already be too long for many of them. You surely will be able to get longer crank arms as well but they might be not on the mass market for the aforementioned reason.