"There were reports" is a pretty safe phrase to use! In other words, this book is relating a rumor. Garrett does not give a direct source for this. The next citation in the book is to Influenza: The Last Great Plague by W. Beveridge (1977), but Google Books is telling me that the anecdote is not in that source. 

The question as you posed it was whether "lip balm" in general can make skin dryer. Lip balm can have any number of ingredients. A long list can be found here. ChapStick, the most common brand of lip balm, contains petroleum jelly/petrolatum. A textbook on the subject, Dry Skin and Moisturizers, states: "Petrolatum blocks the evaporation of water from the skin (transepidermal water loss, TEWL), thus keeping the stratum corneum well hydrated." (In other words, ChapStick is mostly the same as Vaseline, and there is nothing harmful about putting Vaseline on your lips.) A scientific study cited on that page showed petrolatum to have superior abilities at retaining moisture in the skin compared to herbal remedies like the active ingredients (?) of Burt's Bees organic lip balm. Burt's Bees provides an example active ingredient of salicylic acid. Of this, the Dry Skin and Moisturizers book states: "It should be remembered that salicylic acid preparations may be irritating and can cause systemic toxicity if applied to large areas of damaged skin." Elsewhere in the book, it's recommended to avoid giving salicylic acid to children. And there's more: 

With biogenic formation there are algae and bit of plants (no animals) were buried and converted into oil in some specific conditions (no oxygen, depth no more than 5 km, specific temperature) in several hundreds millions of years. Usual oil production can lift only up to 20-40 % of oil in the underground (with massive water flooding of reservoir), this is called oil recovery factor. Only very expensive and rare process, Enhanced oil recovery will change this percentage to 30-60. Human extracted around 15-20% of this in 1 hundred years; the rate of extraction is millions time faster than rate of formation. In next 50-100 years it may be possible to extract 15-20% more of oil; more then half can't be extracted. For abiotic oil genesis the paper gives two variants, weak and strong. Weak have no difference for finite oil from biogenic; and strong have no evidence to be true. Also, human will increase production rate while he can, and sometimes out extraction rate will be greater than any replacing rate (same peak of oil, just bit later): 

The blog post you found cites a very fun journal article, but doesn't discuss it very well, denying the fun to all of us. The origin of this legend was figured out in 2005 and the results are available for all to read. The most prominent figure we see in these anecdotes was a conscious hoax by peace activist Norman Cousins in 1953; Cousins claimed to newspaper readers that the "Norwegian Academy of Science" discovered only 292 years of peace since 3600 BC, and 14,513 wars since then. These were meant to be absurdly overspecific figures, and the headline in the newspaper in which his article appeared calls his work an "Imaginary Experiment". But the idea seems to have existed before Cousins's hoax. In particular, a magazine called the Moskovskie Vedomosti claimed that there had been 227 years of peace, and 268 wars (not years of war; this was possibly misremembered by later authors). But the Vedomosti could not be located by the authors of this study, and in any case there seemed to be several figures floating around. The authors ran across a similar claim by a writer named Bloch, and are pleased at their good fortune when they find him: 

How growth plate should look like on xray? And where are cartilage tissues (which are no radiopaque - they will not stop xray photons and are not imaged on xray photos --- "Cartilage does not absorb x-rays under normal In vivo conditions")? There is blog post $URL$ "Bone Growth in Canines" (Articles by Dr. James Sillers) 

Forbes checked his estimations and found huge error in how much space will Cleversafe's solution needs for 10 exabytes: $URL$ 

Author of the blog has several xray images for puppies. At sewen weeks growth plates are like thin lines in metaphysis: $URL$ 

PS: Fortune article you linked was about White Tiger Field. Online copy of article $URL$ and oil is in basement rock (it is true): 

There are several claims about extremely huge data storage capacity in Utah, like "The NSA's Utah Data Center will be able to handle and process five zettabytes of data." (yotta = 1000 zetta = 1M exa = 1 billion peta = 1 trillion tera) Many of them comes from wrong estimations from William Binney (a former NSA technical director), according to NPR: $URL$ 

Some Puritans took a day off work on Christmas Day in 1621, claiming an offense to their "conscience." Plymouth governor William Bradford went to check on them after his own work was done, but was incensed to see that they were simply drinking, roughhousing, and playing stoolball instead. This was obviously a waste of precious manpower in a failing colony that needed it urgently, and he made them go back to work. As the 17th century progressed, the Puritans and European Protestants both did their best to stamp out any remnant of revelry from the day, and rarely acknowledged that it had any special circumstances surrounding it. (source: F.J. Bremer, John Winthrop: America's Forgotten Founding Father, Oxford, 2005, p. 226) People were not put in the stocks for partying, as the image above suggests. Instead, they would hypothetically be fined five shillings (quite a bit) for either skipping work or gambling, under the following law of 1659 (citation for date below): 

In earliest stages of bone development, there is no calcium here, and bone is invisible in typical X-Ray. Then there are three centers of ossification (osteogenesis), first is primary center in the middle of the bone, and then two epiphyseal centers are formed at both ends of bone. LifeMap has a picture of bone development from MEDICAL EMBRYOLOGY Book by BEN PANSKY, Ph.D, M.D. chapter 65. Bone Histogenesis: Secondary Ossification Centers and Joint Development Wikipedia lists several ages for human bone development in $URL$ 

Wikipedia says that Tiger has its oil in granite, but the original source of this oil is fossil $URL$ 

So, there will be peak, when humankind will produce some amount of oil per day (around 95-100 millions of barrels), and after this event oil production will decline. There will be a lot of oil underground, but with time it is harder and harder to get it out. Under "harder" I mean several things: high price of oil (100 $ / barrel or 200$ / barrel) is not enough to keep 95 mbbl/day level of production; we need to invest some energy into EOR processes and oil lifting. There is last point - when you need to invest same amount of energy to get the barrel which is equal to the energy of this oil barrel (EROEI = 1) - $URL$ (PS: biodiesel and Ethanol corn have 1.3 EROEI which is very low; shale oil was estimated at EROEI=3, and Canadian bitumen tar sands was estimated as EROEI=3).