Do not use a mis-matched internal geared hub for your frame. You risk damage to your gear hub, your frame, or both. Aluminum frames are much stiffer than steel frames, which is good for good for riding, but it is also prone to cracking due to this stiffness (when compared to steel's malleability). Even if you do fit the part, it will be a weak point in the frame. 

How long are your rides, and how well do you fuel up before and during rides? Cramping is likely due to mineral or salt imbalance (sodium, potassium, and magnesium, calcium, plus a few other more minor ones). It could also be due to lack of energy of your muscles to continue working. Either could be compounded with rides longer than your body is used to, and both are relatively easy to solve (assuming that it's not a bigger problem). Depending on how long/intense your rides are getting, it may be a good time to focus a bit more on nutrition & making sure you have enough energy & salts/minerals for the ride. Most people consume far too much sodium (at least in some Western countries), and not enough potassium. A balance of both is needed for muscle contraction. Magnesium and calcium are also needed. Dark leafy greens are great for potassium & magnesium, and there are many of sources of calcium out there (think dairy, and there are others as well). Managing a minimum sodium intake is usually not an issue, however too much can be problematic for other reasons. Supplements can help. Gatorade and other commercial products might be useful too, and may also help if your body is running low on energy. If the cramping is towards the end of your ride, it may be that your body's store of rapidly available energy is running out. A small, carbohydrate-rich snack before (and perhaps during your ride-depending on the length) may help. Doesn't hurt to try it to see if it helps. As you increase ride length/intensity, your body will adapt and store more rapidly-available energy for next time, but this can take time to develop. Also needed for this is adequate recovery time between rides. This all assumes a decent warm-up, stretching, and adequate hydration for your rides. As always, do your own research & consult with a professional when making dietary decisions. I'm just some random person on the internet. 

I have been riding my RD-5800 this week with a slightly misaligned hanger. It had some difficult shifting, but it was ridable. So the hanger alignment tool arrived today, and I decided to clean the derailleur and re-grease the jockey wheels after aligning the hanger. To my incredible surprise, when trying to re-tighten the tension pulley screw, the aluminium forming the thread broke off from the inner plate. I have now a useless derailleur. I am trying to establish the probable cause of the problem to prevent a similar scenario in the future. Firstly, I would like to precise that the bolt has never been subjected to more than 4 N.m (Shimano max = 5 N.m), so I don't think that is the problem. Every 2-3 weeks, I remove the jockey wheels to re-grease the bushings. I have been doing that for the last 8 months. Do you think that the frequent removal of the jockey wheels caused the problem, or it may be due to the vibration experienced by the misaligned hanger? Follow-up: I have temporarily replaced the bolt with a M5 longer one and a nut on the other side. It is not the better solution, since it is threaded in the bushing portion, but it will last until my new derailleur arrives. 

Most likely is that there is a weakness in your inner tube. Take the inner tube off the wheel and inflate it gently. If there's an area that bugles (especially if it's in the same location where your wheel bulges), that's probably the issue. If so, replace the inner tube. Something like this can happen as a result of a flat tire, or the repair of a flat. It could also be due to normal manufacturing variances that can take time to reveal themselves. Also possible is that the tire tread is damaged. Check for signs of wear or weakness in your tire's side walls, both inside and out. Also make sure that the tire bead (which 'grips' the wheel rim to hold the tire in place) is not damaged or worn. If it is, replace it, especially if it still bulges with a new inner tube. 

I have a bike which had a RS1 fork and a wheel with a required predictive steering hub. I have a second bike which has a Boost 110 front fork. Since both these hubs are 110mm wide, can I use the wheel with the predictive steering hub on the Boost 110 fork? I know it does not work the other way around since the RS1 fork does require the predictive hub. 

I think that will be okay. Have a look if there are no spacers behind the rotor mount bolts - or if it's center lock see if there is a spacer behind it as well. Removing these may help. 

I can say from experience this does not work well at all. Although as mentioned above the chain does run through the shifting is dreadful. I tried it with a 10 speed shifter but gears would always have a spot where they would jump. Just get a 10 speed rear derailleur. You will be glad you did. 

I have recently changed my cassette from a 11-32 to a 11-25 (11 speed). To make the change possible, I have reduced my chain size to 106 links (53 inches) by the largest cog, largest chain ring method. For further information, my crankset is a 52-36 teeth. When I installed my RD-6800 (SS), I noticed that even by removing the B-screw, the derailleur is never too close to the largest sprocket (largest sprocket, smallest chain ring configuration). How is that possible? I thought that maybe I screwed up the chain sizing, but I have just recalculated using the equation and the recommended chain length is 53 inches: 

My initial suspicion was that the clicking/cracking noise my bike makes was coming from my bottom bracket. But today, I noticed that when applying full power while standing up, no clicks are present. When I am not standing, my center of mass obviously goes to the back of the bike. Therefore, I suspect the problem comes either from the back part of the frame (closer to what I hear) or the rear wheel (less probable in my opinion). My frame/rear wheel have a warranty of 2 years, so I would really like to know if the noise comes from the frame or the wheel. Is there a way to diagnose such a thing? Removing the bottom bracket and inspecting the interior of the frame would be worth? The only way to rule out a wheel issue would be to get another wheel to test? 

You can use JB Weld to prevent further unraveling. Work it into the fibers, and wrap with duct tape to hold tight while it cures. 

It's difficult to give a general estimate on how often brake pads should be replaced, as conditions vary. (Including how often you ride, temperature, humidity, do you store your bike in direct sunlight, how old the brakes are, etc.) If it looks worn, replace it. Adjusting brake tension via the screw nuts on the handlebars is the best way to make adjustments. As brakes wear down with use, you will need to make these adjustments to compensate. Needing to do this ever month or two seems within the normal range for how often you use your bike. Another factor to keep in mind is that cables will stretch with use. If the screw nuts on the handlebars are at their limit, you will need to loosen the nut holding the cable at the brake to adjust the cable. (When you make this adjustment, make sure to reset the screw nuts on the handlebar). Your recently purchased brake pads seem fine. I've found that a manufacture will include the housing even if it's not needed. Just be sure to toe-in your brakes slightly, and reset the handlebar screw nuts (and cables) as needed. 

In my experience, the objective of a good chain lub for a bike is to maximize lubrication time while minimizing dirt attraction. That happens for three reasons: 

That is why there are a great variety of chain lubs. You can go from minimum dirt attraction (wax) to the maximum (wet). I would say that if you are perfectly happy with a wet lub, a switch to an ATF one would not pose a big problem. What you do not want to you use are solvents, most notably WD-40, they do not act as a lube long enough. Do not use thicker oils, as standard engine oil: they will render your chain a mess in not so long and they won't penetrate deep enough in the links. On the other hand, if you want to minimize dirt attraction, something I prefer personally, I would use a bike chain specific dry lube or wax. As a bottom line, you know that a 120mL bottle lasts like forever? You have to apply only one drop per link, meaning only 0.05mL per link. 

Honestly i have 2 of what you describe with a few variations - for gearing you don't need more than 2X11. Light i would consider looking at a dynamo hub like SON 28. Rear rack look at Thule, bike pannier rack (use to be called Freeload). Suspension and dropper post these days come almost standard on most bikes and you don't need to go spend $7k plus to get one either. I would buy an out of the box bike and change that you want to change by sourcing parts from Chain Reaction Cycle or get your local bike shop to custom build you one. 

I have a brand new Titanium Boost 29er hardtail. The frame uses a PF30 BB and the BB shell is 73mm wide. I have installed the recommended RaceFace cinch PF30 bottom bracket with a Race face Next SL crank - 175mm arms and 32t single chain-ring. The problem is that the clearance between the chain stay and the crank arm is next to nothing. There is no contact yet but I am unable to run the recommended crank boot protector. 

It was probably due to the combination of an old derailleur and an old cassette. I have replaced both the derailleur and the cassette, and the noise level has been greatly reduced. I should also mention that the 105 GS RD derailleur has been replaced by a Ultegra SS. Therefore, the GS may be inherently noisier than the SS. Alignment of the hanger was checked with alignment tool, but it did not seem to be a problem. 

The noise was coming from the seat post. Removing the dirt, reapplying some grease and re-tightening the clamp solved the problem. I have also identified that the seat clamp is kind of broken, and the saddle was not leveled. Thanks for the comments, I didn't know that noises coming from the seat post were that common. 

Issues of where to find a bike have been answered pretty thoroughly here, including the standard disclaimers of making sure a bike isn't stolen before purchasing. On advice for how to see how ride-worthy a bike is: Definitely take a look at the bike before buying. Give it a quick once-over for general wear or use. If the bike looks like it hasn't been maintained well, it will probably show. This doesn't mean it isn't a good bike, but you want the best you can get. If you don't see any obvious signs of mis-use, check each system more thoroughly. Keep in mind that this is not an exhaustive list, and that you will find problems with any bike if you look closely enough. It doesn't automatically mean you should look for a different bike either. What's important is whether the problems you find are evidence of deeper issues, or if they will cause problems in the future. Many issues can be fixed at home with a little effort, but it's still better to be aware of anything before you buy a bike. These small fixes can also add up if you're looking for something cheap. I'll try to point out bigger problems that you want to avoid. History: Simply ask if there have been any problems with the bike. Has it been in an accident? was it rebuild? does it pull the left? How long has the seller owned it, how much have they used it, etc. General: Does anything squeak or make unusual sounds? Can you stand comfortably over the frame with your feet flat on the ground? Does the bike still have reflectors in the front and back, the wheels, and pedals? Has the bike been registered previously, and can the owner produce the paperwork to transfer the registration? Do the parts have a well-greased and smooth feel to them? Wheels: Look for wear on the tire tread. Is there any damage to the side walls of either tire? What kind of conditions are the inner tubes in? As how many flat repairs each wheel has had, and if either tire leaks air significantly. Make sure the wheels attach firmly to the frame, and that the wheels remain secure when you torque them relative to the axle. (You don't want any 'play' in the wheels, as this may be a sign of one of those deeper problems with a loose cassette or worn ball bearings.) How are the spokes? Do they have relatively even tension on them and look like they're in good shape? Spin the wheel on the bike, and look down the thread for any wobbling or mis-alignment. If they do, the wheels could probably use a re-alignment. Brakes: Check the brake pads for wear. Will then need to be replaced soon? Are they aligned for proper contact with the braking surface? Do they engage quickly when the brakes are applied? Cables: Check for any frayed ends or rusted sections. Are the cable guides still in place and preventing unnecessary wear across surfaces? Do the cables have end-caps on them to prevent future fraying? Pedals: Do the pedals appear to have struck the ground before or they otherwise in good shape. Torque the pedal arms against the axle to see if there is any looseness. Spin the pedals by hand to ensure they rotate smoothly, but aren't too loose or tight. Also spin the pedal crankshaft to look for the same types of things. As with the wheels, being overly tight or loose at the axle may be signs of bigger problems. Gears and Chain: Visually inspect the gears for any wear (each tooth should be symmetrically shaped, not wave-shaped). Is each gear parallel to each other on the cassette? How does the chain look? Has it been well maintained and lubricated. This is probably the only part where you would need any equipment to check your bike, but a chain-wear tool would be useful to check for a stretched chain. If you don't have such a tool handy, the aforementioned wave-shaped gear teeth are evidence of a stretched chain in need of replacement. Wave-shaped gear teeth mean the gears should be replaced also (not usually a good sign). Does the gear switching mechanism allow you to reach the highest and lowest gear, and does it move well? Handlebars: How are the handlebars positioned relative to the seat. Are they within comfortable reach? Can you reach the brakes quickly. Are the handlebars in line with the wheel? Is the tape worn and cracked, or does it look like you will still get some mileage out of it. Do the handlebars turn smoothly in the frame with the wheel, or is there any tightness or looseness? Seat and Post: How does the seat feel? can it be adjusted to a comfortable height and does it stay in place well. Quick-release adjustments can be a huge plus here. Frame: How does the frame look. Is it still in line with itself or has it been torqued or bent. Are there any signs of cracks or dents? Problems with the frame tend to increase in severity with use and affect biking efficiency as the frame degrades. Some light damage might be okay here, but be aware that a damaged frame can quickly become unusable. Ride the bike: Ride the bike for a short distance, switch through the full range of gears. Pedal hard, brake hard with both brakes (but don't let yourself fly over the handlebars), and turn a few times. How does the bike feel? This includes how the bike actually performs, and how well it feels for you specifically. Is the bike comfortable for you. If not, can it be adjusted so that it is? Take someone with you when looking a the bike. You never know who you might come across through Craigslist, and two sets of eyes may notice more than just one. Best of luck 

The instruction for this BB so not to use any spacers since it 73mm (68mm ones use spacers). Adding spacers wont help as it does not lengthen the spindle. I do not see how a Shimano XTR/XT crank will work here either since it has the same Q-factor. Any other ideas? 

If chain us not slipping then id say you have a busted freehub by the sound of it. Take the cassette off, remove the freehub inspect the paws check for excess grease or lack of. Otherwise look at a new freehub body. I had the same issue you describe last week. 

Interesting and personal topic. I'll ignore your budget for now... Ok i make use of a Garmin Edge 1000 with a HR monitor. I like to monitor my HR by % of max rather than beats. Makes it easier when looking at zones thinking of it in %. For a indoor training on Zwift i use the Wahoo Kickr you refer to above. Now here it records in beats since thats what Zwift shows but whats good here is it supports Bluetooth and ANT+ Different tools for different applications. On the bike Polar works fine easy enough to upload and you can see tour zones, HR in beats or %. Garment n provides a few more options like routing, HR graph even these days on the edge 1000 and 520s. Coming back to your budget... The Wahoo kickr is a simple cheap option to use with your phone if you only using Strava. If your using other apps like Garmin connect, Polar etc a dedicated monitor and strap has more advantages. But you pay for those advantages. I guess flexibility and compatibility are the major things to consider.