The general answer is no, a closed market with only money circulating within the market, and that money never leaving it or entering it, cannot increase its aggregate price level - provided that the quantity of goods being sold on that market also remains constant. Price wise however, it can display variations over time, so share values can change - even if the money circulating that creates them doesn't. The main reason market prices grow and shrink in the real world is that not only are new companies always being listed, but money is entering them and sometimes leaving them at different rates. In a typical western economy for example, the money supply is continuously growing due to bank lending, a percentage of that growth it being invested in the stock market through pension funds, and so there is a linkage between monetary growth and the market. Consequently any time some kind of conduit between lending and stock market purchases gets created, things tend to get exciting. cf. 1929 US Crash. 

In banking, Rule 0 always applies: The central bank can do whatever it wants. There is no reason per se, why the nominal interest rate can't be < 0 for short periods, and there have been several incidents across Europe in the last few years, where this has impacted consumer loans. The typical mechanism was that a bank linked a loan's interest rate to the central bank rate minus some percentage for the first few years of the loan to attract business, and didn't consider that the central banks might lower their interest rate low enough that this would put them in negative territory. Absent that kind of carelessness, it's reasonable to assume that banks won't voluntarily put themselves in this position. As to why the central banks in question are doing this. The logic of interest rates as applied to liquidity/reserve holdings is not always the same as that for other money in the system, as this money also plays a regulatory and mechanical role within the entire banking system. On the central bank's balance sheet, a negative interest rate not only means that the deposit owner get's less back than they deposited, it also means that the central bank must deduct the negative interest rate from their interest income. i.e. it acts to reduce total liquidity in that country's banking system. Within the Eurozone we can speculate that the central banks are trying it as a method to reduce imbalances across the Euro-zone as more money is received by some central banks in inter-bank payments than they originate. Switzerland on the other hand, is believed to be trying to discourage the use of its currency as a store of value. 

No, it's not correct to say that extra cash money comes into the world as interest paid on the reserve accounts of commercial banks. In today's banking world, physical cash money is printed on demand. That is to say, the commercial banks estimate how much money they need to satisfy demand from ATM's and customer cash withdrawals and buy that amount from the central bank. In turn the central bank buys the cash from the treasury. The money they use to buy it with, is the electronic liability deposit account, that sits on the other side of the double entry book keeping used by banks. It is of course possible for politicians to intervene in this process, and then this happens: US Physical Coin surplus As to the equation: net money = cash + money lent to others - money borrowed from others. This is incorrect as written, since as usual in economic discussions on money, we have the confusion introduced by the banking system as to what exactly is money? Money lent or received from others can be physical cash, but it can also be money created as a liability deposit account as a result of a bank loan. Because a loan itself is just a contractual agreement to repay money over time, it's also not strictly correct to say that money lent to other must equal money borrowed from others, since there's no notion of time in that statement, or repayment over time. If we take the larger definition of money, i.e. the total sum of cash and bank liability deposits, then this is more or less continuously growing as banks generally lend at a faster rate than loans are repaid. (Check your central bank's web site to see what's currently happening to your countries money supply, there are considerable variations in this.) While it's true in a banking system where banks are only allowed to make customer loans that loans + cash == liability deposits, most banking systems today also allow banks to sell loans using securitzed lending, or covered loans. This actually allows banks to originate more loans than money, and as a result at the same time as we have a growth in the general money supply - due to banks generally lending at a faster rate than loan repayment occurs, there will be slightly faster increase in the total amount of bank originated debt. So in some sense of net money that includes all the money supply, i.e. bank deposits and cash, it is debt that is growing faster than money, and not the other way around. 

Double entry book keeping. If we take the example given here, of the Greek Central Bank (bank nerd trivia - interestingly the GCB is a commercial bank, listed on the Greek Stock Exchange), arbitrarily adding 000's to its deposit account. This cannot be done as stated. The double entry book keeping accounting system on which all banking is based, requires that two ledgers are simultaneously updated, one with a credit and one with a debit. So if the GCB credits its own deposit account (which in practice would be a liability income account of some kind), there has to be a matching debit on another ledger. Those are the rules. Typically deposit accounts increase their value either by people depositing cash in them (see below), by direct transfer from another deposit account, or by receiving a loan. For example, if the government prints physical cash then this can be deposited at the central bank: 

There is a long standing problem in most discussions of Fractional Reserve Banking (FRB), around the precise definition of money. Cash money (that is M0) is an asset on the banking system balance sheet, while deposit money (the liability) is the money that is created by lending. Ever since the introduction of cheques specifically, and in general the ability to make direct transfers between two deposit accounts, deposit money has been the de facto form of money that is used in the economy. Cash money is maintained at a fractional reserve of deposits (it used to be a regulator of total deposits and lending, but in practice this isn´t the case anymore), and used primarily for inter-bank liquidity settlements, as transfers occur between bank accounts at different banks. Reserve requirements are now down to 2% or less in most countries. So taken literally, the question is what happens to an economy when its money supply is reduced by 98%, and at the same time total lending shrinks by whatever proportion bank lending is of total lending in the economy (typically 1/3 or more). In the short run, congratulations, you no longer have an economy. Nobody can pay their non-bank debts any more, because there isn´t enough money to pay them with. Bear in mind debt payments do not automatically adjust to changes in the money supply. That triggers a debt cascade causing wide-spread company failure. The accompanying impact on all prices causes massive disruption in the supply chain, because everything in the economy is now completely mis-priced relative to everything else. A 20% reduction in the liability money supply in the US in 1930-33 for example caused the price of food bought from farmers in some parts of the USA to be less than the cost of the fuel required to get the food to the market for sale. This event would clearly be far worse than that. Market based systems can and will adjust prices over time to compensate for money supply changes, but that´s the long term. It has been said that 'every civilisation is only 2 meals away from barbarism', and I´m afraid you just pushed yours over the edge. In the long term, after a period of market exchanges being performed with cigarettes, and other money-substitutes, and those responsible for this mess being hunted down and dealt with appropriately, people will probably feel that fractional reserve banking wasn´t such a bad idea after all. Some form of Germany Year 0 event will take place and the banking system will be restarted. Since all debt was effectively discharged during the "unfortunate event" the next few decades will probably be referred to as a golden age. By the survivors. If instead we assume that rather than reducing the money supply (which we know is a bad idea), the banking system is instead converted so that there is no fractional reserve lending, asset cash is injected to replace debt, and maintain the current quantity of deposits. All deposits in the system are simply held constant from this point on, and you now have a constant money supply economy. As a side note, everybody now has to pay for their bank accounts, because since banks are no longer lending institutions, they need a revenue source to fund their operations. Quite a large revenue source - ATM networks aren´t cheap. The problems caused by a sudden drop in total lending are still present. In practice this will disrupt the economy in the short term, but hopefully not quite as badly as in the previous scenario. The short answer though, is we simply don´t know how a constant money economy behaves in practice. There hasn´t been a constant money economy since fractional reserve banking was invented, and that´s at least 3-400 years now (depending where you put goldsmith banking in the banking continuum, and what country you´re in). A lot of financial statistics would probably start looking very strange, since even correcting for CPI doesn´t adequately control for the impact monetary growth has on price measurements. It´s possible that the economy would settle down after a few years as everything adjusts around the constant money supply - that´s essentially the general equilibrium theory argument. It´s also entirely possible that the growth in the money supply that FRB provides over time makes it easier for adjustments to occur - a lot of arguments in favour of small positive inflation amounts essentially revolve around this - and that a bunch of issues we didn´t previously know about emerge and cause new problems. While this is very much an open research question, it´s interesting to note that a side effect of some of the recent Basel 3 regulatory changes is that at least for the last couple of years, several countries including the UK have experienced stable money supplies. If this continues (it´s perfectly possible to regulate fractional reserve banking so that it doesn´t expand the money supply if you know what you´re doing - whether the central banks really know what they´re doing is also an open research question), then we may start to have some empirical data that can help shed light on this very interesting question.