After the historic overview, let’s focus on understanding and intellegibility. It is true that Dutch nowadays is only mutually intellegible to Germans who live very close to the border, and even they will not understand Dutch people from the far West. Contrary to that, even though they have different standards, a Swiss from the very southern corners of German-speaking Switzerland, an Austrian from the very South-East of Austria and a German from the northernmost point of Germany will understand each other if they use their respective standard variants (Swiss standard German, Austrian standard German and German standard German) — even though these standard variants will still have some local colouring. Thus, the distinction between Dutch and German as two languages makes sense while distinguishing between the other three makes less sense. Sometimes, even though well within the dialect continuum, the understanding of nearby local dialects can be very difficult even for locals. The Lech river in western Bavaria is one such example: the Bavarian dialects spoken East of it and the Swabian dialects (in the Allgäu variant) spoken West of it are very different and hard to understand for those from the other side. 

The Greek word kalamos “reed, reed pen, stylus” has a good Indo-European etymology (cognate with, for example, German Halm “reed”). It was borrowed not only in Arabic, as qalam, but also into Sanskrit as kalama-. The Tocharian word is presumably borrowed from Sanskrit. The Turkish word is from Arabic. 

I do not think that any of these changes can be explained in terms of the script. All Old Iranian final short vowels were lost already in Middle Persian. New Persian final –a (Western Persian –e) is from Middle Persian –ag. This is why /a/ is virtually the only final short vowel in New Persian. 

It is because, at least in the later borrowings, Semitic ṭ ט is regularly represented by τ [t], while t ת is represented by θ [th]. It has to do with the fact that the Semitic emphatics are unaspirated, while the plain stops are aspirated. The fricative pronunciation of Greek θ, and of Aramaic/Hebrew post-vocalic t does not emerge until well into the Christian era. 

I believe that at the core this is prescriptivism as applied to orthography, though more examples would be needed to derive a definitive conclusion. In your first three examples1, these are official in some way or another: Kolkata and Mumbai were officially changed by India's government to better match local languages, while Beijing is the Hanyu Pinyin romanization, the official romanization scheme according to the Chinese government, and also later by ISO. The case is similar for Cambodia. In 1989, it's name was officially changed to the State of Cambodia from the previous People's Republic of Kampuchea. This change was made while the Vietnamese-backed government was still in power. Its unclear, but based on my brief readings, it seems the change was part of wider reforms which were aimed at restoring Cambodia to pre-Khmer Rouge times and improving international image. In 1993, the monarchy was restored, and along with it the official name previously used under the king, the Kingdom of Cambodia. English does not automatically have to accept official declarations from countries speaking other languages (note that English is an official language of India however). However, unlike other languages, such as French and German, English has no comprehensive language academy such as the Académie française or Rat für deutsche Rechtschreibung. This might give English a better chance at accepting the official declarations of countries speaking other languages. Compare: 

You are surely right to say that Flemish is more strongly influenced by French than is the language of the Netherlands. This is the result of the situation until the 1960s, when Belgium was basically a bilingual country. This came to an end when the benighted citizens of Belgium decided to split their country in half, each half refusing to utter one word in the language of the other. Ironically, the number of French speakers in the Netherlands is probably now considerably higher than in the Flemish-speaking regions of Belgium. 

The concept of “constituent morphemes” is very problematic in the case of loan words. A loan word like “preposition” is borrowed as a unit. It is not analysable at a synchronic English level. To analyse it you need to retreat to the level of Latin etymology. 

In standard US English intervocalic /t/ merges with intervocalic /d/. "Writer" is thus pronounced identically with "rider". From a strictly US-English point of view there is no justification in distinguishing between the two at a phonological level. The OED writes: "Brit. /ˈrʌɪtə/, U.S. /ˈraɪdər/". Please note the slashes: this is phonology not phonetics. 

Standard German remains a slightly artificial concept. I, a German from the South, will use different words, different grammatical constructions and different sentence structures from somebody from the North even in writing — this is most obvious in salutations and valedictions, though. Compare this to English where anybody from the UK will more or less use the same or very similar words, grammatical constructions and sentence structures in a certain setting. 

Is it generally accepted that stress co-evolves with words or are the romance languages more the exception than the rule?[1] If the answer to the first question is yes, how is the seemingly tremendous divergence of the slavic languages explained? 

Remembering a Czech song I once learnt I remembered a short Czech crash course I had and the teacher who said: 

This got me thinking and I remembered Russian, also a slavic language, which is well known for its unpredictable stress pattern and where stress could appear anywhere in a word (to the best of my knowledge). And then I remembered something else, looked it up, and yes, Wikipedia tells me that in Polish, stress is typically on the penultimate syllable. These languages are all related to each other, i.e. stem from a common ancestor, yet seem to have distinctly different stress patterns. By contrast, French typically stresses a words final syllable, Italian usually the penultimate although the final, third-last and fourth-last syllable may be stressed and Spanish seems to follow the same rule as Italian (again the latter according to Wikipedia). This all seems to indicate that their common ancestor (Latin) had stress towards the end of a word. However, the connection is based on the assumption that stress evolves similarly to phonology, i.e. small changes are fine but significant differences would need to be explained. Thus: 

This is a good question, but your example is not a good one. An “electron cloud” is indeed not a cloud in the original sense of the word “cloud” (in the atmosphere), but it is a “cloud” in the figurative sense of a nebulous cluster. A better example would be something like “lion heart”, which is not a lion and not a heart, but a person whose heart (here in the sense of “bravery”) is like that of a lion. This is an example of what in linguistics is called a “bahuvrihi” or “exocentric compound”. 

If I am not mistaken, Telugu (unlike Tamil) has a distinction between voiceless stops (e.g. ప pa) and voiced stops (e.g. బ ba). Surely you can hear the difference? 

I start out with declaring my ignorance. I do not know what X’ theory is. I am a mere historical linguist. For me, the reason we do not say (in English) “*shoulds” is that in the Germanic languages “should” is a pretero-present verb: it is in form past tense, but in meaning present. Like “I will, he will”, not “*wills”. In many other languages (Indo-European or not) modal verbs are conjugated normally in the present tense. But of course English is the unquestionable paradigm for linguistic “universals”. 

Everything that is designated with the word German somehow concerns the continental Germanic dialect continuum. This designates a region from southern Denmark in the North to South Tyrol (Alto Adige) in the South and from the Belgian coast in the West to somewhere around the Neiße river in the East where ‘descendents of the continental Germic language(s)’ are spoken natively. (The eastern borders were shifted westwards after World War Two.) This dialect continuum is characterised as any dialect continuum is by continuous mutual intellegibility between close variants while there is decreasing intellegibility when comparing variants further apart.[1] Anything inside this continuum can technically be called ‘German’ — but, as always, restrictions apply. Already in the Middle ages, these dialects could be grouped together into three groups: High German, Middle German and Low German, depending on how strongly they participated in the High German consonant shift. In 1648, after the 30 years war ended, the Netherlands became independent from what was then Germany (the Holy Roman Empire). From then on, the language evolution started diverging into Dutch on one side and German on the other side of that border. With Belgium also becoming independent after the Holy Roman Empire collapsed in 1806 and being united with the Netherlands after the Congress of Vienna in 1815, the language spoken there was also heavily influenced by the Dutch standard rather than the German one. This explains why the Germanic languages spoken in Belgium and the Netherlands (except for the German spoken in the Eupen-Malmedy region of Belgium) are not considered German but Dutch. Funnily enough, even though Switzerland also gained independence in 1648, there was less of a desire to separate themselves from German influence. But we’ll get back to that in a second. The standardisation of German was a long-lasting progress that never reached completion. Most opinions say it started with Martin Luther’s translation of the bible in the 16th century. Luther at the time wrote in a variant that was close to his Middle German dialect. But there was already a shift going on at the time: many cities that belonged to the Low German dialect region had begun adopting what they perceived as ‘the better’ German — a Middle or High German variant. This was a movement initiated by the upper classes to separate themselves from the peasants of the surrounding countryside that would continue to speak their Low German dialects. And since these people had little contact to actual speakers of the Middle or High German dialects, a slightly artificial variant evolved which would mix some northern influences in especially concerning pronunciation. This change was already happening when Luther translated the bible, hence why he may have chosen more southern varieties when in doubt (although he is often quotes with ‘dem Volk aufs Maul schauen’ — listening exactly to what the people say). Again over time, the standard set down by Luther and others would evolve onwards into what was finally perceived as a common standard German language. But after the Holy Roman Empire ceased to exist in 1806, the different states that belonged to it began taking different paths. Most notably, a successful reunification movement initiated by Prussia culminating in the war with France in 1870/1 made sure that Prussia would be the dominating member of the new Germany by excluding Austria — the only other country of similar size and influence. Switzerland, having been independent from the Holy Roman Empire (and neutral) since 1648, also did not take part in reunification and neither did (whether accidentally or purposely I do not know) Luxemburg. (Including Liechtenstein, sandwiched between Austria and Switzerland would not have made sense and would have caused more problems than benefits, especially due to its minute size.) So henceforth, there were three major countries in which German was spoken: Germany (+Luxemburg), Austria and Switzerland (+Liechtenstein). This triade meant that the languages in all three countries would evolve somewhat separately. Especially the Swiss variant, which had enjoyed a longer period of separation, became somewhat distinct from the other two variants, both in the fact that the standardised variant is less commonly spoken when compared to dialectal variants and in the different preferred words and somewhat different meanings of words. But even between Austria and Germany there are more differences than some people expect. Therefore, when speaking about German, one needs to recognise that the language is polycentric — much like English — and should be categorised into German German, Swiss German and Austrian German. To add to the confusion, the standard variants are called High German in German. 

Of course, there will always be exceptions. For example Ivory Coast requested they be referred to as Côte d'Ivoire with little success outside official diplomatic communication. Additionally, there's the Burma → Myanmar change, with partial acceptance since that government's legitimacy is questioned. As for Cambodia, it only ever used "Kampuchea" officially between 1975 and 1989. 

I realize fluency might not be the best word to use...but the words I would normally use are the ones that I'm seeking clearer definitions for! 

Iraq's a little different in the sense that there's no orthographic change here. These are officially recommended. 

Note: I'm not a linguist, and I realize I might be treading in a grey area here. I'm wondering what the differences (and/or similarities) between native language, first language, mother tongue and L1 are. The first three, I find, are often used interchangeably in casual conversation. In academic linguistics though, are there generally accepted differences between these terms? Also, where does that leave L1? I believe it's an academic term, but I often see it defined relative to the other three casual terms. A quick Google search seems to reveal there is a lot of confusion around these terms, and possibly no straightforward answer. It also doesn't help that the Wikipedia article groups the four terms into one article and has fewer citations than I would like. The only thing I've been able to gather is that the tendency seems to be for "native language" to mean proficient and for "first language" to mean chronologically first. In particular, I'd like to find out (if possible) what term or terms are applicable to the following scenarios: 

[1]: Yes, this does include the Netherlands and Belgium. The differences between the German dialects on the East side of the Dutch–German border and the Dutch ones one the West side are small enough to allow understanding and communication. 

[1]: Since there have been a few questions on what I mean by co-evolution of words and stress, here is my rationale: Words can be thought to evolve, e.g. a common precursor *ph₂tḗr evolved into Latin pater, Sanskrit पितृ ‎(pitṛ) and Germanic *fadēr; the first further evolved into French père and Spanish/Italian padre while the last further evolved into German Vater, English father, Icelandic faðir and others. For a series of phonologically related words, the evolution is typically similar, as with ÜIE *p- that evolved into Germanic *f-. I can imagine stress following a similar set of evolutionary rules, e.g. to invent an example the stress of a two-syllable word ending in -er moving from the second to the first syllable. Co-evolution would assume that the stress evolution was influenced by a phonological evolution (e.g. the final -er syllable being reduced to shwa) and vice-versa in some way.