Try to start with yourself. If you cannot generate metta towards yourself that is fine. It just means that there is work to be done. With consistent practice you will able to do it. When you can generate metta towards yourself you have a pure and clean source meaning you can then extend it to other beings. If you do not have a clean source then other beings who drink from it risk being tainted. There are four types of persons one should learn to generate metta towards. These are: 

One should acquire it only by legal means, not illegally; one should acquire it peacefully, without coercion or violence; one should acquire it honestly, not by trickery or deceit; and one should acquire it in ways which do not entail harm and suffering for others. He further names several dishonest means of gaining wealth which fall under wrong livelihood: practicing deceit, treachery, soothsaying, trickery, and usury (MN 117). Obviously any occupation that requires violation of right speech and right action is a wrong form of livelihood, but other occupations, such as selling weapons or intoxicants, may not violate those factors and yet be wrong because of their consequences for others. “Rightness regarding objects” means that in business transactions and sales the articles to be sold should be presented truthfully. There should be no deceptive advertising, misrepresentations of quality or quantity, or dishonest manoeuvers. 

Replacing the hindrance with its opposite, e.g. replacing hatred/ill-will with thoughts of loving-kindness. Contemplating the arisen hindrance as vile and ignoble, since it has entered the mind without permission or any control. Shifting attention away from the hindrance. Shifting attention onto the hindrance and thoroughly contemplating it by investigating its causes and conditions for arising together with its characteristics. Removing the hindrance with force, just as a strong man would pin a weaker man to the ground. 

Depending on what method of meditation you are practicing there are different options. If you are practicing Samatha (tranquility) meditation, simply return back attention to whatever primary meditation object you have chosen, e.g. the belly or entrance to the nostrils. If you are practicing Vipassana (insight) meditation, observe the tingling feeling and note it as "feeling, feeling" or "tingling, tingling", while keeping attention on the phenomena. Note it 2-3 times and then return attention to the feeling of the rising and falling of the abdomen (primary object). In Samatha meditation one is gently shifting attention away from all other phenomena except the breath. In Vipassana meditation one is changing object according to whatever arises at the sense doors. For more info on how to meditate I would suggest Ven. Yuttadhammo's booklet and video series on how to meditate (Vipassana meditation). 

When negative mental states or strong feelings overwhelm one, one can go back to noting the rising and falling sensation of the abdomen. When one has collected oneself and regained mindfulness one can then go back into the storm. Seeing how these mental states can harm one if identifying with them is also very valuable. One clearly sees how damaging it can be when one is following after these objects and taking ownership of them. When mindfulness is absent the mind will follow after objects that are pleasant and have aversion towards objects that are unpleasant. The mind will take ownership of these unpleasant objects. One will think that "I am feeling pain", "I am hurt" or "The pain belongs to me". These are examples of how a self is created if the mind is allowed to roam freely without the rope of mindfulness. When one is mindful of these mental states they are simply phenomena that arise and cease. They do not belong to you. They are not you. You are not them. They are simply impersonal phenomena that arise and cease on their own accord. Actually what you have been experiencing is how phenomena are uncontrollable and ungovernable. You have seen how reality is not pleasant and how reality cannot be controlled. Don't worry too much about these negative mental states. If you have the concentration and mindfulness then try to turn them into objects of observation. In this way you can use them to cultivate insight into how reality functions. If it gets too overwhelming you can return to your abdomen and calm yourself a bit before going back to observing the mental states. If any aversion towards these mental states arises then that should also be noted. With persistent practice mindfulness grows meaning that one will be able to in a greater degree be with reality as it is when it is. When the mind is kept in the present moment it cannot extrapolate on phenomena, e.g. identifying with phenomena, it just sees phenomena as they are. Ven. Yuttadhammo has made a video called "Ask A Monk: Negative Mind States" that you might find useful. 

I'm aware of a story in the Pali Canon where a monk commited suicide by slitting his throat and achieved arahantship at the moment of death. Where in the texts can i find this story? Thank you for your time. 

In the Nagara Sutta, the Buddha teaches how he discovered an ancient Path, the Noble Eightfold Path, and by following it he came to experience the cessation of aging and death (conditioned reality). 

Here is another one with the title "Emptiness does not mean Nothingness". The quote is from chapter 5: "Appreciating the Reasoning of Dependent-Arising", p. 71-73: 

Another way to look at it is when looking at theoretical physics and experimental physics. Take a scientist for example. He has a theory about e.g. gravity. Its only a theory on the drawing board. He contemplates it thoroughly and does his calculations. Will he get insight into how reality functions? No he will not. Why? Because he has not testet his theory on reality. Then lets take it a step further. Lets say that this scientist now wants to test his theory in practice. He now conducts an experiment in reality where he tests this gravity theory. He then gets his results and see that part of his theory was correct and the other part was not in line with reality. He can now reevaluate his theory and make it more precise and then go test it again. Has he now gotten insight into how reality functions? Yes he has. That is the difference between theoretical, intellectual, "book" knowledge AND experiental knowledge. It is helpful to think and contemplate but know the limits of the intellect. It is helpful to try to grapple with these concepts intellectually but that is it. Only contemplating is like reading a restaurant menu and knowing all the food but never actually ordering it and tasting it. Or like planning a trip but never actually making the trip. Contemplation can only get you so far. Insight into the 4 noble truths and how reality functions is achieved by looking. By observing mindfully. By doing insight meditation practice. 

Unwholesome actions are created when the intention/volition behind the action is unwholesome. If one is cultivating plants with intentions of greed, anger, non-harmlessness, then one is creating unwholesome kamma, which will produce unwholesome future resultants. If one is cultivating plants with wholesome intentions such as good-will, caring, altruism, wholesome future resultants will be produced. What is important here, is the Mind that is behind the action. Everything starts in the Mind, with reference to the twin verses in the Dhammapada. 

There are different kinds of birth in Buddhism, depending on what realm one is reborn in. What are these kinds of birth? 

It is correct, that the Dhamma is both universal and timeless. The Dhamma is described as being an ancient path, that fully enlightened Buddhas discover by themselves and then teach it to other beings. The words from a fully enlightened Buddha need not to be renewed or changed. One needs only to practice insight meditation to find out if these words are true or not. So there is no need for renewal of the Dhamma. The Dhamma is complete as it is. The Dhamma does not change. Don't worry about the shifting away from the Dhamma. That is bound to happen. That is why there will arrive a future Buddha. The next fully enlightened Buddha to be, is Maitreya, whom arrives when the Dhamma has been completely forgotten. That is just the nature of a world system. 

Neko already explained it pretty well. The realization of Anatta on an intellectual level, simply cannot happen. The doctrine of Anatta is too profound. One must realize it through the practice of insight meditation and the gaining of experiental knowledge. Imagine an onion. An onion has many layers. Intellectual knowledge can only penetrate the top layers. Experiental knowledge can penetrate all the layers, right into the core of the onion. Its the last type of knowledge that one needs to realize the marks of existence and eventually Nibbana. 

Sounds like you had an expectation and when that expectation were not met it resulted in suffering. In a way it's actually a good thing that you experienced this. You have now experienced the pain and suffering attachment will bring us. Reality is in a constant flux. It is ever changing and impermanent. That is why an expectation might not be met. We wish we could meditate for 1 hour today. Then something happens that changes our plans and prevents us from being able to meditate. That is reality hitting us. That is the impermanent and ungovernable nature of reality right there. If we have attachment and wanting we will suffer. If we wish for reality to be different from what it is we will suffer. Then what do to? When these things happen to us and when feelings of anxiety, frustration, disappointment etc. arise they should be made into objects of observation. This way one will take away their fuel. By having aversion towards them they will only grow bigger and stronger. By instead turning them into objects of observation you can cultivate insight from them. Use them as stepping stones for progressing in your practice. In "SN 46: Bojjhanga-samyutta" the Buddha talks about how one can nourish the hindrances, here the hindrance of Ill-will and how one can denourish the hindrance of Ill-will: 

I read that a person must get permission from his og her parents but what if that persons parents are not alive anymore. Can that person then not become ordained in this life? Thank you for your time. 

It really depends on the tradition/method that works for you. When negative feelings or thoughts of ill-will arise, they can be substituted with wholesome thoughts/feelings, e.g. by practicing Loving-kindness meditation. In Vipassana traditions, one tries to observe unwholesome phenomena passively and objectively, in order to prevent the mind from falling into liking or disliking, thereby slowly changing the habits of the clinging mind. The general approach is explained in the noble path factor of Right Effort (Samma Vayama). In SN 45.8 - Magga-vibhanga Sutta: An Analysis of the Path, the Buddha teaches: 

If you want verification, then at least do yourself a favor and obtain the verification yourself, i.e. by doing insight-meditation (vipassana). If you obtain verification by an external source, e.g. a scientist, another meditator, a Buddha, a teacher, a newspaper, the internet etc., then how can you know if its true? It could be false. Go test it for yourself and obtain direct, experiential knowledge of reality. If you do not know how to meditate or would like to learn it, Ven. Yuttadhammo has made a video series that might be beneficial for you.