I don't know if there is a list but I'me sure your local weather surface will give you some idea. Cloud cover could have a big effect of course. But it will be the same as it is for any day or night. Total overcast will allow you to notice the darkness only. Just use your common sense on what cloud cover you deem too risky for travel. There is an internet site: $URL$ which is supposedly developed by astronomers to help determine viewing conditions. Just input a latitude and longitude and it gives you info related to viewing conditions. Different days are on left after local forecast. Click the triangle in the lower right of the date and it gives you a detailed forecast for the location you entered. This includes predicted cloud cover by the hour. 

Yes. Stellarium is a very nice package that meets your needs. I use it on my mac and it works great. There are versions for Windows and Linux as well. It is a free package. You can enter your location and see the night sky in any direction. It has zoom capability and you can rotate sky to look in any direction. Their website describes it as a planetarium for your computer. It has a database of over 600,000 stars. The website is here 

No, the intrinsic brightness of the sun does not change. Part of the sun light is blocked from reaching earth however making the sun appear dimmer or less intense. This has a tendency to cause people to stare at the sun to see this effect. The sun is so bright even a portion of the light reaching your eyes is intense enough to damage them. So do not look at the sun during the eclipse, or any other time, without proper eye protection. 

According to Google, the longest name for any star is “Shurnarkabtishashutu”, the Arabic for “under the southern horn of the bull”. The star is known as Zeta Tauri. You could also scroll thru Wikipedia's list of star names for different countries. 

Yes as StephanG said there are thought to be 100 million black holes in our galaxy composed of approximately 100 billion stars. Most of these are thought to be stellar mass black holes. Not the super massive black hole assumed to be at the center of our galaxy. Some references are:$URL$ and $URL$ 

It would help quite a bit but not absolutely necessary. Don't get me wrong, astrophysics, like most types of physics, is highly mathematical. If you wanted to study it in depth you would need much math. But astrophysics is a broad field and much can be learned, at least at a beginners level, with only a little calculus. This is my opinion of course. As StephenG said, knowing basic physics would be more helpful. I agree with that statement. 

I know that astronomers have detected supermassive black holes in the early universe. What was the age of the universe at which these black holes were detected? In other words how long is it thought to take for these supermassive black holes to form and what are the mechanisms by which they formed, other than from supermassive stars? 

Relatively high-resolution measurements were made with the Hubble Space Telescope over a 8 year period. From these measurements, astronomers determined that the collision was a certainty. It is predicted to occur in about 4 billion years. I suppose there may be some astronomers who disagree with the measurements or calculations but I can find no mention of that. The results were reported in an article in "Nature" ($URL$ and published in "Astrophysical Journal" Both are well-respected publications. The "Astrophysical Journal" reference is below. Sangmo Tony Sohn; Jay Anderson; Roeland van der Marel (Jul 1, 2012). "The M31 velocity vector. I. Hubble Space Telescope proper-motion measurements". The Astrophysical Journal. doi:10.1088/0004-637X/753/1/7. 

It would be very hard to actually discern the shape from this view. If you move from the present location perpendicular to the galactic plane, you may, after many millions of light years, get a view closer to this: 

As mentioned in the comments, download and install the free app Stellerium. You can input the location and date of interest and it will display the sky. The app is like having your own planetarium. There is another similar app named Celestia. It is also free. I would recommend Stellerium. 

There is this source that claims 2800 kg of meteor material lands on the moon everyday. They break down that amount to determine an average area per strike. There have been other studies like this one and this report. I sure can't vouch for the accuracy of this first report but it's from a reputable (NASA) source. 

A galaxy is just a very large collection of stars (and interstellar matter such as dark matter, gas and dust) held together by gravity. Galaxies are classified mainly as elliptical, spiral, and irregular. There is not a specific criterion other than the fact that the stars all all bound by their mutual gravitational attraction. It is speculated that most galaxies have a black hole at its center. This is not necessary however for a collection of stars to be considered as a galaxy. 

You should go to the site $URL$ where you can read about the FITS data format. This site also has utilities for examining and viewing the data. Most of your concerns about this data should be answered by the documentation on this web site. 

Yes you can but it depends partly on the direction you travel relative to the galactic plane and the strength of your telescope. As you might guess, if we moved away along the galactic plane from our current position, we may see our galaxy looking like this: 

You might try $URL$ It gives weather and visibility among other things. They have an app for iPhone and android. Advertises site was developed by astronomers. 

Yes it would. If the sun was much further away the season on earth would certainly be more winter-like. The reason distance is not the deciding factor for earth is the variation in distance is fairly small. 

Based on the CNN's reporting it appeared to get noticeably darker at near 95% coverage. That's just from watching the onset of darkness for locations experiencing totality. 

Stars vary a lot in both size and brightness. The nearby stars you mentioned are less bright than many stars that are much further away. We see the bright stars but not the less bright ones. Its like comparing the effectiveness of the old 2-battery flashlight to the 5-battery one. Both are flashlights but one is much brighter than the other.