I have recently read on this Q & A site that the rule of thumb that 37 000kJ is required to burn 1kg of fat is incorrect. I have been down-voted by some for quoting this figure. Is it true that the above relationship is a rough estimate of fat loss, or has it been shown to be untrue. I'm interested in seeing any studies you can give that indicate your point of view. 

Suppose one wishes to start an aerobic workout routine. Assuming one is young and without illness, is a 30 min a day workout (approx 15 min jogging and 15 minute walking intermittently) a reasonable workout routine, or should rest days be initially scheduled? If rest days should be scheduled, how many per week would be recommended? Would you recommend the number of rest days being reduced over time? 

Any diseases that causes excess water retention could cause you to put on weight (which include many diseases)or any disease which causes bowel obstruction. These are two examples. Also, perhaps the liquid sarcoplasm in your muscles has increased. No calories are required to increase the amount of water stored in your muscles, which will also add to your weight. Elevated exertion is responsible for sarcoplasmic hypertrophy the same as for myofibril hypertrophy. Basically, your body compensates for the extra stress by increasing the size of capillaries feeding the muscles so that they receive more fluid and, therefore, more energy. When such reoccurring periods of trauma occur, such as during regular workouts, the body triggers the sarcoplasm to retain and store more glycogen and ATP for future use as energy to meet such demands. 

You'll need a good sense of balance and decent strength in your forearms. Just keep trying and practicing and you'll eventually get it down. 

Wikipedia has a great article with some good studies referenced about High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT). Tabata is a form of HIIT. It's very close in method to "Fight Gone Bad", which has a high popularity among several UFC fighters. According to the Wikipedia article, HIIT burns fat more effectively than long aerobic workouts. It also cites studies showing that 2.5 hours of sprint interval training have similar benefits in endurance and bio-mechanical muscle changes as 10.5 hours of endurance training. 

If you weigh yourself after relieving your bowels, your weight will be slightly more accurate as far as what YOU weigh, without as much of what you ate. Weighing yourself at the same time every day is probably best. During a typical day, most people follow a pretty well set routine. We eat at about the same time every day, drink about the same amount of liquids at about the same times. So, as long as you're weighing in at about the same time every day, fluctuations in your weight will be more accurately depicted. My personal preference is to weigh myself at night before going to bed, but many people prefer to weight themselves in the morning. In my personal experience (having weighed myself at night and then the following morning) the difference in weight between night and 8 hours of sleep and a bathroom break later is rarely more than a pound. Additionally, your weight fluctuates up to around 5 pounds a day anyway, due to all kinds of reasons. A person should only consider their weight over a longer period of time, such as a week or even a month to make a truthful analysis of whether they are losing or gaining weight. 

I have heard that weight training can be a good strategy for reducing body fat. If one's goal is to reduce total body fat, should one's weight training program be aimed at muscle hypertrophy or building muscle strength? 

What you need to do is eat less, and exercise more. Eating less is far far far more significant a factor for weight loss than exercising more. If you fast 1 day a week, you might burn about 8000kJ (check out a metabolism calculator for your exact daily metabolic rate). If you want the same results through exercise you'd need to run 30 minutes, every day, for a week at medium to high intensity. So what's easier, fasting 1 day a week, or intense running 30 minutes a day for 7 days? Clearly both could be done, but reducing calories is a much more efficient way to lose weight. In addition to fasting 1 day a week, you could cut your calories in half every second other day. This would lead to a calory deficit of 20 000kj. Add 1 hour a day of running to your routine and your deficit becomes 36000kj, which is approximately a 1kg a week loss of fat. 

If you continue to dance against your doctor's advice, then you can expect to have more problems than you have now. The only way to prevent further injury to an already injured ligament is to rest it for enough of a period of time to fully heal. No amount of stretching or warming up first will prevent further or more permanent damage to an already injured ligament. Stop using it until your doctor says otherwise. 

You should be taking your supplements daily to maintain your load. Both of those supplements do good things not only for workouts, but for your body in general, including the brain. I would suggest continuing to take them in the same manner that you take them on "on" days. However, most people I've come into contact with suggest taking creatine and L-glutamine twice a day, once being before bed or mid evening and once either in the morning or prior to/following your workout. When and how you take your supplements really depends on how your body reacts to them. I'm with you on the sugar... why they have to add so much sugar to our food these days I'll never know. 

Let us assume that we have two people. The first person starts exercising at 20 years old and continues to do so for the rest of his life. The second person doesn't exercise in his 20's, but when he is 30, begins exercising and continues to do so for his life. Assuming both people survive to 60 years old, will the first person have any advantages over the second, for example improved life expectancy or better metabolism etc? If possible can you please provide references to back up your claims. 

I have learnt from this site that weight training that involves lifting few repetitions (e.g. 6) of heavy weights will result predominantly in muscle strength increases, where as lifting many repetitions of lighter weights is useful for muscle hypertrophy. Naturally I would think that for weight training for improving power in the sport of tennis, one would be more concerned about strength than hypertrophy and therefore perform less reps, but with greater weights. In tennis however, muscle endurance is also important, which leads me to think perhaps more reps will provide benefit. I wish to improve my power in tennis, should I focus on max weight and less reps, or medium weights with more reps? 

According to what I read before performing my assessment workout with mine, the intervals are defined as follows: 

Most of the time, cramps come from electrolyte imbalance, and can be treated drinking more water and/or taking in more potassium, sodium, calcium, and/or magnesium. From your examples of cramps, I have always had the second type of cramping you mention, and no diet or nutrition changes have ever effected it in any way. Hyperthyroidism is also a known cause for muscle cramps. Hyperthyroidism can be caused by a lack of iodine in the diet. Using iodized salt can help regulate the amount of iodine in your diet as well. 

It's not about anyone's personal "take" on the subject. It's about what your knees can handle. People who hurt themselves doing deep knee bend squats are either not flexible enough to do them, or are using bad technique. As a blanket rule, we just say not to go past 90 degrees because just about anyone's knee will bend to 90 degrees with weight without risk of injury. If you want to go further, go further but do so with caution, a small amount at a time (low or no weight is suggested while training for deep knee bend squats). This will ensure that your ligaments and muscles are prepared for the extra strain. Going below a 90 degree bend will cause quite a bit of extra stress on an exponential curve (the deeper you go, the higher stress coming back up). If you feel any pain or "stretching" in the knees, you're going too far. Technique: 

I recently read that Lance Armstrong used EPO to win cycling championships. I wish to improve my ability to run long distances quickly. Will taking EPO be good for this, and are there any negative side-effects? 

Your doctor is correct, see this website: $URL$ After about day 5, the energy taken from fat stores is the greatest. If you continue to fast longer than 5 days, the proportion of muscle burnt begins to increase. 

My long term goal would be to lose about 10 kg of fat, but I would also like to gain more muscle mass. I am about to begin a training program. I have seen on this forum that it is difficult to lose weight and gain muscle at the same time. In light of this, do you think I should focus on first losing the 10kg of fat, followed by gaining muscle mass, or instead focus on gaining muscle mass, and then lose the 10kg of fat? Some of you might be critical that these two suggestions are too simplistic, and if you would prefer a more complicated mixture of the two, I welcome those suggestions as well. 

I'm having some minor (uncomfortable) pain in the outside top of my right foot (think around the inferior peroneal retinaculum or the inferior extensor retinaculum near the external malleolus). It started out just noticeable for a bit after my run, but as of today it's a little tender even to walk. I have changed shoes in the past few weeks to start running "barefoot" (with Vibram Bikila LS). Is it normal to have some foot pain like this until my feet fully adjust to the new shoes? It isn't preventing me from doing anything yet, it's just mightily uncomfortable. 

There's a video on YouTube called "Sugar: The Bitter Truth", a lecture by Robert H. Lustig, MD, UCSF Professor of Pediatrics in the Division of Endocrinology, that (from my understanding) implies that, at least in the context of taking in copious amounts of unhealthy sugars such as sucrose, fructose, and high fructose corn syrup, you can offset the bad effects of those sugars by burning them off as quickly as they are processed in the liver. It would definitely take a lot of work to do that though. However, there are a few problems with the theory of just simply eating junk food. Junk food rarely contains enough useful vitamins, nutrients, and electrolytes to maintain healthy body function, without having to rebuild muscle tissue that is damaged during a workout. Additionally, according to About.com and several other sources, excessive exercise increases your risk of injury. Most junk food contains high fructose corn syrup, which inhibits the body's fullness mechanism, causing you to eat more than you actually need. This will cause you to need to exercise even more to burn off the excess. It goes without saying that you need proper electrolyte levels. You also need protein, and protein causes you to need calcium, etc., etc. In order for your body to properly process one nutrient, you typically need an appropriate level of two others. Sodium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium, along with bicarbonate (which your body builds from water you drink and the air you breathe) are important electrolytes. While you're likely going to get plenty of sodium from junk food (probably enough to cause water retention problems), you are unlikely to get much potassium and magnesium, and you aren't likely to be drinking much water. So, since maintaining an unhealthy diet of junk food will prevent you from taking in the vitamins and nutrients needed to restore damaged tissue, and excessive exercise is a known factor leading to an increase in injury, you're likely to spend more time recovering from extreme muscle soreness or serious injuries than you are going to spend exercising, and thus you won't be burning off the excess unhealthy sugars in your junk food diet. In the end, you're going to be dealing with a host of short- and long-term health problems by eating unhealthy and thinking you can work it off.