The planet could be a giant prairie. Grass can grow, but not much else. Hence why humans have to eat grazing animals, instead of plants directly. Similarly, if humans rip up the prairie and plant crops, you get a dustbowl that grows out of proportion and destroys a everything. Or, whenever humans settle down in one place, endemic disease eventually destroys the population and forces a return to hunter-gathering. Edit: If you downvoted, why don't you take a trip down to your nearest grassland, and try and eke out a living by eating seeds, and then come back and tell me how easy it is. 

Would the people become 10x heavier? If so, drowning becomes a serious risk, as these hypothetical humans would obtain a much smaller percentage of their needed swimming-force from their buoyancy, and being 10x stronger would not save them. (Ex. Suppose that normal humans are 10% denser than water, and are twice as strong as they need to be to tread. Aka, they can tread 2*10%= 20% of their own weight. Therefore, your hypothetical humans would also be able to tread 20% of their own weight, but now buoyancy only provides an additional 10% of their weight. Meaning they have only 30% of the necessary force, and are not nearly strong enough to swim). If the people stay roughly the same weight, then they become much more dangerous to each other and themselves. They can now jump about 3 times as high, greatly increasing the risk of landing badly. A toddler could easily push you out of a window. And it becomes impossible to subdue somebody without using weapons, as one small kick from them will launch you(and them) into orbit, meaning that cops and bouncers will favor the use of deadly weapons. 

The human civilization on my earth is as advanced as us, no difference is to be noted. Omni cannot be bought or influenced, it will always tell the truth. I would like to know, why would people, in their right minds, consciously use Omni in trials ? Knowing that if they are guilty, they are condemned to death... I was thinking of using Omni as a bluff to frighten other parties (if you are guilty), but if the bluff is called, the price is going to be payed. If nobody were to use it, then only its existence (or the belief of its existence) would be enough for people to be 'honest'. Hence the second question : What if Omni was gone a long time ago, and the government used its image to speed up trials, and criminality all in all. How long would it take for people to notice ? 

In my world, an Omniscient creature exists. We don't know how it got here, or if it was created, but it's real, and it's been "willing" to help humans for a long time now. However, every thing we might ask to this being comes with a price : One answer costs one human life, given after the answer. It's omniscient, but it's got its limits : 

Upper Limit on the size of the head Technically humans have two brains: One in the head, another(smaller, much less powerful) in the stomach. The second brain basically regulates function of the digestive organs, or something. Maybe it can be thought of as an outpost of the first brain, a small outcropping of nerves that need to be "where the action is," i.e. a field operation. Now imagine that evolution decides humans need to get smarter, but the head is already big enough to cause childbirth difficulties(this is the case). The solution is that the second brain gets bigger, and is used for "multi-threaded computation." Here would be an example of Multi-threaded computation: Such tasks would comprise situations when the primary brain can give the secondary brain a simple problem and a time allotment, and the secondary brain can solve it all on its own, without using the incredible faculties of the primary brain. An example is counting, or arithmetic: It's very simple to do(theoretically at least), and it does not require very much real-time data transfer between the primary and secondary brains. Basically, the primary brain sends some simple information(what's the prime factorization of 23856293698273325739248573029876129384762983462138741241234612394872649876219834?), where the number of nerve impulses needed to send the problem is relatively small compared to the complexity of solving the problem, and then the secondary brain works on it, and works on it, and works on it, and then sends back: The answer is 2*3*5*7*11 etc. etc., which is also a relatively small number of nerve pulses relative to the complexity of the problem. Now, imagine that the secondary brain gets bigger and more powerful as the need arises until it's fair to call it an actual brain as opposed to just a nerve cluster in the stomach. Disclaimer -- When you assume human brains are basically just squishy computers, it will be much easier to think about them, and also a whole lot more incorrect. 

While Omni (as it's called) was used by governments as an executioner at the same time as an informant (hey, might as well use all its functionnalities for a purpose), those governments eventually got all the answers they needed (or maybe they didn't have enough people to execute), so Omni got moved to replace judges in courts. Of course, not all the trials needed Omni (and it's quite costly), but for some trials where both parties claimed they were right and the other was wrong, it could be used. In that case, people knew the price : If a party was found guilty by Omni then one responsible of the felony would be the price to pay (and the others would face their government's justice). There are exceptions of course, if both parties are truly honest and are both equally right (or wrong) then no answer is given, and no payment is needed. Omni is harsh, but not always. To end a trial, Omni can be used as a last resort, but it needs to be accepted by both parties. If a party refuses, then it is considered guilty. It's the way it goes. So in fact, the fear of Omni reveals the truth, most of the time. Thanks to this, since a few decades, trials no longer took ages to end, and the result was always justified.