Whatever the different schools of thought there are, very roughly divided into the intuitionist/formalist/social constructivist side which says 'no' and the platonist/realist side that says 'yes', there is a great distinction between numbers (and mathematical objects) and physical objects like trees or air. Just because we have thoughts about the number 2 as well as the tree outside my window, and the sentences 'the tree outside my window objectively exists' is just as parsable and understandable as 'the number 2 objectively exists' (without yet judging if the answers are the same or make sense beyond the superficial), just because we use 'exists' in both sentences, doesn't mean the uses of 'exists' are the same. We can tell that a particular tree exists though our senses (with whatever classical doubts via dreaming, illusions, mistakes there might be) as well as a pair of physical objects, and we might have philosophical judgments about the objectivity of those kinds of sensations, but that is a different thing from 'tree-ness' and 'two-ness' (the latter is really what 'two' means: if you have two trees in your yard, you don't have 'two-ness' in your front yard). So asking if numbers have objective existence is more like asking if concepts have objective reality (in distinction to objects that can be sensed directly). There is the side issue of how can one 'sense' particular numbers. we all accept that we have sense organs that can 'capture' a tree (by sight or touch), but there is no immediate such sense for particular numbers. But even this issues shows that the concept of existence is different for numbers. 

(ex falso quodlibet) but that doesn't mean that 'P and -P' -is- a theorem. True contradictions (or, what I think you mean, inconsistencies) aren't ever accepted as theorems, but they are 'tolerated' sometimes as long as they don't spoil something else. 

There are a number of ways of answering this, based on what some of those terms mean: logical system, valid/invalid, and 'meaning' 

To follow your lead, I don't think anybody accepts true contradictions. That is, no one accepts 'P and -P' ever as 'true'. Paraconsistent logics allow in a proof, for both P and -P to be asserted separately, but the logic allows the proof of other things to continue without the entire proof to fall apart -in- the proof system. It is not a theorem (in say relevance logic) that 

Provocatively, it is literally correct that mathematics is based on beliefs and assumptions, but that is misleading in its shocking-headline brazen counterintuitiveness. What people think of as mathematics, mostly arithmetic, is so -obvious- that it would be (it -is-) insane to doubt it (viz Orwell's '2+2=4' scene in '1984'). Once you learn the rules of geometry, though things aren't obvious, once a statement is proven it is then incontrovertible. Once something is proven, psychologically that 'theorem' works just like a belief; you hold it to be true whatever came before (with a theorem something justifiable came before). And often, what a mathematician does is take theorem's that someone else has purportedly proven, without judging that theorem in full, and treats it as true, just like a belief. So really it is a belief. But unraveling a theorem, one encounters theorems within, and within those, even 'smaller' or 'prior' theorems to be proven...where does it stop? Well, that's what an 'axiom' is, a statement taken to be artificially true with no justification; it just -is-. Such axioms are essentially taken, this is a funny way of saying it, as a matter of faith (of course most axioms are really 'seen' to be true, just as '2+2=4' is seen to be true (with hardly a thought at all). Now you might think, ok, fine, but there's gotta be -something- in math that is fundamentally unquestionable, after all, if any science has a chance to be truly true, it is mathematics (unlike physics and other natural sciences where one can easily imagine contingent facts). Logic has the greatest claim to be this fundamental part of mathematics. And it -is- the most fundamental. But mathematical thinking is, in a somewhat perverse manner, the most skeptical thinking of all; you see a pattern (all primes >2 that I've seen are all odd), but you feel a need to -prove- it, have -no- question that it is true. And one can still be skeptical about logical rules. It is a great -achievement- of 20th century logic that one can be skeptical of simpe statements like "'P or not P' is a tautology" and so require proof, and also to see that arcane changes in how one defines those terms might actually render that statement not true. At every step of the way, even though mathematics looks so obviously true, there are always beliefs and assumptions at play. 

Forgetting the particular example, but just dealing with pain/pleasure, determining the internal state of another being that is incommunicative is difficult. But you can at a simple first pass use other data than self-reporting, say, crying or wasting away (which I presume that you see in yourself as markers of pain/pleasure). How do we even know that other people have thoughts and feelings? Skeptically of course we don't -know-, but we see in ourselves that we have say a pain and we react a certain way (crying out or wanting to or the memory of such when younger) and we guess (usually successfully) that if we see that in others then they must also be feeling that way, and also the converse, if we don't see crying then we expect that they are not in pain. Of course, from experience we have all found (I surmise from seeing others) that life is not so simple: that the converse of material implication (the converse of 'P implies Q' is 'Q implies P') does not match the truth of the original, that pain and pleasure is not black and white, that people hide their feelings, that our senses are not always so accurate, that our judgements can be clouded by so many things, etc, etc, etc. So we can look at a baby eating and probably infer that if they're feeding, what ever it is they're eating is less repulsive than the limit needed to stop them. It could be suffering at the taste, but not enough to want to suffer at the lack of food. Judging inner states of animals is so much harder because we can't so easily recognize similarities between ourselves and them. For all we know, dogs may totally resent our lording our authority over them, and cats really really love us but just don't know how to show it. Back to philosophy, you can't know for sure, but you can learn what's an accurate measure of inner state by experience with yourself and your inner feelings and with babies' external appearance, but of course there's room for mistakes. Frankly, I think babies are easy; they look happy when they're feeding. It's adults who are so complex and act the opposite of what they think (for so many possible reasons). 

As to etymology, yes, a given word's meaning is often learned organically, by every day use, without some stipulative definition, the few instances heard in context presumably giving enough to extrapolate the many nuances of its denotation and connotation. But we don't learn all words so organically. We may see/hear a word rarely or for the first time, and in a very deficient context. It then helps speed up the process to understand the full meaning of word, instead of having to more contexts, to consult some authority. A dictionary definition is a start - an etymology that gives the history of the word, some past invocation may have quite different denotation but often provides the vestiges to the connotation. Surely the more easily parsable words, like the Latinate neologisms like 'equivocate' or 'pusillanimous', are transparent enough to extract the metaphor. The provenance of some words, like 'cheese' or 'window' say nothing extra at all. Like any shallow rule based prescriptivism, a literal minded etymology can often be just wrong (about the current meaning), but that doesn't render all etymological exegesis irrelevant. 

Bullshittiness is a quality of a statements by a person. The statement alone has a truth value, but its utterance by a person at a particular time is informed by the context including mostly the intention of that person (how much they care about the truth value of the statement). If taken literally, a question is not a statement at all but a request of a statement with a truth value. But utterances are utterances; they presume consequences and evoke feelings in people related to truth values. "Have you stopped beating your wife?" assumes that you were, which is not necessarily the case. "Are you crazy?" Isn't really asking for a response but intended to show someone that the speaker does not approve. I think it is not common or easily ascribed, but I think yes, one can make a question that has a bullshit value. The intent of the question would have to be that the truth value of the assumptions or of the answers is lacking in relevancy. Then it would be fairly reasonable to say "Hey, that question is bullshit!". For example, if a monk asked another "Have you stopped beating your wife?" or a psychiatrist asked a patient "Are you crazy?". Both would be examples of bullshit questions Can you ascribe the attribute of 'bullshit' to a question?