Great Blue Herons don't seem to be territorial. Nesting sites usually have a few to a dozen nests at a time, sometimes three in the same tree. This is so common they are referred to as heron "rookeries". Except at the nest, it does appear that these birds work alone. Sometimes you can see two nearby, but not usually next to each other. Most of the time you see a lone heron standing in shallow water waiting for a errant fish or frog to come by. The best way to see herons is in a nesting area before the chicks fledge. That's either up to about now or already too late. We have a number of heron rookeries here in Groton MA. You don't say where in MA you are, but if you want to come to Groton I can be more specific and perhaps even show you around. A good place to see herons not nesting is Great Meadows National Wildlife refuge in Concord MA. There are usually half a dozen standing the in the shallow water on either side of the built-up causeway. There are so many people regularly walking there that the wildlife has gotten used to it, and you can often get quite close. I've taken pictures using a 300 mm lens with the heron filling the whole frame. Added Yesterday (23 July 2015) I had to go from Littleton to Cambridge, and was on Route 2 by the heron rookery in Acton. There were still birds sitting on nests, maybe half a dozen, so it's not too late. Don't wait long though, I expect the young will fledge within a few days. 

This is a good question, and there are actually some scientific issues to consider. I think morally we can all agree that it would be wrong to kill someone to eat them. But let's consider the situation where you're starving, and someone has just died in front of you due to no fault of your own. Is it "safe" to eat them? Will it benefit you? The first issue to consider is that most disease organisms are specific to the species they infect, or at least have a high affinity to a small number of species. Therefore the more related you are to the dead animal, the more likely you are to pick up a disease from it. Of course there are general pathogens too, so cooking the meat is always a good idea. However, with something that can host the same diseases and parasites you can, like another human, the danger is even higher. You really really want to cook the meat. Another less obvious issue is what parts to eat. Some organs contain high concentrations of hormones that can disrupt our normal processes if taken into the body as a whole. The exact composition of most hormones is species-specific, although they will still have similar broad affects across species. For example, insulin for use by human diabetics used to be harvested from pigs. On the large tree of life here on earth, humans and pigs are quite close, so it worked, although probably not quite as well as true human insulin. In particular, avoid glands like the pituitary and thyroid. Such parts are even carefully not included in beef for human consumption, for example. Eating human thyroids would likely be even worse than eating cow thyroids. I would definitely avoid central nervous system parts, like the brain and spine. The chances are rare of the dead human in front of you carrying a prion disease, but this is where the prions we know about apparently concentrate. Note that prions are not destroyed by cooking, so you can't make prion-infested tissue safe for consumption in the back country. This may sound far fetched, and it is, but it has happened. Look up a disease called kuru. Some time apparently in the 1800s at least on person in Papua New Guinea got infected by a particular prion. Due to the cannibalistic customs in that area, his flesh was eaten, more people were infected, their flesh eaten, etc, until kuru was a serious problem by the min 1900s. Once cannibalism in that area stopped, no new cases of kuru occurred. Of course if you're starving, you're facing death by other means too, so it's a tradeoff of probabilities. What I'd probably do is eat the obvious muscle tissue, after proper cooking of course. Most of the edible flesh on the legs and arms is muscle. Unless death by starvation is imminent, I'd stay away from other parts. 

Yes, there have been studies on how much various fabrics insulate when wet and dry. I remember Dr Murray Hamlet mentioning these statistics in one of his lectures on outdoor survival in the cold. It's been a long time, but I think cotton looses something like 80% of its insulating properties when wet. I may be off on the exact number, but I definitely remember it is significant. Good cloths for this purpose were wool and polypropylene. They only dropped by 10-20% if I remember right. That all said, cotton is still more comfortable, at least to me. You can wear cotton in the cold if you understand the risks, tradeoffs, and are prepared to deal with it getting wet. Dealing with it can include changing to other clothes you brought for that purpose. For example, when hiking around town, I wear whatever is comfortable. I'm never that far from the car, and the conditions are predictable enough over the short term that the worst that will happen is I'll be a little uncomfortable on the way back to the car. That's often a risk I'm willing to take. On the other hand, when hiking in the White Mountains of NH, I need to be more conservative. It can be miles to hike out or to the next shelter. There I usually wear a polypro sweater with a wool sweater over that and a windbreaker over that when going deep into the wilderness in winter. In that case, carry a few reserve layers too, including extra socks, balaclava, ski goggles, and usually a stove of some sort. You can't plan for every possible contingency, but I like to cover at least the situation of a twisted ankle several miles from civilization. It can be deadly if you just went out with a cotton shirt and wind breaker, then you twist your ankle, you don't get back when intended, it gets dark, and starts raining. 

I think you mean "light" the fuel. "Lighten" means to reduce it's weight. It seems you want to ignite it. The basic problem is that the vapor pressure of ethanol goes down significantly with cold. Keep in mind that liquid doesn't actually burn, it's the gas the liquid gives off combining with atmospheric oxygen that actually burns. If you have a fuel that is inherently liquid, you have the problem of it vaporizing enough to make a high enough concentration to light. Ethanol is not the best choice for that in cold temperature. Some stoves that are designed for liquid fuel deal with this issue by having a "generator". That's a pipe that carries the liquid fuel and runs accross the flame. The flame vaporizes the fuel, which can then burn when it reaches the jets, which keeps the generator hot, which vaporizes more fuel, etc. That works great once it's going, but can take a little work to get started, particularly with low vapor pressure fuels in cold weather. I use white gas, also called "Coleman Fuel" here in North America. It takes a bit more to start in cold weather too. One tool I have is a tube of "fire paste". It squeezes out like toothpaste and lights easily. In theory it warms the generator and gets things started with a constant flame. In practise it helps, but one application doesn't usually last long enough. The stove manual warns not to do this, but I've found letting some raw liquid fuel come out and burning that to get things going works. It will make a large yellow flame with some soot, and can get out of hand if you're not careful, but it is effective. The trick is to learn to change the mixture at the right time. Too early, and the flame will go out because there isn't enough fuel vapor. Too late, and you waste a lot of fuel and get soot on things and generally contribute to air pollution. It's not clear from the link you provided how exactly your stove works. If it depends on the flame getting the whole fuel reservoir warm or hot, then it may simply not be appropriate for cold weather. 

Think about whether it really matters if your feet stay dry. Will this be in warm enough weather when trenchfoot and frostbite are not problems? If so, the simplest answer may be to let the feet get wet. Wet or damp feet by themselves is not really a problem. I do most of my hiking in New England where it can rain any time on short notice, and soggy ground and stream crossings are common. I realized a long time ago that it is simpler, less stressful, and actually more comfortable in the long run to simply accept the fact that water is going to get into the shoes at some point during a hike in warm weather. It is simpler because ordinary running shoes are fine. Less stressfull because you stop worrying about tip-toeing around puddles and how to get accross streams without getting wet. It is more comfotable in the long run because the smaller and lighter shoes outweighs the feeling of wet feet that some may find bothersome. The latter is simply a mindset issue, so is something under your own control. If you have shoes that let water in, they will also let water out readily. If your feet can breath, then wetness by itself is really not a problem - again assuming warm conditions. If you are going on a longer hike, bring some extra socks and change them frequently. You can have a couple of pairs of socks drying while you are wearing a third, for example. 

Mountains change height on geologic time scales. If a list of mountains above a certain height changes in one or two human lifetimes, then very likely this is due to measurement errors or refinements. I remember a decade or two ago when GPS first became widely available that someone made a big deal of claiming K2 was higher than Everest. That turned out to be false, by hundreds of feet. The original measurements done by the Everest team using theodolites turned out to be quite good. Mountains wear down by erosion, but also go up and down as parts of the earth's crust move relative to each other. For example, India is still moving northeast relative to Asia at about 2 inches a year. That's really fast for continental plate movement. This same movement is what created the Himalayas when India slammed into Asia and the crust buckled and crunched at the impact zone. Since this process is still going on, the Himalayas are still rising. Mt Everest is getting a few 10s of mm higher each year. On the flip side, some older mountains are relics from long ago plate movements and are wearing down over time. The Appalachians in the eastern US are good examples of this. 

To answer your other questions: No, don't insulate the pole at the bottom with a sandal, and yes, you are overthinking this. In the relatively unlikely (but possible) event that lightning does stike your tent pole, you want the current to be conducted to ground as easily as possible. If not, it might find other routes, like thru you. At best a sandal is only going to create arcing around the sandal to the ground. I don't see any advantage to that. At worst it will cause the current to jump from the insulated pole thru you on its way to the ground. If you are in a lightning storm and lightning is likely to strike near you, there is nothing you can do to stop it. What you can do is to give it alternate paths to ground that don't include going thru you. A metal pole nearby will help, but only if it's not so near that it can conduct into your body or arc to your body in preference to conducting straight into the ground. A tall point that is well connected to ground provides roughly a 45° cone of safety. Put another way, you want to be closer to it than its height, assuming you're not adding significant height yourself. For example, being 20-50 feet from a 100 foot tree is about right. Further than 100 feet or so, the tree isn't giving you much protection. A 4 foot metal pole planted 30 feet away, for example, is useless as lightning protection. The other thing to worry about regarding lightning are ground currents caused by a nearby lightning strike. The current doesn't just stop when it hits the ground, it fans out. Unfortunately, the ground isn't uniformly conductive, so it doesn't fan out evenly. There could still be subtantial currents running thru the ground 20 feet from a tree that got hit, for example. The ground isn't a perfect conductor, in fact it's rather a poor conductor most of the time. The large currents times the resistance between two points causes a voltage, which in turn can be large enough to zap you. To minimize ground current danger, try to insulate yourself from the ground and minimize your footprint. The insulation make going thru you a higher resistance path than the ground, and the smaller footprint causes a smaller voltage accross the footprint for the same ground current.