Zombie, Vampire and Werewolf myths are all loosely based on Rabies which is a much shorter biological reach. That fungus is particularly adapted to infect specific ant species, and you have to go from that all the way to humans while rabies already does some of what you want and it works on most mammals already. In humans, that fungus' intrinsic workings would have to work on fundamentally different: 

Secrets Most secrets are worthless, but if a character knew the truth about a person in power and how to prove it, the target would be susceptible to blackmail. "Fermat's Last Theorem," which Fermat claimed to have a proof for, would have been worth 6 million Kroner before 1995. Buried treasure is good, but compound interest is better: burying gold would not be as lucrative as access to interest earning accounts. Skills Skills have been covered by other answers, but FWIW, IMHO leadership has changed so much in the last 100 years that what it means to be a leader today is very different from what it meant historically. Charisma and publicity are probably a better bet. 

Artificial gravity is expensive (you need a really long tether (which will hit space junk and dust, and will create disorienting Coriolis forces on-board) or magic), and a pump moving oxygenated water is cheap, so I'd laugh if I read that merfolk needed artificial gravity do deal with respiration. As far as controlling one's location with a ballast goes, that's a much smaller adjustment than humans made to zero-gravity. Unless your merfolk are less physically adept than humans or bats or dogs or monkeys, that shouldn't be an issue. I see no convincing reason to use artificial gravity for merfolk except the same reason we always see humans with artificial gravity in movies - it's prohibitively expensive to make TV and feature films in zero gravity situations. 

Tetrachromacy--possession of a fourth color receptor, allowing the dwarf to see colors beyond the visible spectrum. Chest--the lungs taking up 15% of the overall body volume rather than the typical mammalian 7%, and a heart so large that if they were human, they'd be diagnosed with cardiomegaly. 

In this alternate Earth, all the species of fish, amphibian, reptile, mammal and bird combine to make up only 0.5% of all animal life on the planet (presented on the pie chart in blue.) It doesn't sound much compared to the two or three percent back home, but it's still quite a lot of invertebrates! As with back home, the other 80% of animals on this alternate Earth make up the arthropods. 

Its mass is almost 3.5 times greater than Earth, and its diameter 1.4 times wider. Now let's imagine that Kepler-10b takes the place of the fourth planet, that of Mars. 

No matter which mammal you are talking about, be it a rodent or a bat or a cat or an elephant or a whale, all have the same lung size--7% of the entire body volume. In this alternate scenario, there is a regional population of men who have two anatomical anomalies that are advantageous in a mountainous environment: 

Rivendell, or Imladris in its original Elvish tongue, is the realm of Elrond Half-Elven that was first described in The Hobbit and later expanded upon in The Lord of the Rings. To convey the elegance of the elves, Alan Lee created Rivendell for the movies using art nouveau, which isn't often used in architecture. It's more associated with the artwork done by French painters at the turn of the 20th century, though its origins actually started a bit earlier. Using art nouveau as architecture seems solely decorative and not used for practical uses, like defense. Then again, it could be both decorative and useful, like Gothic architecture. So if Rivendell ever were to exist in real life, would art nouveau architecture be too decorative to use in a city, or would it be both ornate and practical? If the latter is possible, then how? 

Think basically a Jupiter brain (a megascale computer made from a gas giant) but with a Dyson shell surrounding it to act as a threefold nutrient/waste exchange (assuming it repairs itself and adds to its own mass in a manner analogous to "eating" in the loosest possible sense), heat dispersal mechanism, and habitable surface. The interior would consist of your typical gas giant planet or brown dwarf with a solid molten core kept locked in the center of the shell by a strong electromagnetic field. Could this structure be feasible as a megascale computer that's also habitable? What difficulties would the creators of this computer face when implementing this design? 

Specifically, will ferrofluid at the bottom or on the sides of a shot glass perturb the fluid above it to any significant degree? I want a character of mine who is a sort of Bill Nye/Neil DeGrasse Tyson expy to show off a party trick using ferrofluid that he calls "The Real Corona". What he does is pour ferrofluid into the bottom of a shotglass, fills it near to the brim with vodka, lights it on fire and then introduces a magnet which he uses to turn the flaming alcohol into a roiling facsimile of the Sun's surface by manipulating the ferrofluid underneath it with a magnet. Would this work the way I imagined it? Could you do anything impressive with the flames from a flaming shotglass if you filled the bottom with ferrofluid? Please let me know if this belongs in Physics Stack Exchange, although I expect the answer isn't too complicated. I'm kinda just asking to double check that this works like I thought it might ^^' 

One of the recent talks regards expanding our cities to colonize the oceans, which many find to be more feasible than colonizing another body in space. So far, we have not gone as building a permanent, metropolitan establishment, but when that comes, some issues obviously need to be addressed. Fishing and greenhouse farming have been considered, so finding food is not a problem. Other problems are not so straightforward to solve. In the maximum depth of 350 feet, pressure is added, perhaps close to human tolerance, so what our main facilities need is an architectural shape best suited to withstand that kind of pressure. By choosing the three basic shapes--pyramid, box and dome--which one suits maximum? In relation, glass does not react well to added pressure, either. That's why deep-sea diving submersibles have thick windows that are small in area and/or circumference. At a maximum depth of 350 feet, would a window in a permanent underwater city also need to be small and thick, too? If so, by how much? Certain materials withstand pressure differently. Roman concrete has this unique ability to harden as it gets older and keep water out, which may explain how it has survived the past 2,000 years. Would this work in a marine city with a maximum depth of 350 feet, or would something else make for a more durable foundation? Another problem is how to get a constant supply of oxygen. I could personally suggest planting each main facility with a chimney tall enough to break the surface, but is that feasible? If one wants to spend the rest of his life beneath the surface, he would prefer to be dry. So how does one open and shut doors without drowning the entire corridor in the process? The one final issue is finding fresh, drinkable water. I have no idea how that could be accomplished. How would all those listed issues be addressed and solved? 

Human women often give birth prone such that the force of gravity is perpendicular to the direction they're pushing the baby. Therefore, there's no reason to assume that [most] women aren't strong enough to give birth in zero-g. Women from a variety of species (including some humans) give birth under water where the forces of buoyancy and gravity are equal and opposite, so there's still no reason to suspect that gravity is a requirement for birth. One of the long term effects of weightlessness is that our bones become weaker. It's possible (though, highly unlikely because the baby doesn't go between hips - it goes through cartilage and other tissues) that this would mean that giving birth necessitated a risk of breaking one's hips. It's also possible that the bones could become more pliable, either because of the sometime inverse relationship between strength and plasticity, or because of a drug/supplement administered during gestation. If birth without undue risk of catastrophic injury was not possible, there's always Cesarean section, see bulldogs. 

Excavate a large flat basin that isn't too deep and holds water after a high tide goes back out. Run a flat channel from the basin inland towards the town. Plant saltgrass in the estuary and the channel. Harvest salt from the salt grass. Take sweet water from the point furthest from the ocean. Occasionally harvest and replant the saltgrass and feed livestock with it. Every few years, remove silt from the estuary, re-grade the basin and dredge the channel. The soil from these endeavors will be high in organic content and likely valuable. 

The mountains of the American West have some major differences. For starters, only the Rockies stand firm—no Coast Range, no Grand Canyon and most certainly no Sierra Nevada. The Rockies on Great Lakes Earth have a different road from ours. If we use it on our map, we’d see the Rockies starting in the Canadian village of Chesterfield and meandering to the next point, Rapid City, South Dakota. Once there, it makes another meander through the eastern borders of Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico before making one last meander across the Texas-Mexico border. While our Rockies stand no taller than 14,440 feet above sea level, the tallest peak in a Great Lakes Rockies is measured to be 14,505 feet. From there, only two simple questions stand: 

There was evidence that as much as 75,000 years ago, the human population experienced a sudden drop in genetic population, a "bottleneck" catastrophe. Was the supereruption of the volcano Toba to blame? Or did different shifts in climate, those that gave Africa repeated periods of drought, really do the job? Whatever the culprit, this bottleneck changed the destiny of human history. As a result, one race of people has a far smaller genetic distinction from another than two chimpanzees in one same troop. Let us assume that, in an alternate timeline, the bottleneck catastrophe happened at a later date, preferably during the Younger Dryas climate chaos 11,000 years ago. At that time, there was a four-to-thirteen-degree-Fahrenheit drop in global temperature at a span of 1200 years, too quick for ice age plant and animal species to deal with. It most certainly brought an end to the Clovis culture. Delay the bottleneck to the Younger Dryas, and how much of a population growth would we have seen between 75,000 and 11,000 years ago? Would human history, preferably history taking place during the Bronze Age, be reset on an earlier date? Would a higher genetic diversity give humans significant differences in their appearances and anatomies? 

Namely, would my superhero who can fly to the moon in minutes like Superman be able to outspeed the point-blank detonation of a nuclear bomb, thus defusing nearly all tension from any conflict not involving other spandex-clad freaks of nature? Or would they still be caught in it? Note that although I compared them to Superman, this character CANNOT fly faster than speed of light. I just want to know if they can fly faster than the speed of nuke. 

I'm trying to design a realistic genetically engineered nanotech super-soldier with a full set of redundant organs. How much more interior volume and thus height/weight/muscle mass would a human body need to support 2 hearts, 3 lungs, 2 stomachs, 3 kidneys, 2 livers, 2 sets of large and small intestines, 2 esophagi/trachea, and 2 sets of certain major bones (femur, spine, humerus etc.)? Additionally, could a human brain be "taken apart" and redistributed throughout the body while still functioning? This super soldier should be designed with as many safeguards and redundancies as possible. Also, this bio-engineered human needs to still look... human. Is it possible to accommodate for all these changes with only an increase in height and muscle mass, or is it inevitable that anyone with this much modification will start to look like a walking tank made of meat? 

Dropping In the weeks to hours before birth, the baby resides lower in the abdomen - a transition that physicians call "lightening". A hypothesis has been advanced that a baby won't drop without gravity. On the surface, it seems to have merit, but babies drop while expecting mothers are in a variety of positions. In addition, dolphins appear to have a similar phase, so at the very least, mammal babies can drop without gravity. Earth women have exercises and movements which hypothetically move the baby into position, but while that research appears to be in its infancy, there's no reason to avoid talking about the zero-g versions of the same exercises. Gestation Humans carry babies in their wombs surrounded by hydro-static pressure. Since Earth women do yoga, swim and sleep, it's pretty clear that their orientation does not effect their ability to bring a baby to term. For women to need gravity to bring babies to term would require proof. Copulation Again, nobody wants to admit to having had sex in space, but humans are endlessly creative when it comes to this. I will not be adding a link. Evolution Nature will find a way. There are few things that cause rapid evolution in "natural" species, but illnesses and breeding problems are at the top of that list. Nature is neither fair, nor kind about this, so there would be some cruel generations where natural selection takes care of this problem. That could have it's own consequences because our powerful brains are related to the long gestation times. The other option would be to guide evolution with Genetic Engineering, but that tech is probably a long way away. Verdict If you want it to be an issue, you can, but I wouldn't bat an eye if a fiction writer told me that zero-g birth was commonplace and about as catastrophic as Earth birth. 

Your best bet is to simply not get hit. That answer sounds a lot dumber than it actually is, so just bear with me. At interplanetary/interstellar cruising speeds (usually anywhere between a few dozen to a few thousand km/s), making minor (and most importantly random) course adjustments using small bursts of thrust at a fraction of a g every few seconds consumes very little fuel comparatively speaking and makes you a very hard-to-hit target. The speed of most spacecraft makes it so that even a small amount of thrust for a fraction of a second in any direction can result in you being dozens of kilometers away from your initial starting position by the time your enemy's railgun slug has intercepted your ship's original trajectory. Alternatively, if you don't want to rely on Douglas Adams and the RNG to save you, turn your anti-collision lasers into point-defense systems and vaporize the incoming slug before it reaches you. Bonus points for shooting the slug with your own slug to knock it off-course. This all changes if your enemy has a railgun that fires slugs with their own built-in guidance systems, but smart bullets don't really work that well when combined with railguns for a variety of reasons, so you probably wouldn't encounter this. 

Assume the planet's orbit around Sirius B is much closer to its parent star than we are to the sun so it still receives enough light and heat to form an Earth-like environment. What does night look like on this hypothetical planet? Would Sirius A shine brightly in the night sky like a full moon? Would there even be a night the way we think of it if Sirius A in the sky? If you were to lie back on the alien grass at night on the top of a tall hill, what would you see?