The immune system itself would not necessarily degrade over the generations in space. By design immune templates in the body are blank, what immunologists called "naive". When a person is born into a new biological environment, their body adapts to the local diseases. Breeding in space will not change this fundamental capability. A person who is born in space and suddenly returned to earth will be at risk from new pathogens, but this is no different than the risk you take any time that you travel. If you take a trip to Madagascar and have contact with the local people, you will be taking the same risk. The only dynamic immunological information conferred between the generations comes to a baby from its mother either via placental transfer of immunoglobulin or at birth by nursing. When a mother first nurses she produces a substance called colostrum which encodes the local disease environment. By drinking the colostrum, a baby inherits many of the immunological templates of its mother. For this reason an astronaut's children or descendants could return to the same place on earth and have a degree of immunity to the local diseases in the area. In general, a spaceship will be a different kind of environment than the earth because, as you point out, the pool of pathogens will be smaller. On the other hand, if a new pathogen were to evolve, it could potentially wipe out the space colony or greatly reduce its population. 

A lot of answers here seem to be answering the related but un-asked question of "How does the lucky person get away with it or maximize winnings?" The answer to the actual question is rather simple and short... How can the casino prove I'm cheating? If you are not cheating, they cannot prove that you are. How would they? The casino cannot prove something when there is no proof. The casino could try to plant fake evidence. This is unlikely to happen unless you are breaking the bank for any given, specific casino. Some people do walk away with millions, and the casinos don't plant evidence against them all, so why would you be different? If you are raking in Billions from 1 single casino, then maybe they would try something. At that point, though, what they are doing is illegal, so just use your imagination. Maybe they rig their own roulette game in a fashion that you could for cheating and they say you did it, maybe get false witnesses. There are 1000 things they could do here. Speaking of illegal activity, casinos are highly regulated in a lot of ways. It is illegal even for the casino to tamper with their own devices to cheat in the casino's favor, just like it is illegal for you to tamper with them to cheat. That said, they will definitely suspect you of cheating. There have been times when people have cheated, the casinos have looked into them and proven they did cheat, and those people have gone to jail. What Can (or Will) the Casino do? Even though the casino cannot prove you are cheating, that doesn't matter. They don't need to prove it. They can and will simply kick you out. It is that simple. If you keep winning too much money in a way that does no good for the casino (provides no positive publicity for casino, causes nobody around you to bet more, etc.), eventually someone will come over and just force you to leave. What Else is the Casino Likely to do? Planting evidence is unlikely, as mentioned above, since that could get the casino in big trouble. However, that does not mean the casino will just roll over. I will also go into the situation where you try to get one last big win so the casino has little time to react, but I will cover it from the casino's point of view, per your question. I have heard of people being denied their winnings before. Even if this is illegal (some have suggested it is, and I would agree), that does not bother the casino if they do not lose out. This, then, becomes just another bet, another game of chances. Odds are that people who are not given all the chips they deserve are not going to take legal action against the casino, and even if some do then the casino just pays you what you were owed in the first place. That is: there is no negative for the casino since they lose (approximately) the same amount whether they pay you now or pay you when your lawyers threaten them and so there is little incentive to bully you into leaving without all earnings, but there is much positive for the casino if you don't send lawyers. So it's a "win/not-lose" situation for the casino to bully you into not taking that last big winning when they are kicking you out. Further, if you have no witnesses or evidence, it may be hard to prove that you were denied what was rightfully yours. If you leave without all your winnings when the casino bullies you, what proof do you have that you actually were denied what was yours? If you were keeping a low profile, you likely left few or no witnesses. This makes it even easier for the casino to withhold what is yours. Summary The casino can't prove anything but doesn't need to. The casino can and will kick you out. It is possible they might try to bully you into leaving without all your money. 

No, they could not have done it. The problem is that fulminates were unknown at that time and knowledge of fulminates would be necessary to make the percussion cap for the bullet. Making the cartridge casing would have also been very difficult with no help. Brass was largely unknown at that time and drawing bronze into a casing without it cracking would have difficult. The gun could have been made... almost. The main body of the gun would be achievable, although it would have been fantastically expensive because it would have taken a great deal of meticulous work. The problem would be the springs. In the 15th century they did not yet have the knowledge to make the kind of tempered wire necessary to make a small springs. It is possible that might have been able to find some way around this problem, but it would be difficult. 

It would be difficult to make a sustainable colony because specialization would be lacking. Our current earth is only possible because we have 6 billion people cooperating to produce things. Where you would have the greatest problem is advanced technology or technology involving large pieces of equipment and capital investment; that would mean computer technology, mining, farming and power generation would be the biggest problems. Making computer chips and power generators without large teams of specialists and resources would be difficult. Also, how would you mine metals and new materials? Mining is very capital and labor intensive. Without prospectors and mines you would have no way to get new metal. Mechanized farming is only possible with large factories making tractors and other complex farm equipment (harvesters, tillers, etc). The immediate problem would be food production. Without tractors you will be in trouble. You can farm by hand, but it would mean virtually everybody would have to be a farmer or farm hand. This would be the situation of a small isolated community. They would essentially be reduced to subsistence farming. Without a large infrastructure to support machine making (steel, oil/coal, chemicals), you are basically stuck living like a primitive caveman just to get enough food. You would need many thousands of people to support minimal mining and blacksmithing operations to get out of that. 

Image public domain courtesy Wikipedia at same link as above There are other cool images we could dig up that do similar things. I wanted to include some of x-ray visuals, microwave/radio-wave visuals, and the like because there are cool instances of those, but those are technically EM radiation, just not the wavelengths our eyes detect, so I'll forego that here. You can use Google images to turn up plenty of them, especially for astronomy. Now here's how they do it Now let's bring this all back around to our dolphins of Dearth example case. Information Distribution As you pointed out, the printing press may have developed differently. Yes, that is likely. As you suggest, something more like braille is likely. For creatures primarily dependent on audio, audio recordings would also be likely. A phonograph cylinder is a device which can be used to record and playback audio, and it does not require any electrical components; it can also be made using very basic mechanical components. There are simple designs which are easy to create; here is a link to one you can buy which records to and plays from a wax candle. I once saw a TV show where a small team (3-5 people, if I recall) was left on an island with limited resources and were given objectives they needed to accomplish, including documenting wildlife; one of the guys used wood and wax to create a recording cylinder - they recorded bird songs with it. It was dumb simple. Your creatures can do similar, and you can use a playback to record another cylinder, though the quality will degrade quickly. Every time you want to re-boost your quality, you would need to recite the recording again, preferably in the presence of a room full of recorders, then distribute those to remote re-recording centers. Also note that sound travels much easier through water, so in my specific example of dolphins sound will travel easily and far. Phonographs are their printing presses; slightly less efficient but they will get the job done. Electricity After discovering electricity (Doesn't require light or modern technologies), they realize that something keeps interfering with it. While experimenting with their electronics, they discover that electric signals in some conductors produces interference with other conductors. This can take many forms but they all amount to the same thing; we get this phenomenon in devices as simple as a wire carrying the signal from a microphone to a speaker (our dolphins likely figured out microphones and speakers much sooner than we did; it's their primary sense after all), and in that case you will literally hear the interference. A bit more on electricity further below. And this interference leads to... And finally, EM detection (aka "seeing light") Some bright dolphin comes along and decides to deliberately cause an electrical "interference" to be detected remotely for the express purpose of wireless transmission, and thus the blind dolphins' radio technology is born. They do not even understand light yet, nor do they have any idea why this works since they do not understand EM. They will, however, continue to experiment and progress until they have figured it out, much the same way we have for energies and forces that we can only measure with devices. As soon as the blind, intelligent dolphins realize they can use their radios as radar, they build the biggest ones they can and point them where they cannot go: up. They find an empty expanse in the sky. Disappointing. "What if we keep building bigger?" some ask, "We might find something way far out, like millions of miles out!" "That's absurd," some will say, but eventually it will be done and other planets will be detected. So begins radio astronomy for our blind, intelligent dolphins, and they are surveying space. Obviously the general populace wants in on this action, so their scientists invent helmets which fit them and include a surround-sound echolocation system to transform the EM data into audio data so that they can all see it in their natural sensory format. There is another point you may have thought by now: What about detecting the energy put out by the other planets, and stars etc. for that matter? They will undoubtedly, and soon, realize that they can "see" even without the radar using passive radio detection, which might come before the radar detection of other planets mentioned above, or it might come after, depending on the frequencies they are using. Either way, they will soon see everything. We have come full circle and seen the steps they would go through. Disclaimer (Handwavium and more on electricity) The only hand-waving I did was "and they discover electricity," but that's not even a stretch since humans started using electricity thousands of years ago for electroplating; maybe some people understood what was going on, maybe not, but we know early humans stumbled into electricity at the very least and knew how to make a battery and use it. I don't know how they discovered it either; I just know they did, so this might not actually be hand-waving after all. As pointed out in the comment by @Mormacil, dolphins are likely to have a better up-close-and-personal demonstration of electricity than other creatures because there are marine creatures capable of generating and using electricity such as electric eels. Perhaps these dolphins even farm electric eels to use as their generators. Computers! As you said yourself, computers as we know them are reliant on sight. The original computers and their output did not utilize monitors as we know them. Their input was not with keyboards, and their output was not by light. So this issue kind of resolves itself. I imagine early vacuum tube computers could have been attached to the audio recording devices mentioned above to provide output even easier than the paper printing that some of our early computers used, so the output device is already covered and likely invented before computers and can interface easily with our original human computers. Input might be more of a concern; my example of dolphins for example, hopefully they have better graspers, or maybe they can use audio for input as well (that could indeed be translated the other way from mechanical audio playback into the mechanical early computers). Also note that there were technically ancient computers too, even more advanced than the abacus, and some early computers even controlled devices such as this computer-controlled artificial lion from the 1400s and there were humanoid robots too. Computer technology, even computer science theory, is actually older than the electronic computer as we know it. Now DASA (Dolphin Aeronautic and Space Administration) uses the telescopes from above, possibly in conjunction with computers (whether electronic or mechanical), and have made a major discovery; DASA has released a publication about the third planet from Sol possibly having large oceans of water. These dolphins are looking at Sol wondering if there really could be intelligent life there, or anywhere else in the universe for that matter, and we have come to the point at which our young dolphin of planet Dearth asks their worldbuilding.stackexchange.dearthnet question that I led with at the beginning. 

Let's just back up a little and ask, what would we need to do have a 1000-person colony that would not be living like cavemen or eskimoes (hunter-gatherers)? First of all you would need to bring materials and equipment: rubber, tool steel, glassware/optics, machine tools, generators and motors, computers. Lose any of this stuff and you are screwed. The biggest bulk would be the machine tools. You would need at a minimum: a lathe, milling machine, grinder, arbor press, hammer forge, anvils, dies of various kinds, files, gearing, abrasive wheels, etc. You would be talking several truckloads of machines at a bare minimum. You would need at least 50-100 people to operate and maintain all these machines. You would need another 50-100 people to focus on mining, primarily iron which you absolutely must have a source of. You will start to run into trouble with tooling. Your cutters will wear out and you need tool steel to replace them. That means you need nickel, chromium, manganese, and moly, if not vanadium. Getting these materials without big mining operations would be problematic. For example, nickel tends to be a deep earth metal so requires a big operation. You would probably need 200 of the 1000 to be doing nothing but farming. You need 50-100 doing irrigation, water supply and sewage. You would need about 50 people doing power management, which I guess would be water based. You would need another 50 or so doing pottery and container making. You would need another 50-100 doing fibers, meaning rope, cable, wire, gathering and making. Another 50 doing garments, gloves and protective gear. You would need at least 50 women giving birth and doing child rearing and another 50 teachers and trainers. Are we running out of people yet? 

The comments seem fixated on the interpretation that you are asking about computer viruses in general. However, I'm assuming you're asking about how to construct a plausible virus that is spread by physical proximity, in contrast to most modern computer viruses, which spread through network proximity, the nodes of which can be physically very distant. Computer malware is built to exploit what is available, rather than what is preferable. If your synthetic citizens make use of something like modern Near Field Communication, perhaps there's some vulnerability in the standardized software protocols or common hardware used to enable that technology. For instance, maybe your synthetic actors use NFC as a form of proof of identity, like a literal manifestation of modern cryptographic handshakes that allow two parties to trust each other. This might be done over NFC for added security or perhaps for some kind of cultural reason. But, if that tech is compromised by a worm that lies in wait until the infected person "handshakes" with someone else, it could spread like biological diseases. NFC uses radio waves but you could adapt this idea for faster/denser forms of communication, as well. For instance, a visible light or IR-based communication method would require that the transmitter and receiver have line-of-sight to each other, which could be spun to generally require physical proximity for some kind of convenience. Alternatively, you could use something like a QR code. Maybe your synthetic citizens all have high-speed, "subconscious" barcode readers built into their visual sensors that allow them to rapidly decode barcode-encoded data as they walk past it. For instance, if your society grew to use them pervasively for things like advertising or street signs. But there could be a vulnerability in the decoding software that allows arbitrary code to be run or a more convoluted attack that exploits the auto-execution functions of these high-speed readers to direct the victim's networking software to download a malicious file without permission. It could also spread like a worm, instructing the victim to brand themselves with the malicious QR code or paste it onto physical objects. I think both approaches are rich in narrative possibilities. The former example has obvious parallels to human handshakes and physical interactions that could be an interesting exploration in a society filled with synthetic intelligences. The latter is evocative of sci-fi horror "viruses" like Dead Space's Markers, which self-propagate to terrifying effect. 

Strictly speaking, the answer is "Yes, that can happen." However, there are so many ways that it could happen that the full scope of "how" would be too broad. Since you don't need the full scope, but rather need only a few good ideas, I will offer some. 

The heliocentric model already had support long before the time period you are after (1200s). In fact, some of the Greeks tried to prove the heliocentric model thousands of years ago. There was also religious support for the heliocentric model even before that. Technology: Greeks There were some bright Greek astronomers who were on the right track and viewed the cosmos similarly to how we do now. They realized that if Earth is orbiting around the sun, then there should be a calculable parallax for the stars. That is, if you make astronomical observations at one point in the year, then you make the same observations precisely 6 months later - when we would be on the opposite side of the sun - we should have moved enough to see some of the stars in the sky change location relative to each other. The calculations are simple trigonometry. The Greeks tried it, and calculating the trigonometry would have provided difficult to dispute proof of the heliocentric model. Interesting side-note: According to the Wikipedia page on trigonometry, "The field emerged in the Hellenistic world during the 3rd century BC from applications of geometry to astronomical studies". The study of triangles started long before that; this is referring to trig much more as we know it today. So it was the astronomical observations and debates much like the one that we are discussing in this Q&A that actually established current trigonometry. The problem, which the Greeks were unaware of, was that even the closest stars are so unreasonably far away that the parallax is so small that you need a descent telescope just to measure it. The Greeks were so close to proving the heliocentric model, but their astronomical observations just did not provide enough precision to discern the parallax. And so the geocentric model had a victory instead of the heliocentric model. So the answer to your question here is to provide the Greeks with better astronomy equipment. That shouldn't be too difficult. Just shift the timeline of the telescope forward by giving them an improved control over optics. Citation for the stellar parallax, including the Greek use of it. According to the above source, from Penn State, the stellar parallax observation was not successfully done until the 1800s. So you might need to shift the development of telescopes forward a lot. Though usually developments take many generations, it is not unheard of to make drastic leaps and bounds in 1 generation if you get a dedicated individual who devotes their life to it, such as was done for clocks when moving from weighted systems to springs. You could have a history where a Greek person obsessed with optics spends his life pushing the telescope hard shortly before the heliocentric debate happens. Religion: The Diplomacy (Edit: See new note at bottom of this section) Religion itself was not a barrier to the heliocentric model. At least, the predominant Abrahamic religions (Judaism, Islam, Christianity) were not; I cannot say with confidence about other religions. If you are thinking about the catholic church's blocking of the heliocentric model, considering it heresy, that was not a religious issue. That was purely a diplomatic issue. The catholic church was a governing structure which relied on its word being unquestioningly accepted. If the catholic leadership allowed their word to be questioned, they lost their power. The catholic church's actions should be viewed as the actions of a government, not a result of religion. In fact, ancient texts used by the Jews, Christians, and I think the Muslims too actually support the heliocentric model. Despite the catholic church's own proclamations otherwise (which was essentially heresy by the church government), their bible actually states that the Earth is what moves through space. Earth is said by the bible to be a sphere that travels through space, and yet many of the governing leaders who abused the faith of their followers tried for centuries to tell us that the Earth was flat or that it was the stationary center of the universe, despite that bible. So religion itself actually supports the heliocentric model, but the people did not accept that. So the answer to your question as far as religion is concerned is to change the people somehow so that they are not arrogant jerks (not the words I want to use, but I'm keeping it G-rated). Let religious people actually practice their religion and develop it instead of having dictators pervert religion to their whims. Wouldn't that be grand? In theory, this is actually a smaller and easier change than the one above about changing the history of optics, but in practice changing people to be better is very difficult. Please note: I am trying to find sources for my claims in this section. It is easy to find the claims in the bible that Earth is round and suspended in space, but I am having difficulty finding the one I recall about it actually moving through space. Also, some people are pointing out in comment the supposed biblical evidence for flat earth and geocentric models: to that, I suggest people take notice of the fact that the sections that sound geocentric are often in symbolic, metaphoric sections (ex: Psalms is literally a collection of songs and poems), and I find such biblical geocentric claims to be weak personally - but yes, there are hints of geocentric ideas as well. I would also point out that the biblical heliocentric support is generally in the more literal sections. Overall, feel free to take the biblical claims with a grain of salt until such time as I update this section; however, the claim still stands that the catholic blockade of the heliocentric model was, as many catholic actions through history, a diplomatic power play rather than a religious requirement. This is evident in that many supporters of the heliocentric model were themselves very religious Christians as well. Resistance to Change Your other issue was the generic resistance to change that many people have. There is not a lot you can do about this. However, given one or both of the above changes, I don't think you would actually need to do anything else special here. If the religious texts were actually taken at face value, instead of having governmental perverts keeping people from reading their own religious texts, then the religious groups would have been on board with the heliocentric model. If the Greeks had made better observations, they would have been on board with the heliocentric model. The Greeks and the Abrahamic religions were, arguably, the two most influential things in history to much of science and art that would follow, even to this day. If the people in both those camps supported the heliocentric model, I don't think there even would have been a change necessary, as it would have been the default.