I'm going to assume you're considering salaried employees only, since it would be illegal in most places to even think about doing something like this with hourly employees. You get paid for the hours you work, period. When you're a salaried employee, there will be some non-zero amount of work to do outside of traditional working hours. It can come from a variety of sources, and honestly, the sources are much less important than the motivations. Ask yourself the following questions: 

I'll start by saying that a boss that puts you down isn't something you're going to fix with a conversation. So if you're looking for magic words, don't. Simply put, early in your career you have to prove him wrong. When you have an opportunity to show your skill (and professionalism!) take full advantage of it. Don't shy away from difficult problems. Tackle a longstanding bug. Look for something to do and do it. Learn new skills and leverage the ones you do have. It's that simple. 

I was in this situation once. New to a country, had a wife and a baby and a second coming out in a few months, I needed a job really badly. And I made it clear in my interview that one of my primary factors for getting a job was "supporting myself and my family" and "finding gainful employment". When you say "you just want the money" you sound greedy. That doesn't sound like the kind of guy you want. When you say "supporting myself and my family" you sound caring, prioritized and motivated. That does sound like the kind of guy you want. It also shows that you have an understanding of how you're perceived, which means they can trust you in more social situations (for example, you need to be careful what you say in a sales position. Being too blunt will cause you to lose some sales.) 

My work, a tech startup with around 25 employees, recently had a breaking point about this. There were key things to consider: 

Different industries have different expectations of their employees. Generally, the lower the wage, the higher the turnover but also the lower the investment they make in recruiting. I'm not saying this is an excuse to blow off a job offer, but I am saying it will soften the blow. A firm that is paying an employee for only two hours of work a day at barely above minimum wage is likely prepared for a high turnover rate. You probably feel worse about this than they do. Let them know immediately the simple fact that you will be unable to work the position so they can begin the hunt for their next employee. Simply put, you can't pass up an offer that gives you 4x the money. I'm not sure anyone can. Unless the times don't conflict, in which case consider working them both. 

If you've been doing it for years as a freelance developer, then create a cool company name to go by and put it on your resume as "Owner / lead developer." After all, you were the one sourcing clients, meeting with stakeholders, and ensuring the stuff got done. It definitely applies, and gets the point across. Look, anyone can get a degree and show up to a cubicle. Running a successful small business is hard. This is definitely something you want to showcase to a potential employer. 

Just because it's possible to quit or be fired at any time doesn't mean it's profitable or a good idea to do so. First off, being fired without cause opens the door to lawsuits. Even if the reason was X, if the person can make a case for Y, even a small one, it could cost the company a lot of money. Second, the morale aspect of firing someone compared to letting go a contractor is night and day. All management has to say is "his contract wasn't renewed" and as far as everyone else knows, his contract just wasn't renewed. Could be him, could be management, both, could be a better contract came up, no one knows. If he's hired on then fired, it's going to cause quite a stir. Who's next? What did he do? And lastly, it's just simpler to let someone go if they aren't hired on. No HR paperwork, no tax paperwork, no final check, no cashing out vacation days, no anything. It's much simpler. 

Will I have the resources I need to do the job correctly? Will I be properly compensated for doing the job correctly? Will I receive references to get future jobs? 

So there's two things here: The first is that if this account was set up for work purposes, I would have expected it to have been set up by your IT department. It wouldn't be it would be . If you set it up by yourself, it's not his and he has no right to access it. You haven't listed what country you're in, but there are laws that protect email access, even in cases where the company owns the accounts. You'd want to consult a lawyer for more info on that. The second is that there is no reason why he should need access to your account itself. If for some reason access to the account is actually needed, gmail has a baked in feature for that called delegates. Here's the help article on it. However, I would expect this to only be used for something like "Kathy is on vacation this week, but we need to keep her projects going." Since you're using this for work-only purposes, I'd imagine that won't be a problem per se. That being said, I think it would be better for everyone if you just had an out-of-office for that and said contact Bossy McManagerface for any questions during my absence. tl;dr - if possible, just set up out of office. If you can't do that, set up a delegate. 

It really depends on who you're talking to. The obvious solution is to ask. If you can't ask, or are afraid to, send two separate ones. If you're concerned about it being spammy, then pick which one is most time critical and send that alone. Then, in a few hours, send the second. But nothing beats getting it from the source. Asking your manager also shows you're aware the effects your communication has and are doing what is necessary to make your communication effective. Every manager loves that. 

And that's just off the top of my head. I'm sure there's many more questions your manager will have. He may also inquire about what you've tried to remedy this situation outside of work. I remember when my wife moved to the states to live with me, she played a lot of online games until she got her green-card/work permit (of course, we got pregnant before she got those, so she didn't even use them anyway...). Of course, we met on an online game to begin with, so she was used to having friends over the internet. Any friends she makes there will be easy to find again when she goes to university, too. So that's a plus. Another way to approach your manager would be the prospect of her employment. I know a lot of people at my company get their kids, spouses, and other relatives employment here. Even if she doesn't have technical skills, if she was accepted into university she must have some viable skills that perhaps your company could take advantage of, even on a short term basis. It might not be the most fun she's ever had, pushing paper or pushing brooms or some other boring task, but she'd get to see you a few times a day, she'd be out of the house doing something, probably would make a few friends, and would make a few extra quid to boot! 

You can't make a generalization on whether it's better to be early or late in the process, but very very few jobs are going to be first come, first serve. If you're scheduling an interview, you can be confident you have a fair shot at getting the job. Being early can be nice - if the people doing the interview don't do them often, they might have a lot of energy and enthusiasm and enjoy the interview more. On the flip side, those people might not be as prepared or practice so time you would normally spend knocking their socks off is spent on logistics or some other waste. So it's a roll of the dice. Being late in the process can also go both ways. If you're late and you're following some real rock stars, your interviewers might be just kind of going through the motions and the bar is a lot higher for you. They also could be tiring of a long interview process. On the flip side, they could have a bunch of unqualified people or bad fits that accidentally got an interview. So another roll. Just as you'd expect in any interview. Bottom line, you have to go into the interview assuming it's a fair interview and do the best you can to represent yourself and find out what you can about the company and people during that interview. If it's not fair, you'll find out about it soon, or you just won't hear back from them. Nothing you can do to change it, so don't worry about it. You've got enough to worry about in your job search already! 

How do you currently manage intake? If 15 people could potentially be offereing suggestions, as well as clients, visitors, investors, etc, it sounds like you need a better system for managing, prioritizing, and most importantly approving these changes. If this guy doesn't own the website (and by own I mean make decisions for) then someone must. If that person is you, you're free to approve or deny them as you choose. If that person is your manager, he needs to be going to your manager with these. With a tracking system (there's a billion free ones, I'm partial to Bugzilla although I'll be the first to admit it's cumbersome for non-techies...) you can properly prioritize your releases, what features go in those releases, and keep a record of the pros and cons. I'm not saying put up red tape and paperwork to slow him down, because not all bureaucracy is bad. Some of it actually has a purpose, and if used effectively this will make sure you're working on the best things first. What 'best' is, well, that's up to the owner of the website. 

What will she be doing? What will the impact of her being here be on you? What will the impact of her being here be on the crew? What benefit will this bring the company? Are there any insurance concerns to having a non-work visitor? Who is responsible for managing her if you are busy in a meeting? What do you think I as the manager should do if someone else wants to bring their wife in? Depending on your field of work, what security measures need to be taken? I used to work for the US DoD and had to get special permission to show my wife (a Canadian citizen) my cubicle. 

I can only speak to my personal experience in the matter. I took my e-QIP in 2006, so the questions may have changed since then, but basically I saw similar questions and asked my supervisor about them, specifically with how they related to downloaded songs and movies. Her response was "They really don't care if you've downloaded a couple songs. If you've got a couple thousand, they might care. If you're running an underground distribution site, they definitely care." So if you're worried about a handful of isolated cases where you've maybe borrowed a friends windows DVD to install it for free, or you've used a YouTube ripper to get a copy of some of your favorite songs, do yourself and them a favor and don't waste their time with that. So we have two extremes: one is "I run an illegal file sharing site" and the other is "I ripped a couple songs off YouTube". We know somewhere in between these two extremes lies a tipping point where you need to write it down. Where exactly that tipping point is I can't say - it's probably different than it was when I took mine, in a pre-Snowden world. In a post-Snowden world, it's tougher to say. Of course, the FBI is considering letting potheads in as long as you have the skills they need. If the FBI (and CIA, NSA, other TLAs you don't even know exist) didn't let pirates into their ranks (at the very least, pirates who weren't foolish enough to lead a trail back to them) they wouldn't have a talent pool big enough to compete. 

Working sucks. Sorry. This doesn't mean everyone hates their jobs, because a lot of people love them. But just the general "Ugh. I have to get up and go work for the man." sucks. You need to get over this hurdle. Accepting that in order to be a productive member of society, you need to sacrifice some amount of control over your life. You will be taking orders from a manager, abiding by corporate policies, and in most cases of salaried employees working more than 40 hours a week. Work isn't convenient. If you want to get a job in tech, you have to win the interview. The easiest way to make your interviewer believe you're the right candidate for the job is for you to believe you are. You can't walk in there all timey-wimey and expect them to strongly consider you. They want a guy they can drop something on you and you just take care of it. From what I read, that doesn't sound like you at this point in time. I would be afraid to give you important assignments for fear you might try to change them to be more convenient. Can't win if you don't play. How many tech jobs have you applied to over those 5 years? What steps have you taken to actually get a job? And you said you want to work a little under 40 hours a week, but work your way up the ladder. With that kind of attitude, you'll retire an intermediate developer. Seriously. Now, I'm not going to say that you have to spend all day, every day, every night, every weekend at work to move up through the ranks, because you don't. But I would set a realistic expectation of an employer saying 40 hours a week but that you'll be spending at LEAST 42. Remember that you're in competition with unmarried 20-somethings who really don't mind spending 45 or 50. Next steps. You are lacking three major things: experience, flexibility and confidence. You could try working open source to build your experience but that generally doesn't build you project management experience (someone else is managing you). You also mentioned maybe doing freelance (starting your own business). Start with something small or volunteer (like a church's webpage or something). This will give you the experience in both technical work and project management. Set real dates and deliver by those dates. Work through issues with the client. Once you have a small portfolio, and a grasp on how to handle a client, get yourself out there for paid freelance work. Note that if you advertise volunteer freelance work, and a business responds, you should not do the commercial work for free. Stick to something non-profit. For commercial "I need experience" work, just charge very low fees and make it clear to the client that it's a learning process for you. The last thing you want is a bad reference from a commercial client. In the mean time, APPLY FOR JOBS. For the love of Pete, apply for jobs. Interview. Even if you think you aren't going to get it, apply. You need the experience interviewing to land the perfect interview. Also keep in mind that as you transition from freelance to full-time, you're going to be finishing those freelance jobs in the evenings until they're wrapped up. Don't drop the client's work or you won't be able to use them as a reference in the future.