If hydrocarbons were primordial, then we would expect to find them mostly in areas where the mantle or mantle taps reach the surface - mid ocean ridges, and ocean island volcanoes. We don't. The major oil fields are located in continental extensional basin settings. There is plenty of evidence for mantle outgassing - including all volatile species such as hydrocarbons - in the first few hundred million years. Furthermore, on geological timescales the mantle is still undergoing vigorous convection and can be considered liquid. Is irrelevant. This is simply wrong, if referring to pores that can offer any support against pressure. The crust becomes ductile at about 10-15km, and the mantle at 60+km, meaning that conventional porosity cannot exist. See (1). For the Earth, outgassing was essentially completed billions of years ago, as we can see from isotopic evidence (and I suspect that the moon-forming impact didn't help). 

I can't see there being any physical cause - the water depths are too great for an ice mountain and the feature cross-cuts other geological features. Plus, it's not aligned with either the spreading axis of the mid Atlantic ridge or normal to it. That means that it is highly unlikely to be a fault or a hotspot track. Given that, some sort of processing artifact seems most likely. 

Of course, like anything in geology, other complex scenarios do exist where these rules of thumb don't work. But in general, this should get you started. Anyway, hope that helps. 

A "sedimentary facies" is just a descriptive term. For example all rocks (anywhere in the world) that have similar characteristics (e.g. mineralogy, color, grain size distribution, sedimentary structures, fractures, etc) can be considered to be of the same facies. A "formation" is a named rock unit in a specific place. For example, let's say that in Canada, geologists have named some rock units: Formation E - top Formation D Formation C Formation B Formation A - bottom And in Australia, they have named some other rock units Formation Z - top Formation Y Formation X Formation W Formation V - bottom However, Formation X in Australia and Formation A in Canada have very similar characteristics (as mentioned above). You could say that both of those formations are of the same facies. This is helpful because if, by some additional means, you figure out what was the geologic process that created Formation A, you may have a very good hypothesis on the geologic process that created Formation X. Let's say that the geologic process that created Fromation A and Formation X was a river (i.e. fluvial) system, then it is common for people to call any rock elsewhere, with similar characteristics as Formations A and X, a rock of "fluvial facies". That is a short way of saying "a rock with many of the characteristics of other rocks that are interpreted as being created by a fluvial system". Although this is technically an incorrect use the term "facies" because you are adding an interpretation to what is supposed to be a purely descriptive concept, people do it all the time. Also, once you know what certain common facies look like (e.g. fluvial facies, delta facies, etc), it helps when trying to divide an entire rock section of a specific area into formations. A real example of this is the Bouma facies (commonly called the Bouma "sequence" for historical reasons). Basically, some guy called Bouma noticed that many rocks around the world that had been interpreted as being formed by turbidity currents had similar characteristics: 

Pretty confident to answer No here. Tsunamis are caused by water displacement due to earthquakes; this has nothing to do with global warming. Any changes in density would be trivial, and although the water would have more thermal energy, this would not affect or be influenced by the kinetic energy of the Tsunami. The only way in which a tsunami would be made more severe would be that any sea level rise due to global warming would be added to the Tsunami height. 

Actually quite interesting. Oxygen is made by the splitting of water, either by photosynthesis or by UV-based photo-dissociation in the upper atmosphere. In the case of photosynthesis, the reduced-carbon products must be buried in order for a net accumulation of oxygen to happen. In this case the oxygen effectively comes from water: (1) 2H2O + vis. light. -> 2H2 + O2 (Water to hydrogen and oxygen) (2) 2H2 + CO2 -> H2CO + H2O (Carbon dioxide and Hydrogen to carbohydrate and water. Carbohydrate is buried) And from UV-dissociation, we get (1) 2H2O + uv -> 2H2 + O2 (Water to hydrogen and oxygen, hydrogen is lost to space) The oceans weight over 10^21kg, most of which is oxygen, so there is plenty of mass there. Edit: Methane Photodissociation The reaction is effectively (in an oxygen free atmosphere): (3) CH4 + 2H2O + uv -> CO2 + 4H2 (lost to space) Note that without hydrogen loss to space, there is a limit on the amount of oxygenation that can happen, because the reduced carbon generated in photosynthesis has to be buried geologically. Estimates for the amount of buried reduced carbon are hard to find (carbonates don't count for this purpose). So the ultimate source of oxygen in the atmosphere would appear to be water, mostly. 

Think of it as a creme brulee. We live on the little hard crust on the top. And there just happens to be a little bit of water on that crust that covers the less-elevated parts. Now, a little more technical, the crust that makes up the continents and the crust that is under the deep oceans are actually compositionally different. This is because the magma that solidifies to form each of these crusts travels, by partially melting its way up, through different materials and different thicknesses. The consequence of this is that the crust making up the continents is less dense than that making up the bottom of the oceans. 

Typically seismic data should oscillate around 0 amplitude in the time domain, i.e. there should be just as much positive amplitude as there is negative (otherwise the ground would have had a net displacement in some direction). This is the energy at 0 Hz in the amp spectrum. It is like a bulk shift (DC shift) on the data. So... unless the ground was permanently displaced by your seismic source, this is probably just an artifact. It could be as simple as: you used too few data to calculate your amplitude spectrum (e.g. small window, etc). Or it could be a super low frequency artifact coming from data processing. 

Well, one way would be to look through The rock forming minerals and see how many are represented. I strongly suspect that not all would be, so from that perspective the answer would be No. But from an inspection perspective.. For any given mineral structure, we can make changes by simply substituting various cations and anions as in pyroxene; for example, we can substitute Mg(2+) for Fe(2+). Or SiO4(4-) for AlO4(5-) - requiring other changes. So, assuming you had suitable equipment, you could find a naturally occurring crystal that was close to the desired symmetry group and tweak it with substitutions until it matched that group. Or more simply, adjust the pressure and temperature until the symmetry changed. There is a lot of phase space to explore. So from that perspective, the answer would be probably yes, we just haven't synthesized them all yet. 

Brief answer (on tablet) When an oceanic plate is formed, the crust is hydrated by the hydrothermal vents systems at the ocean ridge where it forms (hydrated means that the minerals are altered to include water in their structure). When this crust is subducted in the ocean trenches around the Pacific, it is taken down towards the mantle; as these hydrated minerals heat up again, they release water. This water then lowers the melting point of the mantle above the descending plate, which melts to produce a basaltic/andesitic melt with a high water content - the water is dissolved in the magma. When this melt reaches the surface again, the high concentration of water leads to explosive eruptions as it comes out of solution. 

In general, the rocks deep inside a mountain (or simply super old rocks) have also undergone a lot of compression, so sedimentary rocks will be unlikely as you would have converted them into metamorphic rocks, e.g. limestones would be marble, sandstones would be quartzites (like the Tepuis), shales would be slates (or schists, etc.), etc. Similarly, metamorphic rocks that have undergone a higher degree of compressional and thermal stress (i.e. deeper in the mountain) will grow larger crystals. 

As Gary mentioned, it really depends on particular context for your mountain. How did it form? Is it volcanic in nature? Or maybe just old rocks being uplifted by some episode of compression. On average, Earth's crust is pretty much granite. So chances are that you will find that inside your mountain. That wouldn't be a bad assumption. Granites form by cooling magma slowly, so most volcanic-type mountains are made of granite or something similar. For example, the Andes (below) are made of fine-grained Andesite near the surface and Diorite (Andesite's coarse-grained version, which is similar to Granite, but not quite) at depth. 

You could argue for more exotic rock types but that would imply a slightly more complex geological history (which is totally possible). For example, you could have uplifted a huge package of sedimentary rocks without any volcanism involved. Or you could have simply eroded everything around leaving large rock packages like the Venezuelan Tepuis (below).