Feynman is making a particular point about the abstract nature and the ontological commitments we may or may not make in physics. It is true that since the formulas work without caring about your ontological commitments one can dispense with foundational questions about energy in a rigourous manner. However, physicists do not think quite like that. There is a story, probably apocryphal, when Pauli, a famous physicist saw von Neumann, a famous mathematician writing out yet another theorem on the blackboard. He said, 'Johnnie, if physics were theorems, you'd make a great physicist'. The point of this story is that physicist uses what is called physical intuition, and this is learnt by learning how successful theories have been understood, motivated and modified over centuries, the kind of questions they purport to answer, and their own sense of the behaviour of reality. Some examples: 

I can't see there being any fallacy here; there has been a long tradition of clothing being used to designate members of a community; and their position within it;perhaps its clearer if we go to the secular world and examine some instances of things similar: The military being a good example where clothing is used to set them apart from the civilians; and also used to designate rank; in the civilian world, suits perform a similar function; and of course, uniforms for school-children. 

I find the discussion on the Libet experiment troublingly unsophisticated. No-one would deny that when I wave my hand that an impulse has been directed along nerves; and that this transmission physically happens just before my hand moves; (and of course it happens before as it must do, and not after) though of course I think it happens just when I think of doing so - there is an illusion of simultaneity. But there are two unlike things being compared here: myself to myself, and myself as a physical object. These are qualitatively different. Supposing that there is an exact Correspondance between mental acts and physical acts, at every level; then this, by itself does not deny free-will. But of course it's not by itself, and this is where the crux of the problem lies: in that physical acts are seen as determined; and this is prominently a conception of the mechanistic philosophy as derived from Newton. But consider that the first mechanistic philosophy (in the West) was originated by Democritus; and elaborated by Epicurus and put down in well-rounded Latin hexameters by Lucretious. And that in this conception we see that atoms are in a sense given free-will (the Clinamen) so that they will interact; this, had any one bothered to note it with sufficient acuity at the time will have brought out the notion of uncertainty in physical motion as an irreducible notion before the advent of QM. What I'm pointing out here is that, in Antiquity, taking the notion of the will seriously brought out a physical notion; whereas we seem to be troubled now with taking determinism seriously as seeing all our acts as determined. Schopenhauer took the Will seriously enough that his philosophy was wholly based on it. 

In this passage Kant asserts that a morality that concerns itself with minute particulars of behaviour becomes tyrannical. He calls this kind of virtue fantastic in the sense of 'outlandish' rather than 'great'. Somehow, an excess of virtue is transmuted into its opposite; so what is superficially is a virtue, is in reality, not. Kant, here, is sounding a strong note of caution. He may also have used the adjective fantastic to mean that this kind of virtue is actually a fantasy, a state of affairs that is impossible to obtain; for when one is pointed to such a possible state of affairs in the world, one discerns on closer examination that some lattiude is always possible. 

What makes you think we can possibly explain everything? Blake, the poet said 'the world is infinite in all directions'; meaning there is no end to its depth. We only see so much; and what we see we explain, so it appears to us we see & explain everything. In the last century when such a basic idea as counting or addition has undergone convulsions how can we conceivably say we understand the world completely? 

Again these sentiments should be seen in the light of the horrors of the 20C where political passions at the level of the Nation-State were driven to evil ends. Hannah Arendt, the German-Jewish political theorist said, that she loved her friends, that love as a real sentiment is restricted to oikos (the home); and that she did not love the Jewish people, she merely belonged to them. One might want to interpret this, for example, in the light of Snowdens revelations where he betrayed his country (the State) but did not betray his friends - the American people. 

One possibility, admittedly somewhat speculative, is to take what Aristotle announces all philosophers are agreed: that principles are contraries, and one must have also gave a unity of contraries. Thus, if one has determinism, one must have its contrary - indeterminism; and it's union - in which we either find the world, or we find it in the world; this would be a flavour of compatibilism. One recent (relative to A) philosopher who pushes this through, is Hegel. 

According to wikipedia, turing machines can be equipped with oracles that solve the halting problem; but then a new halting problem arises - whether machines equivalent to themselves ie with the oracle will halt. This gives rise to a hierarchy of turing machines with increasingly difficult halting problems. (This hierarchy can be continued into the transinfinite (ordinal) realm by using ordinal arithmetic, which shows that there are profoundly Oracular oracles or equivalently profoundly difficult halting problems). Supposing, as some posit, that the universe is a Turing machine, and given that there is a well-defined theoretical hierarchy of Turing machines of differing strength what evidence do we have that the universe must be the simplest one, that is the first in this term? Other than using Occams Razor and simply taking the choice of the simplest? Could in fact it be equipped with an Oracle of some kind? Note: Oracles as an idea was posited by Turing as a choice machine but not pursued or elaborated by him. 

The first two propositions are a reflection in logic and language of a proposition in philosophy, which is closer to an article of faith: that the world is intelligible; it is for this reason that one finds in Plotinus that a principle of the world is nous; or in the Gospel of St John logos. Can I write an illogical sentence? Well, following Chomsky I could write: