Could be formed by two natural processes. First, some fault with shear zone, which is obviously much weaker than the rock around it and gots weathered faster. Second, could be some vein/dyke of some mineral or rock softer than surrounding rocks. 

Pretty nice chunk of rose quartz. It is probably from some interesting pegmatite vein, where could be more interesting minerals or even pockets with crystals. 

One more trick - felsic magmas are basically fractionated derivates of other rocks. During the rock cycle, the most volatile components tend towards the felsic rocks. Water and fluxes generally reduce the melting point. And felsic rocks usually have alkalis compared to Fe/Mg in mafic rocks. Alkalis are more reactive and volatile. If you partially melt mafic rocks, the most reactive and volatile components are in the first melt. If it gets removed from the source, you get more fractionated and felsic melt. Repeat many times and you get extremely fractionated melt with minimum mafic components and high content of volatiles and highly reactive elements like alkalis or fluorine. Fluxes like water, boron, phosphorus, fluorine etc. can strongly reduce melting point. E.g. dry haplogranite barely melts at 700 Celsius while some pegmatite melts with extreme water and volatiles content can obviously exist bellow 500 Celsius. Dry anorogenic granites or ryolites have much higher melting point then some wet S-type granites. 

The rock appears to have two areas of surface texture, a somewhat smooth, rounded area (on the upper part in the picture) and a rough broken area. This would indicate that this was transported by a glacier which initially rounded it and then broke it. This fits with where you found it. So it is probably a metamorphic rock of some kind carried down from what is now Canada. The flakiness you describe I would guess is the result of the weathering that occurred while it was being transported by the glacier and after it was deposited in Michigan. I can tell from the photo that it has large mineral grains which is consistent with it being a metamorphic rock. The lighter colored spots may be a mica which has weathered. There appears to be rust stains in one area which may be from iron minerals weathering or it may just be from being in iron rich ground water/glacial water while weathering. Given the rough fracture pattern it is showing I would guess that there is a significant percentage of a dark feldspar. So that is about as far as I can go in this one. A metamorphosed mafic (magnesium-iron rich) originally from Canada glacially transported to Michigan. To say more I would have to see what the minerals in it are and what texture is showing internally. 

This may not answer your question to your liking but there is fairly relevant research on the topic. I think there is still a debate about the causes of the recent (Late Cenozoic) uplift, however. The current dominant theory relates the shallow subduction of the Farallon Plate to subcontinental delamination and increased bouyancy all the way to the Front Range (see @Tbb's answer). This theory essentially states that tectonic forcing is mimicked and in a sense bolstered by incisional unloading and subsequent depositional loading between the two landforms (montane vs. high plains). There has been a lot of research on erosion rates in the Eastern Rockies to test parts of Anderson's theories. It seems that most of the research I remember from learning about this problem in college is not freely available, but the papers in the links above have good summaries and discussions of the tectonic forcing and incision-based hypothesis. 

As noted in the comments, this is actually a much more complex question than it might seem at first. Answering fully would require a very involved and technical discussion of single-beam surveying's inherent errors and their causes (water velocity, side slope reflection, highly transmissive hydrocarbon-rich anthropocene silt, and other such complications). I will skip those topics—thankfully, I think—and simply focus on the OP's question of what errors Posidonia sea grass might introduce to a hypothetical singlebeam survey. As such this may be more of a partial answer. Let's say you're using a singlebeam instrument with a fairly narrow pulse angle, like 3º. (Your vessel should not roll too much with this narrow a beam, but it will give higher resolution). You're surveying over a colony of Posidonia on a flat seabed. Posidonia leaves have a density fairly similar to that of the water column. Depending on the frequency of sound you are surveying with, you may get a ping with a slightly different shape from surveying over an area of "bare ground". This is, at least in theory, due to the slight variation in density between the water column and Posidonia leaf blades causing small amounts of reflection and refraction to the sound wave before it hits the root mat and the top of sediment. Just for imagination's sake, I've included the conceptual "bare ground" model below. 

Agreeing with Christoph that the model you seek does not exist. When I was in grad school I programmed a model that could calculate the surface temperature based on solar radiation plus a large number of factors including the current air temperature, slope and direction of the surface, amount of shading by vegetation, previous nightly low temperature plus some essentially unknowable quantities such as the thermal conductivity of the soil. About a dozen inputs if I remember correctly. The model showed a good match to observations but was not a climate or weather model which is what you are asking for in your game. 

This would actually be an interesting research project. The ability to do a 3-D scan and model of a rock's shape in a manner that is fast enough to get a statistically meaningful number of rocks measured is relatively new. Certainly you can easily name things that probably control the shape of rocks (lithology, mode of erosion, mode of transport, history of these things) but saying something about this in a quantitative way has not been done AFAIK. I think this is the sort of question that might result in surprising insights. Or it might lead nowhere. Certainly the question 'Does arid region erosion result in different shaped rocks than glacial erosion?' answered in a quantitative way sounds worthwhile to me. 

Actually, according to IMA classification rules, only albite and anorthite are valid placioglace group mineral names. The content can be easily constructed from Ca/Na ratio. There are more ways to do that but the most simple is the use of apfu (atoms per formula unit). Let say we have theoretical feldspar with composition K0.1Na0.3Ca0.6Al1.2Si3O8 - so you have 0.1 K, 0.3 Na and 0.6 Ca in one feldspar molecule. Together its 1 so we can directly recalculate that into %. So it has (0.1 x 100 =) 10% K-feldspar, 30% albite and 60% anorthite. By modern classification this is anorthite. By the old classification (still used in petrology) its labradorite. The 50 % rule applies so basically what is over 50% ir right. Over 0.5 Na is albite, over 0.5 is anorthite. If there is also some K present, rarely both Na and Ca might be less then 0.5 - then the bigger number wins. If you have real data, you rarely have such ideal composition. But you can get the % of each component from equation (apfu of alkali metal/sum of all alkali metals apfu) x 100. So e.g. [0.256 Na/(0.256 Na + 0.035 K + 0. 723 Ca)] x 100 gives you the % of albite component. The miscibility of Ca-plagioclase with K-feldspar is quite poor while albite (Na-plagiocalse) can contain some more K-feldspar component. More about miscibility and origin of feldspars here. The miscibility strongly depends also on temperature. Also rare Ba-feldspars exist, more in the reference. 

Identification of metallic minerals, even when holding them in your hand, is difficult. So I can't tell you what you have. It could be silver, it could be silvery pyrite (so called fool's gold that can appear with this color). The rock appears to be a hydrothermal vein filling which Nevada has a lot of. This is the environment where you would expect to find metallic minerals. The white mineral is quartz and the pinkish mineral is rose quartz, the color often coming from manganese included in the crystal structure. The way the old-timers would check out this mineral a hundred years ago is to grind the sample to a powder, separate the metallic mineral by specific gravity (e.g. by panning), and then precisely measure the specific gravity and do chemical analyses in a blowpipe flame on a carbon block. Today we just do x-ray analysis to get a quick elemental composition. You didn't say which town's parking lot you found this is in. The only way to get more precision about what this mineral is would be if someone with specific knowledge of the geology of quarries around where you found it chanced across this question. 

It is hard to tell for sure in a hand sample. The definitive test is to examine a slice in thin section (a slice mounted on a glass slide, ground down until transparent, and examined under a polarizing microscope). In thin section you would look for impact artifacts like strained crystal lattices and high pressure quartz minerals like coesite. From what I see in your rock I believe it is a white quartz vein filling a brecciated fault. The different exotic elements in the quartz filling are probably from the rocks that the fault went through. 

So, if we assume that the acquisition program's bottom tracking capability is acceptable, the errors that Posidonia's leaves introduce will be minuscule, because the leaves do not present a large change in impedance and thus will not reflect much of the beam. You're left with deciding whether or not you want to classify the "bottom" of the water column as Posidonia's root mat, which may be several inches thick in a large colony, or the top of the sediment below. This is where your uncertainty will likely lie. What I don't know, and what may be difficult to figure out without some rather clinical testing, is whether or not the root mat provides a strong-enough first return to trigger the bottom tracking. I suspect it would, but I can't say that with any confidence without looking at a controlled test survey. I imagine companies like Odom and Kongsberg do this regularly and might be able to give you a more specific answer. Tobbe also correctly notes that lower frequencies won't be affected as much by vegetation as higher frequencies. If you were going to try to run a bathymetric survey over Posidonia—or any area with high concentrations of seafloor plant life—you would want to consider using a device capable of lower frequency surveys...at the cost of diminishing your resolution.