While it is not an atypical question, it raises red flags for me. What runs through my mind is why do you want to know. I want to make sure you are not going to try and follow me. In most cases I will tell you, in others I will just blow you off and give a vague answer. I suggested where have you been since rarely does knowing where I came from put me at risk, but even that is a little invasive. 

It depends on the circumstances. When hiking alone, I am always a little suspicious of strangers. I don't think this is that unusual, especially in some of the busier places I visit in the US, as crime in US National Parks is a thing. Rarely, but much more than once, I have skipped planned campsites and lunch spots (and even in some cases packed up and left), and as a hitch hiker I have turned down rides, based on vibes I got from strangers. I much prefer a stranger to tell me things about themselves than to ask questions about me. If I want to tell you about where I have been, I will. The context of the question was about an individual with two large dogs that looks homeless and not making people scared. Your proposed questions were 

Given your time period of early June to Early September, my guess is that the least crowded period will be early June. This report (Fig. 4) shows the number of bed nights in AMC huts as a function of months. July has about 10% less bed nights than August and both July and August have substantially more bed nights than June or September. My guess is that August is about peak capacity for the huts since there are about 425 beds ($URL$ My guess is that the decreased numbers in June are due to less visitors at the beginning of the month due to black flies and schools still being in session and the decreased numbers in September are due to schools starting up again and it beginning to get cold. Therefore the beginning of June would be your best bet in terms of crowds, but watch out for the black flies. 

Short roping is dangerous, but it is also a critical part of guiding. This presentation touches on a lot of the reasons for short roping and risks associated with it. Short roping is claimed to provide three advantages. The first is that the short rope increases the confidence of the weaker climber and there by decreases the likelihood of a fall. The second is that a short roping can prevent a slip from becoming a fall. The third, and most dubious of the claims, is that once the slip becomes a fall, the short rope allows the stronger climber to stop the fall. The disadvantage of the short rope is that if the weaker climber falls bad things are potentially going to happen to the stronger climber. In most cases, short roping is used in a client/guide relationship where the guide has already screwed up if the client falls. 

The best strategy is to probably hike an alternate hike. Instead of the traditional NOBO GAME route with a start date at the end of March, you could go SOBO, or do a flip flop, or start early or late. By avoiding the crowds, you reduce your risks. You can also avoid shelters and hostels. Good hygiene, plenty of rest, and a proper diet are also useful for fighting viruses. 

I would go with either a barrel hitch or a barrel sling depending on the exact purpose. With the added constraint that the rope can only go around the object once the the "magic" needs to be in the knot/hitch, I think a trucker's hitch is probably best (but not very good). It will let you get a tight fit. The holding power will depend on the stiffness and material of the box. I would expect the trucker hitch to fail. 

The Mohs hardness scale is a common scale used to describe the hardness (resistance to scratching) of different materials. The hardness of ice is between 1.5 and 6 Mohs. The hardness of granite is 7 Mohs so you should be able to scratch ice with rocks you find. I cannot find a definitive answer on the hardness of wood, but it seems like wood would not scratch steel (hardness of 4 Mohs) or even copper (hardness of 3 Mohs) so it is probably around a 3 or so. In a one off survival situation you can definitely pound on the ice with rocks to shatter manageable pieces. Using sticks will be a lot less efficient than rocks (and possibly not possible depending on temperature). If you need to gather a lot of ice, or do it regularly, a small hand drill and saw work well. An ice pick can also work. If you are going to try and shatter ice, you need to be careful to protect your eyes. After obtaining manageable pieces, you are then left with melting the ice and warming the water. While you can do this with your own body heat, you need to be careful. You may be better off using the heat source to directly (or indirectly) melt the ice (e.g., by putting the hot pot directly on the glacier or pouring out hot/warm water). 

I would argue that this is not as stupid as it sounds, although you will want to get someone with good experience to help you. In your situation, I would avoid the railing completely as you just do not know much about the material and its strength. Instead I would either do a counter balanced rappel or rely on an unanchored belay. The Needles in South Dakota is/was famous for its spires with no anchors at the top. This Climbing article mentions the basic technique, one person raps off one side while the other person raps off the other side. If there are two balconies on opposite sides of the building you could easily do this. Safer would be to run the rope through the entire building, down the other side and treat it something like an odd toprope with the anchor person standing on the ground. If you cannot get the rope through the whole building in a fairly straight line, go with a unanchored belay. The use of unanchored belays based solely on a secure stance are fairly common in mountaineering situations. They are mentioned by the AAI, Sierra Club and Climbing Magazine. In rock climbing, a good seated stance with the rope running between two boulders and your legs straddling the gap is very secure. Even if you get pulled out of your stance, your body becomes a giant chock stone. The ideal setup would be something like running a long piece of webbing through the apartment, out and under the front door (which should be closed), and connected directly to the "anchor" person. The anchor person could sit outside the front door with their feet braced on either side. If you really want you can equalize the anchor between two people. The anchors just sit there wearing a harness with the rappel rope tied into them. They are not belaying. The further the rope/webbing runs along the ground the more friction and less pull on the anchor person. In terms of forces, the situation is similar to lowering someone from the top directly off your harness. The actual forces will depend on how smooth the lowering/rappelling is. While ideally you would be backed up to an anchor, most people can lower a climber without being pulled from a good stance.