Your sliding out at 5mph wasn't because the tires were slicks, it was for some other reason. They were either lousy tires, improperly installed, rider error, or some other factor. If you are riding on the road, there is no need for any kind of tread. Slicks are perfectly fine, despite your thoughts from your previous experience. In fact, they are ideal, and will be easier to handle on the road than tires with tread. A definitely don't get any of those combination tread tires, those are the worst. Forget the treaded tires with kevlar inserts. Get the Armadillos, Continental Gatorskins, or some other sort of flat resistant tire. Make sure they are always pumped up before you ride, and they'll serve you well. 

It looks to me like you are pulling too much cable. It even looks like your brake lever is close to being able to bottom out against your levers. In normal operation, brake levers do not come out nearly as much as you have as in the picture. First thing to check is to make sure your brake pads are not worn out. If they are, replace them. Then re-adjust your brakes so that you have as little clearance as possible without any rim rubbing. If your wheels are so out of true that doing so is very difficult, it would be worth resolving that. Then, check your brake arm tensioning spring. This will help pull on the cable and to keep the cylindrical cable end seated in the slot on the brake lever. See if you can move the spring to a higher tension setting. Your frames brake post should have three holes in it, you can adjust the tension by removing the brake arm and replacing it with the spring in a different hole, and your brake arm may also have a tension adjustment screw to fine tune it. And just as a sanity check, make sure the cable isn't slipping through the cable binding bolt when you hit the brakes. 

You don't mention where you get your calories burn/hour rate, but 800 cal/hour is a very fast ride. 800 cal/hour would be around 220 watts, and that's a lot for 6 hours. When you are riding, some of your energy is coming from carbohydrate metabolism, and some is coming from fat metabolism. The ratio between the two depends upon how hard you are riding, your personal fitness level, what kind of training you have done, and your genetics. If you are riding at your limit, you are burning a lot of carbs, if you are just spinning along, you aren't burning that many. On a 6-hour ride, a decent guess at your ratio is something like 75% fat / 25% carbs. You don't have to try to replace the fat when you ride since we all have stored fat, so you merely need to replace the carbs. If you were burning 800 cal/hour, that would mean that you would need to replace around 200 calories of carbs/hour. You don't need sugar to replace carbohydrates; any simple or complex carb will work, assuming that you tolerate it well. What somebody can tolerate depends a lot on their genetics and effort level; if you are riding hard, you might have to try a few things to find something that works. 

Yes. They will be fine. Plenty of people use them in the Minnesota Winters without problems. Just make sure they are always in good shape, which is something you have to do with all brakes. 

The way of telling is different for every brand and model. Usually, by a combination of serial numbering, or color of the frame, you can sometimes figure it out. There is not enough information present in the picture to determine for sure exactly what that bike is. 

For the most part, whenever the front wheel on a bike skids or slides at speed, the rider wipes out. The only people that manage to stay up right are either very lucky or have reflexes that Jedi warriors would be envious of. If you are riding after a recent fall and feel like your front wheel is sliding, but you are still upright, then you have some sort of post-crash confidence hit, and are interpreting any motion as being an imminent crash. Check that your fork isn't damaged, handlebars are aligned, and that your wheels are true, but otherwise just keep riding and rebuild your confidence. 

Genetics Amount of training Type of training (if you train only for long periods, your ability to work hard at a high intensity will be low, for example). Recent training history (if you've trained a lot, you will have accumulated fatigue) Recent stress history Recent health or sickness Current mental state 

I doubt you will find a way to do this; it would require a shoe with a pretty deep sole to recess the cleats into (that's what SPDs do). Note that the SPD-SLs are pretty similar to the Looks but much more walkable. 

Is the cleat tight on the shoe? If it can rotate at all, you won't be able to clip out. Are you rotating your foot outwards to unclip? When I first got my clipless I tried to rotate in, and that doesn't work too well. 

To use cartridge bearings, the hubs must have been designed to use them (absurd kludges aside). Your hubs will almost surely be classic cup-and-cone hubs, and those will need replacement bearings. However, do note that the proper number of bearings for a hub is not necessarily a number that completely 'fills' the cup bearing race. You might not be missing any. 9 is typically common, with a little bit of space where it looks as though you could fit a 10th or 11th. Check with your LBS for how many you'll need for your particular hub. 

From my experience frequently carrying bikes, skis, roof boxes, and even 55 gallon drums on my roof rack, I've found that they pretty much all give a hit to the gas mileage, but the configuration doesn't really matter as long as you don't do anything ridiculous. However, a fairing helps cut down on noise tremendously. 

You will not lose climbing strength if you work on your cadence; they are two different aspects of riding. My recommendation to increase cadence range is the following: 1) On a slight incline, choose a gear that is medium effort. 2) Over 30 seconds, increase your cadence until you are at your maximum smooth cadence (no bouncing). If your effort is too light, you need a higher gear; if it's too hard, you need a lower gear. 3) Hold for 30 seconds 4) Slow your cadence down for 30 seconds. Repeat three times. Do this once a week. This is primarily a neuromuscular exercise, so you don't need to do this too much. 

Carbon fiber is strong. Really strong. The kinds of loads that your frame sees when you hit a pothole is far bigger than what you would get sitting on the bike. 

Consult the repair manual for your fork. It will tell you where to lubricate and how much to apply. Without knowing what fork you have, we can others only speculate. Check the manual or post the model and we can look at it. 

The term for preparing the bottom bracket shell in this manner is called facing, and yes, it is necessary for all outboard bearing bottom brackets for proper function. To understand why this is, lets compare a hollowtech type system to a square taper cartridge. In the square taper, all the bearings and rotating portions are contained into a rigid metal casing, which is then screwed into one side of the bottom bracket shell, and a cup is threaded into the other side to hold the metal casing in place. If the bottom bracket shell's surfaces aren't perfectly flat to each other, it just means that the casing will be just a tiny little bit crooked with respect to the shell's optimal placement. However, all the bearings will be spinning around perfectly in the metal casing. At worst case, if the shell is very poor, there can be a little play between the casing and the cup, and the bottom bracket will creak when you pedal. An annoying problem of its own, but the bearings will be just fine. On the other hand, with a hollowtech system, the two bearings aren't held together by the rigid metal casing. If the bottom bracket shell isn't faced properly, the two bearings won't exactly line up. Then, when you try to adjust the bottom bracket, one portion of the bearings will be too loose or too tight, and as the crank spins around the bearings will alternate between too loose or too tight, rather than being just right all the time. This will wear the bearings out faster and drag somewhat compared to a proper installation. Now with all that said, it's not like the BB is going to spontaneously explode if you don't face it properly, you'll just wear the bearings out faster. If you already have a crankset laying around and you don't put a ton of miles on the bike, it might not really matter in the long run, but only you can decide that for yourself. If the frame is 20 years old, I would expect you to have a square taper crank on it already, and so there really isn't any benefit to switching to a hollowtech setup, in my opinion. 

MTBR.com does a big review of lights every year; here is the one for 2015. They have a ton of useful information. 

Your options to reduce the force on your knees are to reduce bike + rider weight or get lower gearing. If you have a standard road bike cassette, there are climbing cassettes that will reduce the gearing slightly (around 10% or so). Is it dangerous to your knees? Well, that depends on your personal physiology, how much force you are pushing, how much to you have trained for this, and how well your bike fits you. If you can do this without your knees hurting, you are probably fine. You might also consider standing up; this changes the mechanics a bit and mixes things up. When you stand up, make sure you slow down or you will spike your heart rate. Welcome to the steeps! 

Short answer: there is no typical lifespan. The only way to know when your rims have exceeded their lifespan is by inspection. Why? The wear on a rim is going to be due to a variety of sources: the miles, abrasion of the braking surfaces, corrosion, crashes, plus more. Ignoring carbon, all respectable rims are made of aluminum, which does have a finite life, as aluminum does not have a fatigue limit. However, that fatigue limit could be reached at 1000 or 1 million miles, depending on the cross sectional shape of the rim and how heavy its loaded. Only way to know, is to inspect. As for the brake track and corrosion, riding around exclusively with clear skies in the summertime of California will have a much different impact on the rims and spokes than someone riding year round in Minnesota in the sand. Getting sand and other gunk caught in the brake pads can wear the tracks significantly more than in clean situations. Road salt and other substances can corrode the spokes and cause wheel failure through that. In short, 2000 miles is not a lot of miles except for perhaps super-niche-crazy-expensive-pro-racer wheels that are only used for a few rides before being discarded. For the rest of us, 2000 is barely a drop in the bucket of what a good wheelset will be capable of delivering provided it is well cared for. 

Hand-shift the bike onto a big cog on the rear by pressing on the derailleur as you spin the pedals. Tie the cable around the front cable stay on the downtube. Adjust as necessary to get the bike to hold a gear. 

Since it's on the inside of your thighs, it's a good bet that our seat is too wide, or not properly adjusted. A chamois crème will help, but I think the saddle change is a better idea. 

I've run Rubino Pros for a few years. They aren't the lightest or fastest tire around, but they last very well and are pretty flat proof for my area (Seattle). 

The difference between 28 and 30 is only about 8%. If you climbed a hill at 70 RPM on a 28, you would only be riding at 75% on a 30, and your force would only go down a little bit.