Collect some facts! Get some facts about what you did for your current employer. If you asked previously what you would have to do for a raise. Compare your performance to what you should have done for a raise and look if you qualify. If you do qualify, get a meeting with your boss and present those qualifications and what else you did that's showing extra effort or more performance. Tell your manager that you think you're an asset to your team, you fullfilled the qualifications your boss set in order to qualify for a raise and that you'd like a raise. If you didn't ask what you would have to do for a raise. Collect facts about how you perform well and you about you putting in the extra effort as opposed to your job description. Keep it personal! You don't want to say: "Hey, I am doing better than X, so I deserve a raise.", because you do not know for sure what his qualifications are. Tell him you think you deserve a raise because of your performance. If that's not enough ask him what has to be done in order to qualify for a raise. Doing this will at least give you the information needed in order to qualify for a raise next time. 

As it is non-compulsory team building event. Opting for overlapping times seems appropriate. If it overlaps people who enjoy spending time with their co-workers outside of working hours get to spend time together in a (I assume) fun event. While the co-workers who do not want to meet up with co-workers after workinghours get to choose wether they want to continue working or they can choice to join along (and potentially stay longer if they enjoy) for the time being and leave afterwards. maybe a third option is to send, the one's who do not wish to join, home, but this may look badly on those people On business events everyone will have an opinion about the event, you cannot keep everyone happy, because everyone think different about the definition of work. For instance, one does it to socialize and another does it mainly to earn money. If you choose for overlapping times you give people various options and the one's who have obligations after working hours but do want to join, can get their fair bit of team-building, while still being able to attend their obligations. My current company for instance organises some boat trips with clients and there will be drinks at the office about an hour before 'closing time', you can choice to attend those drinks and additionally the boat trips, but we don't have to and everyone is fine with it if you don't. 

Do know there is little trust between you and your potential new employer and that might mean you will not be able to work from home for the first few months/weeks. 

Your employer's goal is to keep you for the lowest possible salary for which you are willing to stay. Your goal is to maximize your benefits from your employer, wether that is salary/vacation days etc. is up to you. Next time you have your annual review: first do the review as usual. Nearing the end of the review, when your boss usually says, 

If anyone is working from home it will probably be told after this question. If there isn't anyone working from home in your specific team/field. Your company probably doesn't support working from home and in this case you probably do not want to work here. One can never be too sure so asking: 

During my internship a lot of things were new too me. Of one of which were communication. We all communicate via skype/e-mail instead of talking in an open office space. This is because we have all different specialties and a conversation disturbs the workflow for others. So unless you need direct help, you skype/e-mail. This is something you should get used to if it's the standard in your company. As for your other problem. Document when you tried to reach your supervisor and if you really cannot continue without the one specific file, try to work around it and ask for it when your supervisor is back. It shows you are willing. So do it the other way and tell him you can do it with the file if he pleases, but you worked around it for now, because of the missing file. Noone's stupid for listening too his feelings. Things might be different everywhere. The key is to communicate well with your supervisor. Tell him what you're thinking and what you are doing. Get a day of the week where you and your supervisor can talk (even for just 10-15 minutes) to tell him what is on your mind. 

Working from home requires trust and trust needs to build up along the way. If you are interviewing for a job, there is little trust from both sides. So asking if you can work from home immediately could mean you won't be considered. Luckily there are ways to know if the company you're interviewing at has the possibilities of working from home for your specific team/field. Try asking: 

I am getting married next year and want to invite some co-workers to my wedding because I have a friendly connection with them. I work at an open floor plan and we lunch with about 15 people every single work day. The co-workers I want to invite to my wedding all have different expertises and share those expertises with at least 1 more person so we all have a small department we work in (except for me I am the sole operator at my department). I don't want to invite all of my co-workers because of lack of space and lack of money, but I do want to invite some. I'd like to invite person A of department 'x', but person B for department 'x' I do not want to invite. I can imagine that inviting people to my wedding like this can cause some chatty behaviour in an already very chatty environment. Which I wouldn't prefer. This is really causing me some stress, because I can only invite all of my co-workers if I scrap some friends, which I wouldn't do. But if I make a selection of co-workers it might come across as if I like working with others more . Which I do ofcourse, but other people might not see that and this could be an awkward wake-up call. Someone else invited just all the co-workers from the IT-department. I could do this, but then some people I would like to be there would miss out and people I rather not to be there would be there as well. What steps can I take to be as professional as possible about sending wedding invitations too some co-workers but not all? Update: I choose to invite the people who work at least 1 year at the company at the time of the wedding. I know these people the longest and so far I didn't have any hard feelings about it from anyone. This is a border which allowed me to invite the people I wanted to invite and a border I can 'defend' in front of others. Thanks for your input!