It depends on what you mean by "proposition", but indeed with the right view it is perfectly defensible. 

There is a significant philosophical problem with the common viewpoint of many set theorists. Namely, the notion of "set" was supposed to capture the notion of "collection". If really there is some set-theoretic universe that satisfies ZFC, then that universe itself is a collection, and clearly the ZFC axioms do not correctly capture that. MK (Morse Kelley) set theory does not solve that, because again there is no class of all classes. In any case, there is no non-circular philosophical justification for ZFC, so ZFC is in fact a red-herring in discussing Russell's paradox. Discarding axioms on reaching contradiction Finally, I want to point out that it is not viable to simply discard axioms that lead to contradiction. For a simple example, if PA is consistent then PA+¬Con(PA) is also consistent, but proves a false sentence (under the standard interpretation of natural numbers in the real-world). This clearly shows that mere consistency is nowhere near enough to make a logic or formal system meaningful, and we must have some kind of soundness. At the least, we ought to have arithmetical soundness (at least at human scales). 

Wittgenstein is stated as having said "we must do away with the explanation and description alone must take its place" (PI 109). But isn't this akin to the myth of the given that Sellars attacked? Can a clear distinction really be made between providing a description and providing an explanation? Doesn't the one effectively permeate the other? One example that comes to mind that seems to leave the two interconnected is the description of a banana being thrown in the air. We might describe the situation as Jim throwing the banana, or causing the banana to be thrown, into the air. But here the description of the event, namely Jim hurling the banana into the air, is inclusive of two events, the event of Jim with a banana in his hand, and the event of the little banana hurling through the air (probably much to its dissatisfaction). But, in this way, there is the occurrence of an explanation of an event within the mere 'description' of an event, the explanation being the induction of causality. Indeed, so long as there is a certain ambiguity in what single 'event' we might be offering a description of and in what circumstances we offer a description of it, it seems to be the case that any given event can give way to be an explanation just as much as it can a description. For example, when a detective asks 'what happened here?', you as a witness might give him the rundown on what happened. And yet, you are both describing what happened, insofar as you are recounting what happened, and offering an explanation, insofar as you are clarifying the situation for the person asking what happened. So there is a continuity in some cases between description and assertion, dependent on the context in which one states the occurrences of a given event. As a last bit of inquiry, is Wittgenstein's criticisms of explanation (insofar as it is a criticism of 'private states of meaning' perverting what is simply observed of 'public behavior') similar in any way to Hume's criticism of induction? Both seem to me to be criticizing a mental sort of behavior that impedes or contorts the naturalistic (or simply 'natural') experiences and observances made in our ordinary course of life. 

You misunderstand consistency. Consistency is a concept defined for formal systems, which consists of both rules and strings of symbols. The rules govern exactly what strings belong to the formal system, which are said to be derivable within the formal system. Consistency just means that the formal system does not derive a contradiction, where contradiction is defined as some fixed string such as "0 ≠ 0". That's all. A interpretation for a formal system is a mapping of each derived string in an unambiguous way to a truth value, which is in classical logic either "true" or "false". Also, a contradiction must be mapped to "false". A model is an interpretation that maps every derived string to "true". Necessarily, if a model exists for a formal system, then the formal system must be consistent. Formal systems are commonly based on classical first-order logic, which specifies what strings are well-formed formulae, assertions that involve function symbols, predicate symbols, constant symbols, boolean operations and quantifiers. For any formal system obeying classical first-order logic whose rules are mechanically checkable and includes enough arithmetic (for example Robinson's arithmetic), there is some well-formed formula such that neither it nor its negation is derived by the formal system. This sort of formula is called independent. The question is whether the human mind follows the rules of some formal system. If so, and the formal system includes enough arithmetic, and the formal system is consistent, then humans can prove that there is an independent sentence for it, specifically the Godel sentence for it (within a meta-system that proves the consistency of Peano Arithmetic), but can easily deduce in the meta-system that the sentence is true, which contradicts the assumption that the human mind is modeled by a formal system that does not derive the Godel sentence. There are various other independent sentences, but the reason for looking at the Godel sentence is that it is true in the meta-system (which can only be formalized by a formal system stronger than the one in question). The issue here is whether the human mind follows the rules of some consistent formal system that includes enough arithmetic or not. The main problem is that consistency of a formal system is defined as whether a string is derivable, but human minds are not static, so it's not even clear how one should interpret consistency. I've not seen a very careful definition of this so far, but this seems to be the ultimate flaw in the argument, even if we accept consistency of PA. 

Quine's naturalistic holism is marked by the idea that our methodology should be concerned with empirical data as understood by modern science in conjunction with the idea that every theory is underdetermined by the data it espouses to interpret. This seems to lead to the conclusion that our theories are never certain, and are always open to revision. But suppose the traditional epistemologist thinks that what Quine means in the first half of this supposition, regarding his empiricism, is in need of clarification. The epistemologist would want to ask Quine just what qualifies as 'science' or more plainly 'empirical'. Or perhaps in questioning Quine's holism the traditional epistemologist wants to know why Quine thinks to begin with that a theory being undertetermined by empirical data is suggestive of what Quine thinks it's suggestive of. Furthermore, one might question the globalism of Quine's holism, and how he moves from points of an empirical nature to knowledge simpliciter. These questions might very well arise in the spirit of Quine's holism itself, wherein their answers are uncertain and dictated by whatever conditions characterize their place in the 'web of belief', in which case Quine could respond to them with relative ease. But where they are truly interesting is where they arise outside of the context of Quine's holism, in question of Quine's holism. The traditional epistemologist holds that unless these questions have specific answers there is no justification of Quine's holism, no reason for them to accept Quine's holism (and no reason for Quine to accept his own holism). Indeed, when these questions are asked in the context of accepting Quine's holism as true, an inevitable circularity ensues, as Quine himself admits of his naturalism elsewhere. For Quine's relativistic holism requires that there be no set 'criterion' for determining what is and isn't 'science', nor even a set criterion for what is and isn't 'holism'. To accept Quine's holism is expected by Quine to be a provision that stems from his holism itself. But be it that accepting his holism is what is in question, it seems that Quine is begging the question against those who are seeking a standard or justification of his methodology. 

The correct objection is that we cannot talk about something we have not defined, and we cannot talk about something that satisfies some description unless we have shown that there is such a thing to begin with! Thus any sentence that contains "this sentence" is simply a string of words without meaning. Quine's paradox But there is another paradox that completely avoids any circularity. Consider the following sentence Q: 

Well many monotheistic philosophies regard both (the human) mind and matter as created entities, while God himself is uncreated and hence cannot be either mental or physical entities. Some of these philosophers attempt to go further and 'explain' God as having divine essence, while some others insist that we cannot know what God's nature is. Simply put, there are far more types of philosophies than just materialism or idealism or dualism. Even in ancient history some philosophers thought that everything was made of 4 elements, earth, air, water and fire. It may seem ridiculous in the light of modern knowledge, but some of them proposed that things that are composed of only a single element are divine, while those that are composed of more than one element are not divine. Others proposed that the 4 elements are not enough and there is a fifth called aether, sometimes even said to be the essence of the gods themselves (the Greeks had a pantheon). I feel like pointing out that such concepts and terminology arise naturally from humans' tendency to attempt to find patterns where there are none. That explains why people gravitate towards such philosophies that 'conveniently' categorize everything into a few types, the 'best' being two as in dualism. Observe that dualistic ideas do not just come up in philosophical opinions on the human mind, but also in opinions on the structure of the world. In Taosim there cannot be good without evil, light without darkness, heat without cold, life without death, divinity without humanity, ... From science we do know that these are wrong (except the first and last ones which are not scientific claims). For instance darkness is simply absence of light, not an opposing entity, and cold is the absence of heat. There are even certain species that are immortal, contradicting the popular notion that life cannot exist without an inevitable biologically natural death (not due to accident or injury). 

Quine criticizes analyticity for presupposing another notion, that of synonymy, which for Quine either must be explained in terms of analyticity or synonymy itself. But what exactly does Quine think needs to be clarified as regards to analyticity and synonymy? By what standard does Quine judge analyticity/synonymy to be unclear to begin with? 

Wittgenstein is critical of the 'private linguist' and his exclusive use of the ostensive definition, where the definition provided for a given word is an example or a 'pointing out' of what the word might refer to. But it would seem that the origin of our language is rooted in ostensive definition. It is after all how children with no prior knowledge of a public language begin to learn a language. Their mother or father points to something while stressing a given word. Wittgenstein doesn't seem to have been one to hold that the entire language game is a farce. As such, what allowed him to criticize ostensive definitions in the private language argument while not coming to criticize language acquisition through ostensive definition in the case of children? 

If you say "no", then you would be saying that God is forced to be omnipotent. If you say "yes", then you would be saying that God can choose to become not omnipotent, in which case there can be free will. Omnipotence and free will Thus the necessary conclusion from the above reasoning is that the standard argument that omnipotence is incompatible with free will is invalid if the above definition of omnipotence is used. If another definition for omnipotence is used, what would it be? Under most alternative definitions, it's no longer important whether God (if he exists) is omnipotent. So far almost all writings on God's omnipotence do not precisely specify what they mean anyway, so their arguments are not well founded. Free will I'll use the definition that "free will" means "ability to choose the future". This of course depends on your definition of "future", but it suffices for our argument later. This is also a very weak kind of free will, but it avoids the problem of defining what choices are involved. This also depends on exactly what "choice" means, which cannot really be defined. I'll just say let's use our intuitive meaning for now. Omniscience 1 If by "omniscience" you mean "knowing the truth value of everything", then of course any omniscient being will know the future of everything. This applies even in the case that you assume that there is one world for every possibility. In any case, existence of an omniscient being implies non-existence of free will in the sense that we cannot choose the future if it is already something that is known by this being. You cannot say that we can make choices that can change this knowledge because by definition an omniscient being knows the final result of all choices. Also, a being that is once omniscient cannot choose to become not omniscient, because while omniscient he already knows everything including when he is not omniscient, unless he also can make himself forget what he knew before. But indeed an omnipotent being can become not omniscient and make himself forget what he knew before, so even if there is a God and there is free will we cannot conclude that this God was never omniscient! Omniscience 2 Another possible definition of "omniscient" is "being able to determine the truth value of any thing". This is strictly weaker than the above definition of "omniscient", for the same reason that mathematical induction does not imply the existence of an infinite collection. An omniscient being of this kind can still be compatible with free will for choices which he does not attempt to determine until they are made. Again, I intend no time connotation here but English forces my grammar. But most people do not even think of such kind of omniscience, not to say believe that their God (if any) is of this sort. Omniscience 3 Some who believe in the existence of a God simply believe that God is omniscient about people in a weaker sense of "knowing what people would do given their choice of virtues". In other words, people have the free will to choose virtues that they desire, but based on those choices their lives are essentially determined. One variant of this is found in the Jewish psalm: 

If we grant that there is a proposition wherein something meaningful is being asserted, does that require us to think of language as essentially representative in some way? If language didn't contain the proposition, then language could be thought of only as a 'game' to be played, wherein our words do not represent anything beyond themselves and are rather pieces and tokens to be used in the game of our behavior. But if there is granted the semantic value of the proposition, does that necessitate that at least this aspect of language must be considered representative? And if so, is it really possible that language not be representative in this regard? Isn't the proposition, or semantic affirmation/negation, an inescapable fact of our semantic behavior? 

Quine's holism is marked by a scientific methodology. Perhaps not all beliefs in Quine's web of belief are accurate, but at its best the web consists of the refined, matured string of beliefs which are collectively of a scientific nature. However, a natural question arises: just what qualifies as 'scientific' for Quine? And another question: how is the traditional epistemologist's understanding of knowledge related to Quine's understanding? A simpler summary of these questions is as follows: what does Quine accept and reject of the traditional conception of 'knowledge' and 'science', and how are the two related in Quine's approach? And although it might be asking a bit much, what is the role of pragmatism in all this for Quine?