Honestly though, I find the NEO Program one from NASA a lot more convenient to use, even if a bit overwhelming. For extensive research though, I'd suggest referring to both of these databases, with the latter probably more conveniently used through the already linked to NEODyS Project. 

Hmmm no, it wouldn't be cluttered with debris, and yes, it's a good idea to park the JWST (James Webb Space Telescope) at the Sun-Earth L2 point. The five Lagrange points are unstable, for one because of the gravitational anomalies of the two massive bodies of the Lagrange system, eccentric orbits, and there are many other factors to their instability. At the same time, they are least gravitationally attractive points around two massive bodies. Think of L-points as parking your car on a flat space at the top of the hill. You'll have to approach with some control and then try to balance at your parking spot, if you don't plan using your handbrake and also remain there stationary: 

But again, this bound should be the upper limit on the entropy of a given region, not necessarily the actual entropy in that region, so this type of holographic bound shouldn't imply that when we increase the entropy of the universe, the universe needs to grow. This paper specifically discusses how most matter-containing regions in cosmology apart from black holes would fail to "saturate" the covariant entropy bound, meaning that the actual entropy in the region is smaller than the maximum possible according to the bound. 

Holographic entropy bounds are upper bounds for the maximum amount of entropy a given region can have, rather than its current entropy--for example, the spherical region of space just large enough to enclose the Earth and its atmosphere would currently contain a much lower entropy than a spherical black hole of the same radius, whose entropy is given by the Bekenstein bound. The scholarpedia article on the Bekenstein bound mentions the issue of cosmological entropy bounds: 

Use an orrery that will let you specify a specific epoch and vantage point. There are some quite fancy ones online, for example this Solar System Scope: 

This would be the SETI's Colossus telescope project, that aims to build a high-resolution, multiple-mirror instrument with ability to directly image the heat generated by other civilizations on planets orbiting stars near us:          Artist's impression of the proposed SETI's Colossus Telescope (Credit: Innovative Optics/Colossus Corporation) 

I think that first, we have to properly appreciate the size of the Sombrero Galaxy. It is roughly 50,000 light years (15 kilo parsecs) in diameter. That might be only half of the diameter of our own Milky Way galaxy, but still makes each and every pixel on the photograph you're attaching in your question stretch more than 100 light years in distance. That's a huge distance, so we can probably agree that clouds made of nearly anything and at least as dense as what you'd on average expect the interstellar medium to be comprised of, would obscure even the strongests light sources within that galaxy. This is important to realize, so we somewhat lower your expectations; These areas aren't tightly packed with anything, we're just talking of such vast distances that the light has to travel through, that even almost nothing will be enough to stop it from shining through. Now to your question what it is comprised of. It is in essence matter from the interstellar medium that stops this light from reaching us, so nothing in particular that you wouldn't expect also in similar areas between stars within our Milky Way, or indeed any other galaxy that is roughly in the same age period of its development. Since the Sombrero Galaxy isn't even all that far away in cosmological sense, merely around 29 million light years, it has an apparent magnitude of ~ 9 and is a rather good target for observations of even hobbyist astronomers with enthusiast telescopes. More importantly though, you aren't looking that far into the past. Again, in the cosmological sense. For comparison, our Sun is roughly 4.5 billion years old, and we're observing the Sombrero Galaxy as it was 29 million years ago. So what is this interstellar medium made of? On average, it is comprised of mostly gas clouds of hydrogen and helium forming during the primordial nucleosynthesis (read: Big Bang) and at most a few percent of heavier trace elements, some also in gas form and an itsy-bitsy percentage of these would combine into even heavier dust particles, mostly made of carbon, silicon, and oxygen (source for the interplanetary dust composition: NASA APOD). Remember, when I say clouds and dust, they are incredibly thin. So thin, you'd have to be traveling at a significant portion of C to even notice it much, unless you're looking for it with extremely sensitive equipment, like Voyager 1 and 2 do, for example. But even with such low particle density, some regions would be slightly denser, and some slightly thinner. And that is what creates that majestic dust lane of the Sombrero Galaxy. They are interstellar medium, mostly made of primordial hydrogen and helium, and dust made of carbon, silicon, oxygen and other trace elements, and all of it hundreds of light years in length and obscuring light from the galaxy's stars to penetrate through at varying levels, depending on background light strength, proximity, and local interstellar medium cloud density. The color of the cloud says nothing of its composition. It is mostly black with parts of it shifting towards red hues due to molecules of gas and dust in the interstellar medium scattering blue light from the source of light more than they scatter red light. I.e. the same reason why the Sun or the Moon appear more red when they're low on the horizon. 

That is also the only point on Earth where an observer on the surface would see the Sun "directly overhead", at the very top of the apparent dome of the sky. So even if you stripped away the Earth's atmosphere, only at this point on the Earth would the power reaching a square meter of the surface be equal to the solar constant, the average power per square meter over the entire illuminated half of the Earth's surface would be less than the solar constant since most of the surface is at an angle relative to incoming rays. Incidentally, the angle of the surface relative to incoming rays is also the main reason why at Northern latitudes, it's warmer in the summer (when the surface at a Northern latitude is closer to being perpendicular to oncoming rays) than in the winter (when the surface is at a more inclined angle relative to incoming rays), as illustrated in a diagram from this page: 

It's a bit difficult to understand what exactly you're asking about, but I will presume you meant the topological features in images like this one, taken from the video of which you provided a link to:           For the most part, they are meteorite and micrometeorite impact craters, with some regolith boulders and impact ejecta scattered along the edge of the larger impact crater at the bottom right of the image. These impact craters appear strange to an untrained eye when they're the only visible feature on images, because there is not atmospheric scattering of light on the Moon that would somewhat illuminate the shadow side too and reduce contrast to what we're used to seeing on Earth, so the high contrast can appear as bumps or dents interchangingly and at will, similar to how you can see either either a vase / candlestick in the middle (yellow) or two faces facing each other (black) on this image:                               A trained eye will have less problems recognising them for what they are, though. One nifty trick is to search the image for different looking topological features, such as already mentioned larger crater ejecta along its edge at the bottom right of the image, or perhaps prominent features within the features themselves, like some larger micrometeorite impact craters show shockwave formed uplifted centers, and so on. It also helps to understand how these features were likely made, but once you orient yourself, it will prove difficult to convince yourself into seeing what you saw initially, if you saw indentations where there are perturbations, or vice versa. 

Imagine you have a solar collector measuring one square meter, which can directly measure the power (energy per unit time) striking it. If there are layers of atmosphere above the collector, some of the incoming light is absorbed or reflected by particles in the atmosphere, so you won't measure as much power as if you place the collector in space at the distance of Earth's orbit, with no atmosphere between you and the Sun. But if you place the collector in the upper atmosphere of the Earth, the density of atmospheric particles above you is so small that they absorb/reflect only a negligible amount of power. Orientation is also an issue--you'll get the maximum power if you orient the plane of the collector so that it's perpendicular to the direction of the incoming rays. If it's not perpendicular, then if you approximate the incoming radiation as a set of parallel rays which each carry an equal amount of power (a standard approximation in optics) then fewer rays strike the collector when it's at some angle that's not perpendicular to the rays. All this is illustrated in the following diagram (from this page), with the two possible orientations of the solar collector illustrated in gray, and the light rays illustrated as black lines: 

Quoted text and photograph source, copyright and courtesy of Richard McDonald, no copyright infringement intended. I would also highly recommend reading same author's extensive article on Autoguiding. 

The term you're searching for is probably accretion (I guess it might sound similar to a kerzan if the speaker had a cold or the listener couldn't hear it well enough for other reasons). This term is not limited to close binary stars (accreting binaries) cannibalizing each other because they orbit each other at such proximity that the L1 Lagrange point between them extends into their own Roche lobe, they form accretion disks connected through an accretion stream, and they feed off each other (thus why this is often referred to as cannibalism):                   Artist's conception shows an accreting binary at the center of the globular cluster NGC 6624 (Source: U. of Tennessee AstroWiki) Some examples of accreting binaries are symbiotic novae, X-ray binaries, microquasars, X-ray pulsars, and so on. See links for more examples and explanations. Other examples of accretion include stellar accretion of planetary materials of a planet in a low altitude orbit around its parent star, formation of planets via accretion of materials of the protoplanetary disk, active galactic nucleus (AGN) like quasars (could also sound similar), novae, and e.g. the Earth still accretes on average ~ 110 metric tons of new materials per day, too. 

So apparently the "covariant entropy bound" (also known as Bousso's holographic bound) is the thing to look into when considering the maximum entropy of the universe (and I assume you just mean the observable universe here rather than whatever may lie beyond it). This set of lecture slides by Raphael Bousso, the physicist who originally proposed the covariant entropy bound, says that this bound is "conjectured to hold in arbitrary spacetimes, including cosmology." But it also says "If correct, origin must lie in quantum gravity", probably meaning one can't derive this fact in a non-conjectural way from basic laws of physics without having a complete theory of quantum gravity. For an introduction to this stuff, I recommend this Scientific American article that discusses various holographic bonds, including the Bekenstein bound along with Bousso's conjectured more general bound (the article was written by Bekenstein himself). Though it is from 2003 so I'm not sure what kind of theoretical progress has been made since then. Anyway, here's what it says about Buosso's entropy bound: 

We can often read in the scientific and also more casual reader literature and articles about the angular resolution of various telescopes and other optical equipment, be it ground based or onboard space probes. They would often list their angular resolution, or in other words, their ability to resolve or distinguish small, distant objects with today's digital era mostly on a per sensor pixel basis.                              Finding a star's distance from its parallax. Trigonometric Parallax method determines distance to star by measuring                its slight shift in apparent position as seen from opposite ends of Earth's orbit. (Source: Measuring the Universe) What I'm interested in is, is the precision in measurements of parallax and with it our ability to determine distance of observed objects directly analogous to mentioned radial resolution and how could it be calculated using data on angular resolution of a telescope alone, if we assume both ground based and in space observatories have more or less the same perihelion to aphelion distance (i.e. the space observatory is in Earth's orbit). 

The solar constant is defined to be the power you get on such a surface of unit area if it's not being obstructed by atmospheric particles, and if it's oriented perpendicular to incoming rays so that it receives the maximum possible power at that location. One aspect of the orientation issue that's important to understand is that if you orient your solar collector so that it's parallel to the ground (so that it would be lying flat if it was actually at ground level), then it will only receive the maximum power if the surface of the Earth is itself perpendicular to incoming rays from the Sun at that point, which is not true in the above diagram. It would only be true at the point on Earth that's the dead "center" of the Earth as seen by an observer looking at it from the Sun's position, or the point where the gray line connecting the centers of Earth and Sun intersects with surface of the Earth on this diagram: