It is not clear exactly when Jews first started settling in Germany, but there is evidence of Jewish settlement in the Rhineland communities of Speyer, Worms and Mainz already by the 10th century. There are different theories as to where they had come from. The most widely held theory is that they were Palestinian. Most recently, this theory was challenged by Haym Soloveitchik. See his "The Third Yeshiva of Bavel" (in his Collected Essays Volume II) for a detailed description as to why he thinks that the community derived predominantly from Babylonia. It's a technical piece, and for a more general overview, see this interview with Prof. Soloveitchik. He makes reference to this theory of his towards the end. To the best of my knowledge, it is not well accepted: the theory of Palestinian origins remains the most widely held. 

Perhaps most offensively for many people, denial of the Holocaust amounts to an assertion that survivors have invented their testimony and are pathological liars. To survivors themselves, to their descendants and to those who know them, this is obviously absurd, but to a population of people who only encounter the occasional survivor and only through online or print media, it may not be so radical an idea. 

According to the testimony of Walter Funk, the Reich Economy Minister (Trial of the Major War Criminals XIII, 129-130), output for war production was about 260 billion RM within Germany, plus an additional 90 billion RM in the occupied areas. To put this in perspective, production in the Reich from 1941-1943 was approximately 400 billion RM altogether, and about 300 billion RM in the occupied countries. Funk's figures obviously don't take into account the production generated through slave labour, but that had costs of its own. See Raul Hilberg (Destruction of the European Jews III, 1003-1007) for a brief but interesting discussion of Reich economics in light of the various economic gains and losses incurred by the Holocaust. His conclusion, that economic factors played very little role in the destruction of the Jews, has most recently been challenged by David Cesarani (The Final Solution). [My quote above, from Walter Funk, was cited in Hilberg, 1007n] 

I am looking for information about Dr Johannes Pohl. According to David G. Roskies in Against the Apocalypse, Pohl was a member of Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg, which was tasked with cataloging all of the books in the library of Vilna and determining which was of benefit to a planned Museum of the Orient and which was pulp. I am interested because, according to Roskies, Pohl had studied for a period of time at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem, was at least reasonably conversant with Hebrew and had a familiarity with rabbinic literature that certainly exceeded that of his boss, Dr Alfred Rosenberg. I have thus far, however, been unable to find mention of him in any of the sources at my disposal. Regrettably, I do not read German, so sources in English, Hebrew or Yiddish would be preferred. That said, if anybody has some German information, I could certainly get it translated! Thank you. 

Priests (kohanim); Other levites (leviyim); Regular Israelites (yisraelim); Priests born of illegitimate unions (chalalim); Converts (gerim); Liberated slaves (charurim); The offspring of various impermissible marriages (mamzerim); The descendants of temple slaves (netinim); People who do not know the identity of their fathers (shetuqim); People who do not know the identity of either parent (assufim). 

Technically, soldiers and members of the Nazi party, however wounded, were exempt from the euthanasia decree, but this exemption was frequently overlooked. Both wounded soldiers (particularly those who had experienced nervous breakdown) and members of the Nazi party who were no longer "functioning", were murdered as part of the T4 program. See Henry Friedlander, The Origins of Nazi Genocide: From Euthanasia to the Final Solution (University of North Carolina Press 1995), 174ff. Friedlander brings examples of how the technical exemption from euthanasia that applied to war veterans and to members of the Nazi party was frequently overlooked, and that occasionally wounded soldiers (sometimes decorated), and sometimes even members of the Nazi party, were also killed. The German doctors genuinely believed euthanasia to be a moral good. They continued murdering patients even after they were occupied by the Allies at the end of the war. Why should they make an exemption for anybody, if what they are doing is (in their opinion) medically required? Note: Friedlander looks at the killing of WWI veterans and Nazi party members on those pages. I am trying to find an English-language reference for the executions of soldiers on the Eastern front, but so far only have a German article. It occurred in 43 and 44, and was part of the "wild" (ie: decentralised) euthanasia. According to one academic to whom I've spoken, it never occurred in gas vans, but was always through the administration of drugs. They tried not to do it, but in situations in which patients were traumatised, suicidal, wetting the bed and suffering shell-shock, euthanasia was considered appropriate. 

This is a tricky question to answer, both because the answer is a definitive "yes" (and so definitive, in fact, that a cataloguing of instances of amulet- and talisman-use would take thousands of pages), but also because the definitions of words like amulet and talisman are themselves a bit tricky. In some cases, people who made use of these things saw them as amulets, but in other cases they saw them no differently to how we might see the taking of antibiotics. So far as Jewish communities were concerned, Shalom Sabar has an article called "Childbirth and Magic: Jewish Folklore and Material Culture" (in David Biale's Cultures of the Jews), which gives a fairly comprehensive overview of the use of these types of amulets and talismans in late mediaeval Jewish history, and Abraham Green's Judaic Amulets catalogues over 1,000 instances of Jewish amulets of all descriptions. Many of these are still in use today by Jews from North Africa and the Middle East, as well as (to a more limited extent) some Eastern European hasidim. Jewish sources, like the Shulchan Arukh (which is a 16th century legal code, produced in Ottomon Palestine by Rabbi Yosef Caro) contains some information on which types of amulets are impermissible, and since they are impermissible by virtue of their being considered non-Jewish, such lists also provide us with a bit of information concerning the sorts of things that Christians and Muslims at the time believed to be efficacious. I say "a bit of information", since many of these lists are derived from earlier Jewish sources, and may no longer be reflective of contemporary Christian or Muslim practice. Prof Hyam Soloveitchik has a beautiful essay on the diminishment of these forms of religiosity in Jewish communities of the modern era, and I quote: 

Addendum: Since "Nope" is probably not a very good answer, let me explain. There are numerous references to the ark of the covenant throughout the biblical literature. Its construction is described in laborious detail twice in the book of Exodus, it serves as the receptacle for the words of "this song" (understood by subsequent exegetes as the Pentateuch, or at least the book of Deuteronomy) at the end of Deuteronomy, it gets taken captive, redeemed, is venerated and placed in the new temple in Judges, Samuel and Kings, and then is presumably removed from the temple by the invading Babylonians... who never mention it in any of their archival records. This literature is the only literature that mentions the ark. But note that there is not a single part of this literature that was authored with the intention that it be a part of a "bible", which means that the books of the bible can all be viewed as independent of one another. Not only that, but they are themselves a pastiche of multiple sources, which means that there are dozens of different texts right here that all testify to the existence of this thing (or to traditions concerning its one-time existence). References to the ark in works like those of Josephus don't count, since he's getting all of his information from the biblical literature. In fact, references to the ark in any post-biblical literature don't count for that very reason, while references in extra-biblical literature contemporaneous with the Bible's composition don't exist. Later religious traditions have come up with explanations as to what happened to it: that it was hidden away beneath the floor of the second temple, that it was spirited off to a far away land (read: Ethiopia), or that it was secreted somewhere in the foothills of Judea. These traditions are all bogus. There is no ark. And since it was made of gold, we can assume that if there ever had actually been an ark, it has long since been melted down and turned into something of more practical use. 

I've no expectation (or intention) of supplanting the accepted answer, but I would like to add some additional information. For a start, nobody is a pure functionalist nor a pure intentionalist. Even Goldhagen, who you mention a few times in your question, acknowledges the extent to which the Nazis became progressively more radicalised as the war progressed, and even Goldhagen doesn't suppose that the Nazi party adopted a broad program of physical annihilation prior to 1941. To complicate this picture, consider that the intentionalism/functionalism dialectic operates both in relation to the NSDAP as a party, and to individual members of that party as people. Even if we were to suppose that the leader of the party had in mind a program of genocide before the war started, that is insufficient to demonstrate that the party itself was structured in such a way as to expedite the fulfillment of that goal. To speak directly to the substance of your question: how do "functionalists" (bearing in mind that there is also no such thing as pure functionalism) explain the desperate attempts made at the conclusion of the war to continue murdering large numbers of people? For a start, the widespread murder of people with physical and intellectual disabilities continued in German hospitals well after their occupation by the Allied powers. This is because the doctors responsible for this program were genuinely convinced of its intrinsic goodness. They did not associate euthanasia with murder. Secondly, the murder of Jews in the final stages of the war occurred concurrently with the murder of other "undesirables", and it was not just Jews who were marched back from the approaching front with staggering casualties. Thirdly, the desire to murder prisoners at this late stage corresponds with other procedures that the Nazis and their collaborators implemented in order to limit the amount of physical evidence that their murderous campaign had generated. Sonderaktion 1005 was the code-name given to a widespread program of disinterment, the burning of corpses and the shredding of documents. During this program, death camps at Sobibor, Belzec and Treblinka was dismantled and removed, and the teams of slaves employed in this program were subsequently executed. Finally, when it became more apparent even to the die-hard Nazi ideologues that the war was over, it was still not necessarily apparent the extent to which they had lost. Many people believed that while they might not be able to hold onto their empire, they will still be able to retain control of Germany, and that they will only be able to do this if they are in a sufficiently strong condition as to sue for peace. Forcing the Hungarians to participate in the slaughter of their Jewish population was not at all an irrational decision. The Hungarian government (which went through six prime ministers in the time of the war) consistently prevaricated on this issue, and it was clear to observers in Berlin that they were going to join the Allies. Making them complicit in the final solution was designed to prevent that possibility, and to cause them to fight alongside Germany with greater desperation. The idea that this late campaign damaged the war effort is mistaken, and it is an historiographical error that is only now starting to be corrected. In all instances, "human cargo" destined for Auschwitz took second place to the transport of munitions and soldiers, which is why cattle trains often languished for days on end on railway spurs. 

People who hold to this idea will point to discrepancies within survivor testimony, showing how people's stories have changed over the course of time, how they conflict with one another and how they include information now known by historians to be false. Famous examples in this regard include the myths of soap manufacture from flesh, lampshades being made from skin and the feeding of bromide to internees in concentration camps. Rebuttal: Memory is a fragile tool, for which reason police prioritise hard data (like CC-TV footage) over sworn testimony. Question a person after an awful car accident and see how well they remember the order in which different things happened. In actual fact, therefore, we expect the testimonies of trauma victims to be erratic and unreliable. Collusion is evidence for a conspiracy; disagreement and contradiction is not. When Holocaust deniers peddle this material, they tend to favour snappy observations that can be presented in the form of memes - like the observation in the OP's question that concerns the death toll at Auschwitz. Ultimately, arguing with such people (if you are so inspired to do so) is likely to be a fruitless endeavour. The only real cure is education, and there is no longer an excuse for not receiving one. The published material is voluminous, and hundreds of articles are issued every year. The best books on this subject, and which I would use if I were recommending reading material to a dyed-in-the-wool Holocaust denier, are the following: 

I was looking for some comprehensive histories of Jews in Russia, when I came across Aleksander Solzhenitsyn's Two Hundred Years Together. I had no idea that this book even existed, and am disappointed that it is not available in English translation. The usual people (Daily Stormer, Occidental Observer, etc) and a variety of supposedly left-leaning, Holocaust-denying and Jew-hating commenters on Amazon have all decided that the reason it doesn't exist in translation is because it is being suppressed. Given the prevalence of trash antisemitism that exists in English, I highly doubt that something written by so eloquent and expressive a writer as Solzhenitsyn would be deliberately withdrawn from the public, but there's no arguing with some people. Are there any Russian speakers here (or French or German speakers, since it was translated into those languages) who have read this book and who can comment on the nature of its content? How historically reliable is it? How incendiary is it? And are there any plans for a proper English translation? (I say "proper" because the websites I referenced earlier are compiling translations of their own, but I have good reason to suspect they are incorporating passages that Solzhenitsyn himself disavowed.) 

No: he just had the same name. The "five books of Moses" are so called because they were believed to have been written by the Moses whose life is described within them. They are actually known in Hebrew as the chumash (which means a set of five) or as the Torah ("instruction"), while the word Pentateuch (also, a set of five) comes from Greek They have existed for well over two thousand years, and are found amongst the Dead Sea Scrolls. Here is the Wikipedia article on this text. Moses Maimonides, as you note, lived less than one thousand years ago. Maimonides, in Greek, means "son of Maimon". His Hebrew denotation (Rabbi Moshe ben Maimon) is often abbreviated as Rambam. He wrote a great many texts, but most famous amongst them is his codification of all Jewish law: a fourteen-volume opus called Mishne Torah. Here is the Wikipedia article on Maimonides. 

I'm not sure what you mean by "secular" - as opposed to the New Testament gospels? There is an abundance of material in the writings of Josephus: specifically in Jewish War and Antiquities of the Jews, both of which were originally written in Greek. He speaks of their philosophical beliefs and the actions of various individual Sadducees, although he writes from a very clearly pro-Pharisaic perspective. Aside from Josephus, and the references to Sadducees that exist in early rabbinic literature, there is nothing. Note that Lawrence Schiffman has argued that the sectarian literature found in Qumran represents the halakhic (legal) viewpoint of the Sadducees, but this is very much a minority opinion. In amongst all of the extant references to the Samaritans, there is zero indication that they were ever subject to "persecution". The opinion of Maimonides, written down over a millennium after the Sadducees had effectively ceased to exist, is entirely irrelevant. (And cannot be used to extrapolate to his opinions regarding contemporary sects like the Karaites, who modelled themselves on what little was known of the Sadducees.) There is no academic consensus as regards what happened to the Sadducees either - but then, there is also no academic consensus as regards who the Pharisees were and what happened to them. Likely, in both instances, they coalesced into what became rabbinic Judaism: the Sadducees were likely every bit as preoccupied with Torah-based legislation as were their various opponents. For more information (albeit on the Pharisees in particular), see Jacob Neusner and Bruce Chilton (eds.), In Quest of the Historical Pharisees. Postscript: It is wrong to assume that the Pharisees represented a "newer" group, and is also wrong to suppose that the Sadducees were "tied to" the temple. The Sadducees were a priestly group, but not all Sadducees officiated in the Temple and not all priests were Sadducees. Note also that the temple compound included the high court (Sanhedrin), which was not entirely Sadducean either.