Most schools of buddhism advise to live a balanced way of life. It never says there is no meaning or purpose in life. Indeed it remains silent for this matter but encourage to accept things as they are which means also of course accepting to live! Don't run away from life, look deeply at it, accept it, and love it. Which means also means to accept yourself and others as they are, assume your responsability toward them, treat them with compassion and treat your body and mind correctly. 

As we know, in soto-shu we don't count nor observe the breath during zazen. I would like people who have a long experience with zazen meditation to explain if they consider that counting and observing the breath was helpful to progress in their meditation practice or not. Should a beginner start with counting breathing rather then go straight into shikantaza practice ? 

I think that, in the zen soto tradition, the answer would be the famous word of Dogen Zenji: "あるがまま" (read: arugamama) which kind of translate as "things are so". Zen encourage a radical acceptation of "things as they are", and it is believed that through this radical acceptance of "things as they are", right here, right now, a deeper and non-intellectual understanding of life can be reached, one that words can't describe. Therefore such question can not be answered. The Buddha himself simply remained silent when such metaphysical questions were addressed to him. 

I undertake the training rule to abstain from killing. I undertake the training rule to abstain from taking what is not given. I undertake the training rule to avoid sexual misconduct. I undertake the training rule to abstain from false speech. I undertake the training rule to abstain from fermented drink that causes heedlessness. 

Is there any scientific studies that have observed through different bias the differences and similarities between those three type of meditation? For exemple difference in EEG or brain plasticity in long term meditators, or various psychologic-cognitive tests that would give different results depending on the type of meditation. 

In my understanding sexual misconduct would be to abuse or molest someone, going against his or her will, putting you body in danger etc... I don't think you broke any of those. Now I think personally that if nobody was hurted there is no reason for you to feel remorse. There is no "moral" properly speaking in Buddhism, so there is no "guilt", it is more about wether you want to follow a practice leading toward liberation of suffering and if you want so, Buddhism ask you to follow a set of comportemental rules that are necessary to walk this path. 

While on the surface there are more distractions in today's day and age than any other before, there are in fact not any more distractions than there have ever been. While it would appear that what pulls you away from meditation is , these are not what pull you away. What will always pull you away, and what has always pulled any human away is the stream of incessant chatter that you hear when you sit down and close your eyes. There is nothing in the external world that is capable of causing distraction by itself. There are stories of Zen Monks who did not stir from Zazen as an earthquake struck. Distractions happen internally; not externally. I'm going to limit the scope of my answer to a specific kind of meditation - the kind of meditation where you sit and focus - but for the record, meditation is in no way limited to that one definition. Meditation is available always; independent of circumstances. For now, what would be powerful, I think, is if you really tell the truth to yourself about some things. First - I don't know anything about your circumstances; but I'm gonna go out on a limb and suggest that time is not the issue. If you really confront how many hours you have in a day, and what it is that you are doing during each of those hours; I would be shocked if there were not 20 minutes you could claim for uninterrupted meditation time. Most people live their lives in a haze of abstractions and stories about reality. Few people live their lives grounded in reality. In reality, you can only ever do the thing you are doing when you are doing it; and whatever that thing is doesn't take a long time or a short time - it takes some specific relatively predictable amount of time. In our stories, "I have too much to do", "I never have enough time" , etc. In reality, quoting Werner Erhard: 

People always tell you everything. They may not say it in a way that you are comfortable or familiar with; and they may not say it such that their words clearly match what they intend to communicate (mostly they don't). But they reveal almost everything in their experience when they communicate. It's there if you listen. Now this is the tricky part. Mostly what we do when we try to improve our listening skills is to try to listen better. Maybe there are some pieces of advice we employ, or some tips on being a better listener we follow (e.g. Ask lots of questions, etc). The vast majority of those tips are absolute garbage. They do nothing but strengthen the ego's ability to appear to be listening while providing nothing in the way of authentic listening. Authentic listening is magic. This quote from Siddhartha by Herman Hesse does a very good job of expressing what is possible with real listening: 

There's not much of the kind of critical criticism of the kind that Price is giving in his talk. Scholars of Buddhism are largely in love with their subject. It is something I have complained about on my blog. Academia is still in the stage of trying to accurately describe what Buddhism is and generally likes what it sees. Few scholars are engaged with what it is not or with the conflicts and contradictions within the tradition. Perhaps the only prominent scholar who is actively critical is Greg Schopen though much of his criticism is based on the conflict between archaeological evidence and textual evidence. His collection of essays "Bones, Stones, and Buddhist Monks" is worth reading. This video The Buddha as Businessman shows him giving a talk that gives a good idea of his approach. Apart from my blog there are a few online references which are openly critical of Buddhist ideas and practices. 

In my article, Escaping the Inescapable: Changes in Buddhist Karma. (Journal of Buddhist Ethics Vol. 21. 2014), I explain that karma was initially believed to be inevitable and that one had to live the consequences of one's actions no matter what. But this changed over time and various practices were developed to mitigate and eradicate evil karma. I didn't study "good" karma, but I see no reason for the same kind of reasoning to apply, i.e. good karma must be erasable in the systems of though in which the consequences of deeds are erasable. One of the perennial problems for Buddhists is that, for the unenlightened, there is a vast predominance of craving and aversion, due to ignorance. Buddhists swing between enlightenment as transcendental (and therefore more or less unobtainable) and immanent in all beings (and therefore inevitable). The trouble is an immanent model is that it devalues the idea of enlightenment if everyone can get there, and will get there more or less with no effort. The trouble with transcendent models is no one is motivated by the unobtainable for long. Both extremes demotivate people and if on looks at Buddhist history we can see periods of stagnation when one or other model is unchallenged. As part of this process. earlier models seem to get forgotten or repudiated and new ideas such as "interdependence" or "buddha-nature" get invented to fill the gap. Many people think that Buddhism will inevitably mean that everyone will get enlightened. Mahāyāna Buddhism makes a big deal of the idea of "saving all being from suffering." Which suggests that they think such a thing is possible (despite the evidence of 2500 year of Buddhism). On the other hand saṃsāra (the cycle of death and rebirth) is usually portrayed in Mainstream Early Buddhist texts as beginningless and endless. Liberation is not found in saṃsāra, but by leaving it behind through ending rebirth. In this case we could have no expectation of everyone getting enlightened because that would mean the end of saṃsāra - a logical inconsistency. A standard way of looking at karma is that none of our deeds "die" when our body dies. They are the condition which determines our next rebirth which will, in the more general way, reflect the life we have lived, for better or worse. But all deeds come to fruition at some point. Good deeds have to have a time limit also, else they would be permanent, and it is axiomatic in Buddhism that all things are impermanent. Nāgārjuna spotted a little problem with this standard view however (Mūlamadhyamakakārikā Chp 17). It is this: dependent arising specifies that when a condition ceases, the effect for which it is a condition also ceases. Thus there is a problem with karma because it requires that effects manifest a very long time after the condition has ceased. Again Buddhists proposed many solutions to this problem, but none of them actually solve the problem. The arguments are quite complex, but I tried to summarise them in an essay called The Logic of Karma. Unfortunately my conclusion is that the internal logic of all the existing explanations for karma are internally inconsistent. Nāgārjuna's answer was to argue that actions, agents, consequences, etc are all just illusions, which is not very satisfying.