Your best bet is to simply not get hit. That answer sounds a lot dumber than it actually is, so just bear with me. At interplanetary/interstellar cruising speeds (usually anywhere between a few dozen to a few thousand km/s), making minor (and most importantly random) course adjustments using small bursts of thrust at a fraction of a g every few seconds consumes very little fuel comparatively speaking and makes you a very hard-to-hit target. The speed of most spacecraft makes it so that even a small amount of thrust for a fraction of a second in any direction can result in you being dozens of kilometers away from your initial starting position by the time your enemy's railgun slug has intercepted your ship's original trajectory. Alternatively, if you don't want to rely on Douglas Adams and the RNG to save you, turn your anti-collision lasers into point-defense systems and vaporize the incoming slug before it reaches you. Bonus points for shooting the slug with your own slug to knock it off-course. This all changes if your enemy has a railgun that fires slugs with their own built-in guidance systems, but smart bullets don't really work that well when combined with railguns for a variety of reasons, so you probably wouldn't encounter this. 

Assume the time travel is a soldier who has a good idea of how to maintain and care for most guns and knows how all the parts fit together. They've brought with them a working assault rifle, a double-barreled shotgun, and a revolver, as well as a smart-phone with a solar-powered charger that contains a few encyclopedia's worth of modern knowledge. I'm fairly certain that without industrialization, weapons that require precise machining will probably be out, as well as percussion caps and modern cartridges (even if you could teach the alchemists of the time how to make some of the stuff you'd need). Flintlock rifles and/or muskets would probably be possible I'm guessing, as well as some steam-powered weapons. But could you make a revolver or a shotgun work? It doesn't have to be as good as a revolver or a shotgun is today, so long as it is recognizably a revolver or a shotgun. 

Self-explanatory. After my previous question about a sextenary star system and a black hole, I decided to dial back to just two parent stars and a planet. How close could they be if we in the real world still haven't detected them by the early to mid-21st century? The 23rd? I'm assuming they'd have to be farther than Alpha Centauri A and B, since they're the closest stars to us period and were "officially" discovered back in 1592. 

Not to say it can be fired without a tripod and/or a mount to disperse the recoil, but could railgun artillery or anti-tank rifles work in a near future setting with miniaturized fusion reactors? I'd imagine there would be a battery with enough juice for one shot built into the actual weapon and the soldier could also carry a larger battery pack to power additional shots. Would this be plausible? 

As we all know, hydrogen and by extension water, gaseous, liquid or frozen, is pretty much everywhere in our solar system besides maybe Mercury. The most abundant source may be the Asteroid Belt, which contains millions/billions of cubic kilometers of water, more than exists on the surface of our own planet. However, all that water is distributed incredibly sparsely over a large volume of space, meaning getting to it all is gonna be a bitch should we ever try to completely deplete the belt of its water content for whatever reason. Thankfully, there are other sources of water in our solar system that are far more consolidated, if not as conveniently close to Earth as the belt. Enter Europa. Containing a similar if not superior volume of water to the Asteroid Belt, it's only slightly farther away cosmically speaking and unlike the icy asteroids in the belt, it's not going anywhere. Add on top of that the potential for alien life and all the revolutionary new scientific discoveries that come along with it, is it any wonder this tiny little moon might have investors salivating and smacking their chops? But the big question is, is the extra distance worth it? Is there any reason prioritizing ice-mining on Europa would make more sense than just sticking to the local portions of the Asteroid Belt that are closer to us than Jupiter or its moons? The belt may be thinly spread but unless we're using water at an alarming rate (possibly as a result of the simultaneous colonization of Mars and the proliferation of both widespread fusion power and large space stations such as O'Neill cylinders), it'll probably suit our needs for the next two hundred or three hundred years. Would going to Europa to mine ice or exploit its local wildlife make any sense to a potential investor or a hypothetical megacorporation, or would any visits to Jupiter's most interesting moon be purely scientific in nature? 

Radioisotope thermoelectric generator Another existing power source is the Radioisotope thermoelectric generator. The positives are this can be created with no moving parts. The drawback is a low power yield. $URL$ Thermovoltaic A Thermovoltaic generator captures the light given off the thermal source and translates that into power. The positives are that thermovoltaics provide consistent and reliable power without large amounts of fuel. The drawback is that they are not very efficient. If your power source was in a sphere of thermal-voltaic cells, you could run them in series to produce the energy you need. Perhaps in your world, there's a more efficient source of thermovoltaic cells, which could produce the 8,000 watts of desired power. $URL$ 

One of the brilliant reasons Cosa Nostra survived and thrived was services they offered the common man. I clearly understand they engaged in illegal activity, but they offered protection to people who worked with them. Sometimes you can't go to the police because of illegal activity. If some guy robs your illegal casino, you can't turn to the police. For a fee, they offered protection, loans and other services you can't find elsewhere. What you need is a strong man character or a group who can help clean up their community by reaching out to the criminals robbing tourists and explain to them that the activities are no longer tolerated in that area. With enough men, the strong man becomes the boss of an area and controls other illegal activity and thrives. Once the reputation of safety is earned, the few dollars they charge is usually worth the price. The good life keeps the strong men in check. As the old saying goes in dating and business, you never fish off the company pier. One of the advantages of Las Vegas when the mob ran it is that if you were in Vegas, you stayed alive. Nobody got hit in the town. There's plenty of holes out there in the desert, but the town itself was a safe zone. They also knew the value of tourists, offering them a cheap meal and never engaged in bottom-feeding practices like charging a guest to park at a casino where most likely they were going to drop money. It was accountants that doomed Bugsy Siegel when the Flamingo Casino was not a major moneymaker at first, but even he was killed outside of Vegas. But his plans he laid in Vegas as a safe haven turned that city from a cow town to a world-wide attraction where tourists were safe. Good luck on your character. 

The Rankine cycle can use an organic fluid such as propane, pentane or toluene in place of water and steam. This allows use of lower-temperature heat source and operate at around 70–90 °C. The efficiency of the cycle is much lower as a result of the lower temperature range, but this can be worthwhile because of the lower cost involved in gathering heat at this lower temperature. Alternatively, fluids can be used that have boiling points above water, and this may have thermodynamic benefits. See, for example, mercury vapour turbine, but at a significantly higher weight than water. Why use propane Liquified Petroleum only weighs four pounds (4.11) per gallon, so it's half the weight of water (8 lbs). Vapor from propane expands to 270 times it's liquid dimensions (270:1) and it uses a much lower boiling point (-44 F) and compresses into a liquid at 350 psi. In addition to providing a motivation source, propane can serve a dual-use as a fuel to heat liquid. Propane as a liquid is pretty stable with a flammability window roughly between 3-9% concentration. What I'm holding back Steam engines were developed for airplane use, but there were better sources of power, so development went another direction. For instance, one could just use the propane as a power source for a pulse jet motor, which has excellent thrust-to-weight, and has been used in aviation for the V1 Flying Bomb, but was not invented until 1907, so it doesn't fit in the timeline. Gasoline internal combustion motors overtook steam engines because the electric starter removed one of the biggest drawbacks to the technology. Trivia Facts 

The simplest explanation is the most boring: He's a part of a social experiment. He's in a room with a calendar controlled via computer outside the room, with scientists experimenting to see how humans handle the very time disjunctions you are talking about. The poor protagonist basically becomes very pavlovian, reacting to the calendar. Here's a better one: he is in the control of a human or alien intent on controlling him. I would almost suspect that some people would decide they're in the hands of a wrathful god, and maybe start praying to make it stop. Following "god's" commands would lead to a reward (time going forward), disobeying leads to time going backwards (as a threat). The screaming is a warning to obey. I don't know what useful work you may get from somebody stuck in a shelter, but the shelter may just be the "training room" to prepare their holy warrior. The thing isn't that the date is changing, you see, but that his perception of the date is changing. This is Twilight Zone level mindgames here. "Rational Explanations" will most likely involve the calendar being operated externally; because your protagonist has no other method of tracking time, he must trust the calendar. If you are a fan of Fallout, you'll love this one. Like before, he's a subject in a social experiment, in an underground laboratory. The lights in his cabin and the calendar are controlled via computer; automated machines provide food and water on schedule to ensure that the experimenters don't accidentally provide any outside time references (it's OK to feed on a regular interval, but any deviation may break the illusion of the DAY itself changing.). The sad twist is this: he volunteered for the project to do research for underground nuclear shelters to help the scientists understand how to keep people sane in bunkers, but the scientists and everyone else on the planet annihilated themselves in atomic fire, leaving him to be the last surviving human, trapped in a psychology experiment driving him insane. Want an even sadder story? He's trapped in a psychological hell created by psychic aliens in a desperate attempt to keep him alive. The aliens discovered him on the burned out cinder of Earth, trapped in his fallout shelter. Intent on keeping him alive, they "beam him up" and put him in a facsimilie room. Having dived into the shelter as the bombs started to fall on Dec 31, 1999 (alternate history, of course), he's wracked with guilt and flashing back to the destruction he just survived. Unfortunately for him, his mind is too alien for his rescuers to understand (yet) and they have a completely different concept of the flow of time. As such, his "shelter" reflects his current state of mind. Flashbacks have a calendar on the days the bombs fell, with the destruction and screaming and all that. More peaceful days have the calendar move forward. The fluid shifting of time is just not a natural state for humans, and therefore he gets more and more concerned about the shifting dates leading to the aliens picking up his worries and fantasies, and reading it as his expected reality! He worries that the calendar will start going backwards, it goes backwards, which causes him to worry about the firestorms outside which causes him to hear firestorms, and unfortunately his rescuers have no idea they're torturing the poor man. How's that?