First ask your supervisor to prioritize when you have too many tasks to do for a reasonable timeframe. Or ask if the deadlines can be pushed further. If everything else failed, learn to delegate, and ask your supervisor to either give you the authority to delegate, or ask him/her on a per project basis when needed. But think beforehand to who you can delegate and with what time schedule, your supervisor will be much more receptive. As my own supervisor once said: "don't come with only problems, come also with solutions". When you work well, people tend to offload more work on you. Managing this kind of situation can be seen either as a burden (because if you have an overload of work, it is either because your collaborators are slacking off or because your manager does not estimate correctly the amount of work) or as an opportunity to train in project management. The goal here is not to take on yourself to do all the works of others, but rather to learn how to deal autonomously and efficiently with these situations. Delegating work is thus a crucial skill, and it is very well appreciated (by others and by your future self). Indeed, delegating is not just about offloading work onto others, but about planning and supervision: it is a work in itself, and a set of skill that cannot be improvised. Thus, you can use these situations at your advantage, and hopefully you'll be able to reuse these skills in future similar situations. You might find useful the following other posts (step by step tutorials to delegate, how to approach your supervisor to propose other collaborators to delegate to, etc.): 

Speaking as a former server, this isn't bad. Restaurants operate in a much different fashion than other businesses. When you go home is relative to the amount of business. My schedule only listed in-times and not out-times. I never knew exactly when I'd be off. Sometimes I would be out early if we were slow, sometimes I stayed as late as the closing servers (along with two or three others). The trial shift could be likened to a technical interview or a programming exercise. Think of it as a technical screening. They are looking for new wait-staff that either have experience or raw talent that can be honed into the type of employee they are looking for. Take what they said at face value. I would say wait until Thursday before you call them and see where they stand in the interview process. Also, ask for the manager that was on duty during your trial shift if they are available. If not, ask for the store manager. When you do call them, make sure it is on their down time. Down time depends on the type of restaurant, but for a dinner-heavy service, I would say 2:00 - 3:00 PM is a good time frame. That makes sure that they are fully out of any lunch rush and well ahead of any dinner rush. 

Context: I am an employee in a semi-small company, where most people have multiple responsibilities and tasks concurrently. Most of the time, there is no explicit/formal definition of projects responsibility. There is a hierarchy with about 5 managers managing about 5 employees each. Work contracts usually last for ~5 years, so there is a relatively high turnout rate, including for managers (this is because of the company's field, not because of the company ambiance). Issue: Since project responsibility is rarely assigned explicitly, it has become customary for managers and team members alike to assign it implicitly to anyone who either: 

I feel this attitude is counter-productive, as it prevents team members to voice ideas or invest in projects or tasks even partially, as doing so would usually result in them getting responsible for yet another project. Question: Is this kind of implicit delegation of project responsibility common and normal? If not, how to avoid being the target of this method without being rude or unprofessional? /EDIT: Thank you all very much for your answers, even though I cannot apply most advices because of other issues at my company, this made me realize the complexity of the issues I am dealing with, with our corporate culture being one of the culprit. I divided the accepted answer reward and the bounty to two answers as I could not accept both. 

Apply for the jobs. The first step of getting the job is getting the interview. You will never know if you are disqualified from a position if you never apply for it. As for your skills.. what is your desired skillset? What do you want to be when you grow up? See @Cronax's answer as well. Opportunities can present themselves in a company to switch technologies. I have seen a co-worker start off as a database developer and wind up as an iOS / objective C programmer. Get your foot in the door somewhere. Be grateful for your first opportunity. But never stop being a student of the game. If you start off as an xyz developer, but abc is fascinating... get a book and read it. Do the homework problems and hone your skills. 

Start at the beginning. Is there a version control system that you use to maintain your source code? If there is, does everyone follow the same procedure to access a file? If not, why not? Is there documentation regarding the code you're writing? Is it a bug fix, feature request, in-house tool? Who generates those documents? Is there a process flow of information regarding the code? Instead of just taking an assignment and completing it, find out where your assignment fits in with the bigger picture of the project or application being developed. What processes did/do you use to complete your tasks? Is there a more effective/efficient way to complete them? 

That's for the actual work, and assuming your managers are sensible. There is also the communication part, where you have to report about your progress. For this, you might find useful to maintain a list of projects you are working on, along with deadlines and the priorities you were assigned. See also: 

But I think this last point is of importance: of course doing the work your company ask you to do is of primary importance, but it is also important you appreciate what you are doing. So it is important both you and your supervisor agree on what your role is, at least most of the time, even if you have third-party tasks from time to time, as long as it does not take over your main role. Good luck in your endeavors. 

About your feeling of being assigned to something else than what you were hired for, you can refer to this excellent table and if necessary talk with your supervisor to redefine your role in the company: 

Absolutely. Contact whomever is in charge of getting your review to you. Taking 5 weeks to get an internship review done seems a bit excessive to me. Just keep your tone professional on the call. 

Our company was recently acquired by a large MNC. We recently started the same practice. They are called "Employee Engagement Surveys" or something of the like. The survey should be anonymous since the company just wants to get a feel for how engaged the employees are while they're at work. The idea is that the more enthusiastic the employees are, the better work they do. The intention behind the surveys is for honesty from the employees. If they truly want honesty, the survey will be anonymous. If they give the front of being anonymous and come to you later and say "I noticed you said 'bad place to work, payment bad.' Would you care to go into further detail?" then I would say to brush up your CV. I know I wouldn't want to work somewhere that put that kind of practice in place. Find out if the survey is anonymous. Just bring it up politely with your manager. Say something like "I was wondering if you could give me some more general information about the surveys. I don't need to know the questions, just how you plan on using them." Be honest, but keep it professional. Even if the survey is truly anonymous, a rant will set off red flags for the management team and they will start looking for the trouble-maker in the office.