Although that is a new feature to the model. You can send them back for a refund if you get the old model with no quibbling needed. You should always carry two front (and rear) lights anyway. As for the back, the basic Cateye and Smart ones seem to survive the bag experience. This is because the switch is placed close to the bracket and is not what gets squashed first. Again, two rear lights, one mounted on your bag is a very good idea. The Cateye models deserve the IgNobel award for bike lights because you have to hold the switch down for an age of seconds for them to turn off, but for turning them on just a quick dab will do. Then you have to flick through a dozen flashing modes to get something sensible. They should have it the other way round - a three second push to turn them on, straight to the sensible flashing mode and a single push to turn them to full beam and another press to turn them off. Anyway, the UltraFazer is affordable lighting - not the brightest, but waterproof, good side-lighting and a sensible switch. Also worth checking at your preferred online retailer are the 'Exposure' range. These have the twist option rather than a switch to turn them on and off. These lights are also available in the better-appointed LBS and, given their price, you may want to look before you buy. 

Not to worry! Get yourself a part time job in the local bike shop in a supporting role - maybe not sales (unless you have the product knowledge), maybe not the workshop but something in between. Start with what you can do - punctures, wheeling bikes in and out the yard, keeping the place tidy. A couple of weeks later have a go at assembling bikes. You will know if you are going to like it by then. The cycling season has started it should be all hands to the deck in your local shop, show confidence and enthusiasm and you won't go wrong. 

+1 for London. The Thames and the Parks are brilliant places to ride, and for getting across town. You also have Sustrans routes, sign-posted, looked after and online: $URL$ Transport for London also have a cycling journey planner: $URL$ Some people complain about cycling infrastructure in London, but it all comes down to what you know, and I know there is no need to get across London any other way than by bike. 

It is for adjusting the suspension on a medium to high-end mountain bike (fork), hence the lack of 'Presta' option. Since you will be returning it, to keep the shop happy and get what you really need, consider getting: 

I know that you can buy lots of things online and that prices are competitive online, however, you do need to know exactly what you are buying, and, given that you have posted this question here, you might not be there yet... Please visit your local bike shop, explain to the sales staff what you are looking for, what distance you are having to put in, whether that is going to be all on roads or on trails, whether you are going to be a fair weather cyclist and what you are going to need to carry. Also mention what sort of money you were looking to spend. Then let the shop show you 2-3 bikes that meet your criteria. See how the bike feels and, if they will let you, go on a short test ride. Ask about the brands pulled out the rack and why the shop sells them. Also, ask about how much the accessories will cost. You might need lights, you might need the tyres changed for the road and you might want a lock. Hi-viz clothing, a track pump and maybe a helmet also comes into the deal, you will be able to better negotiate a price if you include the accessories - a lot of bikes have a price that the shop (online or otherwise) has to sell at or else they lose the dealership rights, they cannot do a deal on that but they might be able to do a deal on the accessories. Customisations can work out better of buying from the shop as swapped out tyres can be put back into stock. The same with a seat and pedals (if you go clipless). Remember that your local bike shop have to compete with the online box shifters, they may not be able to do so on absolute price but they certainly can with service. They are easier to get to for a warranty return and they may well put a free service into the price. Shops also have cosmetically 'shop soiled' bikes that work absolutely fine but have incurred a scratch during their time in the showroom. You can negotiate a price on these, particularly if they are a 'last year's model'. Size is really important. Given that you are 6 foot+ you will be needing to look at the 'Large' size or maybe the 'X-Large' size. You can only determine which is best for you for a given brand if you go to the shop. Remember they might not have your size in your preferred model on the showroom floor, they may have one in the warehouse or be able to get one in for you in a matter of days. So, just because your preferred model is not there in your size, don't be put off - try the next model up if it is in your size and then try to order the model/size you do want. As for your weight, that should not be a problem. However, you will need to keep those tyres inflated to the value shown on the sidewalls if the wheels are to survive. The best way to keep tyre pressures good is with a track pump, these come with a gauge and only take a minute or two one a fortnight/month. After visiting the local bike shop and finding something you want, you can go online and get a better price. This mail order bike will come in a box and you will need tools and a spare weekend to get it right. If you order from the shop then they will do all that for you, usually to a higher standard than you can do yourself. Plus you will be saving postage. If the local bike shop accessories (e.g. lights) are bought with the bike then expect them to be fitted too. Hope that helps! 

Sounds like you are going to be replacing the middle ring. 'Bolt Circle Diameter' is the measure of chainring compatibility. You need another ring of the same BCD and you can check the specifications for that on the Shimano website. Personally I would go for another Alivio ring because they are made of steel rather than aluminium alloy, this will last a lot longer, cost a lot less and the weight difference will be marginal. The shark-fin look to the teeth is deliberate, they are individually sculpted so as to make shifting that bit easier. The bent tooth is the problem - and the missing teeth. You can order in confidence from Wiggle and return the item if it is not the one you want, albeit with some postage to pay. The chainring bolts do need an allen key at the front and a proper tool at the back. See if your big-fat-screwdriver can be used instead of the proper tool - tightening chainring bolts is not an everyday task so you may be able to skimp on getting yet another tool. 

In the UK it would be a brave company that took the 'anti-car' stance when it comes to selling bicycles. Furthermore, most cycle shops, distributors and others connected with the trade are personally quite pro-car (the mechanic fixing bikes to pay for his car which he needs to get to his job fixing bikes is the classic, the accountant of one distributor driving a Porsche takes the biscuit). Then there are the customers, generally most of them are pro-car (even if necessary evil) and you cannot alienate them, can you? Are there any companies in the bike business - large or small - that are quite open with harsh opinions about the motorcar? Or have there been, only for the business model to fail? Is deference to motoring a reality that cannot be escaped? 

Get a Dahon Vitesse. This is the 7 speed model with aluminium frame. This is a personal recommendation as I have been riding mine for years, I bought it for one particularly tricky commute and have not stopped riding it since. Folding time is 10-20 seconds depending on urgency, I too am 6'3" which means it is easy to get the height right for the seat as that means it is on the max-height mark. The only weak point on mine was the tyres, budget for getting them too. There are a few problems with the hinges on mine, these problems have been resolved on present-day models. It is tempting to get the more expensive models, however, in practice, anything extra, e.g. 27 gears, gets in the way of the simple elegance of the basic Vitesse model. You do not need more than seven speeds on the bike, and that should include a good enough range for your cycling cadence/terrain. Riding a Dahon folder is like being on a magic carpet - you don't have a top tube or a big wheel sticking out in front of you. The kickstand is handy as are the mudguards. I have not used the rack much but it is there for you. The Brompton bikes are more popular in the UK yet they are inferior to the basic Dahon bike for many reasons, Brompton also do not have the best patents for hinges etc. - Dahon do. A particular treat of the Dahon on descents is to be able to put the feet up on the frame - 'step thru' is great. Be prepared to ride in-the-saddle rather than out. You will get used to that, although riding out the saddle is possible some weariness of opening hinges is advised. 'Safety catches on' took me a while to learn but I don't think you can have them off on newer models. I did also look at the Mezzo (how do you fold it?) and the Giant Halfway (what no big gears) and I looked past the brand when it comes to the Brompton efforts. All considered the Dahon came out top. 

Of course you keep left, overtake on the right and queue like a good British person at junctions! However, there are no rules. In 2006 British Waterways, concerned at the popularity and over-crowding problems on tow-paths did a consultation to work out if they needed a 'keep left' policy. It was deemed that such a move would be unpopular and not adhered to (and certainly not policed). Therefore, if there is no keep left idea then overtaking on the right cannot be deemed to be against any code. Most cyclists over the age of five seem to appreciate the 'keep left/overtake on the right' idea, however there are some scenarios where this goes out the window in deference to safety. Going over Kingston Upon Thames Bridge the cycle lane is two-way, but you would be a brave cyclist to stick to 'keep left' when joining the bridge to go south - cyclists heading north are wanting to join the main highway and are crossing past your path. Going on the right is the expected norm at that particular point and, with it, overtaking on the left... 

If you look at a 10-12 speed bicycle from the days before indexed gears you have a 27"/700c wheel with a 42/52 chainset and a 14-28 freewheel. At the time such a setup was standard for High Street bicycles. Nowadays your affordable bicycle has 24-30 speeds. Typically you get a 26" or 700c wheel with a 44/32/22 triple chainset and 8-10 gears on the back with a range going from 13 to 32. Put it into the smallest gear and pedal at a reasonable cadence and you get to travel at slower than walking speed. Push it into the big gear and you are a long way short of the 52/14 gear of granddad's bike. Clearly technology has advanced and you can have lots more gears across a bigger range. However, has there been a trend with affordable 'High Street' bikes towards lower and lower gears? Have we collectively learned to pedal quicker? Have market forces resulted in 'easier' gearing?