I would assume it has a biblical origin. In Numbers chapter 21 a copper snake was placed on a banner for all the Israelites who were bitten by snakes to look at so they wouldn't die. In fact most snakes you see on medical pictures have it wrapped around a pole. 

In his memoirs about his personal life as a slave and slavery in general, Moses Grandy on page 65 claims that: "The proprietors, though they live in luxury, generally die in debt: their negroes are so hardly treated, that no profit is made by their labor. Many of them are great gamblers. At the death of a proprietor, it commonly happens that his coloured people are sold towards paying his debts." Is his claim that the horrible treatment of the slaves caused them to be not profitable correct? 

He still had to list all the other fiefdoms because they were outside of either the Kingdom of Sicily or the Kingdom of Sardinia and his right to rule in those fiefdoms was totally separate from his right to rule in either kingdom. If Victor Amadeaus had tried to annex all his lands to the Kingdom of Sardinia he would have been committing treason against the kings of Italy and Burgundy, who happened to be the Emperor. Did you know that after the Austrian army chased the French army out of northern Italy in the War of the Spanish Succession Emperor Joseph I collected millions of florins in imperial war tax from the states in Northern Italy in 1708? If Victor Amadeus had proclaimed himself King of Piedmont, he would have run the risk of becoming Victim Amadeus. In England lands and titles confiscated from traitors were often restored in whole or in part to their heirs after a generation or two. But in the Holy Roman Empire confiscated lands were usually gone and lost forever for the descendants of the traitor, usually being granted to a loyal relative of the traitor. Duke Ferdinand Charles of Mantua and Montferrat had his duchies confiscated in 1708 for supporting the French, for example. 

I've seen numerous articles claiming that WWII affected the beer bottling industry which caused a change (reversion) from it being sold in brown glass bottles to green. Sometimes the articles, such as here, say that brown glass was needed during the war which caused the shift. Sometimes, such as here, the claim is that after the war there was a shortage of brown glass and that is when the change was made. My question first of all is which of these is true? Was the change made during or after the war? Second of all, unassuming the change was made during the war, why would brown glass be needed during the war leaving the private industry with only green? And on the flip side, if the change was made post war, why was there only a shortage of brown glass? 

Dr. Susan Snyder, my medieval and ancient history professor, argued that the term "Dark Age" was inappropriate for the early Middle Ages because we still have some records from it and some innovation took place. If we said "Dark Age" in class, we had to be referring to the Greek Dark Age, a period with some actual gaps in the historic record. We lose track of almost all connection between pre- and post-Dark Age writing forms, almost as though people lost the ability to write during that period. (Linear B disappeared entirely, Linear A influences later writing in Cyprus.) Regarding the Middle Ages, Snyder is an enthusiastic Medievalist, thus her offense to the term "Dark" in reference to it. But most people probably mean the early Middle Ages when they say it. 

Neither Polybius or Livy, the 2 main accounts, mention how many elephants, if any, died during the crossing of the Alps. Appian's account says that Hannibal took 37 but also does not number those lost, if any, crossing the alps. Hannibal certainly had a number of elephants at the Battle of Trebbia, though all but 1 or 7 supposedly died in the cold weather afterwards. Though elephants do not climb up mountains unnecessarily, they do so when it is part of their migration routes. Elephants can handle colder weather than they are used to, due to their great internal heat. Elephants are also very surefooted. So it is perfectly possible that there never was even a single elephant bone or skeleton from Hannibal's army in the Alps to be discovered. 

I was wondering if there are references to static electricity in any classic works. I understand There were many people experimenting with it over the millennia, but was it also a common household occurrence? You know, wear certain clothes, touch a certain metal, and Zap! Someone claimed that static electricity only became a common occurrence after synthetic material became widespread which aids in helping the charge. I have not found any helpful leads researching this online. Is there documentation regarding any of this? 

Alot of good answers so far but being this is more social science than provable facts, I would like to add a not so pretty point. Please don't shoot the messenger. Americans and Europeans due to racism never viewed the Japanese and other Asians as fellow race members, therefore their acts were never shocking and didn't garner much attention. Much like horrific crimes happening in Africa to this day which won't get as much attention as a white on white crime would. As opposed to German crimes which were so shocking due their being perpetrated by fellow white Europeans. I don't think America would have as easily dropped the bomb on Germany as they did on Japan given the opportunity. I am not condoning racism. Its sad reality that we need to get over. But ignoring the fact that it exists doesn't help. 

According to books like Profiles of the Future by Arthur C. Clark and Rockets, Missiles and Space Travel by Wily Ley, many scientists and engineers misunderstood the physics enough to claim that space travel was impossible or impractical in reaction to discussions of the theories of Goddard, Oberth, and other space travel pioneers in the early 20th century. For example, Clarke mentioned an article denying the practicality of space travel by a Richard V. D. W. Wooley. Wooley later became Astronomer Royal in the UK in 1956 and told reporters that space travel was "utter bilge". After the first Sputnik the next year a famous cartoon showed him being shown around a space center and being told "...and then, Dr. Wooley, the satellite will penetrate utter bilge." On the other hand, a newspaper-like publication distributed to American schoolchildren during the International Geophysical Year mentioned that the USA and the USSR planned to launch satellites during it, so the launch of Sputnik should not have been too surprising to kids who read it. 

I haven't heard of a connection between Ireland and Egypt, but I have heard of Vikings making it to Greece closer to 1200 BC. I didn't see much about it on Wikipedia, but this article by Ellis Peterson is pretty reflective of what I had heard in a history class several years ago. He describes a Viking invasion at a time when the Greeks were weak. If the Vikings could do it, I could see arguments that the Egyptians and Irish could as well. Still, it seems a little far-fetched that either the Irish or the Egyptians would accomplish it 500 years before the Vikings, who were renown for their abilities on the sea. Edit: Alright, I tried googling "Irish Egyptian connection" and anything that actually referenced pre-Christian times also mentioned "Scota" or "Scotia" (the Egyptian princess from the folktale.) I also noticed that all of sites were outside of what one would consider standard academic history. 1. This was the first one I looked at, and by the time I got to this passage, I stopped reading: 

Short answer: "The Present". Shorter answer: "Now". Longer answer: "The date in the dating system used in their time and place. Or so many thousands of years since the biblical creation of the world. For example the Medieval Jewish calendar dated the creation to 3761 BC, and the medieval Byzantine calendar dated the creation to 5509 BC. Thus a Byzantine Christian and Jew could disagree about the age of the universe by 1,748 years. 

Successful treason examples. William the Conquer 1066 (when he landed in England he instantly became subject to its laws) Future Henry IV 1399. Future Richard III 1483. Future Henry VII 1485. Future William III 1688.