Philosophy largely revolves around ethics, which are a thing that scientists can't easily study. On the other hand, it would be absurd to think that all philosophers are concerned with ethics or are ethical themselves. Moreover, there are "pseudo-philosophers" who act as propagandists. In that spirit, I can't understand how the simple act of being a philosopher could make one ethical. Some philosophers are ethical, and others aren't. 

If you're referring to the Christian God, then it's worth noting that the Bible commands humans to "subdue" the earth. The Bible is also full of stories of animal and even human sacrifice. I don't think many biblical characters were vegetarians. If you believe in evolution, rather than creation, then you know that carnivory is a big part of our heritage. European cave men didn't live on green beans during the "Ice Age." As Luis Henrique pointed out, people do not treat all animals as equals. I remember when a couple gray whales were trapped in the ice off Barrow, Alaska, the year after I worked there. The rescue effort was an international sensation. But where's the compassion when there's a flood, and thousands of rodents are drowned in their burrows? And if you're one of the rare individuals who does rescue drowning rodents in the middle of a hurricane, do you take special precautions to protect invertebrates that are too tiny to see as you walk? (Some religious people - Buddhists? - carry brooms so they can sweep tiny creatures out of harm's way before they take another step.) So I think your question really boils down to the question of whether carnivory or veganism are good or evil - and whether we should treat all living things as equals, or give preference to animals over plants, "sentient beings" over insects, etc. For the record, I lean towards vegetarianism somewhat for a variety of reasons, but I've never really abandoned meat. I sometimes ponder the morality of carnivory, but I can't help being what I am any more than a tiger can. Ironically, veganism could arguably be condemned because of the modern corporate agricultural practices that are both killing animals and making plants increasingly unsafe to eat. 

The obvious answer is ALL THE ABOVE. People can unwittingly make mistakes and give voice to fallacies without realizing it. In many cases, they're merely repeating propaganda they've picked up from someone else, though they may not realize it's propaganda. On the other side of the coin, there's an army of propagandists who are trained in the use of fallacies and other methods of deception. Politicians, lawyers, union officials, used car salesmen, the media - there's a reason intelligent people don't trust these people. It wouldn't be much of an exaggeration to define them all as professional liars. 

Good point; what about our MENTAL and CULTURAL development? Since the mind is dependent on the brain (a physical organ), it's reasonable to assume that we're dealing with another two-edged swords. People's brains (and minds) do suffer from a wide range of problems, from brain cancer to psychological maladies. Mind control takes a terrible toll; the almost incomprehensible stupidity of the people I encounter right here in "progressive" Seattle frankly stuns me. On the other hand, people who are fortunate enough to grow up in stable homes and receive a good education can blossom into mental giants that would have utterly amazed our prehistoric ancestors. In this spirit, Stephen Hawking is a good symbol of physical/biological degradation and mental "progress" at the same time. Many would argue that science and philosophy didn't even exist until just a few thousand years ago, a good sign that our species is being upgraded, rather than degraded. But how closely are philosophy and science linked to "technological progress." One could argue that neither would exist without agriculture and writing. But is philosophy really joined at the hip with technology? Yes or no, philosophy itself has been degraded to some extent by propaganda. When you put it all together, you have a rather confusing situation, as evidenced by philosophers who view Nature as something noble and virtuous versus those who view technology as a refuge from Nature, which they view as abhorrent. I'm arguing that technology has undeniably degraded humans in some respects, particularly our biological fitness, but it has also helped us in other respects. In fact, philosophy is one area where humans have made enormous progress...but is philosophy joined at the hip with technology? Can it keep up with technology? Imagine if global civilization suddenly broke down - via WWIII, a massive terrorist attack, or an environmental disaster - and one or two billion people died, with the others reduced to survival, living lives more wretched than our prehistoric ancestors. How would we answer Mr. Noob's question now? Would we say that technology made people better and better...until they suddenly destroyed themselves? P.S. If I'm covering too much territory, then it would be helpful if Mr. Noob could edit his question to be more specific; is he referring to humanity's physical fitness, mental fitness, quality of life, etc.? 

Cort Ammon suggests that there are situations where you really have no choice but believe someone's warning (e.g. a going of a rifle scope). That's a good example. The irony is that in time of war, we are ordinarily LESS trustful of people we don't know. For example, we often hear the idea that people should be assumed innocent until proven guilty. But in time of war that's turned upside down, replaced with "Halt! Who goes there?" In the political arena - which is a pretty big arena - I trust almost no one. I've learned to evaluate and investigate the things I hear or read. As for the supernatural, that's a loaded word. I don't know what philosophers have to say about the "supernatural," but I'm not a big believer. The natural world is amazing enough, though anyone could have an experience that might be described as "supernatural." But, again, if we're in the political arena, and I hear a conspiracy theory that involves 1) supernatural entities, or 2) space aliens, I automatically dismiss that theory. (I do believe in "space aliens;" I just don't believe they've ever visited Earth, nor can I imagine why they'd want to replace Democrats or Republicans in tampering with the political system. 

One might argue that we're genetically programmed to believe in good and evil, whether they actually exist or not. When an animal sees a predator, it typically reacts in fear. The predator is regarded as a bad thing, which, in the human mind, may become "evil." Conversely, most "higher" animals are programmed to care for their young, which are by default regarded as "good," not evil. I wish I could remember the video I watched in which a guy says something like "Ethics are facts about the well-being of creatures." That statement really resonated with me. "Good," in the broadest sense, can be interpreted as doing something that will somehow benefit another person or living thing. Of course, there's a hierarchy involved; we're more concerned with doing good to family members than to strangers, and most of us would help another human before we help an elephant, which in turn outranks a leech. In summary, one might argue that good and evil do exist, even if they're difficult to quantify or even define. Or, to put it another way, you could define good and evil in a way that makes their existence more tangible. 

Chief among these is self-preservation. For example, if someone attempts to mug me, I might tell them that I have a gun (even if I don't). I also believe in fighting fire with fire. If someone wants to make up stories about me, I'll smear them in return. To put it another way, I don't care to play games where I'm forced to play be the rules that everyone else breaks. If the government and media are going to lie, I have no objection to using strategic lies to attack them in return. Another example is warfare. You don't tell the enemy you're going to attack Point A at noon on Monday. You falsely claim you're going to attack Point B on Wednesday. 

Not necessarily. People can be imprisoned as a form of punishment, period. Solitary confinement and life sentences, in particular, do little to improve behavior. People can also be imprisoned, albeit rarely, for their own protection, for observation or pending further legal action. Keep in mind that the justice systems in some countries (e.g. the U.S.) is extraordinarily corrupt. The U.S. is known for the vast number of citizens who are in prison, along with a variety of abuses associated with prison. Torture (not limited to solitary confinement) and rape occur in some prison systems. Innocent people can be sentenced (sometimes knowingly) to prison. The most familiar legal loophole is the common knowledge that rich and powerful people are the least likely to be sentenced to prison. When they are sentenced, they typically get shorter terms and may be sent to special "country club prisons." You might also want to do some research on political prisoners, juvenile detention, etc. 

I just learned about Immanuel Kant's book The Metaphysics of Morals. I thought metaphysics and morals (ethics) were two separate branches of philosophy. Is this just a catchy title that shouldn't be interpreted literally, or did Kant view morals as somehow metaphysical? 

I think it would be safe to describe the term dictatorship of the proletariat as a tongue-in-cheek term. It could be described as witty, even humorous. But some people use the term to paint all socialist states as dictatorships by default, even if they have democratic institutions, including free and fair elections. Can anyone tell me what logical fallacy describes this type of argument? 

I up voted a couple answers that mentioned the lesser-of-evils syndrome; how can you vote when all the candidates are bad? However, I'd like to take it one step further. What we're essentially saying is that all the FRONT-RUNNING candidates are bad. Many people trust in some maverick candidate, like Bernie Sanders or Ralph Nader. What they don't realize is that these are often examples of "controlled opposition," or fake leaders. They're operatives whose job it is to mislead and confuse the voters. And that's just the tip of the iceberg. As a former candidate for public office, I can speak firsthand of the extraordinary games that are played even in "liberal Seattle." You can count me among those who ask in despair "WHAT democracy?" I think this puts a different slant on the question (even though voting was merely inserted as an example). Many people would cite the last presidential election as the worst in U.S. history. Expecting people to choose between Donald Trump and Hillary was utterly insane. So we give them an impossible choice, then criticize them when they don't endorse the scumbag they despise the least? In this particular example, a person has every right to complain about the person who got elected. However, I would add that people should make an effort to see the bigger picture and complain about the bigger picture, not just that one horrible public official who got elected. But what about a situation where there IS a good candidate, and a person who could easily vote is too busy watching TV or playing with his Xbox? Voting is a necessary function of democracy, and people do have some responsibility to vote. In this spirit, we can get sucked into arguments where we're splitting hairs. John Doe may be right on target when he calls a newly elected politician (Mr. X) a liar. But if there was an obviously good candidate (Mr. A), and John Doe didn't cast a vote for him, then we would have grounds for some kind of complaint. Again, it's perfectly OK for John Doe to state the obvious (or even offer an opinion), that Mr. is a liar, for example. It would also be OK for John Doe to criticize the corrupt election system that made it possible for Mr. X to get elected. However, the fact that John Doe didn't vote is obviously going to be ammunition for his critics, even if they use that ammunition in an unfair manner. To really get to the heart of the matter, it would be interesting to try and formulate a logical, rational charge against John Doe in such a situation. Here are a couple possible examples: 

This topic is a little more complex and confusing than I expected. I'm tempted to change the title to "Which fallacy blames the victims rather than their oppressors?" But I'm not sure if that's a better title or something completely different. See my clarification at the end of this post. 

Boosted by computers, technology becomes more advanced/complex every day. So should we declare that our technology is too advanced to be attributed to humans; it's actually the product of some alien civilization? Similarly, the theory of evolution generally posits increasing complexity (though not necessarily in a linear fashion). [Evolution of Biological Complexity, The Surprising Origins of Biological Complexity] We think of insects as more complex than amoeba, vertebrates as more complex than insects, the human brain more complex than a fish's brain. Why should we suddenly shout "Stop! That's more complexity than Nature can handle!"? Looking at it another way, why is complexity such a problem? Are we to assume there's some sort of magic barrier limiting complexity? There are many different kinds of atoms and elements that form an infinite variety of chemicals, interacting with other chemicals, temperature, light, etc. These entities have been interacting with each other on a global scale 24/7 for over half a billion years. [Actually, the first life may have appeared 4 billion years ago - Evolutionary Timeline] Why should Nature's evolutionary experiments suddenly stop once they've created a cellular prototype that we deem not terribly complex? It seems to be human nature to assign "quotas" to things we can't understand. I see something similar in politics all the time. 

I would argue that nations are abstract concepts that are no more moral or immoral than various forms of government or economic systems. If the people that make up a particular nation, or that nation's government, are immoral, then we could call that particular nation immoral. Humans are social animals, and nations appear to be the inevitable result of cultural evolution. They're a part of life that we can scarcely escape unless we choose to live in some remote, uninhabited region claimed by no nation.