In the UK and at least some other European countries, it is very common to dig in caves to get through blocked passages. Normally this is done through either sections of cave blocked by boulders from ancient roof collapses or through sediments left from post-Ice Age flooding. For example, this photo looking upwards to the caver at the top of a dig currently ongoing locally to me, where cavers are removing boulders in the floor of a large room (or chamber) by following a wall downwards and shoring the boulders on remaining sides with scaffolding and boarding: 

From a website giving information on jackets, specifically for "Venturi" fabric, the material appears to be similar to GoreTex, etc. and recommended washing is given as: 

Sound reflected by concave surfaces will concentrate in a narrow area rather like light passing through a convex lens. You were probably at one of the focal points for the sound being reflected in the cwm behind the person you could hear. 

Old records mention ongoing passage somewhere lower down in the room (chamber) and they are hoping to gain access to this. You are correct in that the problem is movement of the scree rather than dangers of walls or roof collapsing. Your example would have to be treated as an exercise in removing scree and then somehow preventing the cavity from being re-filled afterwards by more scree. Unfortunately it seems to be a very difficult problem in this case due to the long length of sloping cave passage and the amount of scree involved. I imagine you would need a major engineering project for a permanent solution. 

There are other, smaller areas as well, such as: Forest of Dean, Devon, Barrow in Furness, Assynt (in Scotland). The UK Caving WIKI has some more information on this. If you would like to get back into caving, the best bet is to join a caving club. The British Caving Association's Try Caving website is a very good resource for beginners. Go on, give it a go! Not all caves are small! For example, near me in the Peak District: 

I live in an area (in the UK) with a lot of limestone (and gritstone) quarries, some still working and many abandoned. Some of the abandoned quarries have been equipped with bolts for sport climbing (NOT the gritstone though!) and are regularly used. However, the rock itself is a compact limestone with not much in the way of natural fracturing and once the odd loose bit from quarrying operations had been removed, what is left is pretty solid. Looking at your photo it looks like this area of limestone is highly fractured, probably due to geological movement rather than due to quarrying. I don't think you would ever get down to a section to solid rock no matter how much loose material you removed. 

I would imagine the "testing" others referred to is suitability for purpose rather than will the gear end up damaged or broken. For example, if using a new tent, have you practiced pitching it at home first rather than waiting until you have to use it while in the middle of nowhere? Or is the stove and cooking equipment you plan to carry able to cope with the quantities you need to cook? Is your sleeping bag warm enough or too warm for the conditions you are likely to meet? Will everything you plan to bring fit in your pack? Is there anything you plan on taking not really needed? I would suggest a trial trip say over a weekend or maybe two not too far away to try out everything first before you set off on your actual trip. 

In addition to the suggestions above, regular use of walking or trekking poles are a great help in alleviating knee and hip problems. 

At a slide show I saw years ago, Joe Simpson said that the knife Simon Yates used was his own (i.e. Joe's). 

Colour if urine is a good indicator. The lighter the colour, the better your hydration is. Once you start to feel thirsty, you are already dehydrated. 

There isn't a problem carrying fuel for camping stoves (assuming in "sensible" quanities) in the UK. HOWEVER, when wild camping (i.e camping off of organised camp sites) in the UK, the ethos is to leave no trace afterwards. So setting camp fires is a no-no. And on many organised camp sites, open fires are forbidden (although some do allow small fires and may supply a metal container for this purpose but in my experience, these are in the minority). 

It certainly isn't safe to use a sling or anything else which will not absorb shock in the event of a fall. Although you are probably not likely to have this sort of thing while scrambling, if you know are going to need to clip in to something for some reason, you could always take a tip from caving and use dynamic rope to make up what we call "cowstails". These are used regularly in caving while abseiling and prusiking up ropes and on traverse lines to clip into as a safeguard in case of a slip or equipment failure. We use two at a time as it makes certain manouvres easier and safer but for your purpose just one would be better than a sling which absorbs no shock in the event of a fall. For example of a caver's "cowstails": NOTE: It is possible to take a fall with a very large Fall Factor on Via Ferrata, which is why Via Ferrata "lanyards" have a means of allowing the rope to slip through some sort of fall protector (or have elasticated sections held together by stitching which will burst during a fall) in order to absorb the possible very large shock. The intention with cowstails is NOT to fall but to prevent a fall from happening. However if you do fall (and you should never climb above the item to which they are attached) it should only by with a small Fall Factor and onto dynamic rope. Cavers normally attach the costails to their harness using the Maillon Rapide which joins the two sides of the harness at the front and centre, by using the loop tied in the rope between the two karabiners in the picture above. A Maillon Rapide is used as it can take a 3-way directional loading safely, which an ordinary karabiner cannot, unless it is a specialised karabiner such as the Petz Omni whcih is designed to do this. 

In addition to regular washing, all breathable fabrics need some sort of treatment to allow water to bead on the surface, to assist with breathability. To check this, try pouring a little water on your jacket's surface and see if it beads or wets out. If you find the water beads (forms into droplets which roll off the fabric) then all is well. If not, then using a spray which helps the fabric repel water (such as those sold by NikWax or Grangers, at least here in the UK, but I'm sure similar products are available in other locations) would be a good idea. 

It isn't that unusual to use 8mm rope in caving on vertical (at least in Europe) especially in deeper caves with more rope to carry down and of course, back out again. In the US cavers tend to rig pitches from a single anchor and take care that there are no sharp bits of rock the rope could come in contact with and use rope which is more abrasion-resistant. In Europe we will place intermediate anchors (a "rebelay") on longer pitches which helps prevent rope rub and speeds up abseil and ascent as the pitch is split into sections. Also this means that thinner rope can be used as there should be no chance of abrasion because of rubbing on rock. Ropes are rigged such that the chances of the rope rubbing anywhere on rock is reduced to nil (or as near as possible) because when prusiking back up ropes, any rope rub will damage the rope and with thinner diameter ropes, the safety factor with respect to damage is much reduced. I often visit a local old lead mine with a 100 metre shaft which is generally at an angle 45 degrees or steeper with several large steps or platforms cut into the rock at different points. Even though the angle is nowhere near vertical, the shaft is not straight as it wasn't bored by a tunnelling machine but formed partly be natural activity and partly by miners. This means that a single length or rope would rub at various points, both on the lower side of the shaft and also on the upper side. Cavers do not use Figure of Eight or similar descenders due to the fact that they twist the rope and can be dropped when attaching or detaching to or from the rope. Cavers use either racks (for example) or "bobbin" type descenders (for example) as these do not twist the rope and remain attached to your harness even when loading or unloading the rope. Although you intend to descend a slope, if it is of any real length other than a few metres, I would treat it as a normal abseil (or rappel) and would be happy to use 8mm rope (bearing in mind my points above). However, below this diameter I would be worried about the ability to absorb any shock in a fall or any possibility of damage from abrasion. Even on a slope, a fall can occur. For example an intermediate belay could give way.