No, the differential backup is based on the differences since the main. It doesn't contain a full usable structure. 

This turned out to be a red herring. When pgadmin gets disconnected midquery, it returns the last error again even if it was an entirely different command! :) 

Rows are not returned in any specific order in SQL (in reality they are likely to be in the same order most of the time) so without an ORDER BY any of the rows could be returned first. So it is non deterministic because this first record can change each time you run the query. Wrapping it in a block doesn't make the answer deterministic, it just hides the warning. 

They can analyse past queries and suggest/create indexes however this doesn't work optimally because indexes strike a balance to speed up what you want optimised at a cost and the server can not know your intentions. 

So essentially, I'm attempting to display the average NUMERIC_GRADE for the correspondingly grouped category types (i.e. Participation = avg percentage) but my attempts invariably return errors (not sure why). I believe my logic is directionally correct, albeit flawed; could someone please advise? Thank you! 

What exactly is a database mission-statement? My question was prompted after submitting an academic-assignment requiring a "mission-statement" for ERD-modeling. I've yet to encounter this requirement out in the wild as a software engineer, and I presume a mission-statement is akin to a thesis-statement, but I remain unsure after my Google-search. Any DBA professional example or guidance explaining the ideal "database mission-statement" would be appreciated- thanks! 

I've constructed the below query which satisfies the requirements, except output includes NULL values between all "vendor_address2" columns, which isn't intended. I suspect my error is somewhere within the clause, which is designed to exclude any NULL values in the resulting output. I've included a copy of the corresponding table below the output for my most recent query: 

I don't know how to write this out in the above format but you are going to have a table for books, and a table for categories with a foreign key to the book. If there were more columns for the category, to normalise this you would need to add a third table to allow a many to many relationship with foreign keys to both book and category. Following the example of what you have said above and the statement that the right hand side can not be empty, this can't be represented in that way! Plus the reason it generally doesn't seem to make sense is that in the real world you would probably want to implement this using surrogate keys. 

You shouldn't restore it , that leaves an active db. To apply transaction logs you need to use (restoring) or (read only). 

N00b question here: I'm still learning Oracle SQL Developer. Although I understand how to query databases/tables remotely, I'm unable to manipulate the data due to permissions-basically I would like to download/export copies of the databases/tables so I can manipulate or adjust the data within the table. I'm running Oracle SQL Developer on Mac OS X Yosemite and I'm unable to place a copy of the original table in my table space. I've consulted Oracle dox, but I believe these are dated because the GUI isn't as described. I'd appreciate any assistance. Thank you. 

I'm attempting to display the same number of invoices that have the same number of days between two specific dates (e.g. issuance date and payment date). I can ascertain a segment of the aforementioned with the following query: 

Here is a screenshot of output for clarification: My second attempt is closer to the expected result, sans "DESCRIPTION" column, necessitating the JOIN clause; I've also included the query and output below: 

Where info is personalised it should be normalised into linked tables that only join to rows where that optional column has been added. Also if you might be adding many columns or long data it is common to have a core user table with extended info tables mapped on a one to one basis. These methods allow for smaller indexes more specialised to each query scenario. Generally, good normalisation and matching tables well to real world entities rather than theoretical ones gives the most adaptable and future proof design. 

The whole point of NoSQL is that it doesn't use the same type of datastructures as an SQL database. It requires a whole different way of thinking and approach with your app, so there isn't something to handily copy the schema over because it is going to be unique to your solution. 

What is the fastest way to determine if an IP is contained within a CIDR block? At the moment, whenever I store a CIDR address I also create two columns for starting and ending ip addresses. The starting and ending ip addresses are indexed. If I want to see which network contains an address then I look which seems less than desirable. It occurs to me I can store the right shifted number and could match similarly shifted IP address (660510 in the case of @cidr)... 

Unfortunately, MySQL's regular expression function return true, false or null depending if the expression exists or not. The trick in effecting the desired behavior is to determine which substring begins with the character you care about, has the correct length, and is followed by a number. A series of substring_index functions are used to extract the string... 

I'm also open to alternatives and I'd appreciate any insight with respect syntax and structure as well. Thank you! UPDATE As requested, I've included a below screen-shot of the first query cited; so, in addition to the column below, I would like to create another alias column as "Number of Instances" counting the number of instances. Thank you. 

Evidently, this is how you copy tables from databases with permissions via remote connection to a local file-folder on Oracle SQL Developer (Mac OS X Yosemite): 

Target database and expand to view tables. Select desired table and right-click. Hover-over 'Table' and select 'Copy' A pop-up window will prompt to save copy table-name. 

which displays the number days between those specified column-dates, but to clarify, I would like to create an additional column displaying how many instances occur between the number of days calculated from the above, preferably as another alias column- say "Number of Instances". I suspect the solution might involve the operator or perhaps the operator but I'm unable to effect. Here is my last unsuccessful attempt: