I have a hobby of writing video game item descriptions, usually trying to justify game mechanics within the flavor text. Elemental weapons are especially fun to explain in-universe. Lightning spears being created by people that have to fight against invaders that use full body armor, a fire sword is used by an executioner to instantly cauterize necks for indoor beheadings, that kind of thing. At the moment, however, I'm having a hard time justifying weapons that freeze. I just can't see the advantage making an enemy's laceration, puncture, or point of blunt force trauma really really cold. Without a large battlefield advantage, freezing just seems like unnecessary overkill. They already died of the impact/wound, why are you turning the corpse into cold-cuts, you know? Assuming that destroying or draining heat (either's fine with me. The lapse of physics can be explained with magic) from a struck or touched target requires some form of extra investment when creating the tool, why would a freezing weapon be worthwhile? edit- I forgot to mention that I thinking of feudal era weapons and tools. 

Ag, this difficult, but I really want to see this questioned answered. A lot of people on this site deal with flame attacks in the medieval ages, after all. Right of the bat, a smoke hood could keep fire out of the Iron Guard's lungs and eyes, which they would probably appreciate. Their also easy to make, just an airtight leather sack and with a hose that trails to the ground behind the wearer. The idea is that the hose would allow for the air underneath the smoke to be inhaled instead of the smoke itself. Its not much, but it cheap and better than nothing. The other idea I had was a wearable mop (kinda). Basically, soaking some burlap or other durable cloth in water is an easy way to take the edge off extreme heat. Wet burlap masks used to be used in the engine of coal powered ships to keep shovelers' face from being burned. This breaks the rule of going over the Iron Guards trademark armor, but I though it might be worth mentioning nonetheless. Plus they would have to keep spraying themselves with water and that might not be viable in the heat of combat. Lastly, some kind of broad, lightweight shield might be good just to keep burning fuel from getting on the Guardsmen. I know they will want heavy iron things, but lightweight wood or leather stretched over a frame would be best (one of these bad boys). 

After looking at the answers to your last question, I do agree that bladed feet would be less than optimal for a pursuit-type predator. Simply put, blades would require a lot of time and energy to extract after sinking into the spongy ground. However, who says this creature has to be a pursuit-type predator? What if mole-like creatures travel underneath the biological floor, either eating the sponge or using it to endure sub-optimal conditions (heat-wave, for example). These blade-foots are designed to seek out the moles, spear them with their limbs, and then extract them and eat them for nourishment. Now you have a good reason for the blades and you could use their lack of speed as justification for some interesting behavior. Without the ability to escape their own predators, blade-foots instead travel in packs for protection and lash out at any creature that gets close, like a nightmarish combination of preying mantis and cassowary. From a human standpoint, they would be an incredibly dangerous and aggressive species. If this seems interesting to you, I would consider marking the front blades substantially longer that the blades on the back legs, since they would be the ones best at striking targets to eat. Barbs or some kind of serration would help at pulling the impaled prey to the surface as well. 

Hmmm. It's hard for my mind to keep from imagining a bunch of giant go-carts on the highway, Mario Cart-style. More to the point, with most vehicles the design could be more-or-less the same as human cars, but with reduced space for passengers. An SUV-sized vehicle might only seat two giants (including the driver), for example. A giant family (re: a family of giants) might have to take a minimum of two cars when traveling anywhere. I could imagine buses and subways having special seats dedicated to giants and charging giants an extra fee for the extra space. Because of that, I would imagine specialized taxis would be a lot more appealing for the Goliath on the go. Alternatively, maybe they have their own bus system or get picked up for work with flatbed trucks. I guess if would all depend of what percentage of the population are giants. All of these have the issue of being expensive for the average giant consumer. Maybe only more prosperous giants move to cities? Or perhaps cities in this world cater to pedestrians more than our own cities. After all, with there massive stride length, a giant could probably walk at 6.0 mph without much effort. Just make sure the city planner puts the giant district right next to where giants work (docks? warehouses?). Maybe a giant could use a specially constructed bicycle/quadracyle. 

While increased lifting power would be useful for soldiers, I don't think that would be the reason powered armor would be adopted. The big draw of powered armor would be the armor. One of the main reasons heavy, plate mail-type armor disappeared for battlefields is that firearms demanded more armor than an individual solider could carry. This was the case until modern materials like Kevlar was invented. If powered armor increased the weight limit (so to speak) you could start armoring individual solider with inches of armor commonly found on tanks. True enough, this wouldn't be available to every solider, but squads operating in urban areas would definitely appreciate being immune to small arms fire. Likewise, WWI stormtroopers-style would like becoming juggernauts as well, sense those kinds of troops use high-risk highly mobile tactics that expect returned fire. Heck, one powered armor person with a double thick, double wide bulletproof shield could be useful as mobile cover. Just to cover my tracks, full plate Kevlar and steel suits would be sweltering to wear, especially in the arid places where armies seems to congregate these days. By itself, this would limit the range and length of engagements you could put these soldiers in. It would be cool if they could use portable air conditioning or other cooling systems as backpacks, but I'm not sure how viable that would be. Oh, and hitting someone or something with a cybernetically powered sledgehammer would go a long way in modern combat. If not tactically, then at least in terms in keeping up moral. If I had the chance to pretend to be the terminator, I'd probably sprint to the recruiter's office. 

Okay, so I was working on making a sapient creature that lives underwater ended up with what was basically a two-hundred pound crab. They have human level language skills, and I decided to justify this social skill by making them build structures to protect themselves and their young from predators. Over time, these structures would grow larger and branch into storehouses, temples, castles, and other specialized buildings. To teach new generations to build these things, or to keep building the things their progenitors started, this species learned complex language and writing. Basically, its the old tool-use-leads-to-civilizations idea, except with architecture instead of handheld tools. The problem is what kinds of construction methods could a crab use underwater? All the methods of building I know of require some form of mortar or specially cut stone, neither of which seem possible for a underwater creature without fingers. Just making rock igloos wouldn't work either, as large predators could just knock them over. Two important details: In addition to their crushing claws, this species has a "beard" of sensitive, octopus-like tentacles for more dexterous work, but are only little over a foot long. Secondly, they can go on land, but need to be submerged or sprayed with water in order to avoid drying out and risking health problems (other than their legs and arms, they have soft shells covered in skin). They can comb beaches and travel a little inland for useful materials and farm undersea plants to turn into ropes, but they can't really use tools other than their claws and tentacle-beard. Metallurgy and building mortar are right out, but they can find and transport stone easily enough. I'm not sure if they would be able to mine, as that would quickly were down their claws. Any ideas or suggestions? 

You could have the perches retract into the roof of the bus. In order to use a perch, the fly-guys would have to pay a fee. This could be done with an machine that extends a perch when a coin is inserted or the driver could be paid and extend a perch him/herself. When the fly-guys gone as far as their fare will take them, the driver could retract the perch from under him/her. If they don't let go and fly away before that, they are pinned to the roof until they pay for more or the authorities come. For this to make sense, I'm assuming these dudes' have bird-like feet.