It's definitely not as good as storing them in a climate controlled environment like your house but if you're buying a camper-style trailer it's going to be a little better than throwing them in a shed out back and a lot better than leaving them out in the elements. As long as the bikes are getting ridden and maintained regularly, normal wear and tear should catch up to them before the effects of the storage method you have in mind will. Unless you're running a climate controlled environment the two things you're going to have to watch out for are high humidity levels, high temperatures. Unless you're running an AC or storing your bikes in a giant ammmo box, humidity is going to be a concern. Keep in mind that even if you don't have a steel framed bike, many of your components are either made of steel or have steel bits which are especially susceptible to corrosion. Even if the trailer is reasonably well sealed you may want to consider getting a chemical dehumidifier. These are often made of a type of clay or silica gel and you should be able to find them at your local hardware or home improvement store, or obviously online. If you find that they're getting used up faster than they should be then you probably have an issue with how well your trailer is sealed. Make sure to change the dehumidifier out as needed since the chemical type does get used up. Regarding temperatures, extreme heat is the one you really need to watch out for. High temperatures won't affect the metal parts of your bike but they will degrade most anything made of plastic or rubber over time. Try to position the trailer somewhere that doesn't get much sun. If you live in an arid climate, consider venting it during the summer. However if you live in a humid climate leaving a vent open is probably just trading one problem for another. Cold shouldn't be much of an issue. As an aside, don't store your bike in direct sunlight either. This is true of any storage method. The paint and/or anodization can fade over time which is purely aesthetic, but once again rubber and plastic parts (leather as well) are susceptible to degradation from sunlight. Hang curtains/towels/whatever in the windows of the trailer so that they absorb the harmful rays instead of your nice bikes. 

Part two: if you want to get over the step "as safely as possible" then you want to hit it as slow as possible. That's great if you're not in traffic, but even if you aren't it sucks to lose your momentum. What you need to practice is something akin to a bunny hop, however having both wheels leave the ground simultaneously for small bumps typically isn't necessary. Practice pulling up your front wheel and immediately after gravity takes back over pulling up your back wheel with your feet and legs. Practice this in your driveway or on a quiet street over small obstacles. As you become comfortable with this maneuver you can practice on bigger obstacles and at higher speeds. If and when you feel comfortable to do so you can hop both wheels at the same time at high speed- whatever you feel comfortable with. How big an obstacle you can handle totally depends on how comfortable you are with doing this and how high you can pull the wheels off the ground. 

At the time that 69ers came along, 29ers were still struggling to gain mainstream acceptance and 69ers simply didn't offer enough benefit, if any, to really interest the masses. I always felt that 69ers, especially hardtails, did more to combine the disadvantages of each platform rather than the advantages and so did many others. There just wasn't a compelling reason to mess with such a niche bike at a time when you could count all the 29er suspension forks and tires combined with just your fingers. Ultimately as we all know, 29ers did gain mainstream acceptance, and when there was room for a "middle ground" platform 650b's filled the gap. It doesn't mean the configuration wont come back- I think it still offers potential benefit in a full suspension configuration, but the first wave of 69ers was not a success. At the time it was an untested platform based on an untested platform that typically cost more than all the other comparable bikes due to the small production runs. 

This is probably normal, but if the chain goes slack in small/small or completely taught in big/big, you may need to adjust the length of your chain accordingly. If it does both, you likely need a longer cage derailleur, but keep reading and you'll know how to check on that last case and know for certain. Each cage length for a given derailleur is designed to take a minimum sprocket size, a maximum sprocket size, and a maximum number of teeth difference between running the bike in big chainring/big sprocket and small chainring/small sprocket known as "maximum capacity" or "total capacity". That final number basically defines how much extra chain the derailleur cage can take up and thus how wide of a gear range you can run. For example, a Shimano 105 RD-5700 rear derailleur has a minimum sprocket size of 11t, a maximum sprocket size of 28t, and a total capacity of 33t. To find out whether your drivetrain is within the total capacity range of the rear derailleur that you're running, use the following formula: 

You're better off getting on the phone to FSA as opposed to asking your questions here. If it's a common problem they'll be the ones to know and they'll likely be eager to set it right. I can tell you that I've had no such problems with my Gossamer cranks in many years of ownership. If I were to speculate I would say that that is a defect and if the cranks aren't ancient (which they don't appear to be given your BB style) the manufacturer may well cover it. 

Somewhat dependent on slope/incline and speed, and whether you're on the hoods or in the drops, but largely yes, this is correct. 

It sounds to me like you either have very high or collapsed arches and the arch support in your shoes is not enough or too much. In other words you're on an extreme end of the spectrum in terms of arch height. Depending on how much support is built into the last (the lower portion) of the shoe, you may be able to alleviate the problem by replacing the inserts that came with the shoes. Some companies make moldable supports that will set you back quite a few dollars/pounds/whateveryourcurrency- I think they're a bunch of crap, but that's a different conversation. You can also get non-moldable inserts with varying degrees of arch support that are considerably less expensive and more likely to correct the issue at hand. Specialized makes some very nice ones, as do other companies. A dealer should be able to fit you to the appropriate pair. If the last of your shoe is just built really high in the arch and you have collapsed arches, there's not much you can do except buy new shoes. Once again, a dealer worth its salt should be able to help you along. Regarding cleat position, that's a factor that tends to play into foot and toe numbness more than arch pain. That doesn't mean it's not worth playing with a little though. Lining up the ball of your foot with the pedal spindle is a good starting point. Moving the cleat forward on the shoe is very rarely a good idea for normal cycling activities. Typically you'll want to move the cleat back (towards your heel) if you're having pain or numbness issues. Once again, I think it's unlikely that you'll get much benefit from playing with cleat position if you're having arch problems, unless perhaps you've got your cleats slammed all the way forward. 

Daniel summed up the first half of your question pretty well. For the second half, start by visiting this link to learn how to adjust the hub. When you go to inspect the bike try what you've learned first. If the shift lever is obviously sticky it may just need new cable and housing. Other than that, it's hard to tell. Internally geared hubs typically aren't a component that you visually inspect. If it's potentially trashed, 1972 isn't really a vintage that would be worth rebuilding. If the hub is trashed and you're really in love with the bike, you could always replace the rear wheel with a new one. 3 speed internally geared hubbed wheels are typically pretty cheap. Or you could wait for another bike like it to come around. Most bikes from around that time period are a dime a dozen. 

There is no modification to be done. You can use a 10spd Shimano derailleur with 9spd or 10spd components no problem. If they're telling you that they need to "modify" your 10 speed derailleur because you were previously using it with 9 speed components, bid them good day and go find another shop. However I don't think that's what they're concerned with. Since you're going to be running a 3x10 setup, my guess is that the reason your bike shop wants to replace your derailleur is the cage length of the current derailleur that you have. 3x10 gives you the widest gear ranges, but with wider gear ranges come longer cages to account for larger capacity, that is the derailleur's ability to take up or deal out extra chain between gearing extremes (big-big, small-small, or close to either). Too short caged of a derailleur can cause the chain to lose tension when nearing the small-small combination, or cause the bike to be unable to shift into gear combinations approaching big-big at all. Neither one of those are a good situation and can potentially damage your bike's drivetrain. If you're running a 3x10 setup, you likely need at least a medium cage derailleur. If you're running a dinner plate on the back (read: cassette with very low gearing, likely 29t or larger) you may actually need a long cage derailleur, or a mountain bike derailleur. 

From a legal standpoint, 3 feet laws give cyclists a legal upper hand in the cases of being rear ended or sideswiped as the driver of the motorized vehicle is by default in violation of that law. In terms of your options for restitution for someone breaking that law by buzzing you with no additional laws broken (ie you didnt get creamed by the car) there are virtually none. If you're really lucky a sympathetic cop might witness the incident and write the driver a citation, but that's about it. 

Totally fine. If the stem was sitting well above the steerer you would be in trouble, but having a spacer with a big gap should be of no concern. 

You're going to have to go with something purpose made for that specific model of phone to get a secure mount on the bike. I'm not aware of any universal phone mount options that are worth anything, however you can browse Wally World if you feel like wagering $20 one yourself. There are few different brands, but the Bracketron universal mount has sealed/waterproof zippers whereas the Arkon does not. I can tell you from personal experience that the Arkon universal car mount I have has had to be Frankensteined back into working condition about 4 different times over the last several years, so I don't have a lot of faith in their products. 

I've heard of people having their frames x-rayed, but for obvious reasons that's not very practical. The most reliable manner of checking a carbon frame for damage that I'm aware of is the old coin tap test. Get a quarter ( or whatever coin fits that form factor in your local currency) and go over the frame lightly tapping the edge of the coin against the frame. Intact carbon makes a distinct "clack", whereas damaged, delaminating carbon will have a much duller thud sound when tapped. Keep in mind that as the tubes change shapes and thicknesses the sound will gradually change. What you're looking for is a distinctly different muted report that abruptly changes within a very localized area. Keep in mind that this is not a foolproof or exhaustive method of checking your frame and fork for damage, but it does work surprisingly well. I've found many a damaged frame this way. 

Snell is touted as having the most stringent standards, but they apparently cost the most/require the most samples for testing as well so many manufacturers simply pass. 

For the lockring a hammer and screwdriver works sometimes, but you end up damaging everything involved except the hammer, sometimes to the point that you can't get the lockring tool to work after the fact. Get the lockring tool. There are semi universal ones that work ok. The type that are designed to fit specific lockrings (ie 3 slot, 4 slot) work much better. Either way they're fairly cheap. Once the lockring is off you might be able to use your bikes chain and crank in place of a chainwhip, but this is yet another place where you're better off just buying the appropriate tool. Once you have them you'll be a happier fixie rider. 

When you combine all of these elements in harmony you've got a really substantial amount of movement, and although it only takes a fraction of a second to land a big jump, it's enough time to slow down a rider's mass and keep them from becoming a grease spot at the bottom of The Tooney Drop. 

The casing is giving way underneath the tread. The casing is made up of woven threads that give the tire its shape and strength. Don't ride it this way as it can get worse or fail catastrophically (blow out). You need a new tire. 

There are so many things that this could be. Given how new the bike is, I might check the headset to see if it's loose. That's just the most likely of many possibilities, though. It's also worth noting that the actual location of various nasty sounds on bikes can be deceiving due to the way the sounds resonate through the bike frame/fork/wheels/etc. Check the headset first and then go from there. 

Again, practice these techniques before you go and make your bike all squirrely. Technique beats equipment any day. If you're truly concerned about your fit and positioning on the bike, find an LBS with someone trained on bike fit to help you. 

Crits are scary as hell. Road racing in general is scary, but crits are the scariest of the scary. I've seen some gnarly crashes and both as a racer and a spectator, and you've experienced one yourself, so kudos for wanting to get back on the saddle. 

If you buy your wheel from a bike shop and they lace it up for you, it's almost certainly laced by hand as the cost and calibration of the machines are not practical for one-off wheelsets. This is the preferred method and you arguably get a better wheel. Most less expensive wheelsets that are ordered from distributors are machine built, although that is not always the case. For instance, J&B Importers is a wholesaler that has a large selection of inexpensive wheelsets, most of which are purportedly hand laced. On the flipside, nearly all more expensive wheelsets are going to be built by hand, and while I'm sure that somewhere out there a nice/expensive pair of machine built wheels exists, I don't personally know of any examples. 

Physics! Landing big jumps is all about dissipating the inertia that pesky old gravity has created on your trip back to earth. The better you dissipate that inertia, the better the chance that you wont kill yourself. There are several factors in play here: 

I think Sheldon's recommendations are a good rule of thumb - I might be wiling to go a tad narrower if I were truly compelled to do so, but that's all to be taken with a grain of salt. In terms of rim depth, it should play no part in your tire choice whatsoever as it has no bearing on how the tire will seat into the rim.