For sure get a second hand. I've got my Specialized SJ Evo for 2200$ while a new one costs about 5000$, from a guy that works in LBS with a new set of brakes, cassette & chain, and I can't say that I was too much in hunt after it. Just an example for how much more could you get for your money, if you choose a used one. Just be sure to check it very well. Search with a good LED light for cracks in the frame, especially around the welds. 

Why not leave this tire for another bike (like whatever-junk-left commuter) where you could simply put a tube with sealant? 

For how often did you ride during this month? You describe quite novice errors. I've done the switch recently and I understand what you mean, but each time I was scared to do something with cleats or fell, I beared in mind the thought that I simply need to get used to them. Now I prefer cleats to flats, even I don't feel that 100% confident with them. Anyway, the reason for muscle pain is that you use another muscles now. Difficulty to get a quick start is only in your head, moreover cleats let you give exploding amount of power without being scary that your feet will spin too fast and you'll lose the pedals. Same thing about power. IMO you simply don't trust 'em, so I think you should give them another try (for two months at least, if you ride twice a week), and only then you will be able to get some kind of objective conclusions. 

As to current state (fall 2017) there is no ultimate solution that has a mount for both sweetened drink bottle and regular water bladder. In a perfect world I see it as a bladder backpack with a secure belt pocket for bottles size 500-800 ml. There are solutions to mount your bottle on the frame, all of them lame in a different way: Velcro mounted bottle cage (less lame), on the bars (very lame), on the saddle (also very lame). I guess there are exceptions, but for me none of those options will fit, because a. the only place I can allow another 750 g. of weight is close to the bike center of gravity; b. can't see most of those options survive aggressive downhill hammering. There is a nice solution by Source, but you should remember to do your best to clean it after a ride ASAP and store in the freezer, otherwise you'll share your energy drink with other forms of life (mold). There are runners belts that should take 2 bottles of volume 500 ml, but that's not officially mentioned on brand's sites. @Chris H mentioned that his Karrimor Duo X holds bottles up to 800 ml. volume. Another option (and IMO the best one) is to separate between hydration & energy needs and add sweeteners free salt tablets to your hydration bladder and use gels, snacks or jelly candies to restore energy. This way you can care less about your bladder maintenance, avoid aftertaste if you decide to ride with the same bladder after sweetened drinks and plan your carbohydrates intake better during the ride. 

The Surly Ogre has the same geometry as one of the original rigid 29ers, the Karate Monkey. The complete version with 3x9 drivetrain is at the top end of your $1000-$1500 price range. 

If you wanted to start with a bike that's really close, the Breezer Uptown 8 or Downtown 8 come with 8-speed hub gears and hand brakes for both wheels. You could purchase the coaster hub and have a bike shop rebuild the wheel, keeping the rim, shifters, cog and chain wheel. I wish I could say that you could just buy a kit to convert from one type of brake to the other, but to my knowledge, the hubs have different internals. Current cost would be a $600-800 bike, $200+ hub, plus labor. You could probably sell the old hub and get a little bit back. Another option might be to get a cruiser with an 8-speed hub and add a disk brake, but this would require replacing the fork and front wheel. Probably more cost-effective but more of a challenge to find a compatible fork. Too many variables to estimate what that might cost. Good luck in your search. 

"Road Bike" is a pretty broad term, but let's assume we're talking about a bike designed for long-distance road riding and not criterium or even road racing—a category used to be called "sport touring," but is now referred to as "endurance racing." Current examples include bikes like the Trek Domane, Giant Defy and Specialized Roubaix. Also, it depends somewhat upon what you mean by "gravel racing." If you're referring to short events like Barry Roubaix that are at most a couple of hours, then a cyclocross bike would fit the bill as well as anything, especially if you already own one. The downside of using a cyclocross bike is that most are really designed for short, fast, off-road races and don't necessarily lend themselves well to all-day comfort or long, 40-mph descents. There are a few cyclocross bikes that are designed to be less aggressive, and those are the ones that tend to turn up at gravel events. Current examples include the Trek Cronos and Boone, and the Surly Cross Check. The Niner RLT9 is marketed as a gravel bike but has a design that fits better into this category. My experience with this class of bike is that they require more effort to arrive at a good fit, and can feel more exciting than necessary on fast downhills. "Gravel" bikes aren't all alike either, but the ones that are different than cyclocross bikes feature a longer head tube (for more upright riding position), lower bottom bracket, more fork offset and slacker angles. The best current example is the Raleigh Tamland, but the All-City Space Horse is pretty close too, despite not being marketed as a gravel bike. To me, the best thing about "gravel" bikes coming into style is that they're actually good for a very wide variety of surfaces and emphasize comfort over raciness. Not limiting a ride to one specific type of road opens up a lot more riding opportunity. 

It's an old argue on forums, still cant get it. What is the (real, that worth the money and time for ordering from abroad, in my case) difference, let's say between Five Ten FreeRider shoes and some kind of old school skate shoes (the fat ones, like these Etnies)? P.S as far as I know most dirt BMXers are quite happy with regular skate shoes. 

I consider purchasing a full suspension bike with a linkage using bushings, instead of bearings for the pivots (Ghost Path Riot). A review says: 

There is no perfect all-rounder. Slopestyle bikes are basically dirt jump bikes with the suspension designed to soak the harshest of impacts. This suspension design was never thought to behave like a normal bike suspesnsion, that used to "even rough trails". Typically slopestyle riders put a lot of pressure in their air shocks to prevent bottoming out. Now, I'm not sure what do you mean by "something I can use on trails while being playful enough to commute on the street (and jumping on stuff)". Do you have some dirt jumps or nice skateparks around you, so you could use your DJ bike to its full potential? Or maybe you want to ride most of the time your local MTB trails and add some manuals and bunnyhops here and there? You should be honest with yourself, no normal trail bike will be suitable for average dirt jumping (it will be practically impossible to do a barspin or a tailwhip, and plush suspension will swallow all pumping rhythm), as no 100% DJ/slopestyle will be suitable for a fun round on normal MTB trail (imagine doing off-camber turn with an almost rigid bike, or pedaling 30 km + with a frame sized two sizes below your regular). Either choose one, or both. To summarize, I would recommend you learn to manual and bunnyhop on your SJ, then pay a visit to local DJ / skatepark and try to get some airtime and learn some basic DJ tricks (whips, tables). If you'll have the feeling it's fun then go ahead and buy a DJ bike. Otherwise, save your money for something else. EDIT: looks like GMBN heard your voice and did a video on riding a slopestyle bike in a bike park. Check it, it's quite entertaining. I guess this won't leave you any doubts about slopestyle bike specialization. Click 

This means how much energy was delivered to make the wheels turn. As Daniel R Hicks mentioned, calories in that case mean how much "food" energy your body burned, which will always be higher than the energy you give to the wheels. 

All these are hard for a car to keep up, sure you might annoy some pedestrians and might be illegal in some places, but it's still better than having the crap beat out of you. 

All else being equal (power output, weather, wind resistance, etc.), how much faster will I be if I lose 10kg (going from 100kg to 90kg) while riding? Acceleration and climbing might be much different, but while riding steadily on a flatish road outputting the same power as before, how will my cruising speed change ? 

Even if the error is 5%, it's still a power meter. I would get it fixed either to use personnaly or to sell it. 

Maybe you can use a shipping service from the US to re-ship the new keys to you, but I'm assuming that you have to send the lock in, and have them ship it back ? If that's the case, a new lock would probably be cheaper. 

The big thing is : you have a very subjective human riding the bicycle. Even if a study shows that for X leg length you need Y crank length, if the person riding the bike think that Z cranks feel better or feel faster, what can you do? That is mostly why there is so much debate, because everybody is different. Also people want different things from their bike, some want minimum maintenance, while other want minimum friction. Some people want light wheels, other want stiffer wheels. Some people don't mind lubing the chain after each ride, while other will do it one a season. 

Right about the time fat bikes were about to become popular, I put a 26x4" front tire (which has the same diameter as a 29x2" tire) on a 26" bike, without changing anything else. The result was similar to a 69er, raising the front hub by about an inch. Besides improving handling on descents (perhaps due in part to the wider tire), it really didn't affect things all that much in dry conditions. Sure improved handling in the snow. 

That's the chain guard bracket and it would likely come off with a bottom bracket lockring tool. The fixed cup of the bottom bracket should be behind it. 

Yes to your entire second paragraph. A good reference would be Phil Maffetone's The Big Book of Endurance Training and Racing. His contention is that making the aerobic system more efficient is a healthier and more sustainable way to increase speed. I'm an ultra distance cyclist who has tried both Maffetone and Carmichael's Time-Crunched Cyclist, and I've had much better luck with the former. Your experience may be much different if you're doing cyclocross or sprint races. 

The real issue with ice is that it has a very low coefficient of friction, and weight distribution won't change that enough to make a difference. Tires with a soft compound and a lot of siping help somewhat, but the best solution is a tire with metal studs. 

One of the crank arms is loose or cracked. This is the most dangerous, since a failure at the wrong time could cause you to lose control of the bike. A bearing is loose or worn out in either the bottom bracket or one of your pedals. A pedal could also fail catastrophically, though it's unusual. The chainring bolts might be loose. The bike's frame might be cracked. Unlikely, and worth checking only after other possibilities have been eliminated. 

So you might check those dedicated lanes. An other option would be to use Strava's Global Heatmap where you can see where people are cycling the most. You can't really see what you want exactly (dedicated lanes), but coupled with Google's map, I find it's a good start to plan a ride. 

One thing that can help is training on rollers. It's kind of dangerous at the begining, because the bike reacts a lot to little imbalances, but as you get more experience on them you will feel much more stable on the bike and this might help in feeling the bike better on the road. As for bike handling, ride it and ride it more, I don't think anything beats experience. You can look up techniques for cornering or decending, but you will have to try them a little faster each time to know your limit. 

I fear that you won't be able to replace the wheel with exactly the same thing since they seem to be generic wheels built for this bike. You can try the dealer you bought them from, they might have a replacement available or you can look for a different set elsewhere. In that price category you might have to buy a set (front+rear wheel) thought, but at least that means they will match. 

If you can afford gears, buy them. Having an uphill section at the end you will want to shift up in order to make it easier. Going the oposite direction you will also like the ability to go to a smaller gear to get a little more speed downhill. Looking at the pictures linked, it seemed the that the single speed have a rather small rear cog compared to the geared bike. If you can't handle shifting rapidly you can always leave it your geared bike in one speed, but at least you'll have the option of chaing it for those morning where you feel weaker or have less energy. 

A coaster brake is really your only option for foot-operated braking, and most complete bikes sold with coaster brakes have the coaster as the only brake. My experience is that mixing hand and coaster brakes takes some getting used to, and most people don't want to bother. This limits the selection of coaster brake bikes to mostly cruiser and city bikes. Most of those are single-speeds or 3-speeds. Both Shimano and SRAM offer 8-speed internally-geared hubs with coaster brakes, but I don't know whether any current production bikes come with 8-speed coaster brake hubs from the factory. If you wanted to have a more versatile bike with a wide range of gears and a braking setup that includes a front brake, one way would be to have a rear wheel built using one of the 8-speed hubs. The considerations for that include: 

Probably. Depends somewhat on whether the shifter is compatible with the derailleur (Shimano 8-speed shifters generally will work okay with 7-speed derailleurs, but you can't usually do a Gripshift with a Shimano derailleur, to name a couple of examples.) You'll have to adjust the limit screws and barrel adjuster, but you would have to do that any time you install a different derailleur. 

You might be better off with one of the new bikes coming out with "gravel" or "all-road" geometry and clearance for ~40c tires. They're intended for the type of riding you describe. Current examples include the Raleigh Tamland and Willard, Salsa Warbird, All-City Space Horse, and Kona Rove. These bikes tend to have lower bottom brackets and longer wheelbases, giving them better comfort and handling on and off pavement. 

You can also call up a pre-generated route and turn off the turn-by-turn directional functionality, thus just showing your location and relationship to the route. This has worked reasonably well for me.