It didn't. English used one prefix to derive this meaning from the more general root for taking; French used another. You can turn it around and ask, from a French speaker's perspective, how the English under "sous, sou-" evolved to mean "entre". While we're at it, Russian formed its word for undertaking by adding the equivalent of "fore-" or "pre-" to the equivalent of "receive" or "accept". The starting point may be more or less the same ("take"), the end point may also be the same ("undertake"), but individual languages simply took different paths to get from one to the other. I don't see a reason to use any specific version as a semantic standard. 

Hominis and agricolae are not in any way "less" fusional than andrôn — because singular is not an absence of number. They combine singularity and genitivity. As opposed to agglutinative examples such as the Turkish evde "in the house" where -de only carries the locative, and the singular is technically expressed by a null ending: ev.Ø.de, as demonstrated by ev.ler.de "in the houses". 

In languages that express grammatical number in nouns with suffixes, usually there is either a suffix added to an unsuffixed singular to form the plural (cat—cats), or the suffix (or inflectional ending) is replaced (Italian gatto—gatti). Are there, however, any languages that consistently use unsuffixed plurals for nouns and add a suffix to form the singular? I'm aware of Arabic examples such as ghurfah "room" — ghuraf "rooms", but they're rather sporadic and involve internal flexion. Collective nouns such as al-ˁarab being the basis for ˁarabîyyun "an Arab" come closer, but I'm not at all sure they're technically the same noun in different numbers, as opposed to separate nouns. Theoretically, I can think of two scenarios in which suffixed singulars and unsuffixed plurals could occur: one where the plural inflectional ending is lost historically but the singular one remains, making it seem as though something is added to form the singular; and another one where all of the old inflexion is lost and there is no number distinction for a while, until a partitive suffix of some sort is grammaticalised as the new singular. 

You can even test this out for yourself by doing some basic audio editing in Praat or Audacity. When our brains hear catch it or cat shit, it is applying these two metrics to figure out which one it heard. Slow ascension to maximum amplitude and relatively long frication noise? Must be shit. This only really tells part of the story, though. Let's explore the production side a little. When an oral stop happens, the tongue (or lips) completely constrict the oral pathway. No air (and consequently sound, to an extent) can get in or out. That being said, in the transition process when a non-obstruent like a fricative or an oral sonorant follows a stop in the same syllable (this does not apply all the time, but the story is really complicated), what happens is that in the last few dozen milliseconds air starts coming out from the bottom of the vocal tract. Air pressure behind the stops exceeds air pressure outside the stop. And when the stop is released, air molecules quickly crack from behind the stop to in front of it relatively quickly (on releases of all oral stops, aspirated or not, especially into vowels, you can feel a marked burst of air on your lips or if you put your hand in front of your mouth). This is what we call the stop burst. Now, many different sorts of things can happen following the stop burst. In the case of the fricatives after stops, the closure relaxes slightly, causing the air to burst, but it remains relatively tight, and air traveling turbulently as it goes through and comes out of that tight corridor is what causes frication noise. So the story of the affricate (stop into fricative) is that significantly higher than atmospheric pressure builds up behind the closure. When the stop bursts and the tongue goes into constriction position for the fricative, that high pressure of air is released over the early span of the fricative, causing a high amount of noise. Compare this to what happens when you pronounce a bare fricative. In those cases (e.g., shoe), your tongue goes into fricative position (small constriction), and then your lower vocal tract just starts pushing air through the constriction. The noise does not begin amidst extremely high pressure behind the constriction. That lack of an air pressure gradient causes it to be quieter. The quicker climb of the affricate case causes a "critical noise/vibration" level to be reached more quickly and the tongue to retreat from its constriction position, hence the shorter duration of fricatives in general (the critical level hypothesis is not that thoroughly explored to my knowledge, but it seems to explain a lot). So that's the story of fricative versus affricate. Bring it all the way back to your case, what happens when there's a "syllable break" is important. When there is a syllable break after the stop, the pressure buildup behind the stop closure releases (sometimes audibly, depending on the dialect). Then, the tongue assumes the fricative constriction position during a period of neutral pressure, and then the air starts flowing, and the sound occurs as a regular fricative. I'm sure this is poorly edited, so I welcome volunteers who would be kind enough to correct me on all the errors I may have made. @aedia asked in a comment a very interesting question that I'll address as an edit: 

There are not many examples of verbs with actual third-person subject endings, but there are many with explicit subjects, and these all have the endingless forms as well: [laurië] lantar lassi (‘[like gold] fall the leaves’, aorist of lanta- ‘fall’), mornië utúlië (‘darkness has come’, perfect of tul- ‘come’), etc. So even though I haven’t been able to find any sources that say this in so many words, I think it’s safe to say that the system of only adding personal pronoun clitics to the verb when there is no explicit subject holds when the subject is a noun phrase rather than a pronoun, too.   Notes: 1 This endingless form is also used when negating verbs. Generally, Quenya is loosely based on Finnish, of which Tolkien was a great fan, and this is no exception: as in Finnish, negating a verb involves conjugating a ‘negative verb’ and leaving the main verb in an impersonal form that only distinguishes number (in some tenses); for example Finnish ole-n ‘I am’ vs. e-n ole ‘I am not’ and Quenya cára-n(yë) ‘I make’ vs. ua-n(yë) cára ‘I do not make’. In Finnish, however, an explicit subject does not cause the verb to be in the endingless form, so it is minä olen, not *minä ole. 2 Final -i regularly yields -ë in Quenya, so tulë is the expected outcome of *tuli. This historical sound change is also taken piecemeal from Finnish. 

(Though some of those strike me as being highly unlikely to ever be used; indefinite plural possessives are rare in general, and I don't believe I've personally ever had any need to use one with the word snabel-a at all.) 

O is basically just a circle, so unlike with C/G, the visual similarity with Q is trivial. You could equally wonder if C being O with a chunk taken out has to do with anything. Q and O derive from two different Phoenician letters, qop and ayin; back then, they actually did have something in common since both were "throaty" consonants; however, since the shape of the letters is ultimately hieroglyphic, the similarity is either accidental or — if we credit the theory that the hieroglyphic meaning of qop was "eye of a needle" — based on a real-world visual similarity, since ayin/O represented a (literal) eye. 

I suppose "palatal" is a misnomer. In Slavic languages themselves, they are termed, literally, "soft consonants" (Czech: měkké souhlásky, Slovak: mäkké spoluhlásky). While palatalisation is sometimes called "softening", one doesn't customarily speak of "softened" consonants, but of soft/hard "pairs" or "counterparts". This Slavic choice of adjective referring, as it were, to being and not becoming, may have influenced the author's not-quite-correct choice of "palatal" instead of "palatalised". Also, I don't think it's correct to call palatalised, when it obviously has no non-palatalised counterpart. Also, if those quotes are complete, they fail to mention the Slovak-only . So I'd put this down to simple carelessness. 

When listening to recordings of spoken Albanian, I sometimes note what sounds like a retroflex /r/; it's less pronounced than in American English, and seems to occur in syllable codas. Now Albanian phonology resources say the language does have two /r/s, but they're a flap and a trill like in Spanish (and reflected the same way in writing, as r vs. rr). Neither does the Wikipedia page for the sound list Albanian among the languages that have it. Is it a dialectal feature? Or am I hearing things? 

This is more of a bit of musing than a proper answer, but it could be the reason that at least the first two have this seemingly irregular stress pattern. Concúpiscent and concúpiscence don't sound oddly stressed to me at all—in fact they sound perfectly acceptable and normal, despite the fact that I'm quite sure I've never heard anyone say either word. Concúpiscible, on the other hand, sounds downright bizarre. Like you, I could find no other parallel for an -Vscence/-Vscibility word having the stress on the syllable before the -sc-, so it puzzled me that I find concúpiscent/-ce so normal-sounding. I tried to figure out what pattern made -úpiscent sound perfectly normal—and it finally hit me: magnificent and its ilk! The -ficent suffix is etymologically unrelated, of course (apart from stemming from Latin participles), but it is phonetically /ˡVCɪsənt/ with antepaenultimate stress, just like what we find in concupiscent. And unlike more closely related word like reminiscent and dehiscent, there's no base verb *concupisce to show where the stress should go. So I would theorise that perhaps concupiscent/-ce, wherever the stress originally lay, may have retracted its stress due to phonetic similarity with words in -ficent. That doesn't account for concupiscible, of course, and I'll admit that I'm stumped there. Looking through a reverse dictionary I cannot find a single other word ending in -cible that has preantepaenultimate stress—it seems to be totally irregular and counter to all logic. 

Notes: 1 It is perhaps worth noting as an aside that where Swedish and Norwegian have only one relative pronoun, som, Danish has two, distinguishing between der (lit. ‘there’) used only as a subject, and som used as either subject or any other constituent. 2 As in English, the default relative pronoun som ‘that’ cannot be used directly following a preposition: *med som ‘*with that’ is as ungrammatical and nonsensical in Swedish as it is in English. 3 I am counting the difference between restrictive and non-restrictive as belonging to the same case type here; so even if one may sometimes be preferable to the other because of the level of restriction inherent in the relative clause, they are still nominally interchangeable. 

Is there a specific question about whether a particular candidate can be considered a phoneme in sign language? Perhaps if you frame your question in terms of the research you've already done on the field (and it doesn't take much to start), people can build on that. That way, you can take advantage of the diverse array of backgrounds here to help you arrive at new knowledge. I feel the way the question is phrased now, it might be banking entirely on one of the 50-or-so private beta-ists on knowing sign language phonology, which might be unlikely. That being said, what a phoneme is is no different in sign language than in natural language. The fact that word phoneme is derived from a root meaning sound doesn't affect the more abstract meaning that it's taken in academic linguistics. It's the underlying representation of a minimally contrastive unit. If changing the location of a gesture and nothing else changes the semantic meaning produced (in ASL, and all other full sign languages as far as I know), then each location (or some more abstract construct that includes or influences location) is mutually contrastive. If changing the hand shape and unilaterally change the semantic meaning, then each of those shapes are mutually contrastive. Once we know all the mutually contrastive locations, movements, and hand shapes (and other things), we discover relationships between them and rely on native speaker intuition to wean this down into a candidate list of phonemes, whose compositions can deterministically produce every word in the lexicon. 

You have very good instincts, because this statement is halfway to the answer. An exploration of the topic is best started in a discussion of the differences between the words shoe and chew, which differ only in that the former has a fricative initially and the latter has an affricate. The period of silence (caused by voiceless stop closures like [t]) that characterizes stops and the "stop" portion of affricates is indistinguishable from regular silence. We only ever "identify" the presence of "stoppiness" as well as the nature of the stoppiness (e.g., bilabial vs. velar) by the influences that the silences have on neighboring segments. In the case of the postalveolar fricative versus the postalveolar affricate, in the postalveolar affricate, the stop asserts its status by altering the nature (non-technical term used here; I will elaborate) of the following fricative. Let's compare my totally amateur recordings of shoe versus chew. Shoe 

-ben: after z, ž -pen: after unvoiced consonants and b, d, g, v -men: after vowels, sonorants and possessive forms (the latter is irrelevant here) Source (in Russian): $URL$ Consonant assimilation in suffixes is as typical of Turkic languages as vowel harmony. 

Both you and your friend are framing in terms of "simplicity" vs. "complexity" what's really a slightly different issue, etymological transparency vs. etymological opacity. Or, in the most basic terms, native vs. borrowed. Most people speak a language that has a layer of "erudite" vocabulary borrowed from the language of a more influential, and usually "older", culture: depending on where you are in the world, it's usually one of Latin, Chinese, or Arabic. This means there are certain lexemes, and sometimes a certain amount of grammar, that you have to learn from scratch on top of your native language if you are to understand this "erudite" layer. For example, most speakers of English can break down the word "independence" as far as "depend", which is still a borrowed "erudite" word; speakers of Romance languages have it easier, since the Latin root is still transparent to them as meaning "hang", in the most everyday sense, and so indépendance or indipendenza still discernibly contain the metaphor of no longer "hanging off" of something (over a presumed cliff). So the solution — if you choose to think of this as a problem — is not in "pruning" the language, but in nativising its vocabulary. It's already been done in a lot of languages; the German Unabhängigkeit, or the Russian nezavisimost', are exact translations, or "calques", of the Latin independentia: "non-off-hang-ing-ness". That said, both Russian and German still contain a lot of Latin vocabulary, although much less that English. Very few languages have gone the way of near-complete nativisation, Icelandic being one famous example. It's hard to tell whether it did or did not lead to any greater political awareness, but it clearly involved no "pruning" of the language — if anything, it was the opposite, a massive infusion of new words. Another point must also be raised: political vocabulary is essentially jargon, no different in principle from the jargon of seafaring or video gaming. By which I mean, it developed as a form of communication between people with specific shared experiences, trading transparency of meaning for speed, efficiency, and not the least, the ability to identify with the group. The reason we have Latinate political terms such as "consensus" was that, a long time ago, it was part of a jargon shared by people who (1) knew Latin and (2) had political phenomena as part of their everyday experience; then it was handed down generations to people who didn't necessarily know Latin anymore, but for whom a certain amount of Latin vocabulary came with the job requirements (as well as general social status). It's understandable that they weren't in any way motivated to abandon this vocabulary in favour of something more transparent to the less educated populace — unless they were of a specific type of political creed, nationalist or "national revivalist". Movements of that sort in several different countries have in fact affected many languages, and in a generally positive way at that. But they were dedicated movements. By default, it's still up to the individual speaker whether they feel it necessary to expand their vocabulary with Latinate (or, say, Arabesque) political jargon. Not everyone has equal opportunities here, as regards time investment and the availability of knowledge (though that's less of an issue now that we have the internet). So your friend has a point. "Complex" speech isn't necessarily always inherenty valuable; often it exists just because a relatively small circle of people has found it convenient. However, you can't just decree a sweeping language reform, or manufacture the political will and popular support for it out of thin air. It's still mere reality of life that if you want to understand politicians, you might have to take time to learn new words. I'm not sure, however, that this is one of the "better" reasons, or that such better reasons even exist, beyond the most basic "knowing more is better than knowing less".