From your install manual, the "Burnish" period is only 30-40 stops, so you should be beyond that. If the bike is still within a month or two of purchase, I would suggest taking the bike back to the shop and playing dumb. They sold you the bike, they should fix the brakes that aren't working properly. If they say, "they're supposed to do that", I'd suggest checking with another LBS. The other LBS may even fix them for free (depending on the problem) just to win your business (after you explain what the other shop had said). If it has been longer than that, you can try a few things to see if it is a minor issue. I don't use Hayes brakes specifically, but here are some good starter ideas that may work to narrow it down: 

One of the more interesting bars I've tried is the Titec H-Bar (there are also other brands of H-Bar, as I recall). Insane amount of hand positions. Can be hard to find a good spot for levers and shifters, though. 

Any time you're climbing and can handle the obstacles without suspension. The force of your foot gnashing down the pedal is going to compress the suspension, thus sapping some of your precious force (and thus, speed). Also good for any time you don't need suspension due to good surface quality. For example, the well maintained fire-road leading to where you want to ride. 

two cone wrenches (one on each side of the hub) to remove the jam nuts. This is the likely option. From your photo it looks like there is a flat spot on the jam nut. two hex wrenches (one on each side of the hub) that fit into the axle end. 

Once's it's dried be sure to test it by attaching whatever brake/derailleur the boss is for(in your case the rear derailleur) and running cable through it. You need to be sure that the epoxy will hold the forces that will actually be applied by the brake/derailleur** Don't expect your results to look pretty though. 

But these require that the axle already be removed. So what is the proper way to remove these bearings? I know that I can just tap the axle out with a rubber mallet and force one of the bearings out, but I think this would damage the bearing. 

Since you have a relatively "flat" spot there (at least flat in the longitudinal direction) you have two options: 

I've dented the rim on my Shimano WH-RS-10 rear wheel. I found the tech doc pdf. I've had wheels rebuilt before but always with rims that were available to consumers. I can't find any place that sells the Shimano rim, nipples, or spokes to rebuild this wheel. I know I can get close matches from other companies, but I'm looking for identical components to match the good front wheel I have. Does Shimano actually provide these components for sale? Would this be something my LBS could order? 

The basic tool you would need is a spoke wrench. This will allow you to pull the rim (by the spokes) back into true. The spoke wrench is actually turning the spoke nipple out at the rim. The tool you would need in order to tell if it is true is a truing stand. The tool you will need to make it all work is your brain. =-] 

Being a motorcyclist, I stick to the standard hand signals using the left arm. At least in Arizona (other states may vary) this is listed as the official method for turn signaling, and even appears in the Driver License Manual. 

Once you've gone through the process a few times, it gets to be very quick. I usually check my headset ever week when I do a quick once-over of the bike. 

I have a Specialized pump which works very well for both high-volume and high pressure tires. I've also used a couple of different Joe Blow pumps from Topeak, which worked pretty well. In light of this, I'm of the opinion that your best bet is to hit up your LBS and see what they have, and what you like using. For me, handle shape and size plays a big part (you need comfort to pump up a 26"x4" tire). Plenty of pumps work for both types of valve, and your LBS should be able to point out which pumps can do this. Some require you to screw off a cap and flip something over, others can have a two-sided head, and others (like my Specialized) have a head that works for both without any changes. 

My point is that "by hand as hard as you can" won't be good enough. You will need a tool that can grip the knurled race evenly. A pair of slip-joint adjustable pliers which are the right size will work. You want to be able to get both sides of the pliers parallel with each other when gripping the race. Anything less will potentially slip and cause damage to the knurled surface. You might even be able to get a pair with plastic covers over the teeth to protect whatever you are gripping. 

Huffy isn't one of those bike companies that has a "nice" well-organized** history, especially in light of its more-recent history: $URL$ So if it is a Huffy, no one at the company will likely be able to confirm it. Additionally, these weren't very (at all?) sought-after bikes so there won't be a user-group maintaining a serial number database (like some high-end brands). ** meaning not bought/sold/rebranded/in-name-only 

From experience, (being an amateur seeing pros at events) a lot of people use Speedplays for better pedal clearance. You can also do something slick like this to create a clip/cleat combination. 

it allowed the rotor to work against the 6 posts on the adapter causing some wear it allowed the adapter to work against the hub, also causing some wear. 

I have a frame I would like to get repainted. It is a composite of aluminum and carbon fiber (Al main triangle, carbon fiber seat/chain stays). The carbon fiber is unpainted (maybe a clear coat) and I'd like to keep it this way. 

A friend of mine just did a review of the Lupine Betty 7. The light turned night into day. It's a 1750 lumen max, but can be adjusted in 5% power increments. It also has a rechargeable battery with plenty of run-time, even at max. I would say that this light is comparable to one of the headlights on my '07 Civic. If you want to feel like you're riding in the day, and money isn't an object, go for the Betty. 

If it appears that I'm dealing with a total moron (at a stop sign, for example) I will occasionally throw the right arm straight out to say that I'm turning right, but this is fairly rare. 

The most fixie-specific bits are the hub, cog, and lock ring. I know it's supposed to be one part per post, but these really go together. You can't use a regular-old free-wheel hub for your fixie (at least without some modifications). You'll need a fixed-specific hub which has threads for a lock ring, and a cog to match. The lock ring is what keeps the cog from loosening when you use the drive train to stop. Surly offers each of these parts. 

I mostly use it for tracking rides after the fact, but Ride With GPS has cue sheets and route planning based off of Google maps for their paying members. From the GPS side, it works great, your mileage may vary for pre-planning. 

I'll add that anything hand tight will come loose fairly soon. As the knurled race loosens it will start to damage itself an/or the ball bearings and cause sloppy handling and steering. I'm not saying that you want to torque the race down to the fork, but up against the lock nut as @alex suggests: 

It looks like that Park tool is specifically designed for use on PF30 BB's (+1 for using the right tool). Just curious though, how do the bushings line up with the BB? What surface do they push against? If they push against the inner race, you may well have damaged the bearing. If they push against the outer race or the bearing cup you should be fine. The bearing (i.e. internal race) isn't designed for purely lateral loading. Are you certain that it didn't have any stiff spots before installation? You can try popping it out and free spinning it in your hand. If its still stiff outside the frame its certainly damaged. Even if you pressed the bearing cup in completely bass-akwards it shouldn't bind the bearing. The outer race and cup are thick enough that it would take serious damage/force to deform the outer shape of the bearing to cause any noticeable friction. To address one of the comments: If this is new it shouldn't have any stiff spots. Even the cheapest bearing should spin smoothly out of the box. Putting the crank on will change the inertia of the system and only make it harder to detect these spots. 

It sounds like your headset is not adjusted. Your stem cap is used to adjust this. Specifically, the more you tighten the stem cap, the tighter the bearings will get, and the less play you will feel. Here is a picture from Sheldon Brown's article on adjust headsets: 

I find that the best time to practice making good circular rotations is when I am completely out of gear (doing 20mph in the granny gear, for example). I ride a single speed, so this is pretty easy for me. Being out of gear allows me to feel how circular my movements really are. If I'm not pulling back at the bottom of my stroke and then up the back side, I feel the bike lurching around under me. This helped me, maybe it can help you as well. 

I had the same issues riding on pre-built 26" mountain bike wheels. I'm 6'5" and weigh ~400lbs, so I break stuff left and right (including frame welds). I have found two things that broke my wheel-breaking streak. The first thing I found was the Surly Pugsley and the Endomorph (or Larry) tires that fit on it. The 26"x4" tires are massive, and absorb any blow without threat to the wheels. At the same time, I also went with wheels based around Large Marge rims, which have never needed to be trued (even through the frame break!). The other thing I found was beefy, hand built, wheels. My second bike is a Surly Karate Monkey (a 29er) which I had wheels built for using 36 hole hubs (again a Surly product). This wheel shows a bit more wear and tear (after 5 months of riding), but it hasn't broken anything. I also run higher volume (but nowhere near the Endomorph) tires on this bike, with a pair of Schwalbe Big Apples. Bottom line: If your current equipment can't work for you, go big. It will cost you a lot up front, but save a ton in the long run. (I swear I don't work for Surly, though my bikes make it sound like I do.) 

You could easily do this your self but you'll likely end up with a rivet gun and a box of 100 rivets you'll never use again (on a bike at least). Whatever method you chose, I'd suggest completing it before any of the rest of your bike build (I'm guessing from the missing front end that you're rebuilding this bike). If you can't get it fixed you might have to scrap (or at least rethink) the project and you don't want to waste any money on other parts until you know for sure. Regarding welding: Aside from the heat issue of welding aluminum, you'll also have a tough (impossible?) time finding someone who can weld a steel boss onto an aluminum frame. Or you'll have an impossible task of finding an aluminum boss to use instead. Think about it.. there's a reason the manufacture glued the boss on in the first place. ** Be extra careful if you are repairing a brake boss. It holds more force and obviously has more dire consequences if it breaks off again. 

About mole grips or locking pliers for us in the US ($URL$ I've never found a pair that were large enough to do this. Also, you lose the hand feedback that regular pliers give you. You won't know when the race is about to slip until its too late. 

Seems like you have two options. I'm not sure this is your exact model but the broken piece should just unscrew.