Figures such as Einstein were quite interested in the Philosophy of science. In addition to this, a fair amount of Philosophers were on the side of Scientists in the face of postmodern reinterpretations, during the science wars. So far, this doesn't really suggest a vitriolic relationship between the two fields. My gut (uneducated) feeling is that the bedlam in question is a relatively recent phenomenon. Question: Is the "Science therefore Philosophy is obsolete" attitude, recent, or is there a historical backdrop which can account for said tension? Source for Hawking's claim 

This conclusion is clearly contradictory. The argument is valid however, since it follows a valid form of reasoning (MP). If the premises were true, the conclusion would be true. Remember that validity isn't concerned with the actual truth of the premises. 

With reference to Are we capable of understanding the system in which we live? , I once read an interesting book: . You can find it on Amazon or similar websites, here is the gist of it: 

2. Answer - the Simplest, Consistent and Valid Definitions of "Truth" and "Falsity": Logic is a computational process, examining the validity of a context of reasoning to infer a conclusion that has a "Truth Value". So, "Truth" is to "Reasoning", as "PI" is to "Circles" - an inviolable constraint. "Truth" defined in Terms of Logic, (premises, conclusions and implications): 

How reliable is a "Logic / Objectivity" Bias when it comes to reasoning? Or, What are the potential limitations or vulnerabilities of relying solely on these bases of reasoning? Note 1: "Objectivity" and "Logic" are sometimes used interchangeably. But, I am speaking to the strength of "Objectivity" - not Logic, nor symbolic logic. However, it seems that along with other forms of reasoning - people often proclaim a Objectivity Bias, rather than other standards of reasoning: tradition, science, empiricism [different from science], pathos, ethos, Logos, (in the "Intrinsic Pattern" sense of Heraclitus), equanimity, wisdom, divine revelation, etc. Note 2: Some of those standards may appear "objective" - but are they really? In view of time, exhaustive knowledge, etc? What are the limitations and vulnerabilities of "Objectivity" when it comes to validating reasoning? Examples: 

However, what your friend seems to be doing is that he is highlighting a feature of your disposition (your beliefs), and then using this in order to refute your argument. In other words: 

Whilst your friend's ideas about beliefs have some merit, they are actually irrelevant to the argument at hand. Your argument could very well be wrong, but not for the reasons that he has presented. This is because he is attacking your beliefs instead of your argument. For your friend's argument to be successful, he needs to attack the notion of creatine helping soreness, rather than attacking the idea that you hold a belief in the utility of creatine with respect to soreness. Therefore, I would say that he is guilty of ad hominem. Nevertheless, I don't think that hunting fallacies and then accusing something of committing fallacy X is particularly useful. Rather, you should be able to explain where the reasoning has gone wrong, and you don't need to know the name of a fallacy in order to do that. P.S. What should be noted is that the impact of creatine on soreness is an empirical issue. If you guys intend to debate the notion that creatine reduces muscle soreness, you have to bring some empirical support to the table. 

Because of this "injection", there is a lot of equivocation between the terms. But, abstractly: even if "2 + 2 = 4" is true AND ALSO exists. ... It would appear that "2 + 2 = 4" would exist in a different "domain of reality" than where "my tomato" exists in my own "causal domain". Causality does not necessarily apply to logic, but can certainly be a factor. And, when one domain of reality is plausibly affected by other domains, it is plausible that certain domains might "override" each other. 

Is Epictetus implying there is only ever just one cause for our actions? Or, is Epictetus arguing there is one cause which outweighs all others? What is Epictetus saying this cause actually is? 

Regardless of the "Validity" of standards of truth, or what their true vulnerabilities are ... scientists, throughout history, have shown general biases towards one standard - or another. For example, a "Wisdom" Bias: True Justice always injects life, never death or toxicity. So, justice will be merciful to those who show mercy, and will judge those who condemn, according to their own condemnations. Mercy triumphs over condemnation, (c.f., Every narrative in Judeo-Christian texts). The validity of this bias is subject to its internal consistency, (logic), empiricism, (textual evidence), and Morality. 

If the premise were true, then the conclusion would be true and the argument would be valid. But what if our premise was actually false? For example, what if X was actually a triangle? If is true, then the conclusion is also false. We would therefore have a false premise which leads to a false conclusion. We would need the premise to be true and the conclusion to be false for the argument to be invalid. But, this can't happen. If X is a triangle, then the conclusion is false. If X is a square, then the conclusion is true. Either way, we are stuck in a situation where the truth of the premise entails the truth of the conclusion. The argument is therefore valid. Let's define two terms, of which only one term is directly relevant to the question at hand: Tautology: something that is true in all possible worlds. Contradiction : something that is false in all possible worlds. So, if we have a conclusion that is false in all possible worlds, the argument would only be valid if we have premises that entail the truth of the conclusion if the premises were true. Here is an example (Modus Ponens): 

A False Presupposition: " So, theists don't??? I am supposing that the original question is actually addressing . 

2.2. Evolving Definitions and Perceptions: Deism, Atheism, and Mysticism, in their various forms, throughout history, are relative constructs, and have changed over time. It is absolutely certain that our concepts of theism/mysticism will mature further. Consider: Justin Martyr defended Christianity against accusations of atheism. 

Obviously, I am speaking to some common Scriptural passages - to avoid the meritless claims of a mis-deific characterization, (like "God" as a "celestial-dictator", solipsistic, and self-fulfilling, etc.); Obviously this argument only aspires to an abductive or inductive conclusion - through analogy, as it probably isn't valid to actually dogmatically represent a non-corporeal "God" dwelling in a transcendent domain of reality - which would be hard to relate to. 

Partnership: Advocating for, helping, and Challenging each other; (Psalms 21:1, Isaiah 7:1; Matthew 1:23). Intimacy: In-to-me-see, revealing own heart and perceiving the heart of others; (Isaiah 66:2, etc.) Beauty: Art, Form, etc.; (Isaiah 61:3, etc.) 

Although the argument offers the general fact that people have religious experiences, it ignores the specific fact that many people never have religious experiences. Of those who do have these experiences, many already hold a prior belief in God. The Ludic fallacy? Nassim Taleb coined this term in his book The Black Swan. He defines it as basing studies of chance on the narrow world of games and dice. The gynecologists example: 

Question: Could you suggest some works which critically explore the idea that belief in God is properly basic? Thanks. 

Just to highlight that there is more than one approach to knowledge, take a look at the following. I know x if and only if: 

My answer It seems to me that a generalisation such as the above can be part of the explicandum but it shouldn't be part of the explicans because, ideally, it would require an explanation of its own. This is of course assuming that you want your explanation to be a good one. In this sense, a generalisation doesn't quite fit the explanation criteria. 

In that case, it is not necessary for "A" to be true, as "B" is another explanation. Although, both A and B are "Truths" in form - the type of "Truth" that "A" is, (a plausible truth) is not interchangeable with deductive truth. Even if "A" IS deductively true, within our own "Causal Domain", it is NOT the case that it MUST be true within this "Logic Domain". So, "A" is not "True" [deductively true], because it is not necessarily true - nor false - in this context/domain. 

A [Exists] A > B [is True] A [Exists] Therefore "B [is True]" "B [is True]" does not necessarily mean "B [Exists]". 

3. Why we find pleasure in creat/ing/ed beings: We are in fact creating "beings" - of some sort, certainly not as complex as ourselves - yet. If we are examining "God", transcendent of this causal domain, of physicality, and time - then any "physical pleasure" we find could not be validly attributed to God too. So, necessarily - the list would have to be limited - somewhat - to apply between a "Life Giving Spirit" towards "Mankind" - in the same ways we might find pleasure in the beings we are creating, (to establish plausibility). Our greatest pleasures creating beings, are in those that are "like us" - at least seeming to take pleasure in the same experiences that we do, (literature, comics, movies, virtual reality, etc.). 

There's a good entry on SEP about Pre-Socratic Philosophy,where Cosmology is also mentioned. you might want to take a look over there. 

Under the previous definition of "being human", those who fall prey to the allure of answers which allow them to follow custom and set aside contemplation- are possibly living an unexamined life. An unexamined life of the above sort would be quite pleasant, where one can live a "conventional" rather than ethically examined, life. 

A valid argument with true premises has a true conclusion. Take modus ponens for example: If A, then B A Therefore B If the antecedent and consequent are both true, then the conclusion "Therefore B" also has to be true. Now, let's take a look at your question. For starters, let's assume that both arguments are valid and have true premises, which should imply that they both have true conclusions. Now we note that both conclusions cannot be simultaneously true , because that would lead to a contradiction. This means that (at least) one of the conclusions has to be false. We know from your question that both premises of both arguments have to be true. We have also noted that both conclusions can't be true at the same time. As aforementioned, a valid argument with true premises has a true conclusion. For (at least) one of the arguments, the conclusion is not true. Since a valid argument with true premises has a true conclusion, and this argument has a true premise but a false conclusion, this argument is not valid, so both arguments cannot be valid as (at least) one argument cannot be valid. 

2.5. A Good Faith Effort to Address Confirmation Biases: Yes, there are "Logic" and "Science" biases too. (The historical debate over the exact nature of mankind's evolution is a great example, the Scriptural account being one of the first examples of genetic engineering.) Mankind, still in its infancy, cannot rationally assert which bias is more valid than others, let alone argue that each bias doesn't have some validity in their own right. The Scientific method, at the very least, requires an assessment of rival hypotheses. Accordingly, it is often observed that when rival hypotheses are rejected - those hypotheses often evolve, and even the de-facto hypotheses mature too. It is prima-facie apparent that each different confirmation bias has led to hypotheses that have challenged and refined other hypotheses under different biases. This mechanic of intra-accountability between standards of truth has added, and still adds value, to the scientific method - is not too burdensome, and risks can be reasonably mitigated. Regardless, this mechanic of intra-accountability can only be dismissed according to the same exact principles that other mechanics in scientific development could be dismissed. Until that burden of proof is met - then it is not reasonable to dismiss the "dialectic" between "Theism" and "Science". (Whether that burden of proof has already been met, or how it could be met, is a great question, tbh.)