Slavs settled here in the 6th century during the the period of Slavicization. It had to do with the domination of the Avar Khaganate to the south. The same migrations also saw the settlement of Polans, Morvanians and Czechs, to name a few. The slavs on the Baltic sea that you are asking about were called Pomeranians, (from Slavic Po Mer, "by the sea"). They were engaged in a long conflict with the Piast dukes of Poland, who had settled further south. By the 11th century, the German Drang Nach Osten "push for the east", brought the Saxons into the mix. It was the Polish who defeated and converted them to Christianity in 1121. The Saxon migrations were pretty successful, but in the Baltic regions their progress was hijacked by the Teutonic Order. The Teutonic Order was invited by Poland to help deal with Prussian agression. The Prussian Crusades were about 100 years after the Pomeranians had been converted to Christianity. The reason more Pomeranians didn't revolt is because of the Germanization that had taken place. The Pomeranians on the Vistula would have been a powerful tribe to due the strategic commercial interests of the Vistula. They were also adjacent to the Prussians. It is understable why, as outlined in your map, Pomeranians on the Vistula would be allies of the pagan Prussians. River deltas were often a place that hostile tribes would control for their natural defenses, similar to islands. Edit: I see that you are looking for concrete proof that Slavs inhabited the region. I don't see much reason to question that they did. Explanations and maps seem to universally show them at the mouth of the Vistula. There should be more to go by than archaeology in the Middle Ages. 

Rockets were developed not long after the invention of gunpowder. The Mysore Kingdom in Tamil Nadu (India) was the first to invent a formidable rocket, around the 1760's. Their use of iron tubes allowed for a substantial increase in velocity. Previously, rockets had been made of an organic material. Rockets tend to "squirrel" around when they are shot. To counter this, they added a stick to the rear of it. Most of us used bottle rockets when we were kids. Some veer of in one direction or another. Others go pretty straight. Mysore rockets were the same way. They were fired in quantities to target a specific area, or to increase the chance of hitting something. They weren't accurate, but neither was European artillery. The Mysore were the first to adopt rockets as a major part of their strategy. They used them with effect against the British East India Company in the 1780's and 90's. A sword was fitted to the end of them, and they were volleyed into the opposing infantry. This was similar to the way that the Europeans would use muskets. The main benefit, though, was that they would continue to throw flames after they had landed. They had no detonation. The Mysore were able to blow up the Brits' munitions stockpile, swiftly ending the Second Mysore War. Targeting munitions would be one of their main uses when they were introduced in the West. When the British defeated Mysore, they captured these strange weapons and reverse engineered them. They were introduced by the British in the Napoleonic Wars. The advantage that they gained was critical. Their main effect was psychological, so they eventually came to be used sporadically. They were, however, pretty good at starting fires. They were used by navies at short and medium ranges. Both the English and the Americans used them in the war of 1812: "... and the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there". Eventually, the stick on the end was centered instead of attached to the side. This gave a nominal increase in accuracy when the rocket lifted off. The advantages of using rockets in addition artillery were probably negated by the introduction of steel cannon in the later half of the century. William Hale invented a spinning rocket in 1844 that was much more accurate, eliminated the stick, and increased the range. Still you don't hear much about them in the later part of the 19th century. The next major step wasn't made until 1914, when Robert Goddard proposed the use of a De Laval Nozzle for supersonic propulsion. The De Laval Nozzle was invented for the steam engine in 1888. "Modern" rockets are still are not very accurate. They are fired in volleys, not unlike Mysore's rocket swords. The effectiveness of handheld devices, like the RPG 7, greatly decreases with distance. For this reason, rockets have become largely obsolete in modern arsenals. Fore more information, see: Mysorean Rockets, Congreve Rocket 

Persian is used synonymously with Iranian, but it is not a helpful generalization. He was actually Khwarazmian. Khwarazem was a distinct region in Central Asia, south of the Aral Sea, with its own language. It was one of the most distant places that the Umayyads conquered. Because of the distance, the Arab ethnarchy was no so rigid, but instead they intermarried with Khwarazem families, and certain Khwarazmians remained influential. The result of this interaction was a culture that created the Abbasid revolution, which probably led to the proliferation of Khwarazmians like Kwharizmi. Despite this coexistence, they were forced to speak Arabic. Arabs went through great lengths to destroy the Khwarezmian language, and were almost successful. It would remain in Kwharazem until the Mongol conquests. The culture of the Middle East and Central Asia was thoroughly Islamized. Any business was in Arabic. This changed later in Central Asia, during the Iranian Intermezzo. Persian was revived as a language. Islam assumed a Persianized form, which influenced much of modern Islam through the Turks. 

Around 400 there was a massacre of the Gothic population in Constantinople. The Alans were spared from this because they looked different. Ardaburius, an Alan-Goth, was the Magister Militum of Theodosius. He outlasted Theodosius and became the most powerful person in the East, as did his son, Aspar. In the period from 420-476, these Alans controlled the Eastern Roman Empire. Their primary adversary was the Bonifacius, governor of Africa, and Galla Placidia, the regent in Rome. Aspar appears to have coordinated with the Vandals and Alans in their conquest of Africa. They were eventually able to turn Galla Placidia against Bonifacius. Their influence lasted until Aspar's son, Ardabur, was instigated in a conspiracy. This allowed Zeno to become emperor in 474 which began Isaurian rule. In 476 the Western Empire disappeared. Oh yea, Aspar also tutored Odoacer, king of Italy c. 476-493. 

In the earliest Sumerian literature, women are clearly described as property of their husbands. There was hardly a sense of cleanliness or pollution, though. Sumerian literature was often vulgar. Something that comes to mind is the various Dionysian nature religions. They represent a very old form of worship. Participants partook in intoxication, food, music, and sex. In Roman times, women were the leaders of these cults. It can hardly be said that they controlled their women. Throughout medieval times, a lot of Christian peasants didn't take marriage seriously. I would say that the increased emphasis on monogamy by commoners came with the introduction of money and economical restraints on households. Another way to put it, is that it became neccesary to ensure the survival of offspring. One reason for asceticism and piety was the desire to obtain exclusivity by its adherents. 

There are distinctive Sumerian figurines from the Early Dynastic period. One of the early arguments for indigenous Sumerians was that these figurines were also in the Jemdet Nasr, Uruk, and Ubaid periods. Since the Sumerians according to Kramer came after 3250, I'm looking for evidence of these older figurines. I did a quick image search for Sumerian figurines from the Uruk and Ubaid period, and founding nothing like the Sumerian guys (shaved upper lip, hair in bun). Are there Sumerian figurines from before 3250? This is from 1932, by the way. The Sumerian problem was later addressed by Joan Oates (Oates 1976). Frankfort, Henry. Archaeology and The Sumerian Problem (PDF) p. 18, 20 Kramer, Samuel. New Light on The Early History of the Near East Jstor.com p. 164 

Smoking cocaine never became mainstream. It remained a part of drug sub-culture. It was propagated among cocaine users who were looking to get higher, and could afford to smoke obscene amounts of cocaine. It began in 1974. It was isolated to Southern California, in L.A. and especially Hollywood. The first related hospital case was in 1975. The greatest dope dealer in L.A. at the time was Tootsie Reese. He says that he learned about base in 1976 when he visited his "white friend" chemists at UCLA Berkley. A year later, he knew about using baking soda. Since 1975, "conversion kits" had begun being sold in magazines like High Times. The thing to realize, though, is that cocaine was still a boutique drug. Basers consumed large amounts of it. It was mostly practiced by entertainment professionals and business execs. Richard Pryor's accident brought basing to public attention. A street manual from 1979 does not include baking soda. A Rolling Stone article from 1980 says that kits contained Ammonia or baking soda, and were added to ether. It can be presumed that the ingredients of the kits were not disclosed to the buyer. The article says that free base was not sold but made from street coke. For some time, though it could have been a trade secret among the dealers or kit makers. Free base cocaine is not as stable as Cocaine Hcl, but crack doesn't exactly sit around. When cocaine hit the masses in the 80's, it probably became common practice among free basers. These were people who could afford to buy cocaine and make it themselves for the sake of purity. Crack dealers would probably have continued to use the old Ammonia and Ether formula for efficiency. Regardless, the scourge of the rich became the plight of the poor. I just wrote this whole answer, and now I realized that baking soda has nothing to do with safety. It was switching from ether to water. While it seems simple, it does not appear to mentioned at all in the period mentioned (up to 1980). Nor was it easy for the average American to find cocaine. 

Most histories gloss over the low point of Assyria from 800-745. I have become interested in the period because of Shammuramat, the Babylonian regent, and her sons, who struggled for power with an Assyrian general from Aramea, Shamsu Ilu. This went on for decades, until a general named Pulu defeated Shamsu Ilu and became Tiglath Pileser III. Because of his name, and his sons' names which were all changed, it appears he was a foreign usurper. Has anyone proposed where they were from? His son was named Ululayu, aka Shalmanessar V. In Babylon they used their original names. Edit: Thanks SPC for the overview. I am interested in any compelling theories. At the very least, I'm wondering if anything can be said of the names of him and his sons, even if it's only that they are definitely not Aramaic. 

I'm interested in ancient Judea, from the dissolution of the monarchy to the beginning of John Hyrcanus. It was a small wedge to the west of the Dead Sea. What was the strategic significance of this region? Has the region had a similar significance in other periods, like the Egyptians/ Hittites, Romans, or Crusaders? Edit: Thanks for the answers. I'm still looking for its strategic value for the Levant, which was a major commercial thoroughfare. It appears to be a stronghold of some sort. 

There was no writing in India before the Mauryan Empire. Sanskrit was a spoken language. Sanskrit writing derived from Prakrit, breaking off around very roughly around 100 B.C. It developed as the official court writing system of the Brahmans, as opposed to the wider system of "common Prakrit", which continued to be used by Buddhist texts and others. The ancestors of the Iranians may be mentioned in Sumerian texts about the land of Aratta. This was an important region from which Lapis Lazuli and other things were traded. While they are not written records, there are important archaeological sites in teh B.M.A.C. like Godin Tepe. There is even the original site of the chariot warriors, Sintashta. Since there was no writing in Pre-Mauryan India, there is only oral tradition. The Rig Veda was impeccably memorized by Brahmans. It is a usable record like no other oral tradition in the world. It has given us a perfect form of the Old Vedic language. Before this, we have only linguistics. They have partially reconstructed Indo Aryan from their homeland. There is also comparative Aryan and Indo European mythology, by which an original religion is tentatively constructed. They can closely be related to people like the Scythians and Medes. In fact, the Medes were very similar to the Vedic culture. These similarities have made its way into Persian and Zoroastrian literature. If you go back further, they can be put in a broader context of Indo European religions. Some of these are Greek, Scandinavian and Osettian mythology. 

We don't know much about the period. People have a lot of interesting ideas.The legend does fall into the period of the Bronze Age Collapse with the Sea Peoples, and is represented in Hittite texts as Ahhiya and Wilusa (Achaeans and Troy). Some consider the attack on Troy by the Mycenae to be one of the agressions of Sea Peoples. Conversely, I once read that the list of Sea Peoples were allies of Troy. Thus, Troy was a leader of the onslaught against the Medditerranean powers. I can't seem to relocate the theory. Eberhard Zangger takes this approach in his view of a Luwian Civilization that competed with others. 

I can point out a few things from the early 1800’s, although I realize that you are more interested in the later history of the Midwest. The Treaty of Ghent included a provision that the United States not interfere with the natives. This was extension of British foreign policy, which sought to contain the new country. The Georgia Gold Rush of 1829 brought a large number of prospectors onto Cherokee lands. The state of Georgia had assumed tight control over Native American territories. Supreme Court Justice John Marshall ruled that Native American territories were to be dealt with as a separate, sovereign nation. This meant that they were to be dealt with only by the Federal Government through treaties. Andrew Jackson defied Marshall’s ruling; "John Marshall has made his decision, now let him enforce it!". The Indian Removal Act of 1830 was passed, leading to the Trail of Tears. The typical narrative is that the Supreme Court protected the natives, while the other branches violated their rights*. I think that the truth may be more complicated. This simple interpretation allows the Supreme Court to remain squeaky clean. The Indian removal act was also opposed by the Whigs and New Englanders. This has undertones of prewar North-South tensions. *Stephen Breyer, "UNF Presidential Lecture Series", January 22, 2018. 

This idea developed into the Winckler-Caetini Theory. It was also called the Desiccant theory. It supposed that Arabia was a fertile region as recently as neolithic times. Desertification caused these waves of emigration, Winckler says at roughly 1000 year intervals (Winckler, 1907). This would be Kish, Amorites, Aramaeans, Israelites, and Islam. The theory was kicked around until it was disproven by modern climatological models. The peninsula had become a desert by 8,000 B.C. The newest theory is by Juris Zarins. In this, pastoral nomadism was invented by a fusion of Harifian hunter gatherers and Pre Pottery Neolithic B settlers, in the Sinai and Negev deserts. The result was a Circum Arabian Nomadic Complex, out of which came the Proto semites. With less renown, he has done biblical scholarship which places Eden in Dilmun. In this, the Genesis is a Sumerian recollection of Hunter Gatherers from Eastern Arabia who encountered agriculture in southern Mesopotamia. The major point of this theory is the placing of the two other rivers in Genesis as the Wadi al-Rummah in Saudi Arabia, and the Gihon in Iran. The main issue with this is that the Gihon is described proximal to Aethiopia in the bible. Aethiopia was translated from Kush in the King James Bible; he says this may have been a corruption of Kassites. 

What is it refering to during Pliny, Ptolemy, and Shapur I? The only thing that I am aware of is the conquest of Trajan. 

Note: I read the question this morning, then wrote my answer tonight. Somehow I came to think it included language and culture. It's now a bit of TMI, but I'm going to let it hang out there for a little bit because I worked on it for a few hours (sigh). Their is some controversy surrounding the relation of Brittonic and Gaelic people. One theory says that they were both indigenous to islands, while the other says that Brittonic speakers came after 450 B.C. The Celtic language was originally discovered by Edward Lhuyd. He discerned a similarity in the two surviving Celtic languages, Gaelic (Irish) and Brittonic (Welsh). He became the first to propose that these were ancient languages that were spoken throughout Europe. He classified two families, of which Brittonic and Gaelic were the main members, into P-celtic and Q-celtic. He further proposed a Proto-Celtic substratum (not to be confused with P-Celtic). P-Celtic languages were also known as Gallo-Brittonic because they originated in Northern Gaul. They are also called Continental Celtic because they were mostly spoken on the continent. Q-Celtic has a more western, coastal distribution. It includes Goidelic (Irish-Gaelic), and Celtiberian (parts of Iberia). P Celtic is a younger, innovative branch of Celtic. Q Celtic represents and older, conservative culture, possibly dating from the Bronze or early Iron Age. This theory has taken the back seat in the last few decades, but has adherents. The implication of this theory is that Brittonic people are related to Continental Celtic speakers, especially across the channel in Northwestern Gaul. There is evidence to support this. One point is the similar names of tribes on either side of the channel. I think that it had to do with the spread of La Tene culture into Britain. One theory says that they only entered the island in a significant numbers after 200 B.C. They also introduced coinage to the island from the continent c. 150 B.C. They pushed the previous Goidelic speakers out of Southern Britain. In the 1970's a new theory emerged. This put Goidelic and Brittonic in a new category called Insular Celtic. It says that Brittonic and Goidelic developed together on the islands, and separated from each other at some point. The term Insular describes their isolation from Continental Celtic. Continental, therefore, would not be related to Brittonic, and would be completely extinct. The implication of this is that the both language groups are indigenous from a much earlier date, like the early Iron Age. The Insular Celtic theory has become the mainstream viewpoint, but their are proponents of the Gallo-Brittonic connection. Goidelic is in fact related to the Celtiberian languages. This supports the older theory. It is also intriguing from the standpoint of Irish Legend. Irish Legends were compiled in the 12th century. In them, the eponymous ancestor of the Irish people was an Egyptian princess named Scota. She married a Babylonian and their son was Goidel Glas, the originator of the Goidelic languages. It describes the adventure his group of people who are called Milesians. They came from Asia, stopped in Iberia, then arrived in Ireland. Ancient Irish people during the Roman period were called Scotti. Ireland was called Scotta. In a semi legendary reconstruction, they were the ancestors of the Scots. The Scotti created a kingdom called Dal Riata in the Western Scottish Isles, during the sixth century A.D. It contested with other people like the Angles and Vikings over the next centuries. Dal Riata imparted the Gaelic language and customs onto the Picts (who were a more savage people). It merged with them to create the Kingdom of Alba, c. 900. This was the predecessor to Medieval Scotland, which was a combination of this and Norman settlers. Picts were described as foreigners by many people. They were often called Huns or Scythians. Their name is derived from the custom of painting their faces. They formed a confederacy in the far north of Britain during the Romano British period. I think they may have previously been the enemies of Brittonic people. They originally spoke a distinct language called Pictish. They had a distinct form of art that was a fusion of of La Tene with later influences. They were viewed as the most archaic people of Britain, and this probably wasn't a maligned observation. Nobody knows where they came from. What I haven't mentioned yet are the Brittonic speakers, which do not deserve to be last. Brittonic speakers were the primary subjects of Roman Britain, thus the name. After the Anglo Saxon invasions, the Brittonic speakers were represented by the Welsh, Cornish ("West Welsh"), and the Bretons. Cornwall was conquered by the Saxons at some point in the 10th century, and were assimilated. (Cornish identity was revived in the 20th century.) Wales was divided into a number of kingdoms which fought with eachother. The longest lasting one was the mountainous Kingdom of Gwynedd The Welsh seem to have held on to a remnant of Roman culture for a few centuries. They were a fiercely independent. They introduced the longbow to the English. They were eventually conquered in the 13th century, but most kept their identity and language. Bretons were incorporated into France (Brittany) in the 15th century.