Personal Advice: While you can increase the thickness of your wrist with physical activities, this should be in no way be a goal nor a hindrance unless there are mitigating factors. The reason being is that the process is relatively slow and not significant. Anything that stimulates the production of HGH will have a net effect of bone gain. 

Also see this research on Mechanisms of aerobic performance impairment with heat stress and dehydration 

In short, Yes you can. But, as you qualified, you'll still want to do your strength training as it will help you burn the fat much more quickly along with continuing to build and maintain your strength. The exact answer on whether you should do 45 min of cardio depends on your fitness goals. Do you just want burn fat? Do you want to build muscle? Or do you want to train to run a marathon? If burning fat is important and endurance or long distance running isn't important to you then another possible alternative to cardio is HIIT. HIIT - High Intensity Interval Training, is the perfect method for losing fat while retaining muscle mass and it is great for the lungs and heart as well. It is also a good way to train for spontaneous activities especially if you also desire to burn calories. See these these articles on dailyburn.com and bodybuilding.com for more info on HIIT. HIIT is not a replacement for strength training and will not produce the same results in the short term or even long term. Strength training will burn more calories but will not necessarily do your lungs as good as HIIT or Cardio. HIIT also isn't a replacement for cardio if your goal is long distance endurance. Some people define HIIT differently, so I'll add this qualifier Weight training being -i.e. weighted squats, leg press, calf extensions, lunges, etc. and HIT being non-weighted High Intensity Workouts. Some HIIT techniques involve weighted exercise but they're applied with a different methodology. The focus with HIIT is to burn calories not to build muscle strength. One of the drawbacks of HIIT is that many of it's activities may put you at risk of injury. If you're concerned about injury or have had a recent injury, I wouldn't recommend HIIT. More on why HIIT is not a replacement for strength training: 

Sources: (1) $URL$ (2) $URL$ (3) $URL$ (4) $URL$ (5) $URL$ (6) $URL$ (7) $URL$ (8) $URL$ (9) $URL$ (10) $URL$ (11) $URL$ (12) $URL$ (13) $URL$ More Reading: 1. nof.org/exercise 2. builtlean.com 3. www.unm.edu 

Recovery can be highly dependent on the individual and the muscle. Given an active healthy person, for strength training it can take up to 7-14 days for the muscle to fully repair and rebuild itself, however, it's generally okay to workout 48-72 hours after on the same muscle group. It is vitally important to give the muscle this time to recover for maximum results and preventing injury. Cardio or Aerobic: For aerobic workouts, it depends on the person and the type of aerobic workout. If it's high intensity and/or rough terrain then the rest time will need to be greater. The soreness may be caused by micro tears or lactic acid depending on the intensity. Given an active healthy person, they can generally workout doing to same activity within 24hrs or when they no longer feel the soreness. Injury: Another way of defining soreness is muscle fatigue, cramps or spasms, and pulled and injured muscles. These need to be taken under special consideration and should not be placed under any stress until they have been given proper time to heal. After pain/soreness subsides, immediately engaging in heavy lifts of activities is not recommended at all. Gradually working up to greater weights or activities with caution is recommended. Just how gradual is highly dependent on the severity of injury and the type of activity. I recommend consulting a doctor for specifics. More reading on DOMS: $URL$ $URL$ More on Lactic Acid: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

     Human Growth Hormone (HGH): Human Growth Hormone (HGH) production is stimulated with anaerobic exercise activities and is naturally produced by the pituitary gland. (11) This hormone is responsible for the muscular and bone strength gains proceeding lifting and other exercises. HGH production varies throughout the day but most of it is produced during your sleep cycle. (12) HGH production will wane with age. (13) (See Chart Below) To both, maximize both your muscle and bone gains, you need to maximize HGH production. To maximize production of HGH, you'll need to get good rest (8 hours sleep) and enter into deep sleep as well as receive ample nutrition including protein and vitamins. (14,15,16) 

Good question! In short, No, soreness is not a good indicator of rest/recovery. And you're right the answer is different for strength training vs aerobic and, if I may add injury. In many cases, with notable exceptions, for aerobic workouts you can usually go by soreness. Allow me to address each aspect of soreness as soreness can be defined in a number of ways: 

Detailed Explanation on Bone Growth: There are several types of bone cells that preform different functions. Osteocytes are the cell in the bone that maintain the bone mineral concentration. (1) Stimulated as stress is placed on the bone through gravity or exercise by mechanotransduction (3, 10, 11, 12), the Osteocytes will increase mineralization (aka calcification). Bone mineral is initially deposited in “hole” zones between the ends of collagen fibrils of the matrix. As bone matures, hydroxyapatite crystals enlarge and by crystal growth and aggregation. The process of mineralization takes place throughout the entire life. (1) Osteocytes die as a consequence of senescence, degeneration/necrosis, apoptosis (programmed cell death), and/or osteoclastic engulfment. The percentage of dead osteocytes in bone increases with age from less than 1% at birth to 75% after age 80. (12) Osteoblasts are the cell responsible for bone growth. (1, 2) Osteoblasts are stimulated by Human Growth Hormone (HGH) (3, 4, 5, 6, 7) which is produced in higher amounts during and after strenuous exercise. (3) Osteoblasts are found in the growing portions of bone, including the periosteum and endosteum. After bones are fully developed in adulthood, the bone will not increase in length but can/will increase in diameter given the right conditions of nutrition and hormone stimulation. HGH is naturally produced by the pituitary gland during sleep. HGH production will wane with age. To both, maximize bone gains as well as muscle, you need to maximize HGH production. HGH is produced by the body every night. Production is increased after anaerobic activities. To maximize production of HGH, you'll need to get good rest (8 hours sleep) and ample nutrition including protein and vitamins. Some people supplement with BCAA's, Vitamin D, Glutamine, GABA, A-GPC, L-arginine and L-lysine to improve HGH performance. Some suggest avoiding sugar after workouts. They say that consuming sugar (especially fructose) within 2 hours post workout will cause your hypothalamus to release somatostatin, which will decrease your production of HGH. Simple sugars that are high-glycemic also spike insulin levels. Not only does this lead to body fat storage, but it severely decreases the release of growth hormone. (13) Osteoclasts are the cells responsible for breaking down the bone back into raw materials. These are the antithesis to the Osteoblasts. Together they make up a process called bone remodeling and facilitate appositional growth. (2, 8, 9) 

In general, exercise will increase your health and your body's operating efficiency. Things like stroke volume, lung efficiency and capacity, and red blood cell efficiency including oxygen and co2 delivery efficiency. See the Diagram below. 

Forearm and Wrist Exercises include: Wrist Curls For Flexion Reverse Wrist Curls For Extension Behind The Back Wrist Curls One-Arm Cable Reverse Curls To specifically target the pronator quadratus: Seated forearm pronation Side lying forearm pronation Standing forearm pronation with rope attachment Flexbar forearm pronation Band seated forearm pronation Band standing forearm pronation 

As muscle mass increases so will your 1RM and you likewise adjust your weight lifting resistance using the same formula. You can adjust the percentage if you don't want to do a strength training program at the extreme levels. In fact if you're inexperienced it would be advisable to work up it more slowly until you can safely control the movement. Most of the time this type of workout will require a lifting partner to spot you AKA save you from killing yourself, literally. For More Information See: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ Keep in mind if your about to start a strength training program that rest and nutrition are very important factors. You'll want to research this of you haven't already. For table illustration credit: see this link. 

Defining HIIT: HIIT is great for fat loss and complements anaerobic workouts wonderfully but it is definitely not a replacement. HIIT is the perfect method for losing fat while retaining muscle mass. It is also a good way to train for spontaneous activities especially if you also desire to burn calories. Some people define HIIT differently, so I'll add this qualifier Weight training being -i.e. weighted squats, leg press, calf extensions, lunges, etc. and HIT being non-weighted High Intensity Workouts. Some HIIT techniques involve weighted exercise but they're employed with a different methodology. The focus with HIIT is to burn calories not to build muscle strength. One of the drawbacks of HIIT is that many of its activities may put you at risk of injury. More on why HIIT is not a replacement for strength training: 

Thant said push ups can increase muscle mass under certain circumstances. It's all relative to your 1RM and your body weight. For example, if the person doing push ups can only do =<25 at a time. This follows the high weights/less reps model. So, if you're only able to do less than 25 per set than this could definitely have a measurable impact on mass/strength. Nutrition also plays an important factor. For example it your not getting enough protein your body will not have enough resources to build mass with. See protein calculators like this one for more info. Personally, I think it over estimates how much you need but it gives you a general idea. Some endurance activities will have some measurable effect on strength but when it is this low of a percentage relative to your 1RM, it will have very little effect on mass/strength. To sum it up, it's all relative you your 1RM how much any given exercise will potentially increase your mass. The lower the percentage of weight relative to 1RM the lower the mass and strength gains. The gains in strength will decrease exponentially as the weight goes down. For More Information See: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$