I can add that Washington DC is still expanding its Metro and the expansion is not underground. The newest line is the Silver Line, and as it goes through Tysons Corner it's almost entirely elevated. There was a loud grassroots movement to put it underground through Tysons Corner, but underground is much more expensive and risky. The arguments against elevated lines echo what has been said in other answers: unattractive, extra maintenance and problems due to weather, and so on. An additional argument is that it's built along the middle of a couple of major roads that already make the area pedestrian unfriendly, and so it will always be an anchor against the ultimate goal of remaking Tysons Corner more of a mixed-use, pedestrian-friendly place like nearby Arlington. Speaking of which, Arlington County fought long and hard (back in the 1970's) to force the Metro underground, instead of the cheaper alternative of running it down the center of I-66 (the nearby Interstate). They succeeded in arguing that it needed to go through Arlington's downtown rather than skirt and divide town, and the major changes to Arlington over the last 40 years bear that out. Arlington is a shining success story for an underground Metro that could have been above ground. It went from a sleepy, semi-industrial suburbs to a place that other cities point to as their goal. (Including Tysons Corner, but also from around the world.) I'd suggest looking at this history of the Washington DC metro -- particularly Arlington and Tysons Corner -- for some nice historical lessons. (As a side note, one of the ritziest neighborhoods of Washington is Georgetown, and back in the day, Georgetown residents fought off the Metro stop that was planned for their neighborhood. Arlington County jumped at the opportunity and in the end, the money originally earmarked for Georgetown's Metro stop was used to build an extra Arlington Metro stop -- Virginia Square. Georgetown regrets this loss more with the passing of each year. Long-range plans call for more Metro lines to be added, and Georgetown is in line to get one when new lines are added -- someday. EDIT: This account has been disputed, and I've answered in comments. The Georgetown part may be partly urban legend, though I heard it from one of the people involved (on the Arlington side) at a lecture.) EDIT: To add a bit more history, Arlington came up with a plan where the densest construction and highest buildings would be along the (underground) Metro line, falling off a bit between stops, and falling off quickly as you move away from the Metro line entirely and towards single-family-home neighborhoods. It hasn't totally followed that plan, but it's worked very well, and part of that is because you can build right on top of an underground Metro. So it's not always the case that you need underground because of pre-existing buildings that can't be touched: it allows a lot more room to build new tall buildings along your route. My inner child would love to see an elevated monorail, ala Disney or Seattle's short monorail run, but... 

It is anecdotical but I want to know if the Marshalls of the Empire appointed by Napoleon got well along or if they could hardly tolerate each other. I'm specially interested in Lannes, Davout, Desaix, Masséna, Murat, Ney and Soult. I already know - please, correct me if I'm wrong - that Murat wasn't very much appreciated by Davout, Lannes or Ney. That Ney and Soult hated each other after Spain. That Desaix and Davout were friendly, and that Masséna refused to sentence Ney to death after the Hundred Days. If all of the above is correct, is there anything else worth mentioning - relationship wise - among these seven Marshalls of the Empire? 

Besides being found in Dresden (I guess), What reasons have led some historians to identify this as Arminius? Doesn't look much barbarian to me (what, no moustache?) 

Procopius of Caesarea, in his "History of the Wars", Book II of the Persian War, Chapter XIX, says this: 

The first book that comes to mind is "The Golden Bough: A Study in Comparative Religion" by James George Frazer, published in 1890. Very influential on its day, not so much today. Still, a fascinating read if you're interested in such themes. Modern understanding of Greek mythology from Wikipedia shows also this: 

In your edit you mention the Battle of the Golden Spurs, as Courtrai, its other name. Quoting the Historical significance part in Wikipedia article: 

The civil war on Haiti called the War of Knives (1799-1800) was fought between Toussaint Louverture and André Rigaud (basically, blacks from North Haiti versus mulattoes established in the South). Wikipedia article on Toussaint Louverture: 

Definitively not an answer, but info about Bakht Khan seems scarce (a simple Google search now returns this page as 9th result). 

My guess is the War of Knives got its name because the irregular fighting and lots of saved ammo. Googling your question brings two more possible answers: 

Gaius Pius Esuvius Tetricus was the last emperor of the short-lived Gallic Empire (260–274 AD). "Tetricus" in Latin means cheerless or dark, which makes me think there may be an anecdote on how he got that nickname. So far, I searched in Google, Wikipedia, and the Historia Augusta and I have not found anything about its origin. 

The Dictionary of Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology also says that Archestratus had a teacher, Terpsion: 

I'm quite interested in the removal of the Hastati, Principes and Triarii elements introduced by the Marian reforms in 107 BC, and how it affected the Roman army at first. Looking on Wikipedia for Roman battles just after the reform brings two Roman defeats in the Cimbrian War: the Battle of Burdigala (107 BC) and the disastrous Battle of Arausio (105 BC). Both articles mention other causes for defeat, but I'm wondering if inexperience in a new system on the battlefield played a part. Of course, in case the new Marian legions didn't made their debut in neither of those battles, where was it and what impact had the new composition of the army? 

A History of the Jews, by Paul Johnson, takes an authoritative tone and is dense with citations. But its scope is enormous and it sometimes draws very strong conclusions. Given the state of the art of scholarship in 2015, how accurate and balanced is Paul Johnson's account? I ask because I'm reading it now and I'd like to know if what I'm reading should be taken seriously. For instance, I recently learned that Zealot by Aslan contains a good deal of unfounded conclusions and distortions by omission, and that the author's credentials are suspect. I'd hate to read Johnson's massive history only to find out that I'm not learning what I think I'm learning. 

This occurred at least twice in the Vietnam War. I say "at least" because these are the two instances I know of, and there could well be more. Mỹ Sơn This complex of temples was built by the Cham in the 15th Century, who (I'm told) were the original inhabitants of Vietnam until who we today consider the ethnic Vietnamese invaded and took over. Cham people still live today in southern Vietnam. These temples were carpet bombed because they were being used by the VC. When I visited (July 2013), one of these temples was being rebuilt. Huế Imperial City This citadel was built in the former capital of the then-Kingdom of Vietnam at the beginning of the 19th Century. Huế was seized during the Tet Offensive, and the Imperial City was a bombing target in the process of reclaiming the city. The Imperial City was also being rebuilt when I visited, in some cases from the ground up, although much of it still stood and had already been repaired. The way Vietnam is handling these sites is very interesting to an American; my Vietnamese friend pointed out that, after all, Vietnam won the war. But even so, it's strange to compare these sites to our own war heritage sites. 

I don't have a particular source for this, but I remember my high school Latin teacher telling us that Roman wine was more like a strong, thick concentrate much stronger than the wine we drink today, intended to be diluted before drinking. Think like those 100% berry juices you can buy at health food stores in the US, that are undrinkably tart without adding water. Moreover, we spent an entire class period learning about the central social role of the person designated to choose the dilution strength at each dinner party, known as the arbiter bibendi, the "drinking master." Choosing the wrong mix (too much water -- wine sucks; too little water -- everyone gets too sloshed) could result in social consequences among the Roman elite, i.e. not being invited to more dinner parties. We read about one of these situations, but I can't remember who the author was. Might have been Horace, or probably someone more lowbrow. As to why it was made so strong in the first place, I have no clue. 

The reason was colonialism and trade rights. For this same reason, the Dutch had already sent a ship in 1902, along Britain, Germany and Italy. 

During the Crimean War (1853–56), Charles George Gordon took part in the Siege of Sevastopol (1854–55), calling it "the last of the old sieges". What made Sevastopol so "old fashioned" for a comment like that? I can think of two reasons: 

Dessalines really had a fixation with death-by-machete. After seizing the power, he ordered the Haiti massacre of 1804: 

But the Wikipedia article on the Siege itself doesn't mention him whatsoever, the order of battle doesn't show any of his troops, and all other biographies I've read about the character don't say anything about this. So, was Juan Martín Díez, el Empecinado, present in Ciudad Rodrigo during the siege by Ney? 

There are more examples in pages 303, 441 and 474. I don't know if Babur enjoyed using human skulls as Lego, but by the tone of his comments, certainly very upset he was not. 

The success of these reforms can be quite surprising, but Athens was just recovering from the rule of the Peisistratids and, after the banishing of Isagoras, Cleisthenes was virtually unopposed. Thomas R. Martin, An Overview of Classical Greek History from Mycenae to Alexander has a chapter called Persuasion and Cleisthenic Democracy that may interest you. And, just for the record, the traditional four tribes before Cleisthenes were called Geleontes, Hopletes, Argadeis and Aegicoreis. Glad I asked you in comment before answering this :) 

Of course Crecy and Agincourt are more famous for the Welsh archers, but Courtrai, Bannockburn, Aljubarrota, Sempach and Grandson are good examples of "peasants with pitchforks" tactics being decisive. EDIT: A case could be made that the Battle of Stirling Bridge belongs to this group too. 

Wikipedia has a list of people excommunicated by the Catholic Church, with a little explanation of the causes for each case, but (understandably) none of the effects. I'm curious if this measure has caused the downfall of any ruler, specially in the Middle Ages, when the power and influence of the Catholic Church was most strong. 

Book II, Chapter 5, 22 Besides that Heraclitus can get really deep, we can infer from this that book lending in Classical Athens was not unheard of. The source for this anecdote seems to be Aristo of Ceos, a 3rd-century BC philosopher, as Diogenes Laertius explains in the Herodotus chapter: