Radioactive weaponry If your small guys are smart enough and understand more science that we do, you could basically instant-kill living things with the help of gamma rays! If you shoot a radiation so powerful into anything solid, it will excite their atoms so much, that they will to begin to radiate too (sort of a single projectile, which divides into many fragments like in the first 10 seconds of this video). A high dose of radiation could lead to instant death :) 

A lot of people believe that a chip cannot be tampered with from a distance. This is not true, especially if you are setting your story in a future where technology has evolved. Assuming your ID must be wirelessly communicated, I assume that the informations (whatever they are) stored in the RFID-like chip are encrypted. The problem with traditional cryptography, though, is that if you have the key(s), you have everything you need to decrypt your code... And the keys are too stored somewhere. Quantum cryptography is said to be impossible to hack due to the fact that a "bit" of information alters its state when it's read (from third parties). Problem is: it alters its state when it's read by a machine too... and if a machine is expecting a certain sequence to launch the missiles, it means that there's too a key involved... Assuming the worst case, terrorists have the key(s). A wireless transmission of a code is really a bad idea, since what the terrorists would do is simply set a smart-antenna to track the chip from a distance, and read its informations. What's indeed difficult is actually to get to the president physically. So why bother with a chip, when a retinal scan (some users already pointed out that this is impossible to hack - and why can't the scan work with sunglasses? They can be "smart" ones, or the scanner can be), voice recognition, fingerprint analysis, password and a titanium bullet with a code inside hidden in the body are all things that need a physical abduction? In short: I wouldn't rely on a (single) code stored on a (single) chip. Especially if transmission is considered. 

Radiation is detrimental to DNA, as it will induce mutations. Though some bacteria on Earth have developed radiation-resistant DNA-repairing enzymes. See: $URL$ But, Radiotrophic fungus exists: $URL$ With a combination of melanin, photosynthesis, and chemosynthesis, they convert gamma radiation to chemical energy. Furthermore, High energy radiation gets absorbed by water fairly quickly. If the deposit is large enough to sustain a nuclear reaction, you would have a heated zone that would be more favorable to other lifeforms too, like a geothermal vent. See: $URL$ 

You should be clearer than 'digital' form. I will assume you mean scanning matter and storing it as information. It is currently feasible but they come in varying degrees of precision. We have Radar, Lidar, X-Ray Imaging, Thermal Imaging, CT (magnetic) scans, etc. A hypothetically advanced civilization could be able to accurately represent 'matter' down to atoms, however, they would not be able to represent quantum information with classical computers. That is only assuming our quantum theory is not bogus. Converting matter into energy is quite easy, as mentioned by Einstein decades earlier. The popular equation E=mc2 that allowed us to split the atom is actually Energy equals mass times speed of light squared. We're already doing that within nuclear reactors. I suggest you read more about: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

What about "Thanatógon(s)" and "Biógon(s)"? Those come from death = Thánatos (θάνατος) / life = Bíos (βίος) + the word "puppetteer", which is translated into "Góns" (γόης). I strongly disagree with people using "Nekros" as "Death", since it actually means "Dead" (a person who is deceased). The divinities they devote to could indeed be the "Moirai": 

Am I the only one here thinking about bioengineering trees so that their wood becomes more weapon-ready? I'm talking about super venomous resins, super elastic / super sturdy materials, exploding wood, or whatever you can think of. 

As I pointed out in some comments, let belief do the trick. Your question pretty much implies that creature C has to provide A & B in both their universes a tangible/perceivable proof (which sounds to me a lot like scientific method), but since the dimensions are orthogonal, each inhabitant of these planes would not have the possibility to glimpse the existance of "the others". Let C be a creature A e B look up to (God?) in both worlds. Through belief of C's words, A could believe in B and vice versa. Let me write an example: suppose my terrestrial life and the hell are orthogonal. Through religion I believe in the existence of hell, therefore I don't commit crimes or such in order to preserve my soul in the afterlife. By acting like I do, I am altering what happens/will happen in hell (I am wildly assuming that hell has no time). The two dimensions are entwined, but I never had the possibility to experience any proof about it being real. 

Here you can see the problem, for three objects orbiting each other, the movement becomes chaotic and unpredictable. This would also happen for the planets orbiting one of the binary stars. If we were to try and find out if such a system were possible, we would need infinite time to compute the numerical solution, since we do not, we cannot know which initial parameters would make such a system possible. Here I made a crude representation of what I mean. And in this case, the star collided with the planet... 

Now for planets to orbit a single star in that binary system, you would need to solve the n-body problem, a problem that is currently unsolved, because it is chaotic. If you do a simulation of three bodies for million of years, the result would be highly different than what we would see in real life. The errors of a numerical solution are just too great in cosmic timescales. $URL$ 

I would suggest the classic sci-fi trope where the planet is just highly elliptical. But don't let this plunder your hopes, this is only based on the current understanding of orbital mechanics. 

Advantages of Mechs: This is a list of advantages mechs might have in some situations. Note that Mechs cannot do the job of tanks/planes/ships nor replace them. They are a new form of vehicles designed for a new form of warfare. This is all coming from an undergraduate in Physics and Computer Sciences, thus I am not an engineer, nor Napoleon, take this only as my grain of salt. TL;DR: Since Mechs have the same degree of liberty as a Human, it can do everything a human does, but at orders of magnitudes faster, thanks to Artificial Intelligence. A tank does not need and would not benefit from recent advances in machine learning since it only requires two variables: foward-backwards movement, aiming and shooting. A mech can do 'everything'. Which is why most armies in the world are fervently developing this technology. From the Military Point of View 

Make it biological. A tons of stuff that lives like cells and so on cannot (yet) be seen, scanned or whatsoever. Microscope stuff that you see is often dead and artificially-colored in order to let people actually see it. This would also have the advantage that you could have a very fast-expiring mix (when cells inside are dead, it works no more). 

As naive I can be, I always assumed people started inventing flying machines in order to "be like the birds". In an earth-like world without any flying/gliding being (animal or plant), what could be the drive for people to glimpse the idea of flying? Assume this is about a "Leonardo da Vinci" inventor, who is planning to create a machine to "go into the sky". What kind of simple observations and thoughts would be sufficient to at least spark this idea? Provided that gravity teaches that "what flies goes back on earth in no time", is it enough? 

What about a particular kind of cancer? I'm not a doctor, but it is my understanding that some kinds of cancer happen due to DNA damage. What would happen if the two nations had a problem on vast scale of people having these kinds of illnesses? I think they might try procedures to repair the DNA, and since identical twins have the same DNA, they could lead their trials on twins. Of course, if the phaenomenon is widespread, the governments would have to "use" all the twins possible (since they are rare)... 

To conclude, an intelligent commander would use all the best characteristics of mechs to create an automated, multi-purpose robotic swarm that is able to cheaply and quickly overwhelm the enemy. It is quite frightening indeed. Of course, big mechs are inherently slow and bulky, smaller mechs would be the way to go. Now you might think, if this is so GREAT, why hasn't any army developed mechs already? Good question. The reason is that programming bipedal motion is hard... (EXTREMELY hard) (As a computer science student I can attest to that) It took millions of years to evolve bipedal motion, and even for children, it takes 3 years to properly learn how to walk. Armies are pouring tons of money into developing quadrupedal motion. Why not bipedal? Because if the robot cannot even walk with four legs, forget even thinking about walking on only two legs. So while two-legged mechs are cool in theory, they are really hard to make. However, you should anticipate quadrupedal mechs coming in the next decade or so. To give you an idea of what it would look like: 

If we only look at it with classical mechanics, this system would be highly chaotic. Each time the two stars get close, all the planets will be thrown everywhere. We haven't yet found planets orbiting closely a single star in close binary systems. Most of the systems where we do find plausible planets are those where the stars in the binary system are very close and the planets are orbiting from far away. Example: Proxima Centauri b. If we ignore the color of the blue 'dwarf' (you can explain the color using some kind of future tech or yet-to-be-found astronomical body, since blue stars, which fuse hydrogen at a faster rate, and thus hotter, are massive.) and assume both stars are the same mass, you would have an orbit like this. 

A portion of the population will survive but the likelihood of a large portion of the population surviving is very low. Even with outside help in today's world populations suffer great duress. The Swiss will have themselves and their very modern world will work against them as this infrastructure requires a global economy to endure the crisis. Precious metals in manufacturing, petroleum for water pumping and lubrication of hydroelectric generators, shortages of pharmaceuticals and potable water contamination will lead to millions of deaths and great suffering for those unlucky enough to survive. 

Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. Most nuclear power plant designs will fail spectacularly with long lasting effect on the surrounding area. The notion that nuclear reactors can run for extended periods of time without human intervention is simply not founded in reality. Keeping a nuclear reaction from becoming critical is a feat within itself. It's balancing act of maintaining a state that is less than critical. It will fail within a few months to a few years working under the assumption that it is not getting it's cooling water replenished which is entirely plausible. Most nuclear power plants in the United States require are light water reactors or pressurized water reactors and require the circulation of water in order to stay within a 'steady state' of operational limits. The two failure scenarios that come into play under an unattended state both involve overheating and a change of state to critical. Other incidents occur on the timeline to critical such as hydrogen explosions but these events are essentially ancillary and aren't central to root cause. Background There are two types of nuclear reactors that can suffer from water related failure. 

Assuming plants couldn't move, you can make the sentient plants be in a sort of "hive mind". Seeds could hypothetically move using stored energy reserves and colonize places as wished. Seeds that can slightly change their flight trajectory is not unthinkable, and you could make this easier by changing the climate on that planet. The atmosphere could be thicker, and with stronger winds. In stark contrast to humans, plants could build stuff by taking its shape, then die. Sacrificing some for the good of others. Of course, technological evolution in those conditions would take 1-2 orders of magnitude longer compared to animals that can move. 

To make this world habitable, you will need to consider the following: What made the world flat? If it was geological (i.e. erosion), the planet would have to be tectonically dead. Life as we know it would cease to exist, as there would be no recycling of the lithosphere. Furthermore, a geologically dead planet does not have a magnetosphere, solar flares can cause mutations or even mass extinction events. Though if we consider alien lifeforms, they might survive by having a different composition. If it was external (i.e. another civilization deciding to flat the world out), the consequences can be mostly ignored, as alien tech cannot be analyzed scientifically. How high is the "continent" with respect to the sea? To have seas, you need to have two different landmasses with different hights. If the continent is too low (i.e. under 5 meters), any variation of the ocean level will flood all the habitable lands near the oceans. (Think about waves, they can reach a meter high. Even higher during storms.) Waterways would be impossible. No mountains, no high altitude glaciers. No glaciers, no rivers. No rivers... well no rivers and lakes. You would either have seas or oceans. Did I also mention that there would be no islands in the ocean, as islands are basically mountains. Furthermore, you have to get rid of tropical areas with too much rain, as an abundance of rain will carve rivers throughout the land, and you want to avoid that. Since there would be no rivers, a huge part of a big continent might be inhospitable (arid). So going back to your question: The best and most habitable smooth world would be a ocean world with smaller continents, with spread-out seas within it. Most people would live near the seas within the continent, and stay far away from the ocean, as slight variations of the ocean level floods the land. Some plant life can deal with the rising oceans, so maybe some clever humans might find a way to live on top of those plants. If you go the easy route a less habitable world (arid world) works too, no oceans, only many scattered seas. And humans only live near the small sea-oases. P.S. weather patterns cannot be deduced from the geological standpoint only, there are many other factors. That question warrants a new post/topic entirely.