I have a town in mind that could be a great candidate for this total destruction that would go unnoticed for a week. I lived in this town so like the aliens I have studied it and think it is a good town to destroy for a base. But a bit of a paradox comes up. Why would they take over a town? What benefit does a destroyed town have for them over a isolated spot? It does not seem they benefit from taking over a city. A town or city seems to have a higher risk of discovery then an uninhabited spot, just a thought. The town I have in mind is Ely Nevada. The link is to search result of Ely. Ely is a small isolated town, with a small population of about 5000 people. It is a town at high altitude, 6400 feet. The town is at the intersection of two highways, NV 93 and Highway 50. In all directions it is 80 to 160 miles to the next gas. It is over two hundred miles to the nearest Walmart. If the aliens need super low priced shopping the are out of luck. Ely has very little trade. It has a mine that truckloads of ore are moved out of daily. Businesses that have deliveries like a super market, McDonalds and of course package type stuff like postal. It also has an Internet trunk line (backbone) routed through town. The roads have very little traffic, I would speculate hundreds of cars and trucks each day, not much more. Tourist trade is light, mostly hunters in season and people just passing through on their way to someplace else. There is only one scheduled flight in each day, which is often cancelled because no one is flying in. (Ely airport has the highest per passenger flight subsidy in the nation, over $3000 per passenger.) A weather event like a snow storm would bring traffic coming in and out of town to a standstill. Add as a consequence of that event a power outage, that puts cell phone service down and knocks out the internet and you have enough diversion to keep outside suspicion down to a very reasonable level. Outsiders might get suspicious, but it is not likely that suspicion would gain enough momentum for investigation to verify something is wrong within your time frame of 48 hours. The people that might be the people that raise the invasion by aliens flag, would be the crews coming to repair the lines, and clear the roads, would put off coming until the storm mostly passed. In Ely the highway station that keeps all the snow plows is located in Ely, so not much out side help would be coming in. Same is true for power. Nobody will be coming in force from the outside. There is no chance of someone getting out on foot, it is simply too far to the next town. Even a motorized escape by land would be difficult. A snow mobile would not have the hundred plus mile range needed to get to the next town, and since the next town in all directions is at least two thousand feet lower, it is likely they will run out of snow to trek even if they had range. Most other vehicles would have a difficult time getting out cross country. At any rate the trip cross country in snow would be very long, twelve hours more or less. Word might get out from a ham radio hobbyist with a generator. Even if the Aliens were discovered in a matter of hours, it would still be a matter of days before anything but an airstrike could be mounted to remove the aliens. It would be a good bet that the Aliens would be able to defend against any kind of conventional air attack. All the major airbases, Nellis at Las Vegas, Indian Springs, and Hill AFB near Salt lake, are hundreds of miles away. Even an emergency air response would take awhile. Ground response, the army would take days if not weeks to mount and deploy to the area. Even modern armies do not move at highway speeds. The army would be very exposed on the long highways they would be coming in on, making attacking the convoys easy for the aliens. Aliens could take and hold Ely easily. Aliens would have plenty of time to mount a defensive posture before any kind of force could be bought to bare. 

Use the normal metabolism. It is unlikely that it would be possible to build up high pressures of CO2 in this way, though, without making the blood too acidic. Use CO2 from her fire breath, if any. This would be highly inefficient, and would again have the problem of generating CO2 at ambient Go to a frozen wasteland and eat CO2 Eat chalk, and use this to generate CO2, through the reaction CaCO3 + Acid = Ca salt + CO2. The acid could come from normal metabolism. As for 4, except the acid comes from an external source. For example, the dragon may go to a volcano and feast on brimstone (sulphur) which she could then burn (producing fiery breath without the inconvenience of having to generate large amounts of fuel through metabolism.) When she is not breathing fire, the dragon may slowly convert the sulphur to SO3 and H2SO4 in her belly, and react these with chalk to make CO2 under pressure. This is an entirely realistic way for a dragon to produce icy breath without metabolism or mechanical engineering issues. The only remaining issue is materials, which have always been a problem with fire-breathing dragons anyway. 

If your doing an alternate history, I would say you could change the whole context by changing the one simple fact of the Atlantic exchange that decimated the native civilizations of the America's. Without most of the natives being wiped out by disease the whole of the "conquest" would of been something much different then it turned out. My thinking is that not only would nations be possible, they would be likely and what the Europeans would be dealing with rather then the isolated groups of survivors that made the Americas a relatively easy conquest. It would resemble something more like our western relations with China and the east in the sense that the west while practicing varying degrees of influence over the area never really conquered them. The civilizations of the Americas would of continued to emerge. Maybe at an accelerated rate with an Atlantic exchange that resulted in an exchange of ideals and technology, rather then death by disease. just a thought. 

Retirement at the end of a long life like we know it now is simply not going to happen for most people that live 4-500 years. The genetic clock running out is not likely to be the cause of death for most people. Untimely deaths due to accidents and disease will kill many more people then old age. Planning for retirement may very well be considered an exercise in futility for most people. It is extremely difficult to come up with a number for people that die accidentally. About 250,000 of 2.4 millions of Americans who die, die accidentally each year. Of everyone who dies in a developed country, 7 out of ten of those deaths are people over the age of 70. With that in mind we can say that accidents and disease account for about 30% of the death rate each year, or about 800,000 people die of the 300,000,000 in the US. If your multiply the one third of a percent that dies of unnatural causes each year you have roughly 3% of a population dead every decade, about 30% every century who die from accidents and disease. We could lower that figure by removing a lot of deaths that occur from heart attack, making an assumption that we would not tend to drop dead from heart attack so much because at fifty we would have the hearts of twenty year olds. And perhaps when you add war into the equation the rate might go up. If you consider super bugs that are making antibiotics less effective, then the figure might go up to plague like stats in some years. Over the course of 500 years a lot of things can happen that make it the exception to live to be a 500 year old. This kind of begs the question, at what age does social security kick in? Anyway back to retirement, you would not retire. At some point in your life you might become disabled, unable to work and there would be some program to take care of you. For most people, depending on how mundane the job is, short retirements more akin to sabbaticals would be the norm. You might take a couple of years off to play. You may after fifty years in a job decide to change careers and go back to school for a decade then get a new job. You might sell a business and be able to cruise for a couple of decades, dabbling in shuffle board and basket weaving until the money ran out. You may just have a very good time with your career and never do much besides vacations. 

With increasing temperature, we get increasing disorder, so it would be very strange for a substance to solidify with increasing temperature (unless water vapour or or other liquid is driven off as mentioned by Kingledion.) However such substances do exist, as mentioned by Mrkvicka. Similarly, and equally counterintuitively, ice gets denser when it melts. The thing that must increase as temperature increases is disorder. In the case of the density of water/ice, it just so happens that ice's most ordered structure has a lot of empty space in it, which explains why it is less dense than the more disordered liquid form of water. As you asked for an "element" or alloy that solidifies when heated, it is worth mentioning pure sulphur, which comes close, in a way. It has a vast increase in viscosity as it is warmed. It starts off as an ordered crystalline solid of S8 rings, which melts into a runny liquid of S8 rings. At a certain temperature, these ordered rings break open and a highly viscous polymer develops, with lots of different chain lengths. On further heating, this breaks down into a runny liquid of formula S2 and finally into gas. Mrkvicka's example is similar in that molecules have an ordered sysem of intramolecular hydrogen bonding at low temperature, which becomes a disordered system of intermolecular hydrogen boning at high temperature. However there are also big differences: In Mrkvicka's example I understand the ring itself is not disturbed, and the bonds broken are hydrogen bonds rather than covalent bonds. Another interesting and counterintuitive property is found in sulphur produced by the desulphurization process of the oil industry, which has hydrogen sulphide dissolved in it. The hydrogen sulphide caps the polymeric chains, so this sulphur does not become viscous like pure sulphur. But what is interesting is that when it cools and forms a more ordered structure of S8 rings, it expels the hydrogen sulphide. Thus it "boils" when the temperature is reduced! All the transformations mentioned here are reversible which I assume is what you are looking for. Unfortunately, these properties are due to the molecular nature of the substance, so as metals do not generally form molecules it would be much less likely to find such properties in a metal. That said, it is concievable that a zintl phase could have the properties you are looking for at some temperature range. These are compounds containing positively charged alkali metal ions and negatively charged ions consisting of clusters of silicon, tin or lead atoms. Being ionically bonded they are not conductive in the solid state. It is not out of the question that there could exist a zintl phase where heating to some (very high) temperature could cause the molecular negative ions to break down into a more disordered polymeric state. But the atoms in negative ions are not behaving like "metals" so to call this an "alloy" would be a bit of a stretch. $URL$ 

Humans, animals and various devices only have 2D vision: that is, we see a 2D projection of light reflected from various 3D objects in the direction of our eyes (and processed by our brains). I would like to describe a 3D vision, but without being fancy 5+ dimensional beings. Questions are both: how can it be realized and how would it feel to have such a vision? I want to keep all the limitations of our usual vision: finite resolution (amount of pixels), finite field of vision (area and distance), finite time resolution, finite spectrum and spectral resolution, etc. Of course I don't want to keep is to rely on electromagnetic spectrum alone. Better have a combination of scanning instruments, including various elementary particles. 1) One way is to have a million nanorobots (or organic analogue) with sensors floating in space and communicating with each other / some external processing device. If they are tiny enough they can even 'see' inside living tissue or some porous materials. The processing needed to 'comprehend' such image in real time is enormous though. And also, it will not be a higher-dimensional analogue to our vision, because we won't be able to 'turn our head' and see another 3D projection of a 4D object, we'd be more like a right hand circle in this 2D space: 

Aliens would have an entirely different physiology and would almost certainly be immune to human viruses, which have specifically evolved to reproduce in a human cell. (On the other hand, simple bacteria and parasites might prove deadly to the aliens.) So if theres a wave of alien abductions, they're probably taking people to use a guinea pigs to breed and incubate the ultimate strain of smallpox. Although the disease has currently been eradicated, we shouldn't get complacent and stop vaccinating, because when aliens attack we're doomed. $URL$ $URL$ Note that smallpox played a major role in the conquest of the Americas. The Europeans brought smallpox with them, and the natives, having had no contact with the disease, were decimated. (In return, it is believed the Native Americans probably gave the Europeans syphilis.) 

There are salt flat regions near the Nile itself. Perhaps the largest is the Qattara Depression. The great bitter lake, now flooded with seawater as part of the Suez Canal, was once a salt flat. During the building of the Suez Canal, a small parallel canal called the Sweetwater Canal was built to supply fresh water to the area. The water came from the Nile via Lake Timsah. 

As a way to travel fast, my Earth-like planet is going to have a special train, circling it (the axis of the 'tracks' is aligned with the planet's axis of rotation). The thing about this train - it never stops and it doesn't end - there is no first or last car, they are all joined in a circle. Moreover, it's actually several trains, going parallel to each other. The first one travels at the speed of 5 km/h, such that any healthy person can get on it. Then the second train travels at 10 km/h, and they are close enough so it's no trouble to step from one to another. The next travels at 15 km/h, the next at 20 km/h, etc. I think about 200 trains should be enough to provide the means of fast travel around the planet. Of course, there is the matter of travelling to and from the tracks. As for the 'other side of tracks, we just need a second set of slower and slower trains. The problems with this concept: 

Specifics: the magical ability is genetic, very rare (about one in ten thousand people will be born with it), and no mage can be too strong (no destroying mountains, drying lakes etc.). Also, the nature of magical spells is fundamentally different from any technology or natural phenomena (i.e. laser beams or lightning), even if the effects can be similar. In other words, think Harry Potter kind of magic (not literally, but close enough). But there is a third group of people, who have a genetic ability to resist any magical effect (be it physical or mental). Their numbers are approximately the same as for people with magic. In other aspects, they are normal, with no special abilities. Let's call the groups mundanes, mages and insulars (the third group). Some of the effects: 

As other answers have said, there is no evolutionary incentive for males to be intelligent, so evolution will reduce them to nothing more than horny little puppies. The issue then becomes how will a female who is ready to procreate identify a male with good genes? And the only answer that comes to mind is by looking at their mother. I see a situation where an existing women has a bunch of these horny mutts at home, and her friend comes round and decides to have a baby with one of them. She will give birth to a litter of males, and after several attempts, the female child she always wanted. Nature demands that there will be vastly more males than needed. This will lead to them being euthanised, as letting them go wild would create a problem similar to that of feral dogs (except that these would take leg humping to a new level.) It would be possible, but not necessarily the social norm, for two (or three or four) females to form a committed lesbian relationship and have children via each others male offspring. However if they were both virgins they would still need to lose their virginity with the male of a more experienced female in order to get started. And their offspring would always carry some of that experienced female's genes, so she might want to be part of their lives. Many species females have a naturally lower attraction for their relatives, to avoid incest. This is not so prevalent in males. Observation of the natural world shows horny, indiscriminate male monkeys trying to mate with close relatives and being rejected. On the other hand, the males of this species will need to clearly identify their mother as a provider and not a potential sex partner to avoid being thrown out of the brood for harrasing her. Ants and bees offer a relevant model. The sexual dimorphism of anglerfish (where the tiny male becomes a permanently attached sperm-producing parasite) is also of interest. 

(!) Important! The only thing I'm handwaiving is the tracks construction. Let's say we somehow managed to do it, despite the mountains, bodies of water, etc. Maybe under the surface, but I won't elaborate further. 

Question: In a modern setting with total population about the same size and the same level of technology/medicine, how would the three groups coexist realistically? We assume that around Middle Ages everyone knew about magic, or at least suspected. 

I hope the question is not too broad, I will accept partial answer as well. Probably the only question: how to make this means of travel feasible? I want to make this believable enough so the real fun about the societal implications could start. Can you imagine working as a conductor on this train? 

In this image purple lines is what the blue ball sees: projection of a 2D space at different moments in time. Since I don't want extra dimensional beings, let's say we are all 4D (including time) and go from there. Now it's much more complicated to realise, since 'turning our head' we'd be able to see a projection of 3D space existing at several moments of time simultaneously in the past and in the future. I can't even begin to imagine how it would feel and how it could be processed.