you could go with a mechanical solution, there are lots of things that you can't do in microgravity, or they are very difficult, set up stations where these needs can be met. for the eye a flexible microscopic tube could be inserted under the eyelid and through the fatty tissue around the eye and used to draw out the fluid periodically. It will be scary and uncomfortable but if you are in space you are already dealing with both of those, you can't do it forever, but you can't have people in microgravity forever either. Honestly microgravity causes so many problems periodically spending time in artificial gravity, via centrifuge or other means, may really be the only solution. They will have to have gravity eventually, fluid build up around the heart, they eyes develop cataracts form the radiation, and breeding is impossible in microgravity. You either A. have alter humanity, either genetically or a frankenstein's monster of surgeries and implants that won't be permanent fixes anyway, or B. provide the conditions humanity need, those really are your only options if you want hard science. 

Around 3000-4000 years is a good safe estimate, as that is how long it took us. ~3400 ago is the bronze age collapse when what you described basically happened, technology was reset to that similar to that of 5000 years ago or even farther back. the bronze age collapse involved the loss of writing and infrastructure, drastic regression in technology an end to long distance trade, and a collapse of centralized government, with people basically starting over as hunter gatherers or herders. even stone construction all but ceased. It is probably the single biggest kick in the teeth technology and civilization experienced and survived. Reading up on the bronze age collapse is well worth your time. Afterward people basically reinvented technology instead of recovering it. Your humans may be set back a little further but not much and they will be starting with more useful raw material not rubble, war, and famine. People are decent at figuring out how to use tools so they will be able to exploit a decent number of tools, especially hand tools, engineered crops, and solid infrastructure like roads (don't underestimate roads well built roads last a long time). The biggest question is do they contained herd animals to exploit and plentiful self perpetuating food sources. Without that they will be regressing far further, if they have to reinvent domestication they may never succeed, because they will likely wipe out the domesticated species with their better tools. As it is worded they should be starting with some knowledge of agriculture so they should be fine. Keep in mind a lot of the technology and knowledge will break down before it can be useful. SO if technology is sufficiently preserved you can probably speed this up drastically (likely half as much time with magical perfect in caches or vaults so they don't get broken down for material) but a lot of advancement will be social as much as technological, You need international trade before many kinds of technology become feasible. You can subtly introduce the concept of writing bt labeling all tools, buildings, and artifacts you can. it won't teach them a language but will give drastically encourage them to develop one and plant the seeds of the idea. this all hinges on basic culture already existing, becasue if they don't have this they are not socialized and you don't have a people you have a mass of sociopaths and children in adult bodies. this means you aliens will have to let them develop stone age agriculture on their own (teaching would require a shared language) before the experiment. 

Your original idea is fine, a big enough rock works. Another moon forming impact would do it, reducing the planets surface to magma is guaranteed to kill everything off. planets don't shatter under large impact they liquefy under the massive deformation heating, there is actually an upper limit on how big an impact crater you can make in a planet nut becasue the planet breaks but becasue above that it liquifies destroying the crater. This is actually fairly easy to do to earth since the planet is near molten anyway. since the planet is habitable now and it experienced this at least once the planet is definitely terraformable after suchan event, mostly you just have to wait for it to cool down. Depending on the size of the impact it might take more an a 100 millions years to cool off enough for liquid water however. 

The same reason conflicts between groups on earth became less common, the spread of literacy and trade makes people more open to those different than themselves. Trade can go a long way. Instead of "there is an orc caravan be ready for an attack", instead it is "there is an orc caravan I hope they have more of the chocolate stuff they had last time". You will still have conflict becasue there will always be bandits and pirates and nations at war but you get less ground level conflict. It can even start small, during one particularly bad winter, goblins come out of the hills but both they and the human communities are too frozen and starved to fight so they end up cooperating, perhaps to scavenge a collapsed grain silo or hunt a particularly dangerous creature for meat. Works really well if their are lots of empty houses to be filled. Months later they realize the pink/green people may smell funny but the're just like us. Later other communities realize how much better off the cooperating communities are, no raiding or marauding adventurers to put up with and a more diverse labor force.Or to take a different route maybe the cooperating communities are just better defended or better at raiding themselves. I once played around with the idea of goblin infantry backed by human (and thus much taller) archers or spearmen. All of a sudden your army is twice as effective. Some of the most effective armies in history mixed various specialized divisions. And nothing unites people like a common enemy. 

They fly like birds, specifically like slow low flying hawks. First if you see a picture with the hind legs spread apart, the artist has broken the legs to get them in that position. The front wings are sufficient to provide flight in microraptor, They would not have been as good as modern birds but they would have worked fine. It has all the hallmark adaptations of powered flight, like a keeled sternum and alula, and none of the adaptations you would expect in a glider, such as decent climbing ability. The extra wings on don't provide {much} lift they would however have provided lateral stability, something that early flyers always have problems with, especially at low speeds. Which is the same speeds extra control surfaces help the most at. They do not yet have the highly derived controls for controlling stability using active minute changes in the flight wings like modern birds. Since birds did not evolve from gliders, like other flyers did, but instead from jumpers they had more reason to experiment with odd forms of stability assistance and control surfaces anyway. You mentioned the tail, which does provide both lift and stability. We see flight surfaces evolve in the tail of every vertebrate flyer early in their evolution, it is just an easy solution. Models that say they cannot fly either forget the tail or assume fully modern flight stoke is necessary, forgetting that pterosaurs and bats aren't capable of the bird flight stroke, and that many birds fail to utilize it in normal flight. Interestingly there are birds with elongate leg feathers, not nearly as long as microraptor but definitely modified. The rough legged hawk has elongate leg feathers which are believed to aid in air stability at slow speeds. known for flying slowly low to the ground while hunting and spend a great deal more time running than their relatives. So expect to see microraptors flying slow and low over the landscape with wings held horizontal scanning for prey. $URL$ 

Copper is actually essential to biology, and in arthropods it is used to move oxygen in the blood, just like iron is in vertebrates. Once the native life started making oxygen in large amounts a lot of the copper is going to turn solid just like iron did on the early earth. You just won't have any in the atmosphere because copper is heavy and will get left behind during evaporation, it's the same reason we don't have iron in the air on our iron rich world. So the native life would not be all that different than you expect on an earth like planet, the most notable difference is things would bleed blue instead red. so you life should have fewer reds and oranges, and more greens and blues. As for humans the biggest problems will be copper toxicity so they will need to drink filtered water and eat crops grown in isolation, probably filtered hydroponics. Recycling water might be easier and absolutely no eating the native life. Good news is you don't have to worry about biomagnification, so they can have livestock as long as it eats the hydroponics too. Zinc supplements will be necessary since copper impedes zinc uptake. The biggest thing will be absolutely no aquaculture, fish and algae are far more vulnerable than mammals. so yeah it's perfect for your premise, any settlement will have to be entirely self-contained, and food production will be expensive, so no real incentive to colonize other than to mine copper and study the life on the planet. 

Option 1 chemistry The plants could secrete a ice formation inhibitor. there is already existing life that produce chemicals that prevent ice crystals from forming. Combine one of these chemical with the fact that stomata flex and contract and any ice will be cleared regularly before it has a chance to clog the stomata. Option 2 heat The plant is endothermic and keeps itself warm enough to prevent freezing, there are already endothermic plants, the dead-horse arum (named for its smell) is one of the most efficient heat producers in nature. The skunk cabbage is one of the most well regulated maintaining a 30-36 degree temprature in condition most mammals could not manage. to do this constantly you might want to make the plant look more like a cactus to minimize surface area. 

Who says there is anything under the armor, maybe their bodies are mechanical and the lifeform is little more than a brain in jar. Maybe they don't take off armor just pop off the head and put it on a different mechanical body. Perhaps somewhere in their history their species when full cyborg. Her species might form connection based on personality less than physical characteristics. The armor looks "good" because artificial bodies are pinnacles of engineering nearly organic in complexity. Bulky angular bodies would be like wearing rags for clothes They might have even made the type of body she wears based on their first contact with humans to make it easier to work with humans and human tools. This is how humans are shaped so this is how we should build a body to work with them, a human shape but made of precision metal and polymers. They could switch to different bodies as the need arises and their bodies vary in size, form, and characteristics. Damn you could even have him compliment her on her shape and she takes it the same way we might take a compliment about our clothes. You can push it even more if the aliens have hand in designing their own unique bodies, "I thought he was complimenting me on my engineering skills" Gender might not even be a thing for them, maybe their translator interprets gender as body type, which for them is of course optional. 

This is actually not that surprising of a feat. Tolkien's elves are exceptionally lightweight (magic) and humans are one of the best endurance animals in existence, so combine the two and the feets makes sense. Elves are described and shown to be exceptionally light weight (one book describes them as walking on top of soft snow without sinking) magic is the only given answer as to why they are so light, but that alone would make for some very big feats of endurance since they are moving less mass around. Real world humans have exceptional endurance, remember the tour de france used to be a 6 day foot race and Dean Karnazes ran for 3 and half days without stopping. Normal fit humans can walk a horse to death and as shown trained humans run for days without stopping, sleep forces them to stop before anything else. Part of this is becasue humans are built for endurance but part of it is also that human have exceptional willpower. now combine exceptional endurance with a body so lightweight sprinting is not any harder than walking and your described feats seem quite reasonable.