In the middle ages the square sail was used in the Atlantic cogs, whereas in the Mediterranean the lateen sail was used due to its more flexible use. The combination of both sails into one ship happened in Iberia and led to the Age of Discovery, as it enabled oceanic expeditions to be undertaken. This discovery appears to have happened around the time of Prince Henry the Navigator, and he certainly made good use of it. Was he involved in the development of this ship? If not, who came up with the idea of putting the two kinds of sails together? There were a lot of other incremental developments that led to the carrack, but for purposes of this question I'm only interested in the merging of the two types of sails. Wikipedia just glosses over this aspect. 

Quigley's definition of a Stage of Expansion are (a) increased production of goods; (b) increase in population; (c) increase in geographical extent through exploration and colonization; (d) increase in knowledge. I think we can safely say the 2nd half of the 20th century has fulfilled all of these (with space exploration sort of satisfying (c)). His alternative was that Conflict III would be followed by an Age of Universal Empire. The requirements for such a period are (a) Political domination by a single state (the USA in this case), (b) universal peace and (apparent) prosperity, (c) little economic expansion, (d) no new inventions, (e) vested interests have triumphed and waste capital building blatant monuments. I think at the end of WWII there was a window of opportunity where the USA could potentially have taken direct control over much of Europe and East Asia, and if so we might have seen something like that. But instead it rebuilt those countries into independent democracies and allowed them to pursue their own economic growth and new inventions, and invested its peace dividend into education, the space race, various wars, creating the Internet, etc. At the end of the Cold War, there did seem to be a worry the USA would become the dominant political state, and certainly from a military perspective the US has been a major player. But the EU, Russia, China, and really all the rest of the world are hardly showing signs of being "dominated". The second condition, universal peace, I would actually argue is being realized. Toynbee would restrict his judgement to areas within the borders of so-called 'Western civilization'; if we restrict our view to the traditional 'Western civilization' boundaries we'd see there's been a few regional conflicts but nothing major for a long time. And even broadening the scope to the global picture, while there are some serious conflicts going on in places like the Middle East and Africa, placed in historical context even these seem not exceptionally abnormal. The third and fourth conditions, economic expansion and new inventions, are where our situation is clearest. Both are on a tear by any measure. Innovations like personal computing, Wikipedia, drones, p2p file sharing, and robotics have fundamentally challenged and changed how we work as a civilization. And I think we're far from seeing the last of these sorts of changes. The final condition has to do with wasteful monuments. I do think we as a civilization waste a huge amount of our economic resources and potential chasing achievements that merely seek self-reaffirmation. But we're far from the type of civilization-wide uber-monuments that Toynbee had in mind. So, where are we right now? Are we still in a growth phase? One could argue that 9/11/2001 marked a turning point into an Age of Conflict, what with the wars in the Middle East. Economically we certainly seem to be on shaky ground, with class conflict and irrationality in politics - all characteristic of Conflict. Further, you could argue the growing dominance of multinational corporations across all aspects of society, including food, materials, journalism, and even the military represents an institutionalization of our instrument of expansion; a pre-condition for Quigley's Conflict period. The recent bubble collapse has left many in the situation of leaving less to their children than they themselves started with; another Quigley pre-condition for Conflict. We're investing less in education, leaving future generations with fewer tools to ensure continued growth. Global warming is disrupting food production in the near term, and drinking water supply in the long term. Wealth is more concentrated in a smaller percentage of people, and that wealth is increasingly locked up in unproductive savings rather than being re-invested. But it's possible these things just seem dire due to their proximity to us. Recent wars haven't been for territorial expansion, as would be the case with traditional imperialist warfare, and haven't been the civilization-wide struggles that the world wars were. It seems like we get about 100 years of expansion between Conflicts, so what we're seeing today may be just precursors of what's to come in a few more decades. More optimistically we could consider the significant discoveries and developments with solar power, natural gas fracking, community gardening, open source computing, robotics, co-operatives, desktop manufacturing and genetics as promising new avenues of growth for our future; if we can accelerate those developments maybe it'll push us back more deeply into growth. It'll probably become clearer in a couple hundred years. ;-) We need to also take into consideration that Quigley's thinking and writing was occurring in the 1950's and may be reflecting some of the strong pro-West biases and nuclear obliteration fears of the time into his theories. Did he feel the same at the end of his life in 1977? Would he hold this theory today in 2014? And most importantly, what do we think of all this here today? 

Until the 1800s Germany was divided into many different countries. When the concept of nation states was developing, the general idea was people who spoke the same languages was the same nation. By some historical accident Austria was excluded when most of them formed united Germany, but it's people were still considerd Germans. The idea of a separate Austria nationality developed after the war. 

Marina was an interpretor for Cortes. She translated from Nahul to Mayan so that a Spanish priest who had learnt some Mayan could translate to Spanish. Cortes conquered the Aztec empire because the native peoples in Mexico revolted against the Aztecs. So it was far more than 350 Spanish versus the Aztecs by themselves. Also, he brought with him European illnesses that the Aztecs had no immunity against. It happened to break in the Aztec capital just as Cortes arrived to attack. This allowed him and his native allies to slaughter the Aztecs while they were week from the disease. Diseases later wiped out most of the native populations. 

Chinese traditional history includes a war between the Yellow Emperor and the Flame Emperor. The main battle is called the Battle of Banquan. This is supposed to be before the two of them joined forces to fight Chiyou. Tradition puts the date at sometime before the 2500 bc. $URL$ 

Let's split this into two questions. First, is it plausible that a population of Russian emigrants from the White émigré population would sing this Soviet song. And second, was it the intention of the film makers to portray the Russian emigrants as influenced by Soviet culture. According to Wikipedia, Russian Americans came to America in four waves: the "First Wave" in mid- to late-19th century, "Second Wave" in 1917-1922 comprising the White emigres, "Soviet era", and "Post-Soviet era" starting in 1991. The movie is set during the Vietnam War, ruling out the fourth period. Very few emigrants were permitted during the Soviet era, and certainly not entire families. Thus it is most likely the film community is a first or second wave (pre-Soviet) Russian emigrant community. Of the First Wave, a few groups, such as the Old Believers in Erie, Pennsylvania (same state as the Deer Hunter Russian community but a few counties away), or various Jewish-Russian Immigrants, came to America seeking freedom to practice their religion undisturbed. Other peasant groups came for economic reasons and integrated to American society to various degrees, retaining cultural and/or religious elements important to them, and settling in New York, Philadelphia, Boston, Chicago, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, and the coal-mining towns of eastern Pennsylvania. The Second Wave (also called the White émigrés) migrated throughout Europe, East Asia, and the Americas. Many intellectuals, aristocrats, army officers, and clerks left Russia as part of this group between 1920 and 1922 and the 1930s and settled in cities such as New York City, Philadelphia, and Chicago. Most were strongly anti-communist and sought to preserve pre-revolutionary Russian culture while living abroad. Many remained involved either actively or morally in the struggle against the Soviet Union. The song Katyusha was composed in 1938 by Matvei Blanter who was actively writing Soviet propaganda songs during this period, with lyrics by Mikhail Isakovsky a respected Soviet poet. But the song itself was not heavy in Soviet or Communist imagery and was taken by many as a general song about defending one's motherland. It became popular throughout Western Europe with variants in Italian, French, and Greek. From the above, I think it is more likely that the Russian settlement shown in Deer Hunter was of the old First Wave group. The filming of the wedding took place in the St. Theodosius Orthodox Cathedral in Cleveland, Ohio; as it was founded in the 1890s, it can be assumed a community worshipping there would be from the original First Wave Russians. Further, the Second Wave would have disliked anything reminiscent of Soviets, and while they may have been proud of the Red Army's defense of their homeland, I imagine Soviet music at a wedding would be dimly regarded; further the White émigré's tended to be higher class and more urban, compared to the more blue collar community shown in the film. 

He stayed out because he was saving his strength for taking over Japan. Right after the Korean war finished he staged a coup and took control from Hideyoshi's government. Source: $URL$ 

In the Korean War, the US air force destroyed the Gwanghwamun, which was the gates of the old Korean palace. More info: $URL$ Aldo, the Yongmyongsa Temple in pyongyang was destroyed by carpet bombing. Link: $URL$ 

One thing that's overlooked is that there was also a huge population growth during the industrial revolution. The population of england grew from 7 million to 30 million in a century. So even without selling the clothes overseas there was a lot more people buying clothes than there was before the industrial revolution. See: $URL$ 

That map looks like a joke. Like some kid randomly colored in a world map. Even the article doesn't agree with the picture. The history of kashmir page on wiki shows a much more reasonable extent. $URL$ 

The mongols weren't fighting modem armies. 100k is huge for a medieval army. Most of what the mongols conquered were steppes which weren't very highly populated to start off with. The Chinese or Persians had large populations, but their infantry army was no match for mongol horse archers. So basically the mongols were successful because 100k cavalry armies were very formidable. 

Mixture (370-750 AD) Grecoroman + Christianity + "Barbarian" Gestation (750-970) Viking raids, petty kingdoms Expansion (970-1270) Feudal system, guild economics Conflict (1270-1440) Hundred Years' War and economic institutionalism Expansion II (1440-1650) Renaissance, commercial capitalism Conflict II - (1650-1730) Imperialist wars, class conflict Expansion III - (1730-1890) Industrial revolution, financial capitalism Conflict III - (1890-??) 

As can be seen from this small sampling of Bronze Age civilizations, villages were common, with the largest settlements being on the scale of a medieval castle rather than a true town or city, with Crete being the major exception. 

While not a student of Toynbee AFAIK, Carroll Quigley worked from Toynbee's theories in The Evolution of Civilizations with a lengthy discussion of the state of Western Civilization. This was written in 1961 with a second edition in 1979, so also predated the end of the Cold War. However he made some predictions for what stage Western Civilization is in that might be of interest. He observed that while most other civilizations followed the path of growth to empire and then to inevitable decay, Western Civilization has differed in that it has "gone to the brink" of empire multiple times only to shift itself back into expansion. He draws the following periods for Western Civilization: 

In addition to the soul is in the bowels explanation, I read recently that the reason they chose a painful easy to die is to punish themselves. So a samurai who had committed a capital offense was going to die, but by choosing a painful method of dying he is giving himself additional punishment to earn forgiveness. This may not apply to all seppuku cases, but it makes sense in cases when it is used as a punishment for mistakes or failures. 

The nobility was the estate of warriors, "those who fight". This tradition hadn't vanished at that time yet. These grand touring nobles knew how to fight, had companions who knew how to fight, and they were escorted by bodyguards who REALLY knew how to fight. The grand tours were regarded as part of the military education of French young nobles around the 16th and 17th centuries, for example. I read an account of this in the book "Warrior Pursuits: Noble and civil conflict in early modern France". Other Western European countries with traditions of chivalry wouldn't be very different. 

The transition from Bronze Age to Iron Age in Europe occurred later than the transition in the Middle East. It started in the south and gradually worked its way north. It was most certainly a period of bloodshed, but then that's been true of most of european history, hasn't it? You might imagine pitched battles of armies, one outfitted in old bronze swords facing down adversaries all wielding new iron swords thanks to their closely guarded secret iron smelting technology, the latter of whom proceed to decimate the bronze users, slicing swords in half and so on. But... this probably didn't happen. 

Does 'half-decked' refer to how the decks were constructed? Or perhaps something to do with how the ships were loaded with cargo? 

On the subject of schizophrenia in history specifically, I happen to be working my way through Julian Jaynes' The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind which I'm finding to be a simply fascinating take on the role of (in)sanity with the origin of civilization. It speaks extensively about schizophrenia and discusses how it was viewed through history. Essentially, he makes the claim that early on in our civilization the prevalence of schizophrenia may have been higher, and the "voices" were interpreted to be the animal spirits, angels, gods, and ancestors. IOW early on (bronze age) schizophrenia was not insanity, it was normality. He theorizes that a decrease in the prevalence of schizophrenia led to or played into the bronze age collapse. Not sure I buy into it but I'm only a third of the way through the book so far. Regardless it's a fascinatingly different way to look at these topics. Through the Iron Age up to the Christian Era, schizophrenia would have been treated as perhaps evidence of being touched by the gods, and individuals with these afflictions might be venerated as shamans, priests or oracles and safely sequestered away in temples and shrines. Schizophrenics unfortunately tend to end in suicide at a significantly higher rate than the general population; I must imagine before modern medicines and psychology this would have been even more severe. The madman in the dungeon is a classic trope, and I can easily imagine the more troublesome schizophrenics were handled this way (if not slain outright), but don't know of a source to give you there. I would not be surprised if many were handled as possessed or practitioners of witchcraft, but if this is discussed in the book I haven't gotten to it yet. :-) It was not really until the 19th century that this received ample study. In fact as a general rule most all psychological diseases were poorly recognized until this point in time. Anyway, Jaynes' book is quite thick with references and IMHO well worth the read. Despite the obtuse title and hefty theory, it seems to be an easy read and would serve as a good starting point for a study of mental health through history.