As I understand it the timescale for the Earth to tidally lock to the Sun is of the order of some 40 billion years (probably longer). And to put that in perspective, in something like a mere 5 billion years the Sun will expand into a red giant. Worrying about day and night is going to be the least significant issue someone on Earth faces at that point. And on technology timescales like that, it is hard to conceive of the even a small minority of the then human population living on Earth. 

A dying species of immobile falcon, requiring life support to just stay alive. I'd be astonished if they could procreate because I doubt they'd live that long. So forget about generation two. 

Yes, they are. Details of a practically minute nature are responsible for some of the bloodiest and most ruthlessly pursued wars in history. The devil is in the detail. 

As a side note I'd suggest you link to your sources in your questions for those sort of statements. Doing that will likely get more interest from people in your questions. This doesn't really make much difference to your intention. Even if they did have a chromosome that determined sex, or a group of them, this might be manipulated by e.g. diet - choosing a diet that's richer or poorer in certain chemicals than normal for a period prior to mating. It may even be an easier mechanism to create (in a book that can gloss over details a bit) than something else. 

Building the boat would have required a substantial amount of time. Some creationist types have put construction time at between 70 and 120 years. Recall that Noah and co. were supposed to have lived for several hundred years. There are massive logistical problems with building the biggest wooden vessel ever constructed in ancient Iraq, not the least of which is supplies. The sheer amount of wood required to build the vessel is enormous - it would have had to have been imported to the area from elsewhere. Most of the vertebrate species on Earth are quite small. For instance, the vast majority of the 6000 amphibian species would, if placed in containers roughly the size and shape of 10 gallon aquariums, fill a volume of about 120'x15'x8' (40 3' wide shelves that are 15' wide and 8' high, crammed full of aquariums with just enough space between shelves to walk. If you could just throw all the frogs in a bucket together, then you can collapse this down substantially, of course. All but a few of the amphibians would fit into such a container easily.The other groups of vertebrates are similar, with most members fitting comfortably in a breadbox sized volume, but there are as many as a thousand species that need considerably more room. It's also difficult to count how many species there really are. For instance, the number of extant Equus species (horses and friends) is anywhere from 7 to 24, depending on how you count them. Monitor lizards dragons, the big cats, anacondas, pachyderms, and large primates are all problematic in this regard, and there's no good way to count them up by volume. If we give each of them a goat-sized stall (5'x8') and assume that the ones that are a little smaller will average out with the ones that are a little bigger, then considering all of the larger animals on the planet, you're looking at something like 40,000 square feet of floor space. With enough room to walk between stalls for feeding, the big animals would fill up about one and a third entire floors of the biblical ark. The non-fish vertebrates would have fit into the ark, barely.I initially thought that packing sufficient food for the trip would be problematic, but it is less so than I originally thought. The elephants would eat about 500 pounds of high quality food per day. The voyage was roughly a year long (a bit more if you add up all of the days) so that is roughly 70 tons of elephant food alone, another 70 cubic meters of space (assuming the food is packed extremely efficiently.) Food for a similar duration of the trip for all of the other animals would be problematic to collect, and for herbivores, the food will take up a substantial amount of space as well, though there is no reason you couldn't put that food in the enclosure with the animals. Gaining access to sufficient quantities of fresh water for all of the animals would be a challenge though. Now, could you cram all of the animals into smaller enclosures and have plenty of room? Of course you could, and if we're assuming divine intervention to deal with all of their behavior for the collection and trip, it might be appropriate to do so. In any case, the biblical dimensions, perhaps with some additional height added so that we can get three floors into it if needed, should be sufficient to hold the vertebrates and a year's worth of food. Using your rules, it would take a very, very long time and be exceedingly difficult. Any voyage would have been done by sea or caravan overland, and the logistics of moving that many animals to Iraq are daunting at best. Basically you'd have to build arks just to collect the animals to go on the ark. That is going to take years itself.The bigger problem is speciation. New species arise at a rate of roughly 1-3 per million per year. We'd expect as many as one new vertebrate species each decade. Columbus's trip took about a year, with essentially no overland travel involved. Magellan's crew got back after 3 years, again without significant overland travel. Lewis and Clark took 2 years to walk a single line across the continental US. Each new species that arose would set Noah back by years, and the time required simply to sail to every single required landmass on Earth would be astounding. I honestly don't know how to put a number to it. You also introduce the horrible logistics of caring for enormous numbers of animals while you wait for Ham to get back with the latest variety of leopard frog or whatnot.This amount of time is entirely dependent on the level of magic we're willing to accept. If the animals are not cooperative, then the collection will take forever due to speciation. If the animals are super cooperative, traveling to easy to reach ports for collection, then it might just be possible over the course of several decades or centuries. 

I had another idea about war driving military applicable inventions (like airplanes, submarines, nuclear power/bombs, space exploration - I think some fairly advanced mathematics was developed to help cannons hit their targets) but your question specifically states that neighbouring countries are at war with each other many many times. So they'd have to ignore the desire to find better military technology, which sounds unlikely, as if they're just happy with the number of casualties their armies suffer and they don't want to end the war(s) sooner by winning... but religion could account for that too. 

Here's an image from earthobservatory.nasa.gov showing just the objects around Earth bigger than 10cm, the scale of the dots is definitely off, but considering the millions of smaller objects it may not be too bad. 

No, I don't think they'll be super-intelligent. I think the key is in your question. You say your scientist has 

Religion The common religion doesn't believe in technological research or scientific advancement. Maybe they say it's "the devil's work or blasphmey", maybe their religion provides "all the answers they need", or maybe just because they say so. There are some real-world examples easily found, such as case of Galileo and the flat earth, among others. 

Using ammonia as a solvent would work, though if you want it to be pure ammonia, you'll have to keep your aliens quite cold, as it boils at -33째C. Aqueous ammonia solutions would work, but that does not seem to be what you're after. Ammonia isn't as broadly useful a solvent as water, but it does allow for lots of interesting chemistry to occur, including things like relatively stable solutions of solvated electrons, which are quite unstable in aqueous systems. Lots of biological reactions will produce water, so an anhydrous alien will need a way to excrete the water just as we have a way to excrete ammonia. Maybe your alien could excrete crystals of glycerol or urinate an alcohol or something like that. In any case, ammonia is a much better choice than a hydrocarbon. Breathing hydrogen is a bit more problematic. The purpose of breathing oxygen is that we can break C-H bonds and combine oxygen with both carbon and hydrogen atoms to release energy in the metabolism of organic molecules. Oxygen is highly reactive stuff; we just don't realize it because we've evolved to walk around at the bottom of an ocean of it. If we breathed hydrogen instead, it would be far less reactive. Hydrogen will readily react with lots of things, but it typically doesn't release huge amounts of energy in the process. One idea might be to have your aliens run a biological version of the Sabatier process. The reaction is spontaneous at low temperatures, though it would never actually occur without catalysis at liquid ammonia temperatures. This would give them a means of producing some basic metabolic building blocks from materials that are common in the universe as well as provide a reason for them to breathe hydrogen in the first place. 

As others have said, the encoding of the laws does not itself mean they won't work or will be less effective in any given technology (e.g. quantum computing). A quantum computing scenario doesn't introduce any specific way to void such rules. What would possibly happen is that the rules are, themselves, quite complex to implement and that can introduce possible errors in implementation. First off, we have to be able to recognize a human. I can think of humans that have trouble accepting that other people are human, so I can imagine no end of possible errors in recognizing a human. A particular issue might arise in detecting when an AI is communicating with an AI - is the AI human or an AI ? What if it looks like a human ? The whole idea of how an AI will recognize that what it may be about to do can cause harm is so complex that it's practically certain to fail sometimes. Again, humans have been interpreting their environment for a long, long time and we often get that stuff wrong, so in an AI of any kind it's probably doomed to fail sometimes. So I'd suggest the failure mechanism is possibly one of over-reliance. I would suggest that, very typically, we design machines and then start believing they're flawless. The longer they go without failure, the more we believe they won't. When, after some time, they do, we tend to make excuses for the system as we have invested financially and emotionally in it's success. A quantum computer could be an example of such a system. It will probably be vastly more complex than we can directly understand. It would certainly require some confidence, and an AI based on some future quantum computing technology might inspire more confidence than it warrants. If we encode the laws somehow, then will we be willing to accept that we got it wrong ? Could we even determine that there is a flaw ? We have trouble figuring out that humans have personality flaws, how do you figure out an AI has a flaw and is not working they way you told it to ? The rules for such an AI would almost certainly not be formally encoded (i.e. like with formal logic). They would require the solution of fuzzy problems and prediction of cause and effect in a complex environment. These require pattern recognition applied in a very complex and general manner. I don't think any formal language would ever achieve this. The extra complexity of quantum systems simply makes it harder to detect potential flaws in the implementation of any algorithms. In this sense, quantum computing could introduce a layer of complexity that makes flaws more likely, or at least more complex flaws harder to avoid. The other way around the three laws is to do what humans normally do : complicate them. As sure as blazes if we had AIs and implemented three laws in a robust way, some idiot (most likely a lawyer or an insurance type or a bureaucrat) will insist on amending them to include provisions for rules that are not really needed but they want to cover themselves. They might introduce provisions like "unless they're criminals" or "unless the damage caused saving the human will be beyond a certain cost" or that old favorite "unless national security is involved" (and a good bet on that one being forced on everyone !). So the three laws can be broken by simply introducing the fools they're meant to protect. 

My understanding of your rules: A. Transport two of every (non-fish) vertebrate to Iraq. B. Put them on a boat that would fit them all. C. Do this using only historically reasonable technology, with no additional divine intervention. Rule C is important, because once we allow magic, what's the point in asking the question? Any omnipotent deity who really cared could have poofed the boat and animals into existence instantly and skipped the entire silly story. I will, however, assume that the animals are willing participants in this process though - that once Noah reaches their range, he won't have to find and trap them. If not, I'm fairly certain that the process couldn't be completed by Noah and his family ever. 

Penguins (or similar, but penguins make the most sense) need to be born with adult feathers and/or blubber layers so that the chicks can survive in the water. Even tropical ocean temperatures are dangerous to warm blooded animals who are exposed and unprotected for long periods of time. As an alternative, the penguins' core body temperature could drop by 20째C or so and the bird could be restricted to the tropics, but that seems a bit much. The whale route is a possibility here as well, with both babies and adults losing their feathers entirely, but penguins rely heavily on their feathers creating an insulating layer between the water and their skin. The bird must evolve live birth. Shelled eggs have undergone massive amounts of evolution to function on dry land; getting a shelled egg to work underwater again would not be trivial. All sea dwelling members of formerly land-based vertebrates either give birth to live young (cetaceans, manatees, and some sea snakes) or are forced to return to land to lay eggs/have babies unsuited for ocean life (sea turtles, crocodilians, the rest of the sea snakes, flighted sea birds, penguins, and pinnipeds.) It's a lot easier to have the egg hatch out internally (or more realistically, fail to form/lay normally and continue developing without a shell internally.) For deeper diving penguins (not at all a necessity for permanent life in the water, just ask the boto) you would need greater lung capacity and perhaps larger overall size, though king penguins can already get down to 300m or so, which is comparable to dolphins. The animal's blood would also have to be vastly enriched in its oxygen carrying capacity. True deep divers like sperm whales have adaptations to prevent the bends as well as lungs that absolutely do collapse under pressure. Trying to design a biological pressure vessel that wouldn't collapse is probably a bad plan. Underwater communication - Penguins may already do this. Early tests of little penguins at the Perth Zoo were not positive, but the zoo is not a natural environment. Further, it is not at all unreasonable for penguins to evolve underwater communication. They're extremely vocal above water. Dolphin/whale blowholes are for breathing, not for vocalization. They vocalize using "lips" that are located internally, near their blowholes, but they don't blow out air when they vocalize, so you could put the nostrils/air inlet wherever you like. As far as the nostrils moving up the head for breathing purposes, that's not that big a stretch, though behind-the-head whale nostrils are pretty impressive. Regarding prey: There is something to eat at most any reasonable depth you might want your bird to inhabit. It would require a change of diet, but an unexploited food source is an enormous evolutionary driver. 

Note: This was a really fun question to answer, Big +1 to the OP. Getting to read about animal cells, big & tiny cats & horses, and Andre the Giant, with pictures of a tiger & a cat, and Andre the Giant is awesome! Even guessing how to "make" giants too with relatively "discount bin mad science surgery" is cool 

If the "pill" contained an already fertilized egg (zygote), then all it would have to do is get the egg to the right spot (nano-bots, or it's not a pill that's swallowed) and maybe have a few hormones to set the environment. Intercourse isn't even required. As to who the egg's parents are...? 

Wrapping the two ideas together a little, the Star Trek episode "A Piece of the Action" ends with Dr.McCoy realizing he left his communicator behind on the planet, possibly teaching a basic civilisation the key to replicating all the Federation's advanced technology... This page has a nice review with some dialogue like: 

But, since it takes normal people about 18yrs to grow up, extending their natural growth could take an extra 18 or 36 more years too, unless it's specifically accelerated growth. Or it could result in a condition where growth just doesn't stop, like Acromegaly like Andre the Giant had He was definitely a big guy, and I think he was of average intelligence. So once again, I think you'll just have average "big people. Actually, that's probably a relatively easy way to make "big people": 

The entirety of this problem is related to egg laying and early development of chicks, so a few things need to happen: 

As others have said, a solid platform made of light is completely unrealistic. However, it is entirely possible for light to exert a force on an object and hold it up, though the force required to support a human's mass against Earth's gravity would require a truly ferocious amount of light. Using some serious estimation, a 1km square reflective sail in orbit around the Sun at Earth's orbital radius would experience a maximum of about 8 newtons of force from the sunlight hitting it. Cutting that down to an average foot size, about 0.03 square meters, you're looking at about 0.5 micronewtons of force across both feet. The force required to support an adult woman of Chell's approximate mass is 600-700N. So if her shoes were highly reflective, the platform would have to shine over one billion times brighter than the Sun in order to support her weight. That translates to well over a trillion watts per square meter. I could be way off on this, but if my math is right, that corresponds to the radiation emitted by something that is 160,000째C (290,000째F), assuming all of the light is emitted under her shoes at the time her feet apply pressure. If you're writing a story, this could make for a really interesting failure mode... 

Attack from above is fabulous ! You have gravity working for you. In conventional sieges of castles and fortified walls you have to pass through a gauntlet of fire coming from above - stones, hot oil, any form of projectile. It's much harder to shoot up at them (generally requiring siege engines or the construction of elevated platforms to fire back from). And the attacker has to scale the walls somehow (or break them). All your attackers have to do is fall, maybe nothing more than a jump or descent by rope - fast, easy to reinforce, hard to prevent. Foot holds (breaches) are relatively easy to reinforce for the attacker, and relatively hard to retake for the defender. Defense after an (inevitable) breach would be a matter of using choke points and trying to prevent further breaches that make defense harder. As breaches can be multi-level your defenders cannot restrict what they have to defend to just e.g. a single level on top of a high wall. You have to be ready and able to tackle breaches everywhere ! No, I'll be the attacking general on this one, thanks. Also keep in mind that, as any siege progresses and food and conditions worsen, your city population may decide that they've had enough and would prefer life under the heal of the oppressor than e.g. no life at all. You can have a revolt internally and they could create a breach that the enemy can exploit. So in a sense you would be trapped and besieged both within and without.