The fork crown race in the photo is bronze colored, while the seat at the bottom of the steerer is silvery. The seat is slightly larger than the steering tube, so measure right where the seat and the race meet. In an ISO headset that measurement will be 26.4 mm. In a JIS headset that measurement will be 27.0 mm. I will tell you from my own experience that the two are not interchangeable. Additionally, the frame cups for an ISO headset are 30.2 mm in diameter while JIS cups are 30.0 mm. It is much easier to fudge installing 30.2 mm cups in a frame designed for 30.0 mm cups, but have a shop do it (and only in a steel frame.) Finding cheap JIS headsets is easy enough and, like I said, ISO is pretty standard. One final note: replacing a headset is actually pretty doable for most people so long as they're careful and reasonably clever. If you're unsure about any of the steps you should take it to a shop. It is a quick installation and relatively inexpensive. They have all of the right tools which will make the process far easier than using homemade tools. 

These are secured to your drop bar where your brake hoods would normally reside. They provide a hand position on the ramp of the bar without having to use drop bar brake levers. They also can install directly over your tape (but it will eventually ruin the tape, so ideally you'd install them and re-tape everything.) While it would be the cheapest and easiest option, it doesn't address the issue of your hands being away from your brake levers (which is a very important feature when riding in traffic!) The existing brake levers are Tektro RL720s. They're known as "interrupter" levers because they are generally installed in tandem with drop bar brake levers and they interrupt the housing, creating two sets of brake levers at two different hand positions. You could purchase any aero levers and install them on the bar along with the 720s (they need to be aero levers where the housing runs under the handlebar tape). This would require some housing and new brake cables, but it would solve both the hand position and brake access issues you've posed for ~$40. 

I tried making a bike rack like the original poster's sketch, but wasn't satisfied with the result. The bikes aren't very stable because the rack only holds the bottom part of the wheel. It works much better to make the slots vertical instead of horizontal, so almost the full height of the wheel is supported. I happened to have some six-foot long 2x4s and some 30-inch 2x4s. I butted them together and nailed them into a box, with the two long pieces forming the top and bottom of the rack, and the short pieces vertical. The bottom piece rests on the floor. I spaced the vertical pieces at varying distances to accommodate different widths of tires. 

Step 5: Attach the hooks to the bottom of one horizontal beam. I put the first one 5 inches away from the end, and then spaced them 10 inches apart. This was wide enough for me to hang my bikes without bumping, as long as I alternated one with the front wheel up and the next with the front wheel down. Step 6: Attach the hooks to the bottom of the other horizontal beam. Place these hooks so the bikes on this side hang between the bikes hanging on the other beam. For me, the first hook went 10 inches away from the end, with the remainder spaced 10 inches apart. A 7/32" drill bit makes the right sized hole for the hooks to go in snugly. Step 7: Add the planks to the top. I just laid them on top, where by accident they fit snugly between the two 2x4s that are nailed across the top beams. If the planks move around when I'm getting boxes down from there, I'll glue them in place. Because I used lumber on hand, the cost of materials was about $12 (mostly for the hooks). Then I spent $18 more for some spray to treat the termite-infested end of the fencepost; if I did it over again I'd probably ask my neighbors to see if any of them had an old fencepost that was pest-free. Oh, and though I forgot to mention it earlier, you should wear safety glasses before pounding on things and maybe a dust mask or respirator if you're going to drill pressure-treated lumber or spray bug killer. 

29" and 700c rims are the same diameter (iso 622mm). Primarily, the difference in width and length is to accommodate wider MTB frame stays and tires...I'd stick with the TA2026-B. 

You're right on the money in terms of commuting upgrades. Buying used bikes is a great way to go about acquiring a ride, but sometimes bikes need a bit of refitting for commuting. I took a look at the 1981 Miyata Catalog. Models from year to year are generally similar, so this should be accurate for most late 70s early 80s 912s. This bike is described as a "fast sport rider for racing-oriented cyclists," meaning that it isn't going to fit fat tires, fenders, or racks too easily. What is important is the distance between the tire and the frame. You may be able to get away with a 700c x32 tire and narrow, metal fenders. Metal fenders are a bit more expensive than plastic, but can be bent to fit into tight places. Note that most fender manufacturers specify 10mm clearance between the tire and the fender, so as to prevent a pebble or twig from tearing your fenders off. There may or may not be braze-ons for fenders or racks, but that is easy to get around. Lots of bike shops sell metal clamps that secure everything to the stays quite well. If you're comfortable with the largest possible tire being ~32mm, go for it! Understand, however, that bikes designed for skinny tires and no fenders may be difficult to fit. If you decide not to, look for Touring or Sports-Touring models which always have clearance and braze-ons (In this catalog, the 1000 and 610 are both touring models). One alternative option that will require more work is to convert the wheel size from 700c to 650b. This will involve new wheels and long-reach brakes, but it will allow you to run fatter tires and fenders with no issues. 

Step 1: Make two large frame members, out of the fence posts. The 8-foot long post sits horizontally on top of two vertical 6-foot posts. Join them using draw bolt joints, as pictured here: 

My first bike rack design (see my other answer to this question) was easy to make and held a lot of bikes. It was also free-standing, which is a necessity for those with no available wall space. Still, there were two problems. First, it took a lot of floor space in my garage, 6 feet by 11 feet. Second, there wasn't a good way to use the air space above the bikes. Therefore, I built Bike Rack 2.0. The basic idea was to design a free-standing frame upon which to hang the bikes vertically from hooks. A roof would provide space for boxes of bike parts, wide enough for two copier-paper boxes to fit across the top yet not be so tall that the boxes hit the roll-up garage door. It had to be easy to make by a not-very-skilled carpenter like me. 

Besides the above concerns, this design was driven by the available materials. I happened to have some old fence posts, approximately 3.5" square. Four of them were 6 feet long after I cut off (most of) the rotten, termite-infested parts that were underground. The other two were pressure-treated lumber, approximately 8 feet long. I also had a number of 2x4s of varying lengths. Conveniently, I determined that I could hang each of my bikes from a hook screwed into a beam 6 feet off the ground without the bottom tire touching the floor. If you ride larger than 56-cm or have a long wheelbase bike, you may need to make your bike rack a few inches taller than mine. The bikes hang on hooks screwed into the bottom of each of two parallel horizontal beams. They hang at an angle, with some overlap. 36-inches of separation between the horizontal beams allowed the bikes to hang without bumping, but since your mileage may vary I encourage you to make your own measurements. List of materials: Frame: 

The best method I've found for adjusting tension without using a Surly Tuggnut or similar tensioner is to walk the axle back and forth. Generally, just holding the wheel at tension is not enough to get the tension right without undue frustration. NOTE: while this method works for singles and fixies, it doesn't work with quick releases. (It will also work with eccentric hubs where dropout tensioners don't help.) The idea is that you install the wheel in the dropouts with the chain routed correctly and then tighten the axle nuts a bit beyond finger-tight. Then, loosen the right axle nut and pull the wheel (using the leverage from the rim) to tension the chain and tighten that nut. You want to get the chain a bit too tight and then gently tap the nut to back off the tension until it is just right. Repeat the process on the left axle nut to get the wheel aligned, keeping one or the other axle nuts tight. Proper tension should allow the bicycle to pedal smoothly without binding and with as little chain droop as possible (the big risk of a droopy chain is that it will derail and that would not be healthy.) By using the wheel as leverage, you don't need to rely on physically holding the wheel perfectly straight and taught. After you've tensioned and aligned the wheel (the rim should be centered between the stays) be sure the axle nuts are tightened to spec to keep the wheel from slipping forward. (Additionally, if as you're adjusting your chain tension you find that the tension wobbles - i.e. it is tighter at some spots in the pedal rotation - then you need to center your chain ring!) 

Now drill a vertical 1/4" hole through the top beam and the end of the vertical beam. The hole needs to end up intersecting the horizontal 3/4" hole in the vertical beam. Having the horizontal hole already in place gives you a target to aim for when you make this vertical hole. Using a long drill bit makes it easier to aim. Counterbore the hole in the top beam. Insert the bolt with a washer. On the other end add another washer and nut. 

Begin by using the spade drill bit to drill a horizontal 3/4" hole a little more than half way through each vertical 6-foot beam, centered 2 3/4 inches from the end of the post. Use the chisel to square off the side of the hole that will receive the lower washer. 

This rack (barely) stands up by itself, but becomes stable when you have at least one bike inserted into each side of the rack. 

It was challenging to get the lower nut onto the end of the bolt, inside the horizontal hole. To do this I wrapped some tape around the end of the screwdriver, sticky side out. I used this to position the nut at the end of the bolt, while I tightened with the socket wrench. When I discovered that the horizontal hole was too small to get a wrench on the end, I jammed the screwdriver between the nut and the edge of the hole and managed to keep the nut from turning while I tightened the bolt. Step 1 was by far the most time-consuming for me. An experienced wood worker with better tools might find this easy, but it took half of my construction time (1 of 2 days) to figure out how to do this and bolt the fenceposts together. Step 2: Nail the two pieces together using 36-inch 2x4s. To hold them in place during assembly, I leaned one of them against the wall, and tied the other one to a ladder using some old inner-tubes. The result resembles a long, narrow table 6 feet tall. I put one 2x4 at floor level, another 2x4 in the middle, and a third 2x4 on top of each end of the horizontal beam. The lower 2x4s go on the inside; if the long diagonal went on the inside it would create more interference with the bike that hangs next to it. Step 3: Nail a diagonal 6-foot 2x4 cross brace across each of the narrow ends. This increases the stiffness of the frame by a surprisingly (to me, anyway) large amount. Step 4: Nail a horizontal 2x2 at floor level to connect each of the legs for stiffness in the long dimension. Originally I used 2x4s here, but they interfered with a couple of my very long wheelbase bikes. The 2x2s provide just enough clearance for these bikes.