Obviously the prices seem to support the idea that aerodynamics matter more than a few hundred grams of weight, but at what point does the added weight offset the gain? Or is the importance of reducing rotational weight overstated? 

Be removing the cap from the front of the lever, a hex socket is revealed through a small opening, which can be tightened to snug the lever to the handle bar: 

I notice a lot of cyclists with massive sculpted calf muscles, especially the kind that clearly ride as a life-style without worrying about minimizing body weight. I've switched cities, and gone from a 7km round-trip commute to 25km round trip. I've been cycling hard as a hobby and often clocked 200km or more per week. After 6 months, I find that it's my quads that are getting larger, and my quads that are sore and tired after long rides, while my calf muscles feel hardly involved. Does this suggest something wrong with my technique and/or posture? Should I be working to involve my calf muscles more? Possibly relevant: I cycle with a pretty aggressive bent-over posture, on a touring bike with drop bars. I use clipless shoes and have been working on applying more power in the upwards-stroke. I ride with my seat relatively high, but comfortable and I'm certain I'm not over-extending my legs. 

A track bike has no brakes because braking would cause a pile up. When a fixie on the road has no brakes it is because someone is being macho. They will insist they can stop just as quickly or they can always see the road and path ahead. The former being easily disproven and the latter generally being optimistic. There seems to be a fair overlap with the same crowd that shuns helmets in traffic. I ride a fixie with two brakes (rear rarely used). The bike store near me sells fixed gear bikes set up for both track (no brakes, swept handlebars so as not to catch) and for road (with brakes and regular handlebars). 

If I had a single speed instead of fixed gear, I could do one thing that I really miss: Bunny hop a curb. That's something I've had to do more than once on a regular road bike just to avoid cars and it's something I do all the time on a variety of bikes just for convenience. For the life of me, I can't do it at more than a crawl with a fixie. I can shift weight over a pothole or the like, that's not too bad, but getting airborne is impossible for me. The Fixie keeps me off some of the types of locations I rode all the time in college: extensive sidewalks, railroad tracks, potholes, etc... Not a problem where I live, but it would have been years ago. 

Possibly you were thinking of Ciasta aero seatposts which has a similar logo? Something like this perhaps... 

Remove the wheel from the bike, check for obvious damage to the tire Remove the tube from the tire You can use tire levers to remove the tire from the rim. Be sure not to add additional punctures to the tube by pinching it with the levers. Note the orientation of the tube within the tire so you can trace down the puncture point. Find the puncture on the tube May help to put some air in it and use your cheek/eye to feel for leaks. Once you've located the puncture, find the point in the tire where the puncture occurred and make sure there is nothing stuck in the tire (like a shard of glass) which will re-puncture the tube. Assuming it is a puncture and that the tire isn't actually torn/worn through, you can proceed to patch the tube. If the tire is too damaged the tube will just pop again, so there isn't much point. Apply the patch Typically this involves gently sanding/roughing up the surface of the tube, applying adhesive compound, letting it dry for 5-10 minutes, and then applying the patch. Most patches I've seen have a brown side, and a black/brown side. The black/brown side stays upwards, the fully brown side is applied against the tube. Wait another 5 to 10 minutes for the patch to bond to the compound. Install tube in tire Inflate the tube slightly to make sure it holds air. Insert it into the tire, then mount the tire on the rim, one wire bead at a time. The first bead should go on easily, the second may require tire levers or strong thumbs. Be very careful not to puncture the tube if using levers. I find it helps to completely deflate the tube to get the last bit of the wire over the rim. There are some good tutorials on getting the last bit of the wire onto the rim, which can be tricky to do without damaging the tube. Inflate tube, checking again for damage/bulges/splits as you approach full pressure Ride away 

You might get into the habit of inspecting your bike before you take off. I check the tires and the brakes every time I pull the bike off its rack. Check your cages along with it. Mentally I classify water along with protective gear, probably giving it more weight than a helmet. It isn't something that's merely nice to have because you're a little thirsty. It's something that stops me from having a stroke in the heat (and cramps when I'm done). Vaguely related. I keep $2 on my bike so I can buy a bottle of water if I have to. You could also place something in your cage that won't let you operate the bike after you get off it when you're done. It's easy to remember your water bottle at the end, because you're thirsty. Pick up the water bottle and place your pump or something in the cage so you have to pull it out and remember the water before you leave next time. My advice though is to treat water with the importance is has. 

You also have to consider that a motorcycle has no trouble accelerating to and maintaining traffic speeds. In short, a motorcycle really doesn't need to look backward with anywhere near the frequency that a cyclist does. They also have mirrors mounted on their bikes which most cyclists don't have. For example. Coming off a red light, anyone on a motorcycle can just go without consideration for anything behind them. Lane changes require major planning on a bicycle, but are relatively simple on a motorcycle traveling at matching speeds with all the cars. 

Another possibility is that the pedal threads were different from the crank threads - e.g., one English and one French. Not very likely these days, but perhaps more likely than that someone could have somehow managed to force the alternate-threaded pedal into the crank. 

two other things to consider. While braking in a turn is always dicey, counter steering may give you more control. Second, consider whether running off the road may give you a softer landing if you have to crash. 

Another possibility: if the chain is very worn, you might get erratic shifting. Use a chain checker if the chain has more than a few thousand miles on it. 

But most riders would probably think 110 pounds as excessive unless they are very heavy. The ride will be more comfortable and maybe more efficient five or ten pounds lower. 

I put 40,000 miles on my Ksyium Elite wheels without ever even needing to true them, much less suffer a broken spoke. OTOH, my second pair of these cracked the rim on the rear wheel around the valve hole with about 7,000 miles. Fortunately this happened two weeks before the warranty expired. 

I believe Sheldon passed away some years ago, so I don't know whether anyone is updating that site anymore,but if it's Sheldon, it would be divine inspiration. 

You can avoid getting your pants dirty and save rotational weight at the same time by not wearing any pants at all. 

There is a direct feel of the road. There is no slack going forward or backward before the "catch" on the chain. No derailleur maintenance. No clicking. No wait on gear shifts. No finding the right gear. Where I ride, it is completely flat, in and out of neighborhoods, constant speed changes. I could shift gears all the time, or I could just ride one gear and absorb it with my legs. It puts me out of my comfort zone. When I ride a regular road bike for fitness, the temptation is to pick the most efficient gear and go at the heart rate I can sustain for the distance I want to travel. All efforts are pretty much identical. With a fixie, the gear is picked and I must choose the effort expended to match the distance I'll travel. I don't really ride it for fitness but I've found it puts me through paces I never went through on a regular road bike. 

I have a large workbench with a bench vise mounted on it. I made a jig from a couple pieces of wood to hold the bike upside down, then I clamp the bike either high or low so it doesn't twist in the jig. This holds it in place, rock solid. 

I ride my bike in all weathers, and I'm concerned over the possibility of rust forming inside the frame and going undetected. I can't easily obtain FrameSaver or the like, so I'm thinking of dropping a packet or two of silica gel desiccant inside the seat tube of my steel-framed bike. I'm concerned that its effect won't last as long, or that it will be rendered ineffective should a small amount of water pool inside my frame after riding in the rain, soaking the gel packet. Does anybody have any experience with using silica gel packets to prevent corrosion? Does it do a comparable job to corrosion-preventing sprays? 

This is an extremely bad idea, and it may or may not be illegal where you live. It's pretty common for the law to require you to be able to lock up both wheels on flat dry pavement. Regardless, both brakes are important, and you shouldn't remove one for something a silly as weight reduction. The contact patch on your tires is small enough already without throwing away half your stopping power. Your rear brake will slow you without impacting your steering, while your front break is responsible for ~60% of your stopping power. However, braking with your front brake while turning sharply will usually result in loss of traction of your front wheel, causing the bike to slide out from under you, so it's crucial that you keep your rear brake. If you're still dead set on this course, remove the rear brake, it's the less effective of the two. Some day when you're cornering and a car pulls out in front of you, and your options are to brake and slide out or hit the car, you'll regret not having both brakes. 

The biggest benefit I see is convenience. You can just hop onto a bike with whatever you're wearing at the time and go. Not a big deal if you're planning a 15 mile ride, but a real big deal if you're riding around the neighborhood, hopping off to run into a few stores, etc... It's also possible to pedal on the flip side of the pedal and get moving without the cumbersome and slow start up that is required to get into clipless or straps. In an emergency you can even stomp on the straps and move the bike out of the way. It's rare, but occasionally you find yourself standing there and just want to get out of the way, in any direction. I've now switched almost entirely to riding clipless though. Between that and riding fixed gear, it makes the bike feel so connected to me. To compare: Straps are easier to get into. Clipless are easier to get out of (really!). I've never pulled out of my clipless pedals, I have broken a strap (no big deal if you're not in a sprint). At this point if I'm riding any distance at all, I change shoes. If I'm just going to the store to pick up groceries, I don't even have straps, just old school pedals. The middle ground for straps just evaporated for me. 

I'm not talking specifically about triathlon frames, just frames which have aerodynamically shaped tubes. As I understand it, both types of frame are legal for road-racing under UCI rules. So, why would one choose a traditional frame with round or "squoval" tubes over an aero frame? For example, why would one choose to ride a Cervélo R5 with (more) traditionally shaped tubes over a Cervélo S5 which would seem to be more aerodynamically sound? Does it boil down to personal preference, or are there specific conditions in which one out-performs the other? 

I disassembled my bike's drivetrain to degrease and regrease all the components. I used a chain-breaker for the first time (previous bikes had a master link) to open a chain link and remove the chain. Afterwards, I reassembled the chain but found the link I'd opened is very stiff to the point where, as the link emerges from the chainring, it stays bent until it moves through the derailer and which point it snaps straight again. I tried making small adjustments to the rivet holding the link together and adding additional lubricant with no success. I even removed that link from the chain completely (assuming I'd bent something slightly), only to have the next link I opened/closed become the stiff one. Is this normal after using a chain-breaker to open a link? Should I expect the stiffness in the link to work itself out, or have I done something wrong? Is there anything else I can try to loosen up the stiff link?