It looks like Australian Chris O'Neil never made it above a world ranking of #80 and she won the 1978 Australian Open: $URL$ 

There really is no good answer for this. If you have options on where to play, I would say play at some courts that have decent dividers (screens, fencing, whatever) between courts. The only other thing I could recommend is if a ball is hit wide off the court to try and track it down and grab it then, instead of letting it go and potentially rolling even further away. Most places I play at, if the ball from another court comes onto my court I hit it back to them to help out and vice-versa by them - it's kind of an unwritten rule/courtesy while you're playing. But I understand younger kids sometimes don't do this and don't even think to give you the ball back so it's tough. By the way, are you playing sets or just rallying/practices/drilling ? 

The video is a little misleading actually because it's tough to notice exactly what happened at the end of the point. In tennis you actually are NOT allowed to hit the ball with your head - only the racquet. What happened in the video you linked to is that Federer's opponent (Juan Martin Del Potro) didn't get to Federer's backhand shot before it bounced twice - thus the point (and game) went to Federer (some people allude to this in the comments on YouTube also). The evidence backing this up is that you can hear the chair umpire announcing the game going to Federer before he even hits the ball off his head over the net. The chair umpire wouldn't announce that unless the point was already over. Since Federer had already won the game, the point was over and Federer headed the ball over the net just for fun. Though I can't confirm it, I don't believe it is legal to hit the ball with anything other than the racquet (or paddle) in table tennis either (since I know you lose the point if the ball hits your body and not the racquet). And as far as sports that use a shuttle (like badminton), I'm not sure you could hit a shuttle with enough force using your head for it to go over the net since shuttle decelerate so rapidly once they've been hit. 

However, teams are limited in the number of players that can be suited up for each game - these rules are set up by conferences: 

You'll need to incorporate weight training and/or intervals in order to maintain (or increase) your muscle mass. A blog post titled "The Running Body Builder" offers some tips: 

However, certain types of exercise, such as interval training, relies on judicious use of high intensity activity interspersed with lower intensity activity, so this "10% rule" is more of a guideline since each person's body has a unique tolerance for workout intensity. 

Finally, there are anecdotal stories about the increase in young athletes getting injured at higher rates due to sports specialization. One article discusses some of the dangers of specializing in sports at an early age, while another article quotes Pittsburgh Steelers safety Troy Polamalu: 

The author notes that his group starts off practicing on small snow bumps, before graduating to a 10-meter ramp and ending at an 18-meter ramp. You will need to be comfortable with downhill skiing (in a straight line at high speeds) in order to have enough momentum for good jumps. If you're starting out on the smaller beginner's ramps, multiple jumps per day shouldn't be too tough on the body (depending on your physical condition). 

Tom, First I'd like to clear up some misconceptions you might have about the NTRP rating scale and where players (and teaching pros) fall on that scale. The skill level of your local tennis pro or instructor can vary greatly. Some tennis pros are former professional players while some, who understand the game and the mechanics of all the strokes, are nowhere near the 6.0 level of playing ability. Of all the teaching pros I've ever known (about a few dozen) I'd say most average somewhere between the 4.0 to 5.0 level of playing ability. It mostly depends on how often they are still playing competitive tennis vs. just hitting balls out of a basket for other people to practice. Some might be coaching college level teams/players while others are just running cardio tennis on weeknights or teaching quick-start 10 & under to kids. As for the actress you read about (Elisabeth Shue by chance?) - I would find it very hard to believe that anyone (whether the have natural athletic ability or not) could go from a beginner to a 4.0 or 4.5 after just one 3-day clinic. Acquiring skill in tennis is a very technical task and it takes the kind of time and repetition that just can't be done in a few days. Most adults that have reached the 4.0 or 4.5 level have only done so after many years or playing and practicing regularly. Without having seen the player or knowing the coaches, I would say you are probably correct that this player had some natural ability and reached close to the ceiling of their potential quickly. Keep in mind though that many people that play tennis never ascend above the 3.5 or 4.0 rating their entire lives. As far as the NTRP ratings themselves go - you are correct that they are a little bit exponential but not quite ten-fold or to the degree you mentioned. From what I've seen, the margins of victory and what separates one level of player from another gets smaller as you go up the ratings scale. For example - an average 4.5 player might occasionally lose to a good 4.0 player - maybe because the 4.0 player is more fit or has a little bit better tactics and patience (fewer errors). A player that is a true 5.0 level player would almost never lose to a 4.0 player and in fact, most of the points would probably be pretty lopsided, with the 5.0 player being in control of most (if not all) of them. As you look at players higher and higher on the ratings scale, they do pretty much everything a little better. Better 1st and 2nd serve, more consistent ground strokes, more aggressive in finishing points at the net, better tactics, etc. What's interesting is, as good as a 5.0 level player is - and this is often true of the game of tennis as a whole - there is always someone who is better. That 5.0 player, who might have good shots and technique, and maybe played in college, would get completely demolished by a 6.5/7.0 level professional player. A 7.0 level player is someone that makes a living playing tennis and has been playing regularly (and frequently) since they were a child. There are just different levels of fitness, balance, strategy and experience at the 7.0 level that make the difference. Not to mention all kinds of other things like muscle memory and things that get developed over the course of many years of playing the sport. Even among pro tennis players, you'll occasionally see scorelines like 6-0, 6-1 where one player was just having a bad day and their opponent was playing well. It doesn't take a whole lot sometimes for a match to be lopsided. Even as good as someone is that's ranked say, around 500 in the world (who is a 6.5 or 7.0 level player) - someone that is in the top 10 in the world would likely defeat them easily in a match - it happens all the time in the early rounds of grand slam events. 

Players get ranked based on their performance in tournaments. Per the ITTF ranking page, the ranking system as of 2017 (full details here) incorporates: 

As Rory mentioned, practice will help - this technique is considered to be fairly advanced. Repetition is needed to perfect your technique. If you want some additional training tips, one site suggests: 

Concussions are becoming a major long-term health concern for participants in American football, particularly among youth and high school leagues, where equipment might not be as up to date as those found in the professional or college levels. I've come across articles that state that certain mouthguards and newer helmets might reduce the risk, but haven't seen any definitive studies that prove that a particular piece of equipment or fitting "works." Is there any list of equipment (and any associated fitting/practices) that is proven to help football players avoid concussions? 

In one youth baseball hitting drill, the instructors used broomsticks and dried beans instead of bats and baseballs: 

In the article, the writer interviewed a number of athletes that were suddenly Olympic medalists, often years after the fact. Some athletes received another medal ceremony in front of fans, another actually received a gold medal at a food court! These competitors were naturally delighted to receive their medals, but also had mixed emotions - some had lost training support that would have been granted as a reward for medaling, and several missed a chance to receive an acknowledgement in front of an Olympic crowd at the competition. Finally, the article notes: 

Based on you referring to something as "school tennis" I'm guessing it's not any kind of USTA sanctioned junior tennis against other junior players that have USTA rankings - so my answer would be it depends on the child's age. If they are 10 or younger they are eligible to play quickstart tennis (smaller court, foam balls, etc.). If they're older, try and find a tennis facility that has teaching pro on staff that is familiar with the USTA players and tournaments in the region you live in and can direct you on how to find out the skill level the player is at the type of tournaments/competition they should be looking to play in. A site like this should be able to help in your search: $URL$ 

The main differences are which organizations organize and operate the tournaments, how much prize money and how many points are up for grabs, and the rankings of the players in the draw. Futures: Run by ITF, Prize money of 10-15k, ranking points from 1 point to 35, players ranked anywhere from 2000+ in the world down to about 150 or so. Challengers: Run by ATP, Prize money up to 150k, ranking points from 3 to 125, players generally ranked higher though lower ranked players can still participate in qualifying draws. Not uncommon for top 100 players to play in Challenger tournaments. Points earned at either type of tournament both add up to determine your total points and thus, your ranking. Some professional players spend the bulk of their career playing the Challenger series events and rarely ascend to the main ATP tour level events. A player like that would likely have a career high ranking just inside or just outside the top 100 in the world and would probably average a ranking of around 150-250 in the world. 

I have not seen any other historical accounts that described why the change was made, but one can assume that the consistency of the playing surface and the increased durability of artificial turf compared to natural grass were major reasons for the shift. 

A recent example is the three team trade involving Golden State, New Orleans, and Philadelphia. The original trade involved only two teams, with Golden State trading Dorrell Wright to Philadelphia for an overseas player to obtain cap relief - essentially a salary dump. New Orleans wanted to obtain salary relief, and so joined the trade by sending Jarret Jack to Golden State and getting the overseas player in return. Each team got something from this transaction: 

A 2002 article shares some information about how Mitch Kaplan learned to ski jump at Olympic Park in Park City, Utah: 

The advantage of having these helmets is that the defensive coordinator can make changes to defensive calls, based on what the defensive staff sees from the offensive. This change provided defenses a counter to the quarterbacks' communications advantage. From the offense's perspective, knowing which player is making defensive audibles is probably of limited value, since the radio turns off with 15 seconds left on the play clock. The defensive player with the radio would be quite obvious - the two designated players are chosen before the game, and the active one would be wearing a helmet with the green dot and would be passing along updated defensive plays. However, there is another possibility, as Peter King notes in a recent Sports Illustrated column. He relates an Eli Manning anecdote describing the importance of knowing who is "the mike": 

Although I can't verify this, it could be for balance purposes. I know that in tennis (related sport), when you come into net to hit a volley, good technique states that you should "stomp" with your (assuming a right-handed player) left foot for a forehand volley and stomp with your right foot for a backhand volley because it helps you mentally and physically hit your shot with a firm wrist and be on balance like you need to be. 

When it comes to hard courts there are lots of different names for the surface when you get specific. Some indoor hard court surfaces are known as "Premier Court" for example, and as far as outdoor hard courts go, in addition to the general name of "Outdoor Hard Court" there are more specific names such as "Plexicushion", "Cushion Plus", "DecoTurf" (US Open uses this) or "Plexipave" (which is the surface at Indian Wells). To answer your question - I believe the year-end WTA Championships in Istanbul, Turkey still use the Rebound Ace surface. That is the only current professional tournament I'm aware of that still uses it, though. DecoTurf seems to have become the preferred surface for many professional tournaments because of the speed it plays at and the bounce it gives is favored by many players. Back when the Australian Open used Rebound Ace there were some complaints from players that the surface got too hot and sticky and they didn't like the way it played. 

There are several reasons for the ineligible receiver rules. In my opinion, here are some possible reasons: 

According to this training article, bricks are commonly bike/run combos, but there there are also training scenarios for swim/bike combos. 

In a 4-3 defense, there are two defensive tackles (DT) in the interior of the line, while in a 3-4 defense, there is only one tackle - the nose tackle. Usually, the primary task of the nose tackle is to occupy more than one blocker in the interior of the line to allow linebackers to make plays. In contrast, the role of 4-3 tackles depends heavily on the design of the defense - some 4-3 DT's are pass rushers (example: Warren Sapp) while others also occupy blockers in more of a run-defense role. Vincent Wilfork is listed as an example of a 3-4 Nose Tackles in this Pat Kirwan article on nfl.com. In the same article, Pat Williams is listed as an example of a 4-3 nose tackle. The article describes the roles of these two types of nose tackles: 

According to this cbafaq.com page, NBA payroll rules can vary by the player's contract, within limits stipulated by the CBA: 

From that description, it appears that children that are at least eight years old can start training. Of course, parents know their children best and may be able to start them off at a younger age. 

Short Angles: any kind of shot really can have a "short angle" to it, depending on how you hit it Looper: this is really just a variation on a lob Reply Looper: this is just a certain type of "on the rise" timing of a ground stroke (forehand or backhand) Moon Ball on the Rise: Again, just a certain type of ground stroke with specific take-back preparation and specific timing (forehand or backhand) Hit on the Rise: This is just a backhand or forehand being hit sooner and more up in the court (usually) than a normal ground stroke that you let start falling first. 

This kind of result in a grand slam event isn't that uncommon at all, really. One thing you've got to understand about the sport of tennis is that among the top 150-200 players in the world - they can all beat each other if one player isn't playing that well and the other is. The margin between winning and losing is really small and easily tilted in favor of one player given a break of serve or two. There are even matches where the losing player wins more total points than the winner does. Also keep in mind that for major events (like Wimbledon) the singles draw begins with 128 players and so there are more rounds (and matches) for players to compete in, thus the chances of a seeded player losing goes up compared to say, the average tournament with just a draw of 32 or 64. 

The challenge of hitting smaller targets with a smaller bat should improve one's hand-eye coordination for all ball-striking sports. For a tennis specific drill, one instructor used the following technique: 

So according to this column, knowing which defensive player is "the mike" sets up the offensive blocking assignments, which is likely to be of more importance to the offense than knowing the identify of the defensive player with the radio-equipped helmet. EDIT: Fixed typo in last paragraph. 

Gail Imber notes in his article "Referee Bias: Quantifying the Homer Effect and Officiating Home-Field Advantage": 

This guide has a few serve & return drills, while this page has a list to various drills for more advanced players. From the list, the defender drills might be of the most interest to you. This YouTube video provides a drill geared towards improving reaction time on defense, while this 2009 NY Times article describes a drill to improve reaction time when discussing a young player: 

Runner's World also had an article discussing the benefits of cross-training from a runner's perspective that may apply to other sports as well: 

So the final conclusion that he draws is that a sacrifice bunt makes sense only in one situation: man on second, no one out, and a single run is the goal.