The strong form of the Sapir-Whorf hypothesis has been discredited on several grounds after its initial formulation. However, recent decades have seen interest spring up in investigating questions about how language interacts with other aspects of cognition. In a very recent paper on this topic, Lila Gleitman and Anna Papafragou write: "In general, both logic and currently available evidence suggest a disclamatory view of strongest proposals (e.g., Benjamin Whorf, 1956) according to which particulars of certain human languages are important progenitors of thought, such that elements of perception or conception would be permanently altered by learning one or another language. However, several credible lines of experimental and developmental evidence suggest significant influence of linguistic representation during on-line processing in many cognitive and perceptual domains" (doc here). A really fantastic philosophical investigation into the cognitive role of language can and should be read, here. (Note that this latter reference includes 30 pages of open peer commentary, which is then responded to by the author.) 

By "expresses the category D" I mean, preferably, that there is solid evidence/argumentation for a given morpheme to be analyzed as overtly heading a Determiner projection. I would limit such expressions in this case to those communicating meaning like the definite article the, but not demonstratives like that. By not displaying inverse scope, I mean that an equivalent translation of (1) would support the interpretation in (2) but not in (3). Perhaps the same for (4) with the interpretations paraphrased in (5) and (6): 

Some distinctions that are important for conceptualization/communication are simply not marked in some languages. Your question seems to be: if a language provides no resources for definite marker, how does a speaker communicate that a given description is intended as definite as opposed to indefinite? Answer: discourse context steps in to help. For example, in English, the discourse function of an indefinite article is typically to signal that a new referent is being introduced. So, if I've already been talking about John, it would be extremely weird to refer back to him by saying Then, a guy called Mary to invite her to the dance, as it would seem now I am definitely not talking about John, rather talking about some new male individual. However, if John is salient in the discourse, it is perfectly natural to refer back to him using the definite, Then, the guy called Mary to invite her to the dance. In a language with no definite article/clitic/affix/word order difference, but yet with an indefinite article for example, at a minimum discourse demands would lead such speakers to only use the indefinite when introducing new discourse referents, and avoiding using it to refer to establish referents. In the absence, too, of the indefinite article, languages could resort to word order differences (e.g., apply focus and topicalization rules), or additional words like same, different, or use demonstratives and pronouns to indicate (non-)contrast of referents. 

All languages display some form of the hierarchy of projections, to the extent we understand what this is: in a given clause, roughly, complementizers are higher than inflectional heads are higher than verbal heads, etc, modulo various kinds of syntactic movement. We can also talk about the ordering of determiners, numerals, and "quality" adjectives within the DP. Has anyone in the linguistics or philosophical literature written explicitly on why we see this pattern displayed again and again? Does it emerge from the nature of the syntax-to-conceptual system mapping (whatever that might be like), or is it (somehow) imposed by the language system? One can find detailed cartographic approaches like that in Peter Svenonius' Spatial P in English which are highly suggestive of the semantic nature of the hierarchy (perhaps suggesting it is not imposed by language?), but I can't find an extended consideration of its origins. 

Given what was discussed in the first paragraph above, we thus expect a language to exist where there is no word for short, but that conveys such a meaning via negating the positive adjective, e.g. not tall. One never expects to find a language that does the reverse, e.g. where short occurs with not short, and expression of simplex tall fails to occur. Describing strong versus weak meanings, Larry Horn in his 1972 dissertation gives nice examples using the dual modals must and may, and adjectives like (un)able and (im)possible, to observe that in general, it seems the "positive" or "stronger" of a dual occurs as an expression simpliciter, while the "negative" or "weaker" is likely to occur as a combination of the positive/stronger expression with a negative marker. Note that such a synthetic construction carries exactly the (logical) meaning of what the negative/weaker expression as a simplex lexical item would carry. Horn has some speculations about why this asymmetric pattern may obtain, but it has not so far been explained in detail, and how far such phenomena extend throughout lexical semantics is (I think) unknown. Understanding that the patterns even/ odd and even/ not even exist cross-linguistically, as opposed to odd/ not odd, feels of the same flavor of the above spread of examples. It is unclear to me how one might cast the pair even/odd in terms of antonymy or strength, however. 

In general, talk of syntactic derivations as top-down versus bottom-up is understood to be purely metaphorical: the theory of grammar aims to explain static knowledge, not dynamic process. A forthcoming paper considers how to understand directionality of derivation for syntactic processing (and what that may imply for an adequate theory of syntactic competence). From the introduction: 

I am wondering if there are any verbs/phrases that qualify both as ditransitive, and as atelic. The following shows the relevant tests. The satisfying verb/phrase should have the same * patterns as give w.r.t. ditransitivity, but * patterns with sleep and watch in the telicity tests. A complete answer will provide the evidence that the proposed word passes the test in these ways. (*'s in the below indicate low acceptability. Note that the absence of a phrase must be interpreted as the absence of any inferrable phrase--adding a phrase silently will increase acceptability, but this should be avoided in order to understand the judgments. It is also intended that a difference in transitivity not change the meaning of the verb, so sometimes a * might indicate that example is not interpretable in the same way as the corresponding non-*ed examples.) Intransitive: 

Nouns like water, mud, furniture in English are odd with plural morphology (adding -s, as in furnitures), with numerals (three furniture(s)), and seem to have their own quantifier (much water but not much boys), and are typically referred to as mass nouns. In contrast stand so-called count nouns like chair, table, and book (e.g. chairs, three chairs, many chairs). "Count nouns" are easily singular, a chair, or plural, chairs. When a count noun appears without the indefinite article or plural marking in English, the default assumption is that it should be interpreted "as mass": There was chair all over the highway. Interestingly, there is no equivalent to marking mass as we mark plural with -s in English, and not in any other language I'm aware of. I know there are languages that mark singular, plural, all of the dual through paucal markers, etc, and still other languages with the glorious inverse number marking systems (a single marker, depending on the lexical root, either means "plural" or "singular"). But are there any languages that mark a noun as having a mass interpretation? Such a marker would result in an odd interpretation when combined with a "count noun", and "mass nouns" might obligatorily take the mass marker. Edit: It is true that there are languages with morphemes that, when applied to a "lexically mass" noun, describe a singular unit of the stuff, or a plurality of units of the stuff. Such data may be used to motivate the idea of a lexical category "mass" for nominals. To be more precise about my question: I am wondering if any language has a "mass marker" that marks any noun as mass, so that when added to a word expressing concepts like boy or chair, the meaning is boy-stuff or chair-stuff.