I think you are conflating two different uses of the word "true". First, in any formal system there can be sentences that are true in some models and not in others. It simply makes no sense to ask whether those sentences are true in some purely abstract sense. By analogy, the statement "The house is painted green" is true of some houses and not true of others. There's no reason to think we should be able to assign a single truth value to such a statement, and no reason to want to. Second, it is sometimes (but not always) the case that we have a particular model in mind from the outset. So if we've all agreed in advance that the house we're talking about is the one located at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC, then it does make sense to ask about the truth value of a sentence like "The house is painted green", and there is no ambiguity about whether that sentence is true or false. In particular, when we about arithmetic, we usually (but not always) have one particular model in mind, namely the standard model of the natural numbers (i.e. the counting numbers that you learned about in kindergarten). Therefore, statements in, say, Peano arithmetic, are unambiguously true or false (as long as we all realize that we're focused on that one model). That notion of truth coincides with Tarski's more formal definition. We determine whether such statements are true or not by studying the natural numbers. There is no single "usual" formal system in play here, so I don't know what you mean by the "usual means" for discovering which sentences are true. Sometimes we use Peano arithmetic. Sometimes we use induction up to epsilon-nought. Sometimes we use Grothendieck universes. Therefore, in response to your questions: When we talk about arithmetic, there is no "usual means" for determining what's true and therefore no need to develop "unusual means". Moreover, it would certainly be way counterproductive to adopt as system of multiple truth values when every sentence we can state is already either unambiguously true or unambiguously false. 

it must be sensitive to initial conditions; it must be topologically mixing; and it must have dense periodic orbits. 

I believe I would call it "spin doctoring." Fundamentally, the issue is that Person One is debating using logic, Person Two is debating using emotion, so the winner of the debate is really dependent on whether the audience is more swayed by logic or emotion. Given your emotions on the matter, I presume you've dealt with emotional audiences in the past. If you make a logical argument against someone who may turn it into an emotional argument, you have to be prepared for this. There are some mathematical theorems which show that, for many logical arguments, it is impossible to prevent this attack because Person Two merely needs to emotionally redefine the axioms that were assumed in the logical argument. So how do you defend against it? Know they audience. You won't win this just by making a solid logical argument. You must know the kinds of arguments the audience will favor. For example, in some debates regarding science, it is permitted to force the argument towards deeper and deeper axioms until Person Two is out of their depth or is forced to make arguments that bend the meaning of "true" (as happens in politics all the time). With other audiences, this can be seen as an offensive tactic that can lose you the argument. If this is the case, you may find that the logical argument is actually insufficient to win, and you must instead start with an emotional one. Know thy audience. As an example, one could consider the abortion debate raging today. Many positions on abortion involve the idea that "killing a living human is murder." With some audiences, you can get away with challenging the emotional Person Two to define the exact moment when a human becomes living, because clearly that line in the sand is important to them. When they fail to do so, probabilistic arguments come into play. However, with other audiences, this will be called "splitting hairs," and you would have been better off not starting with a logical argument in the first place. 

First, you haven't said what you mean by "valuable". But a reasonable definition is that a thing is valuable if it is valuable to someone, and that a thing X is valuable to me if I am willing to trade something for it, or willing to trade something for some lottery in which X is the only prize. It is then empirically the case that lives are valuable because, for example, I am willing to pay for safety equipment and medications whose only salient characteristic is that they have some chance of prolonging my life. 

Certainly in the context of some physical theories, it is possible to prove that some things are infinite. Given general relativity and given enough observations (say about the distribution of mass and the rate at which the Universe is expanding), one tell whether the Universe is or is not infinite. Of course, that determination depends on the ambient theory. But then, everything we know about everything depends on some ambient theory. I believe the sun exists because I have a theory that says there's some relationship between my perceptions and external reality. So to say that we can determine the volume of the Universe is no more or less dicy in principle than to say we can determine the existence of the sun. Different theories of physics might lead to different answers about the Universe's volume, but then different theories of perception lead to different answers about the existence of the sun. As long as you have a physical theory you're pretty comfortable with, it's perfectly conceivable that observations can prove that some things are infinite. 

Just using logic I would find one big problem. Let us assume for a second, you might just be living in a self-constructed reality with your own rules and you are the only real entity in there. Your question would now turn to "Can I disprove my own construction". To me, this would take some kind of super-self that is disconnected from your thinking. To explain, if you created your reality it must still be linked to you as it would otherwise crash at some point because, assuming age, evolution of behavior and mind and things like time stay constant, you would outsmart your construct at some point and might even find mistakes. Otherwise the situation would be like the student rebelling against his teacher/master, only difference being that you yourself are student and master in one mind. So in order to maintain your construct, you would need to adjust it so that difficulty of the simulation remains at a static level. This is obviously a very limited view on your question as it forces very certain circumstances in order to work. And furthermore it concludes that you might only under even more weird circumstances be able to disprove every doubt you could come up with. So I would say that no, there is no way to 100% surely reject your theory, but following my thinking there will also never be one because the inaccessible part of you that initially created the simulation will always be one step ahead of you.