I would like to know who was the youngest player to play in an NHL game. It would be also interesting to know also some related records (youngest goalscorer, youngest player with an assists, similar records for Stanley Cup) and Top 10 of this statistic (if it is available somewhere). I have checked List of NHL records (individual) at Wikipedia (here is link to the current revision), but the only things mentioning age I found there were were that the youngest player in NHL history to win the Calder Memorial Trophy was Nathan Mackinnon and the youngest goaltender to win 300, 400, 500, 600 regular-season games was Martin Brodeur. 

(Connors won his first GS title in 1974 and McEnroe in 1979. But they did not won any GS in the years listed above. Note that McEnroe did not start at French Open and Australian Open in that year. So did Connors in 1977. In 1975 Connor did not play French Open.) The same Wikipedia article also mentions two players who were at No. 1 position without GS title: Marcelo Rios and Ivan Lendl. (Lendl won several Grand Slam tournaments later.) This article also says that: Federer could become the oldest Number 1 player since André Agassi. He could also become the third player to end the year in Number 1 position without winning a Grand Slam title after Jimmy Connors in 1975 and 1977 and John McEnroe in 1982. 

Are there some other tournaments which do not follow ATP/WTA rankings? In general, can organizers of a tournament make changes to seeding, if they want to do so? 

Many players who are still eligible to play as juniors already enter enter senior tournaments. It is not uncommon to see, that some player plays qualifying at Grand Slam tournament and if they do not qualify, then they enter boys/girls competition. It can happen that a player concentrates only on senior events, in which case they do not have points in the juniors ranking. But still such a player might want to enter at least some junior tournaments. For example, I think that junior grand slams are considered prestigious. If such player has enough points in senior ranking, but does not have point in junior rankings, can they enter the main draw? Or do they have to play qualifying? I have noticed in Wikipedia article about tennis at the 2014 Summer Youth Olympics that one player entered based on being in Top 450 in the ATP ranking. However, Youth Olympic Games are kind of a special event, so it is possible that this was an exception and not a rule. To summarize my question shortly: 

I have noticed that many twitter posts about Petra Kvitová use the hashtag #P3tra. What is origin of this hashtag? Is there some significance to this name (like 3 important wins or somethings similar)? 

(which is equivalent to W>1.) Again, we can compute b1, b2, b3 from the above equations. We can have a look at an example again. Suppose we have match with the following odds: 

I don't know whether this was the last time, but it was the last time I was able to find. On 24 May 2010 there were three Russian players in Top 10 (Elena Dementieva, Svetlana Kuznetsova and Dinara Safina.) This can be checked on WTA website. (But I do not know how to link to rankings from some given date.) The Wikipedia article on 2010 French Open shows ranking from 17 May 2010. (These rankings were used to determine seeding at this tournament.) You can see there these three players in Top 10. However, it is hard to say whether this was the last time when this happened. If somebody knows a better method how to look for statistics like this, I would be glad to know about it. 

Arbitrage bet or surebet means betting on all possible outcomes in which you make profit independently on the result of the event. How exactly can I calculate whether given odds form an arbitrage and what the potential profit could be? 

In several places, where you can find information about tennis tournaments (for example: 2014 WTA Tour or 2014 ATP World Tour at Wikipedia), there are often shortcuts like this: (Brisbane), (Australian Open), (Rotterdam). I can see that they are somehow related to number of players and number of seeded players, but what do these shortcuts mean exactly? 

I am posting a CW answer, feel free to edit it if there are younger Gagarin cup winners that I was able to find. (Or if you can find further references.) I have searched among players listed as Gagarin Cup Champions at Elite Prospects. 

This was too long for a comment, so I am posting it as a CW-answer. From Wikipedia (here is link to current revision, just in case the article changes in the future): 

As far as I know, UEFA allocates some number of places in the European competitions based on country coefficients. However, I have seen (if I remember correctly) various rules in various countries: 

Jonathan Toews managed to win both the junior and senior world championships in 2007. Are there some other players which managed to win both these championships in the same year? Is there more of them if we add those, who won golden medals in different years? (For example, Igor Larionov won WJC in 1979 and 1980 and senior championships in 1982, 1983, 1986 and 1989. Other examples of players winning both junior and senior championships include Patrice Bergeron, Scott Niedermayer and Alexander Ovechkin.) 

The usual 1/X/2 arbitrage with the odds 2.98/4.1/2.45 gives profit 1.252%. Using pk for the home team yields 1.05% (Hence, in this case, using this type of arbitrage bet did not bring an advantage.) Risks Perhaps it is important several risks connected with this types of betting. Many of them are mentioned in the Wikipedia article about arbitrage betting, too. 

(GP = number of games played, pts = number of points, diff = goal difference) I have seen in many sources that at this point the teams qualified for the Stanley Cup playoffs are already decided and that Washington Capitals cannot qualify. But it is still possible that both Washington Capitals and Detroit Red Wings both finish at 91 points. (Capitals would have to win their last game, and Detroit would have to loose in regulation time.) Moreover, Washington would have better goal difference. So I wonder why they cannot qualify. 

Additionally, I also wonder to which extent it is common that same person represents a country at both world championships and universiade. 

For WTA, there is a section Most titles / finals at a single tournament in the Wikipedia article WTA Tour records (current revision), which lists 12 titles of Martina Navratilova at Ameritech Cup (Chicago) as the record. 

So in fact the two bottom ranked teams in the final ranking will be the two teams who finished last in their respective groups. Since the above quote is from the official website of the tournament, this probably can be considered official information. In fact if we look at final ranking at 2015 IIHF World Championship, we can see that Denmark was ranked ahead of Austria, despite Denmark having only 4 points from the group stage and Austria having 5 points. Austria finished 8th in their group, so they were ranked after Denmark who finished in the 7th place in group B. (From the information on tournament website, it seems that 2015 tournament was played in the same format as the most recent championships.) 

Based on his statistics on soccerway, he scored penalty goals for Southampton in the following competitions: 

If I understand the rules correctly, whenever a player receives red card, he is suspended for the next match. The same is true for 3 yellow cards. See, for example, here. I would like to know what happens in the situation illustrated in the following example. During the match in U-21 Euro qualifying play-offs Slovak midfielder Ondrej Duda was sent-off, see here or here. As of this moment, this was his last match for national team, see for example his profile on soccerway. He was recently called up for the next fixture of the Slovak team in the UEFA Euro 2016 qualifying against Macedonia. (Here is a source in Slovak language.) These are two different competitions, but both of them are organized by UEFA. I wonder whether he should be suspended in the senior team 's game or whether the suspensions are counted separately for senior and junior events. (Or, more generally, for various competitions.) Even if the suspensions are not considered separately, another factor here might be that the U-21 qualifying tournament is already completed. 

Rickie Lambert converted all of his 34 penalties for Southampton FC. (Although he missed some penalty kicks in some of his previous clubs. And after transfer from Southampton to Liverpool he did not convert his first penalty in a friendly against AC Milan.) 

However in the current revision of the Wikipedia article about women's finals I see only this short mention about the format of the tournament: 

I have checked whether something can be found on Wikipedia, since it is one of natural places to go for questions like this. I am posting this as a CW answer; so that it can be updated by other users, if needed: Primera Division In the article Football records in Spain the following is mentioned: 

Wimbledon uses seeding which gives advantage to players that are more successful on grass courts. (Although I am not sure how long have they used seeding in this way.) For example, in Wikipedia article on 2014 Wimbledon Championships we can read that: 

I was trying to find the information about youngest player with ATP World Tour title. I found on Wikipedia that Michael Chang is the youngest player to win Grand Slam title. Wikipedia also has list of oldest tournament winners (current revision). But I did not find information about who was the youngest tournament winner. 

One of the team statics in ice-hockey is power play percentage. From example, you can see it here for the currently played World Chapmionship or here for this year's NHL season. I understand that this should be something like ratio of power play goals and total number power plays. I wonder whether in some cases the fact that the power play is shorter than 2 minutes is factored in when calculating PP%. There are several reasons why power play might be shorter, here are some I can think of: 

If Karolína Plíšková wins her today's match against Angelique Kerber, she will move into the 10th spot in the next edition of WTA singles rankings. (Sources: wtatennis, tennisworldusa, idnes, ...) If this happens, there will be three Czech players in Top Ten of the rankings. (The other two being Kvitová and Šafářová.) To me it seemed a rare occurrence. (I do not remember something like that in the recent years.) Which provoked me to ask the question: 

On the website of the 2017 World Championship in the part about tournament format (Internet Archive) we can read that: 

If several riders finish a cycling race with the same total time, what is used as a secondary criterion in general classification? For example, in this years Paris-Nice Michal Kwiatkowski, Rui Costa and Simon Špilak had the same time in GC at the and of the race. They were on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th place. 

For example, Tsonga received bye in Barcelona this year. He lost in the second round to Granollers. As we can see in his ranking breakdown (Internet Archive), he has 0 points for this tournament. (Players, who advanced to the second round without a bye, got 20 points.) 

To answer my question (at least partially) I checked the lists of Gold medalists from junior and senior championships as shown at elitepropects here and here. Note that the lists from older championships are incomplete. (I was able to find that also Makarov, Kasatonov, Krutov, Pervukhin have achieved this. They are not in the list on eliteprospects. I have added them to the list below. Just for reference, I will add here also the version of the lists I was working with - in case they will be updated later. Here are they: juniors and seniors.) I found the following players with junior and senior medals from the same year: Viacheslav Fetisov and Sergei Makarov in 1978, Sergej Fedorov in 1989, Jamie Storr in 1994, Martin Havlát in 2000, Jonathan Toews in 2007. One player won the gold from senior championship one year sooner than junior gold: Patrice Bergeron (2005 and 2004). Players Here is the list of players who won both junior and senior medal on WC, ordered by the year when they won the junior gold medal (for the first time). 

WTA Tour By checking similar list for WTA Tour on Wikipedia we can find the following year-end No. 1's without GS in the same year 

Gagarin Cup is the name for KHL playoffs. (KHL is widely considered the second best ice hockey league in the world, after NHL.) In the last season, 20-years old Ilya Sorokin and 19 years old Ilya Samsonov played in the final. This is relatively young age for a goaltender. This made me wonder: 

I will copy the relevant part from $URL$ (link given in Piet_Agoras' answer), so that the information here is not dependent on an outside source: «MULTIPOWER» FAIR PLAY PRIZE The Giro Direction, deriving inspiration from the principle of reciprocal fair play in sporting events, fostered and promoted by Panathlon International, intends to emphasize the riders’ behavior thus awarding a prize to the team that have proven to have better complied with the applicable regulations. Therefore, the violations set forth in the disciplinary rules have been grouped in seven categories and penalties have been ascribed thereof. The violations – along with their relative points given to the team on a daily basis – have been identified as follows: 

1 The CBSSports article I linked claims that: "For just the third time in NHL history, both conference finals will be decided by a Game 7." But I was not able to find the third time when this happened. 2 Both Stanley Cup semifinals (and also the Stanley Cup final) were decided in the 7th game in 1964. But at the time the NHL was not divided into conferences. As far as I can tell from the information in the Wikipedia article I linked, the best-of-seven format used in this season was the same as the one used nowadays. So it seems that in that case the away teams won both semifinal series in seven games. (And the finals were decided in the 7th game, too.) 

This is a quote from Wikipedia article on junior tennis (emphasis mine). I will also add a link to the current revision - in case the article changes in the future.) 

While both Tour de France and Giro d'Italia have young rider classification, Vuelta a España does not have a competition for young riders. Is it known for what reasons decision not to have young riders classification was made? Has a possibility of young riders classification at Vuelta been discussed?