The only time anything unpowered leaving the surface with a single impulse can get to an orbit above an atmosphere, is if it is hit by something else when near its apoapsis, providing the second impulse and accelerating it in the prograde direction (so it gets rear ended, speeding it up in the direction it is travelling). It is theorized that a load of melted rocks were blasted out from earth in a gigantic collision, and they bumped each other, forming orbits, which coalesced into the moon, eventually, and anything that didn't get bumped just right rained back down. TL;DR: You can't get something into orbit by throwing it. Orbital mechanics says no. This is unfortunate, because if you can get to a stable orbit, you have all the time in the universe to deploy a solar sail and eventually float away somewhere else. You CAN however, break free entirely, with nothing more than brute force. You just need to somehow survive getting through the atmosphere at speeds higher than escape velocity. This will mean burning up, like a shooting star in reverse, but given sufficient ablative protection, it may be possible. Escape velocity, at ground level, is Mach 33 (12km per second), but that speed will decrease rapidly due to friction and drag forces, so the actual launch would need to be much, much faster indeed. It would require much greater sums of energy than rocket launches, since its very inefficient. But as long as the projectile gets through the atmosphere above 12km/s it will fly off into an orbit around the sun. And that's in theory enough to make it to any point in the solar system and beyond, given aeons of time and the right gravity assists. 

Religious beliefs can explain just about anything. Perhaps the idea of using oil (the product of decomposed plants and animals) is abhorrent. 

The points where the red orbital line and the surface of the planet intersect are the launch and impact points. No matter what angle or speeds you launch at, this red ellipse always passes through the launch point.* So after launching, all rockets, bullets and blobs only travel in a large arc. The rocket engine can be (and usually is) turned off slightly after launch, just after getting out of the atmosphere, and the ship, bullet or blob would coast all the way to the highest point. It is here, at the apoapsis, that a second burn needs to be made, accelerating the projectile. This accelerating raises the periapsis (the shortest distance from the planets center to the ellipse), eventually raising the periapsis above the surface. When the periapsis has been raised higher than the atmosphere, the rocket will go around and around with no further input. The first impulse (or burn) also needs to keep the speed low, to get through the thickest bottom layer of the atmosphere without losing all the energy to friction, or without overheating, or exploding due to aerodynamic stress. The more energy you try to add here, the worse these problems get. 

Im looking to make my world half Earth gravity but I would also like the natives to be strong than an average human (Acording to google) Would it be possible to have a species stronger than a human in lower gravity? FYI - Would prefer to be twice as strong but Im not going to nitpick every detail If it isnt possible you can also make that an answer 

There is a few methods the hero can take, I will outline as best I can tl;dr - basically when defending the hero wants to use the counter of the magic the necromancer has used so less energy is wasted (wood > fire, fire > earth kind of thing) hit-and-run tatics would be best as the hero can attack without being attack (at least not easily done right) Defensive Scenario 1 - Hero has the advantage In this situation the hero has the upper hand of a supprise "attack" Now I know you are wanting defensive approaches however @dot_Sp0T "A Good Defense is a Good Offense" would likely be the best way for your hero regardless of how the fight comes to be. But In the willing of the question I shall explain how a supprise "attack" can bt used for defensive means. A stun/paralysis attack, this could be an eletrical attack or a gas based attack. If the necromance cannot do anything then your hero (and party if he has one) will be unscathed, no better out come in my opinion. Defensive Scenario 2 - Hero and Necromancer meet head-on In this case the Hero and Necromancer will have a nice chat, realise they cant come to an agreement and then begin throwing magic at each other. At this point it becomes vital we know what arsenal the hero and necro have, if there is too large a gap in their power the fight becomes one sided but for arguments sake lets say they evenly matched (with the hero slightly less powerful but is willing to go further to save humanity or whatever he is doing). So the hero is fighting an upwards battle, best thing he can do is use guerrilla tatics/hit-and-run, conserve his own energy and make the necro waste his. For his defensive magic if it is just manipulating real world material (Wood/stone/water/fire/air etc etc) then he will need to know each elements counter, IE dont use wood agaisnt fire, he can then either deflect the attack away from himself (or back to the necro if possible) using the least amount of energy possible. Once the necro is sufficently worn our then the hero can move in for the "finishing blow" Defensive Scenario 3.1 - The hero is caught off guard The evil necro has used a underhanded, sly and cheap technique and the hero is in a ... well lets call is a bad situation. So the hero is wounded, its not fatal but he could have done without the injury agaisnt such a foe. 

Have them communicate by vomiting, and licking each others vomit up, thus exchanging complex organic molecules which encode long chains of data. Or some disgustingly messy other fluid exchanges 

If the planet is tidally locked to the star (I'm not sure that's possible, but let's assume it is), then not only is it day all the time, but the position of the sun will be fixed in the sky. This results in 

To save on launch weight, spacecraft are mostly made of lots of aluminium and plastics, so magnets will not be of much practical use. Perhaps for standing at a workstation, but foot restraints would be simpler, medically safer, and cheaper if you're just going to remain stationary. If you want to get really fancy, doing some genetic modification on the astronauts so they have octopus-like suckers or tiny hooks/hairs on the soles of their feet would be potentially of greater benefit than magnets, you could at least attach to smooth plastic or textured surfaces. In the end though practicality is likely to win out. Why would you want the astronaut to walk around when they can just float around? Having feet stick to the floor doesn't mean they experience gravity, so you do not avoid any of the medical challenges. You just take away the fun bit. 

Go through the sun It's the only way to decelerate. There is no way to get any rescue vehicles with propulsion systems onto a trajectory that can intercept at 0.6c given the time frame, not without ridiculous handwavium and warp engines. The only possible chance is to fly through the sun, doing "aerobraking". Let's look at some quick numbers. Entry speed would be 180,000km/s and the target velocity after braking will be anything under 600km/s (escape velocity of the sun). Achieving under this will guarantee the ship remains in the solar system, and opening up opportunities for further braking later on (could take hundreds of years, the ship would STILL be the fastest thing in the solar system). To decelerate from 0.6c to 600km/s over the suns diameter requires your ship and crew to tolerate a sustained average of over 1 million g's, and the heat of the sun. This is the most realistic scenario I can think of. Good luck! 

The answers here all assume the merfolk can perform metalwork, which I think is unreasonable. So my answer attempts to provide a viable solution. --They chew plastic-- Our oceans are filled with plastic waste. If the merfolk could chew the plastic and secrete a mild acetone, benzine or dichloromethane in their saliva (or other glands) they could soften certain plastics (like polyethyline) so it could bond with itself. It's possible that cyanoacrylate (superglue) works underwater too, enabling bonding with other plastics and rubber. Have the merfolk chew enough plastic into a paste and form the supermarine in a process like paper mache. It might be possible for the merfolk to take plated steel from sunken ships, bend and deform it to shape, and seal the edges with their chewed plastic goop. Maybe they could use other excreted substances as a sealant, too. To move around on the land requires a means of propulsion. Again, merfolk cannot fabricate metal parts and internal combustion engines, and even wheels on axles would be hard (and not commonly found on sunken ships either). A simple locomotion system would involve punting the vehicle around using long poles which they hang over the sides (think like a barge in venice) but this would be painfully difficult without decent wheels and all but the tiniest of vessels (minimum weight for a one person bathtub is going to be close to a half ton). Given these locomotion restrictions, I think that the merfolk are going to be limited to a floating vessel which operates in water only. Essentially a floating bathtub driven with long poles and hooks, it would allow the merfolk to explore coastal water and move up a river estuary, possibly reaching a freshwater lake (I assume freshwater is poisonous to them, so this is an achievement for their explorers). As saltwater won't float on freshwater, they will need air filled ballast tanks to keep afloat (alternatively, bottom crawling with the use of poles and hooks may also work, but I assume they want to see the surface).