If it costs you 50 cents a bag to make popcorn and you sell it for 50 cents a bag, you come out ahead by 0 cents a bag. 

Your marginal rate of substitution between (say) eggs and wine is the number of eggs you'd be willing to trade for one additional bottle of wine. This marginal rate of substitution can reflect your preferences (if you're a consumer) or the state of technology (if you're a producer who can, for example, substitute three eggs for one wine in your production process). Suppose your MRS is three eggs per wine and my MRS is two eggs per wine. Then there's an opportunity for a mutually beneficial trade: You give me two and a half eggs, and I'll give you a wine. You thought the wine was worth three eggs, and you got it for two and a half --- that's a win. I thought the wine was worth two eggs, and I sold it for two and a half --- that's also a win. Whenever your MRS differs from my MRS, there's an opportunity for a mutually beneficial trade. Therefore, if our MRS's differ, it means that an opportunity for mutually beneficial trade has been missed. So in order for resources to be used efficiently --- that is, in such a way that all opportunities for mutually beneficial trade have been exploited --- the MRS between any two commodities must be the same for you as it is for me or anyone else, regardless of how we're using those resources. 

If you are looking for classification like Agri-food trade presentation that covers products other than agricultural, you should check out the Combined Nomenclature (CN) of the European Union and its Explanatory Notes. It is established on the basis of the Harmonized System and it covers all the products that can be subject to customs and tariffs in the EU. Seek Annex I to the the basic CN Regulation (Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff). Be sure to use the latest version, though, as it is updated on a yearly basis. Here's a link to 2018 version, but if you want to be accurate, you should also include amendments (there were five of those since publication of 2018 verion). Perhaps the most readable is of course Explanatory Notes to the CN (so something like this). If you are interested in jurisdictions other than EU, please find links to cusoms nomenclature under Harmonized System's wikipedia page, you've posted. I'm sure all of them will have the same problems as Harmonized System. It is simply impossible to explicitly list all the products in the World and such listings will always be half open with use of phrases like 'not elsewhere specified'. Hope that helps. 

Disneyland takes in about \$8 billion a year --- not all of it through tokens, but let's say they sell, oh, \$4 billion a year worth of tokens. People often buy tokens several hours before they use them, so Disneyland gets to hold \$4 billion a year for, oh, say, four hours longer than they would without tokens. At 6\% annual interest, that's worth about \$100,000 a day to them. Some people don't use all their tokens and don't bother to cash them in, which means you're effectively charging those people more than others. So tokens can be an effective way to price discriminate. To make sense of this, you'd have to explain why the people who don't cash in the tokens are (on average) the people you want to discriminate against, but I don't think it would be hard to come up with a plausible story along these lines. 

The author, however, criticized this view saying that there is no empirical evidence for a development view between relational rationality and transactional rationality (the author’s main interest is the difference between cultures of East and West). 

There are many interesting mathematical models to calculate return on investment (ROI, ROE, Payback Period, Accounting Rate of Return, Net Present Value, Internal Rate of Return etc.) but these are only used after all the soft questions can be answered positively. Hope it helps. I intended to make a small comment, but ended with few paragraph answer :) 

This enables to calculate profitability of the business give the price of a certain level. If you don’t agree with the price you will not buy the product, which is fine with the seller, because he thinks in the long-run and he may adjust in the price in the future to meet certain profitability. 

Yesterday I promised my wife that if she would do the dishes, I would sweep the floor. Five minutes earlier, my promise didn't exist. I created it myself. Does that strike you as unhealthy or bound to implode and cause mayhem? 

I'm adding this as a separate answer because it's quite independent of my other answer. We've agreed that if there are X dollars existing and you counterfeit Y dollars, then you've stolen Y/(X+Y) of the value of those X dollars. This assumes you do your counterfeiting all at once, and without warning. If instead you do your counterfeiting slowly over time, or if it can be anticipated, then there's an additional effect: people try to rid themselves of money holdings in order to avoid being stolen from. (That is, they try to trade dollars for goods before the dollars lose value.) This is costly to the moneyholders, with no offsetting benefit to anyone. One way to see that it's costly to moneyholders is that they now own less money, which makes their lives less convenient. A different way to see that it's costly to the moneyholders is that the rush to trade money for goods bids up prices, which lowers the value of money. (These are not two different costs; they are two different ways to think about the same cost.) So in this case, you have stolen more than Y/(X+Y) of the value of originally existing money, but kept somewhat less (because by the time you get to spend your dollars, they're worth less than dollars were worth at the outset). The difference between what you steal and what you keep simply dissipates. 

It is very common for a company to have a loss (i.e. expenses > revenue) in the first year. Amazon is actually a very good example of that. It’s also a good example of ‘growth before profit’ strategy. Amazon was incorporated on July 5, 1994, and begun service in July 1995. This means that not only it did not generate profit in its first year, there were also no sales. Even after the launch the company generated loss: 

As for an easy reference, @denesp cited an interesting source on this. There are some slight differences in the data, so I thought I would cite it alongside with annual report data, which is more precise. 

Both current 40 hour workweek and its predecessor, 48 hours workweek with 6 days of work are a result of 8 hours workday. 8 hours comes from the division of 24 hours into three equal parts: 8h sleep, 8h rest and 8h work. JoaoBotelho and Brian Romanchuk are right - it was direct result of the XIX and early XX century organized labour’s struggles, which was based on employees observations of their work fatigue rather than a result of a scientific research. Perhaps the first, who tried to measure the effect of a 8h workday from the productivity standpoint was Henry Ford, who introduced 8 hour-workday in 1914. 

Assuming a fixed housing stock, it's not hard to show that an increase in salaries drives up rents enough to make renters worse off if and only if housing is a Giffen good. 

So, is it correct to say that in an economy with X currency units, counterfeiting and spending Y fake units is equal to theft of Y/(X+Y) of the wealth of the economy? (Emphasis added.) No. It is correct to say that spending Y fake units is equal to the theft of Y/(X+Y) of the money holdings of the economy, which is not at all the same thing. 

This seems obvious. If $\sigma_1,\sigma_2$ are in the joint support of $s_1,s_2$ and $\tau$ is not, then (writing $P$ for the first player's payoff) you need $$P(\tau,s)\le P(\sigma_1,s)=P(\sigma_2,s)$$ where $s$ is a convex combination of the $s_i$. But if you replace $s$ with $s_1$ or $s_2$, this holds, so it still holds after you average over $s_1$ and $s_2$. What am I missing?