Warning: speculation ahead. I think that those lifespans are more likely to be a "minimum aimed lifetime" rather than something else. What leads me to think that is that lab testing is costly, and some tests are also verytime consuming. Take stress-testing (testing for material fatigue) for exmple. Flexing a component repeatedly until it fails. My guess is that those tests must be performed on a statistically significative sample. You either build several machines to test several prototypes at once or do it one by one. Im also assuming that testing for 2000 km needs the double as to test for 1000 km. Taking that into account, there must be a certain point of equilibrium between how much to test something, and how sure to be of the spected lifetime of a design, o a production batch. This is much more important in low to mid priced items, because they are sold in higher volumes, so a tiny cost saving gets multiplied by huge quantities. Higher priced items on the other hand tend to be more exclusive, much less units are sold, but also, all that testing is even part of the marketing of the product, and the target market is likely to "appreciate" all that testing and quiality guarantees, i.e. it's more sensible to test these products toward higher extents. That being said, I doubt that there is something "conspiracy theory" styled argument towards purposefully designing a mid-range or low-range component to fail after a defined time/usage span. That would add up to the design and development stages. 

Definitely you have to account for sag when measuring axle to crown distance, because that is the real geometry of the bike when it is actually being ridden. If you mention in this bike sag is 18 mm when you ride it, it should mean that your actual axle to crown distance is 459-18 = 441, thus suggesting you should use the fork corrected for 80mm travel. Ideally you want to keep the geometry of the bike, particularly head tube angle and bottom bracket height (or pedal to ground clearance). Both are important. Head tube angle affects the steering response of the bike. Bottom bracket height defines how tall an object can be for you to roll over it without hitting it, and how much you can lean towards the side before the pedal hits the ground while pedaling (you should not put the "inner" pedal down while turning) A bike with suspension fork actually changes it's geometry while riding due to the travel of the fork, and this is no trouble at all (for most riders), that means that a small variation in axle to crown distance would not terribly affect the bike handling characteristics. In this case, if you chose the taller fork, you'd give your bike a slacker head tube angle, making it feel a bit less responsive on the steering, which in turn means (a little) more stability at high speed, and you would gain a few millimeters on pedal clearance. If you had the option for a third fork, shorter than the ones you already described, you'd get a bike with a steeper head tube angle, which gives a more responsive steering, the bike would feel very agile, but less stable, and you would loose a little pedal clearance. 

Granted I had the wierdest bike in the neighborhood. How was it to ride on it? For a start, riding it was like opening a safe: you had to know the combination. No one of my friends knew what to do with the handlebars. I could ride fine enough to keep it going for a while, but no one of my friends has any interest in keeping my pace. I remember that sometimes we performed some kind of short time trial competition, in wich I used to win, but, taking it realistic, I was the only one who took cycling "seriously" at that time (I used to spend all my evenings ridig while all the others used to play soccer) After a while I realized I was already more efficient on a regular mtb (partly because of my hilly city), and I got bored of this weird "Frankenstein" bike, so I reverted all the changes except the angled down stem. Conclusion: when I decided my experiment had gone far enough I had observed that: 

Based on my experience, the best maintenance is to clean and inspect the bike after each use, specially mountain bikers, depending on the type of cycling you do, the distances, the trail condition and the weather. Commuters and road bikers can loosen their cleaning schedule if they ride clean roads/streets in good condition. After cleaning the bike, inspect closely brake pads, cables, handles levers and shifters, rims, tires and pivots, chain, gears and derailleurs, if any. Do not forget suspension parts if your bike has them. If you have racks, fenders, lights or some other, give it a check too. Look for loosen bolts and nuts, abnormal wear or normal wear beyond normal limits (specially brake pads). Tighten anything that needs to, and if necessary, perform a deeper cleaning in particular items (like derailleurs). Finally but most important of all, apply lubricant in all the relevant points, preferably after the bike has dried. The minimum you should do is lube the chain and derailleur pivots. Performing this check every time allows you to detect when something goes wrong and needs special attention, replacing or service at a bike shop before a catastrophic fault occurs. Once you have established the habit, you'll learn how to perform the check faster. This also allows you to plan ahead for buying replacements or upgrades so you don't have to do emergency buys or risking your store is "out of stock" at a critical moment (keeping you from a race or special event for example). This can lower your maintenance bill since you can buy items when there are special offers, instead of buying what you find at the price you find. Remember to clean before the inspection, so mud an debris don't fool your sight. Dirt can hide cracks or disguise abnormal wear. Performing this after the ride and not before it, gives you time to react, you can plan when to perform reparations or take the bike for service, if you leave it for just before the ride, chances are you might have to cancel or may get a major delay. If (like me) you use your bike in a lot of muddy trails, you MUST clean the bike on a per ride basis. Make sure you do not leave stuck mud to dry in your bike. The humidity will cause corrosion, and some kinds of mud can degrade paint or tire rubber if left to dry in the bike. If you ride cleaner trails, you can skip cleaning or keep it just for critical items (crankset, chain, sprockets and derailleurs). Doing this can extend the time between services at the shop and lengthen lifespan of bike components. Nonetheless keep in mind: 

I agree with all others stating your body changes day to day, but little. I also agree that your physical condition a the time makes you feel like wrong fit in the bike. So I throw you a bit of questions: Are you riding the same trails every time? Maybe you are riding different trails and that contribute to the wrong fit sensation, as a position may be close to optimum for one type of trail but not for another. Do your work or other routine change frequently? Recent activities can affect the way your body feels. Is not the same to ride after a week of office based, all time seated work, than after a week walking, carrying stuff back and forth. your body will be tired and strained from different muscles, thus affecting your ability to reach and sustain certain riding positions. Regards.