I don't think so - I've ridden over 1/4 mile stretches of freshly poured asphalt with no apparent damage to my tires. The asphalt is around 300 degrees F when it leaves the plant, but it will have cooled to 200 degrees or less by the time it's open to traffic (water will stand on the surface without boiling, so it's definitely below 212F) Further, unless you're stopped, your tire has a very short contact period with the hot road. A typical road bike tire has a circumference of around 80 inches, and at 5mph, it will be rotating at about 1 revolution per second. If your contact patch is 2 inches long, that means each part of the tire is in contact with the hot road for only 2/80 = 25 milliseconds before having almost a second to cool off in the airflow. 25 milliseconds is about 1/10th the duration of a typical blink of the eye. Or, to look at it another way, each part of the tread only spends about 2.5% of the time in contact with the pavement and 97.5% of the time exposed to air. The hot asphalt definitely has more "give" than cooled asphalt, so it will feel a bit spongy under your tires, but that's not because your tires are melting. I'd be a little more worried about the fresh oils on the surface of the asphalt, the oil might degrade your tires if in contact for a long time, and it's super slippery if you hit a wet patch or ride over an iron plate before the oil wears off the tire's surface. 

I'll take the contrary opinion that high temperatures won't increase tire pressure enough to blow the tire. Using the Ideal Gas Law PV=nRT and solving for pressure: P=nRT/V. Since n, R, and V are constant, if we increase T by some factor, the pressure increases by that same factor. (ok, the volume may increase a bit as the tire heats up, but not a lot) So if the tire starts at 60 degrees F (288K) and it increases in temperature to 120F (322K), that's a factor of 322/288=1.12. So if the starting pressure is 70PSI, it will end up at 78PSI. Which shouldn't be enough to make it blow out since there's a margin of safety in the tire pressure ratings. Even if the sun was beating down on the tire directly and raised it to 180F, that'd still only lead to a 23% rise in pressure, and I'd hope that there's a much better margin of error than 23% in tire pressure ratings. I used to ride with a biking friend that switched from 23mm tires with a high 160psi pressure rating to 25mm tires with a 90psi rating, and he didn't notice the difference and he spent months filling it to 160psi until someone pointed it out to him. This is pretty close to the rule of thumb of 1 psi of pressure rise for every 10 degrees in temperature rise, which would predict that the 60 degree rise in temperature would lead to a final pressure of 76psi. Also, tubes don't hold in pressure, tires and rims do, and the original poster said that his tube was split, not that the tire blew or the rim failed. I suspect that it's a bad tube that failed during use, poor installation that damaged the tube and eventually fail, or maybe no (or bad) rim tape that led to the tube being damaged. I just noticed that Batman gave an almost identical answer to mine in a different answer 

The also sell a security seatpost clamp to help keep thieves from stealing the light by stealing your seat. I haven't used their newer rechargeable lights, but I've had their older Defender Stealth model on my bike for about 3 years now and haven't had it stolen despite keeping my bike locked up outside at work. 

Most (all?) airliner holds are pressurized and nearly all are heated, at least above freezing if not to cabin temperature, so I wouldn't expect any particular problems. The atmospheric pressure at sea level is around 14.7 psi, so even if the the hold was not pressurized at all, the worst your bike would see would be around 15psi extra pressure in the shocks/tires. The air pressure at 30,000 feet is around 4.4 psi, so at typical airliner cruising altitude, an unpressurized hold would mean that your tires and shocks would see about 10psi of additional apparent pressure. If you were running some fat low-pressure tires on your bike pumped up to their maximum pressure, then you might want to back off on the pressure a bit for piece of mind just in case it ends up in an unpressurized hold, but I'd bet that even a bike tire rate at 30psi will stand up to 40psi without bursting. But I'd have no qualms at all about a 110psi bike tire standing up to 120psi in the plane. Naturally, if the airline has any special requirements, you should follow those requirements, but I've flown my bike on several different airlines (including overseas), and have never seen a requirement to deflate the tires and have never had a problem. 

Fortified Bike sells bike lights that are designed to be theft resistant. They're made of heavy aluminum and use security screws so most thieves won't have the proper tool to unscrew it. 

(I believe it's ok under the CC license to republish their diagram by attributing it to the authors of the original article, Matt Ramirez, Chris Carvalho, and David Hernandez) 

On my commute bike, I use 2 sided combo pedals with SPD+platforms on both sides like these PD-M424 SPD Dual Platform Pedals 

(based off cantilever brake image from Shimano) A transverse cable that pulls vertically upwards would have no additional mechanical advantage, so would have a mechanical advantage of "1" while a transverse cable that is completely horizontal would have in infinite mechanical advantage (it's impossible to have a completely horizontal cable since once you apply the brakes, the cable will deviate). The mechanical advantage is 1/sin(yoke angle) and he provides a handy chart: 

I have a Burley pet/cargo trailer and when I take it to the store, I use a long (~ 3 meter) cable with a loop on the ends. I loop the one end around itself on one wheel, loop it around the hitch bar, thread it through the spokes of the other wheel, loop it around the hitch bar again, then lock it through my bike's U-lock. It's not super secure since the wheels have quick releases (as does the hitch bar), so it wouldn't take long enough to pop them off and untangle the cable from the hitch bar, but it's a mild deterrent against a quick "smash and grab" theft. Plus they'd have to leave the wheels behind, which would make the trailer pretty useless, especially if the thief is going to try to sell it so he's probably not going to want to have to buy replacement wheels. On the downside, it's just a 10mm cable, so wouldn't take much work for a thief to cut through it. I wouldn't want to leave it parked all day like this, but for a shopping trip with bike rack in a high-traffic location near the front of the store, it's worked out fine. 

Check with your air carrier, they may refuse liability for any bike not packed in a cardboard or hard sided bike case, which may limit your options, assuming that's something you care about: $URL$ 

Looks like a pretty good match to the picture on the Shimano site, but if you don't see a Shimano logo on them, they could be third party compatible pedals. The cleats look like this: 

Fortunately I haven't had much practical experience with falling, but I'd always been told to stay clipped in, hold on to the handlebars and land on your side. In my single bike accident I did this and came out mostly unscathed, with a few minor scrapes. If I were willing to put in the practice and teach my body to fall, there are probably more effective things to do, but without lots of practice and some muscle memory using the right form, I don't think I'm going to be able to do anything fancy. WHen I had my bike accident, I didn't have time to think about what to do, I just fell and I don't recall making any conscious effort to hold on and fall, it just came naturally. Here's an article that advocates the hold on and fall technique: $URL$ 

(photo from College Tri blog) Here's another photo that shows the "CARVE" logo with the stylyized "V" engraved into the cross piece that matches the letters you found on your pedals: 

For my commuter pannier, I use both wash-in waterproofing and a cove. In light rain or if it starts to rain when I'm almost at the office, the spray-on waterproofing keeps things dry enough. But in a heavy rain, water is going to seep in, so I stop and pull out the cover -- the waterproof cover stays in a special pocket so it's always easy to find and only takes a few seconds to put on. Plus the cover keeps the road grime off the bag - I have fenders, but cars seem to kick up a lot of dirt. I don't usually dry-bag things inside the pannier so if water seeps in, things are going to get wet. My commuter pannier has a hard plastic back, so even though the cover doesn't cover the back, I've never had water get inside and make my clothes wet, though the longest I ever spend in the rain on the commute is about 75 minutes, maybe if I was touring and was in the rain all day it would be more of a problem. 

I think your transverse cable has got too great of an angle, and you can adjust it to provide more powerful braking force. Much of the mechanical advantage of cantilever brakes comes from the "yoke angle", the angle the transverse cable makes from the horizontal. Sheldon Brown explains this in detail on his page about cantilever geometry (it's actually more complicated than Sheldon's explanation, but it's a good approximation) 

Back when I was doing long training rides and my wife liked to do 30km mile fun rides, I did my long ride with training partners and she biked the 10 or 15km to meet me somewhere for lunch, then we biked the scenic route home together at her pace. Or you could bike home at the end of your ride and meet her for a short "cool-down" ride with her at her pace. (or she could drive to meet you at the end of your ride) 

This site describes a prototype flexible hitch for pulling carts that includes an automatic braking system. It describes using a spring loaded rod inside an outer tube, with a segment of brake cable attached to the tube: 

Even if your local triathlon is not USAT certified, it's likely that they follow the same general rules. The only way to be sure is to ask the race director (if they haven't already published their rules). USAT's Competitive Rules clearly prohibit drafting: 

I've used a wax based lube on my commute bike for years and it does a pretty good job of lubricating the chain without leaving a mark on my legs or clothes. I use White Lightning Clean Ride, but there are other brands with similar products. It's not completely clean, it still leaves a greyish dirty smudge on skin or clothes if you touch the chain, but it's easily washed off -- it's not nearly as noticeable (or as hard to wash off) as the dark black smudge that oiled chains can leave. I never clean the chain or cassette, relying on the shedding action of the wax to keep it clean, I just apply the lube liberally, spin the pedals for 30 seconds then wipe off the excess. I do tend to get a waxy buildup on the derailleur gears, which I scrape off every year or so. I reapply every couple weeks, more often in rainy weather. Some people say that the wax lubes don't do as good a job of lubrication as oil based lubes, but I measure my chain regularly and tend to get around 2500 - 3000 miles out of it before it shows enough wear to replace. The chain is noisier than a oil lubed chain, and may even be less efficient, but I'm ok with losing a few percent efficiency if it means I never end up with a chain tattoo on my work pants. Admittedly, my commute is pretty easy, mostly flat, not much shifting of gears - and this year is the first year in about 4 years that it's been significantly rainy, if you have a serious rainy season, the wax may not stand up as well.