For someone starting out 5-7 mins is just way too long to be sitting around in between sets. You need to be doing something not reading! If you are lifting for pure strength - not size or tone or athletic reasons - than longer break times can work. But not at 5-7 mins per. That means you spent 21 mins doing 15 squats? That doesn't seem efficient. There have been studies done showing that once a person starts an intense workout they have anywhere between 20-35 mins of peak strength building time. After muscles are fatigued (you are making your muscles more tired not necessarily stronger) and the body needs to be replenished. A lot of olympic lifters actually lift twice a day for 30-45 mins each. And yes they do take ridiculous breaks between sets. I don't think you are there yet though. You need to use your time wiser in the gym. Even if you think you have unlimited amount of time your body doesn't. For a beginner 3-4 mins is a long time. Drop the weight, increase the movements you do and the reps, and increase your intensity level. Now once every month or two if you want to have a max out day on a lift you can go ahead and take the long breaks to see where you are at. 

First every HR monitor will read your HR differently. To get an actual reading you will need to do a Vo2Max test at a Doctor. 2nd You are listing quite a large range for 30 minutes. There is a difference between 30 minutes at 171 and 30 minutes solid at 190. What is your average? Finally, the VO2Max is only attainable in the lab and a formula is only a formula. You can see here $URL$ that your Max HR can range almost 10bpm. If you HR monitor is wrong, and you are not at 189 the entire time it is possible that your graph is completely wrong. If you can sustain the rate you are training at then perhaps there are some variables that are not correct. Your body will tell you that you are maxing out and if you can sustain 100% Max HR for 30 minutes then perhaps you are in better shape than you thought... or maybe your HR Monitor is wrong 

During each marathon training cycle, our running group always incorporates at least one hill workout every other week. (For the Twin Cities Marathon we do one per week). There is no set time to do our hills, instead, we concentrate on good form going up and down the hill. In the beginning, I may run slow and I put all my focus on form. I always try to complete the distance even if I walk a good portion of the hills. At the end of the cycle, I find that the effort is much easier than it was in the beginning and the hills pay off even on a flat course. (Like Chicago). I would use my running workouts to gain endurance and gym workouts to gain strength. glutes, hamstring, and quads are good areas to focus on for strength. I have never found that the gym builds any aerobic capacity for hills. To really build endurance we also mix in an LSD run incorporating hills. 

Get a partner who will take some body weight off of you while doing this. Make sure your palms are pointing at your feet. This is a key to the front lever and is almost counter-intuitive to what you might do your first time - hang and stick your legs out. Do sets in the front tuck. Also note that I would do these on push days. If you do these on pull days your forearms will be shot and your form will suffer. I can't see trying to do a front lever after a good pull workout and doing it before could hurt your workout. Once you get very comfortable with holding the front tuck then progress to push outs. You will simply just push your knees out of the front tuck towards the front lever in very small increments and hold. Maybe an inch every week. When I had trouble holding on to the rings - I was swaying so much it wasn't possible - I was told to try it on a bar first which is easier. I used a bar on a squat rack to practice. This does help build up triceps and forearms. Practice, practice, practice. The only reason I could do a front lever easy is because I wanted to date the hot gymnast I was working out with. So I did tons of sets. And I hate to break it to you but it is probably your shoulders not triceps. 

Many runners try to adopt this running style simply because it does take stress off your knee. The craze around Vibrams was a good example of how you were forced to change your running style. I would start with a neutral running shoe. Something with little or no heel to toe drop. The large the heel the more chance you will have to do a heel strike. Second, you should concentrate on a mid-foot plant rather than a ball of foot plant. This will give you the advantage of not stressing your knee while also easing up on your calfs and achilles. Finally, start slow and short. You could even try a pair of Vibrams ($URL$ but I will stress that you need to go slow and not run too far in the beginning. Calf raises every day will help as well as stretching. You should start by running no more that 400 meters, then gradually increase your distance and pace. Your calfs will naturally be sore and tight but don't over do it. There are people who complete marathons in barefeet but they have years of experience in running that way 

$URL$ Most marathons will cancel the race if the heat index is above a certain level, but still the question remains does this exist? The answer is yes. What is the math? The answer is it is dependant on the individual. I run with large group of runners every Saturday morning. (About 100-200 people) There are runners that will complete 20 miles in a little more than 2 hours and runnings that complete the 20 miles in 4 hours. All at the same temps. All in a heat index above 85-90f. Every person is different and how much they train and how much acclimation they have had makes a difference. I don't think there is any math that will calculate the exact point in which you can't go further. In the Book "RUN: The Mind-Body Method of Running by Feel" a study was done on a group of Rugby players where they were asked to exert themselves until they had to stop. They measured the wattage they could produce. After they could go no further they were asked to go as hard as they could one more time. They were able to exceed the previous attempt. They cycled to a point of failure at 242 watts, but the second attempt they produced 731 watts for 5 seconds immediately after. $URL$ The point is that your mind will tell you to quit far before you are physically not able to go on. 

Get your lifting done in 30-35 mins or less each day. Your body is already tired. No use making it over-fatigued. Anything you are doing after this is not helping you gain muscle. Each day start with a core movement - for a good amount of weight. At the same time try to be done with the core movement in 10-15 mins. Being fatigued you may only have 10-20 mins of good lifting time. Use that for squats/deadlifts, pullups, bench, curls/skullcrushers. After doing the core movement I would then go to the auxiliary lifts with speed not weight in mind. Get your body shocked during the core lift(s). Afterward you should be lifting almost non-stop. You can try supersetting 2-3 lifts in rotation. Key being form and intensity - not weight. The reasoning behind this is that you need to fight your body's natural attempt to put on fat. Try working out in the morning. Even one day a week. You can probably more efficiently get to sleep at night if you workout in the morning. 4-day split (legs, back, arms, chest). I would also do a few mins of core/ab work daily - fight the fat gain. Sleep as much as possible on weekends. I worked night shift at one time and averaged 5-6 hours a day of sleep during the week. Weekends I would grab 12 each day and I was fine. If I missed the 24 hours of weekend sleep I felt it within a week or two. Your body can recover with extra sleep. Drink more water. 200 ounces of fluids a day. You are much more prone to pulling a muscle when fatigued or distracted. Don't let dehydration factor into that. See if you can switch one or two of your workouts to the weekend. If you only had 2 days of low sleep that is optimal. Even switching 1 would be a big help. Light cardio. You are sleeping less so more prone to lactic acid build up. Start a light cardio routine 15-20 mins daily. You are not training for a marathon here! 

Ross: I am assuming the people are are doing the 3x1 miles @ 5 min pace are the same age and are doing the same training. So if they are training identically to you then perhaps your gap is some physical thing that is stopping your body from performing at such a high level. However, if you look hard at your numbers and run them through a Pacing calculator, you will see that you are very close to where you should be Example: $URL$ I put in 1:10 minutes for 10 miles. Then your 1 mile should be 5:48 (And this is running ALL OUT) If you are running your 3x1 at 6:10 then you are right on target. If we turn this around and say that you want to run your mile is 5 minutes, then your 10 mile should be 1 hour. My coach always tells me to run a race and lay it all out there, that is where you will find where you are at. When you are racing you shouldn't "Feel" Comfortable. You should feel like you are really pushing yourself and you can't go any faster. If you feel like you can go faster then GO FASTER!! So to answer your question try the following ideas Two times per week try 3 to 5 - 10 minute high effort intervals at 95-105 percent of your LT heart rate with 3 minutes of rest between intervals. or for long term you can add this to your weekly training: Two times per week do a 20-30 minute high intensity effort at 95-105 percent of your LT heart rate. You should also find out what your competitors are doing and consider getting a coach, at least leading up to a race. 

A lot of body builders I have worked with wear athletic tights and shorts. For deadlifts I prefer people to wear warm-ups. Example would be you basic nike/adidas basketball/soccer style warm-ups. These have a little sheen to them and the bar glides up the leg better. Athletic tights are great too. I can't convince kids to buy/wear these though so I usually don't bring it up. Tradition sweatpants kind of get stuck on your legs when you sweat. I have seen these cause problems "riding up" during deadlifts. For cleans... I prefer shorter shorts and a tight shirt. If the shorts are too baggy/long the bar sometimes catches. It isn't the friction (maybe it is to some) that bugs me but it is the distraction. Warm-ups work well here too. Tight-shirt would be like an underarmor type shirt. The bar should slide up your chest so give it something to slide on. For squats... Loose shorts (tights if you will wear them is fine). Don't want your motion adjusting to your clothing at all. Also you don't want to deal with a split down the middle of your ass. You can wear warmups squatting but they would have to be loose fitting. For bench... tight shirt. Underarmor style would work here. Some people wear bench shirts. I feel a tight shirt promotes rigidity and form. For chin-ups and all the smaller movements... Doesn't matter. 

We have had two high school Cross Country runners with one a senior this year. First: Let the coach plan the weight workouts. They will know best what the individual athlete needs and I would hate to have a public forum dictate what a high school athlete should be doing while not running. If anything they could do basic core workouts without weights. This would include planks, situps, pushups etc. I would look at what the collegiate athletes are doing and what they look like. I think you will notice they are all pencil thin. To answer the second part of your question: General a Cross Country race is not won at the start. I am assuming they are running a 5k and they have a mass start. Your son will have time to move to the front of the pack with in the for 800m. If he is anything like runners in Minnesota, to win he will have to be around 16 minutes and he will drop many of the other runners by KM 3. (They will be running a little faster than a 5 minute pace.) Our first meet the winner of the race won with a pace of 4:55 

In general you should be able to take the shaking and use it for good purposes. First say to yourself am I drinking/eating enough before and am I breathing enough during my routine? If yes then you can start to work on the muscles when they are shaking. For example if your triceps shaked during bench I would have you bench first so that your triceps had the least amount of fatigue and then hit triceps hard after. If you are a seasoned lifter and you are experiencing a lot of shaking (given good diet and breathing) then I would look at your routine. You may not be giving your body enough rest between sets. You may be trying to work out opposing muscle groups causing balance fatigue. Again there is nothing wrong with shaking as long as you can get your work done! Might be as simple as lowering the weight until your body is OK with it. 

So what do you do? I was a personal trainer for years and your story is the most common. I don't know how many times I had to tell women to stay on course and many decided not to. With men even with the drop of glycogen levels in their muscles they often don't see the dramatic differences and once they do, their muscles are actively growing fast enough to offset some of these appearances. Given that you are an average active woman, you do not have the muscle content a man does. So a month of low-carb and weights has deflated your muscles and in essence has put a spotlight on any fat that you have. My suggestion, keep the course. And of course if you feel better that is a great indicator that you are doing something right. If I were your trainer I would suggest a little bit more carbs, a little bit more fruits/vegs, and less nuts, avacados (maybe more lean pork/chicken too). I would want you counting calories but not losing weight but not gaining either. If you are gaining then you need to start counting calories or slowly cut back until you stabilize. And I didn't get from your question what you were doing with your cardio. Not sure what you did in the past but there is no reason that you should have quit all cardio now. At 4-5 months of this continuous training you will get a much better picture. If your intensity is good and you aren't fudging with your food intake you could see some really dramatic results. Not only will a weight program really tone your body but it will raise your metabolism and make cardio easier. I know that 4-5 months seems FOREVER but I have never heard anyone complain about their results after going through this period. The worst case scenario is you have built a strong muscle foundation, your body is tone, but you are packing a little extra fat on top of muscle. Given this a normal "diet" and a little extra cardio will take you to whatever you want your body to look like. Getting that foundation is key though. 

If you have access to a track that is the best place to increase your speed. Since you are mainly interested in quick bursts of speed you should concentrate on doing repeats and intervals. You could start with 100m repeats and even ladders where you do 2x100m, 1x200m, 1x400, 1x200, 2x100. You should do a 30 second recovery between each set. The next exercise would be hills. Find a 400m hill (or short) and do 5x hill x 5 sets with a recover between each set. Tempo runs will also help to increase your stamina. 

Since you have 8 weeks left you have plenty of time to build your LSD base. Lets assume that your 21k was your week one, the rest of your LSD runs would look something like two weeks of increased distance, followed by an easy week, then another two weeks. You should then taper your last 2-3 weeks before your race. I think at the 30k distance you can make your training run farther than your race goal. If you were training for a marathon you would not do this. For example, my training (for a marathon) includes at least 4 - 30k runs, and 2 - 35-38k runs. You want to have a cycle of hard and easy to give your body sometime to recover while still building on the base. You should also consider two mid week workouts that would encompass tempo, speed and hills.