Handlebar bag: I have tried frame bags, water bottle cage boxes and trunk bags, but the handlebar bag has been the most useful. It provides a convenient place to store my wallet, phone, a camera, the primary and backup batteries for my lights, energy gel, work access badge and sunglasses. 

I recently topped out at 49mph going down a hill on a loaded touring bike. During the entire run, I was continually thinking "what if..." What if I hit a stick or pothole? What if a car pulls onto the road? What if my wheels start to wobble? If you can't answer the questions, slow down. I also learned something about wheels at high speed. On another downhill run, I hit a pothole and my wheel was jarred out of balance. The entire bike began shaking and i had to execute an emergency stop. Inspection revealed no damage and when I continued downhill at a slower speed, the wheel was perfectly true again. If a wheel is momentarily knocked out-of-true at high speed, centrifugal force will hold the wheel out of balance until you slow down and then will often return to its original dimensions. 

The question is about focusing on something other than the wheel in front of you, whilst using the rollers. Am I right? In that case, my best tip is for you to do exactly that and NOT look at the bike or the rollers. That will throw you off balance, because your mind sees the ground around you and the rollers, but it's not "passing you by" as when you're out riding for real. The only thing moving are the rollers, and as far as physics is concerned, you're balanced by the fact the bicycle and yourself are riding. Both your body and the bicycle "think" you're out on the road. So to focus on something in front of you like a video etc is exactly what you should be doing. You'll regret getting a stationary trainer. Boring as %^&%^&^%% 

I have to park my bicycle, leaning it against a low metal fence. Unfortunately the frame of the bike gets scratched. Though I try to protect it by wrapping it with polyethylene, some parts are still unprotected. So, I decided to buy a double leg kickstand: to keep the bike standing straight, so it won't touch the fence. I found out, that there are cheap and expensive kickstands: 

It works fine, I was able to push the rivet out of a test chain. But faced an unexpected difficulty: after I restore the rivet to it's proper position the chain link becomes very hard to move. I think, the cause of this is that my tool is not as precise as those, used in the factory, when manufacturing the chain. And when I restore the rivet, I shift it a little bit from it's ideal position. It creates extra friction, not allowing the plates to move freely as they should. 

I used to skin my knuckles every time I took the chuck off the valve. Then I figured it out (pain is a learning curve accelerator). Position the wheel so the presta valve is closest to you and pointed away from you. Use your thumbs on either side of the wheel to push the chuck straight off (toward the hub of the wheel). This prevents the presta stem from being bent/broken and limits how far you hands can move when the chuck pops off. No more bashed knuckles. 

Many urban/commuter tires have reflective sidewalls. Next time you're due for a tire change, you might check to see if any of the tires have the reflective stripe. Someone told me (not sure if it's true) that reflective sidewall tires are required in some European cities. e.g. Vitoria Randonneuer $URL$ 3M makes some reflective tape that is available in many colors (even black!) to match your bike finish during the day but it reflects bright white at night. I too use a Dinotte tail light and they are astoundingly bright. I have found that motorists with eye pain give me lots more room. The Dinotte lights are stupidly expensive though. The Planet Bike Superflash is the best inexpensive blinkies I have found. I put them on my kids' bikes and I can see them two blocks away in broad daylight; < $30. Stay safe and assume all cars are trying to kill you. 

The answer was obvious. Reset the cable tension on the brakes! Problem solved. Well in my case I bought new cables and due to the fact I had to take the old ones out and set the new ones with correct pressure settings, the lever does not touch the bar tape anymore. 

My front wheel has started to wobble a bit at the hub and it's most noticeable when braking at the lights, as the front wheel is doing like a "pulsing" sound when braking - like as if the wheel is off center. I've pulled the hub apart, but I cannot see any obvious issues, yet when I lift the front wheel off the ground, as it's attached to the fork, the wheel slightly shakes when I tap it. It is not firm as it should be. Because I cannot see obviously what's going on, could the bearings inside the sealed-cartridge have worn down in size? There is ample grease on them, but I guess even over time wheel bearings do wear down a micro-millimeter or two? That's the only explanation I have as to why the wheel hub has a slight wobble / shake. Wheel is Campagnolo Vento-Reaction, about 5 years old now. Here's a video of the wheel, showing how to get to the hub bearings... 

I measured the central circular element, that must be holding the whole construction. It looks like this: 

I inspected the tires of the bike and found their size: 700 x 40 - 28 x 1 5/8. Which probably means, that the diameter is 28 inches and the tire width is 40 mm (I measured with a ruler). I found, that people recommend SKS Chromoplastic fenders and they have many sizes: $URL$ The seller says, that the fender is for 700C (which is probably my size), but the width is not specified. Maybe, 'P35' means 35mm tire? Should I select the fender exactly for 40mm or buy a little bigger? 

What is so special in the 1-st and 2-nd kickstands, that makes the price so high? The 3-rd seems ok to me. 

The obvious reason why, is cost! I need my front derailuer's cable to be replaced and I'd like to simply buy some raw brake cable from the bike shop and simply re-insert into my existing campy cable guides. Can that be done, or do I have to buy Campagnolo cables? Is there a cable guide or some PDF that has more technical details specific to Campagnolo cables? I have Athena 11sp with 11sp Campagnolo Record shifters - not EPS. Thanks 

I had a similar thought with my Campagnolo Ultra-Torque cranks (2010). They made a clicking sound and I suspect it was because one of the cranks came out of alingment. After removing the cranks and inspecting the threading on the retention bolt, I noticed some of the grooves were worn down to bare metal, so in effect my cranks were not on properly, and were not tighten properly (using a torque wrench). After finding this, I went and bought a brand new retention bolt, carefully inspected it, and replaced it. Worked perfectly. Safety is paramount. I would check the threading under the microscope (any hobby microscope with above lighting will do) and note any imperfections in the threading. If any, replace the bolt entirely.