To speak with Hegel, as in his Phenomenology and his Philosophy of Law, you are adressing a certain feature of normal development being stuck in a certain stage: Ideals and presumably moral principles are, as @NelsonAlexander stated, not achievable per se. They are "mere perceptions", not necessarily perceptions of a certain being/achievable status. That is what brings Hegel to state that these principles/abstracts/thoughts are one-sided, as they have the reality as their negative. What has to follow is therefore to revoke this negativity by instating a certain being (Dasein) that is concrete (one-sided), but only as an instance of the abstract concept (Begriff). To apply this to your objection, it means that it is in fact foolish to have concepts/ideals/moral principles where no concrete actions can be subsumed under. Like the person that has the ideal to fly like a colobri. This is an empty perception. But in another sense, values/ideals/morals cannot be achieved by definition, that is, put into concrete being as they are. Only as instances, as defectives. BUT, as an objection against a too narrow understanding of this (not against Hegel himself), Otto Lilienthal (and, hundreds of years before him, Leonardo da Vinci) is a perfect example of someone who was inspired by the ideal of being able to fly. As long as your values/ideals/morals are as abstract as they should be, there is enough room for realization. The counterexample has been "able to fly like a colobri", which presumably is impossible, at least at our technical level. If we do not make this difference, it is not possible to make a difference between values/ideals/morals and "the end of a concrete action" (direct or indirect) anymore. 

Let's look at this closely: A (well-formed) formula is a (finite) string of symbols built up by formula-building operations. For example, let our symbols be (, ), ¬ (negation), → (implication), and sentence letters α, β. And let our formula-building operations be Σ¬ and Σ→ such that, for sentence letters α, β, Σ¬(α) = (¬α) and Σ→(α, β) = (α → β). Let's stipulate that for our formal language, any formula that is not built up by our formula-building operations is not a well-formed formula, e.g. ¬→β) is not a well-formed formula. An interpretation, according to wiki, is 

Fairy tales don't occur in the real-world. Evolution is a fairy tale cloaked in science-talk. Thus, evolution is not a real-world process. 

That is, fairy tales are easy to attack/reject as occurring in the real world. So, if evolution is sufficiently like fairy tales, then we can similarly attack/reject evolution. The next question is then: what does C take to be the crux of the analogy between evolution and fairy tales, and is this analogy cogent? The crux of C's analogy likens the princess kissing the frog with time for evolution in the following way:[2] 

Russel's Paradox is certainly a logical problem. Let S = {x | x ∉x}. We can ask whether or not S is a member of itself. Assume that S is a member of itself. Remember that if any set is in S that set cannot be a member of itself. So, if S is in S, then S is not in S. Contradiction. Now, assume that S is not a member of itself. Remember that S is the set of all sets that are not members of themselves. So, if a set is not a member of itself, then it is a member of S. Since we are assuming that S is not a member of itself, then S must be a member of S. Contradiction. Thus, {x | x ∉ x} cannot be a set. When people were first thinking about set theory, e.g. Georg Cantor, they defined a set as any definable collection. Russell's Paradox is the counter example to this naive conception of set. There have been other attempts at defining what a set is that avoids such a paradox; notably, G Boolos' paper on the iterative notion of set: a set is "built-up" from previous stages that way you could never get a set that was a member of itself which sidesteps Russell's Paradox. 

Stage two: Material philosophy as either of freedom or nature So what does it mean that material philosophy is 'twofold'? For Kant, there are basically two realms of objects: Freedom and Nature. The corresponding branches of philosophy are Ethics and Physics. This means that for him, ethics is (or should be) a real science with scientific methods inquiring its objects just as physics does with objects in nature. And, of course, that there are real relations between real objects in the realm of freedom we can examine scientifically in the first place, i.e. he is a moral realist: 

Therefore, if a proposition is knowledge and its content is mind-independent (realism), it also has to have a mind-independent referent, as the content is some kind of definite assumption about something. It is about its referent and implies its existance. Otherwise the truth value would be indeterminable. 

Pretty self-explanatory. If you want something, the objective ground of determining the will (read: at all) is that you want to achieve an end. This is not about how the will is determined in particular (this includes means, maxims, and all this subjective stuff). The second sentence is important later on: by mere reason means only by the part of the will that is shared by all rational beings qua being rational, that's why it holds equally for all rational beings. Step 3: Distinction between subjective and objective ends. 

As you can see this could refer to "pure intuitions" of things-in-themselves ("of a whole as such") - which we shall for now equate with noumena, but is only ascribed to understandings fundamentally different from ours. Further evidence This is consistent to all his earlier writings and even his opus postumum: Ak 21:75 (manuscripts opus postumum, first convolute): 

[1] I thought I should include the "Taking C's argument..." qualification given Benjamin's comments below. [2] MoziburUllah noted another disanalogy below, namely that kissing is a teleological act and evolution isn't. The princess intended for the frog to turn into a prince, evolution did not intend to "produce" humans. But, this is not the disanalogy C's argument is based on. 

As we saw, C grossly misrepresented what is required for speciation (which is what I assume they mean by "evolution" as their example talks about humans evolving from frogs). Thus, C's argument is a Strawman. 

(1) is typically true and (2) is always false: other things are required for speciation such as mutations of genes, selective pressures in an environment, etc. That is, the "magic" of fairy tales is limited to, in the princess example, turning a frog human via a kiss from a princess, whereas the "magic" of speciation is not limited to time. Thus, C's argument is a false analogy. Now, is it a Strawman? According to your link, a Strawman is when 

You give two things to consider: (1) is the argument on the Creation site (hereafter "C") a strawman and (2) what is the fallacy of C's argument? Let's consider the fallacy first and then see why it is a Strawman. Taking C's argument at face value, C's argument is a false analogy.[1] Consider first, the general structure of C's argument: 

The meaning assigned to the logical connectives such as ¬ and → are simply their truth conditions: (¬α) is true iff α is false. (α → β) is false iff α is true and β is false; otherwise, true. Now, for some examples of tautologies: 

Allison puts it in a more historical perspective, stating that the "discovery" of autonomy and the systematic usage of heteronomy are a milestone and nothing short of his "Copernic revolution" in theoretical philosophy (see pp. 1-2). He also adds: 

His main impact may be through the notion of human dignity. I have recently talked to a professor that stated that this term is very vivid in Germany because of the strong kantian tradition, while almost never heard in the Netherlands regarding academic discussions about ethics (she has been a professor for applied ethics there for years). There, interesting enough, Hegel might be of more importance according to the introduction of my edition of the Phenomenology of Mind (Meiner). But apart from that, one of Kant's main impacts on culture is his difference between the price of things and the dignity of persons: they have worth beyond price that cannot be taken from them (in his critical philosophy first stated in GMM, Ak.434-35). This is manifestating in many modern constitutions (e.g. the german Grundgesetz, Article 1) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 1. And the notion has strong effects in movements for equality of whatever kind between humans. 

This is also why work creates new kinds of labour, as when modern humans have to maintain their houses and machines. Therefore, jobs that produce goods not used, but more or less immideately consumed, or only maintain the products of work - not enriching culture - are not falling under this philosophical concept of work, even if it is in a factory. Although her examples are less clear. Like when she argues against equating labour and work to unskilled and skilled work with the following argument: 

The first thing to note is that these are all well-formed formulas. The second thing to note is that no matter what you assign to α or β (true or false) -- this is, how ever you interpret α or β -- these will always come out true. Take a look at (3): If α is false, then the whole formula is true. If α is true, then (β → α) is true, and the whole formula is true. If we translate the example daniel gave ("A life is a life") using our symbols, we could get something like ((x is a life) → (x is a life)) which is an instance of (2) above -- and is thus a tautology. However, this is assuming that "life" has uniform meaning in daniel's example, and I'm not convinced it does. For example, we could imagine the following statement being made: "I am against the death penalty. After all, a life is a life." Here, "life" does not have uniform meaning -- the second "life" we could interpret as "something that is sacred and cannot justifiably be taken away under any circumstances." Here then, we'd get the following (informal) symbolization: ((x is a life) → (x is something that cannot be taken)). This is hardly a tautology or something true simply based on its formal presentation. After all this would be an instance of (α → β) which is certainly not a tautology as noted in defining the meaning of "→". A tautology in logic is something purely formal: it is something that is true under every interpretation. "A life is a life" or "Money is money" certainly seems tautological and could be symbolized as such, but isn't necessarily tautological. Hope that is clarifying. It should at least be clear that the examples you gave are not tautologies. 

How can I convince someone who claims that I err on a certain belief I think to have? How can I convince someone who is outright accusing me to lie about my belief? 

Which means that a) Causation is change. b) There has to be a law of the connection, which includes necessity (see A216|B263) Where there is no necessary rule between cause and effect, there is no causation. And, to come back to Hume, Kant agrees with him saying that there is no necessity in experience, because all knowledge from experience is only inductive and ipso facto arbitrary. Therefore laws of causation (transcendental laws of nature) have to be a priori for him, resulting from the fact that we can only conceive objects in time. To summarize: Taking the meaning of "causation" seriously as a philosophical term, all your objections can be answered. You can use "causation" analogously, but you should be careful which characteristics of causation can be retrieved through the analogon. The late Wittgenstein would perhaps answer that you are playing another language game using the term in the way you do. That's why you have to make the rules of the games explicit first and then decide wether the other usage makes sense or not. But you should not question the other usage without understanding it first. That's why I referred to Kant as a source of philosophical understanding of the term. Philosophical objections are the strongest if they are objections from within the very same conceptual framework (or language game, like I named it).