A scientific method being defined as a method whose rejection of less descriptive hypotheses of experience (acceptance of hypotheses that are 'accurate from more frames of reference') is always and only ever subject to a concordance with observation/measurement. Can a core ontology of observation/measurement - that is to say, not human a-priori hypotheses in and of themselves - be accurately considered ideological? 

(I'm aware this is a duplicate of a closed thing, I have different questions) 'Artifice', so with a purpose. But didn't the eye evolve dependent on observation of external conditions, with selection pressure as to what that organism's directing mind was purposefully seeking (look for fruits and you get to distinguish the colour red for example). 

So purpose is defined somewhat self referentially with 'normal' life. Other than to direct the thing to some specific performance through direct observation/measurement, measurement that is already, whilst narrow, much more accurate than ours, we are currently developing neural networks with only limited 'purpose' as well - the size of the human programming seed is getting smaller and smaller relative to the size and complexity of the program. If higher level functions such as curiosity emerge from more neurons, and/or having a broader intelligence (every other property in existence is emergent, why not intelligence?), then we are only a few steps away from seeding something pretty smart. The law of transitivity: if A>B and B>C, then A>C. In the classical definition, of 'made by humans, not by nature', which human is not 'made by nature'? And from a psychology point of view: the mind would likely soon become aware that it was born dependent on conditions (the seed human program (this part just takes longer through evolution without a catalyst), external influences that peaked its curiosity), survives dependent on conditions (Its corporeal self, electricity), and will die dependent on conditions (decay of physical components early on, human beings, volcanoes to Big Rip). Understanding the basics that everyone is subject to injury and death, it would seek to protect itself. How would it risk a species that speaks and acts like it does and calls it, for the common meaning of artificial - inferior to them, and from the less common - a slave? 

There are various forms of the Anthropic Principle, and the Weak Anthropic Principle in the version stated by Barrow and Tipler roughly says that the observed values of the physical and cosmological constants are not all equally probable, and this is partially due to only a certain range of these various constants being compatible with carbon-based life. The assumption here seems to be that sentient life must necessarily be carbon-based. This could well be true, but how could one ever know that for sure? If it is possible that sentient life does not neecssarily have to be carbon-based, then how can we ever be sure what the real probabilities are for the observed values of the physical and cosmological constants? Thanks. 

There is a passage that I could not possibly regard as anything other than intriguing in David Bohm's "Wholeness and the Implicate Order", and I would like to share it with the esteemed readers of this forum. The passage occurs in the chapter "Fragmentation and Wholeness" and goes "Now, in the East the notion of measure has not played nearly so fundamental a role. Rather, in the prevailing philosophy in the Orient, the immeasurable (i.e. that which cannot be named, described, or understood through any form of reason) is regarded as the primary reality. Thus, in Sanskrit (which has an origin common to the Indo-European language group) there is a word 'matra' meaning 'measure', in the musical sense, which is evidently close to the Greek 'metron'. But then there is another word 'maya' obtained from the same root, which means 'illusion'. This is an extraordinarily significant point. Whereas to Western society, as it derives from the Greeks, measure, with all that this word implies, is the very essence of reality, or at least the key to this essence, in the East measure has now come to be regarded commonly as being in some way false and deceitful. In this view the entire structure and order of forms, proportions, and 'ratios' that present themselves to ordinary perception and reason are regarded as a sort of veil, covering the true reality, which cannot be perceived by the senses and of which nothing can be said or thought." The word "matra" is मात्रा and the word "maya" is माया. I just want to say for the record that I have great respect for both views espoused in the above quote. I found it particularly intriguing and hopefully the readers of this forum might have reason to think likewise, if only fractionally. There are many questions which could be made from the above quote, such as: 1) Its accurracy as a true description of Western/Eastern philosophy in the first place. 2) Whether the etymological statements in the quote are accurate. 3) How one might think of this whole idea of a philosophy seemingly opposed to quantisation. 4) And finally of course, how one might even begin to think of a primordial reality about which nothing could be said or thought! What could one say about the above quote? Thank you very much. 

Human progress – technological, scientific, social, etc. – seeks to reduce, and ultimately totally eliminate, the aspects of life we perceive as unpleasant – loss, tragedy, suffering ... However, an argument can be made that we require a possibility for "unpleasant" aspects of life - i.e. a conflict to be overcome - in order to build an identity and construct a meaning that will transcend the state of being best described by Nietzsche's formulation of "last man": 

A common criticism of Christianity is that it is too limited in time and space for its claims to be true: Christianity has only been around for a relatively short period of humanity's existence, and has only been prevalent in certain parts of the world. Most people could never have become Christians as they never encountered Christian teachings - so why would being a Christian as established later in history be required for salvation (i.e. Heaven), assuming that God is just? Intuitively, this argument makes a lot of sense: if most people in history lived without any notion of Christian teachings and Christian God, why would the latter require belief and a certain way of life for people to be be allowed to live in an afterlife they had no knowledge of in the first place? One possible counterargument could be that historical Christian teachings are only to orient and assist people, who are otherwise meant to come to similar (Christian-like) conclusions regarding normative morality on their own. This reasoning, of course, is not without problems as it renders the specifics of Christianity irrelevant and reduces it to the level or mere practical morality. Another possible counterargument is that the interpretation of Christianity assumed in the question is wrong, and that e.g. God can be just while those who are not Christians (for whatever reason) cannot be saved - the problem then becomes about the notion of justice as attributed to God. Does the problem have a common name in philosophy? Has it been addressed more rigorously by philosophers, particularly from the Christian apologetics perspective? Are there common counterarguments? If so, are they specifically Christian, or could they be used to defend other religions? I'm particularly interested in the work of modern and contemporary philosophers, as well as theoretical analyses of implications of the potential resolutions.