In the absense of any particles, we evaluate temperature by the radiation wavelengths seen. In "empty space" only the cosmic background radiation exists, so we mark it pretty cold. see, for example, this note. However, if you look at a chunk of space containing even a few particles, then the temperature is defined based on the mean kinetic energy of the particles, or more precisely, the amount of entropy present. See temperature as intensive variable 

You've got two problems (yeah, I know that's the start of a bad software joke). First, you have to decide if you want the planets/moons/asteroids to appear as they would under strong solar illumination, or from a red dwarf (or a rgb scanning laser on your spaceship). Second, you have to decide what elements and simple compounds make up the surface. I'd say the comments have provided some realistic color choices, but you could always posit a pure-amethyst rock that was formed as ejecta from some violent explosion, for example. 

There's a lot more energy in the body than if the entire dwarf were at 1100 K. Even after downgrading to planet status, the core temperature is maybe a decade greater than the surface temperature. 

Dunno about "...generally determined..." but in similar work I've performed (and witnessed) a 2-dimensional spline fit is performed on the pixel intensity data to determine the power centroid to sub-pixel resolution. As you noted, we make the reasonable assumption that the object is close to spherical and close to having azimuthal constant density (that is, density may vary with radius but not angle). The uncertainty (variance) in this calculation is usually calculated by applying standard statistical methods to the observed variances in the received signal in each pixel, after accounting for jitter in the line-of-sight position. (and of course accounting for electronics noise, etc). Essentially, one can look at the variance in the spline-calculated peak over N frames, or look at the variance in all the pixels, determine their contribution to the spline fit, and weight their contributions accordingly. 

you'll need to find the spectral transmissivity of each piece of glass. Most likely they all block UV and large sections of the IR bands. Further, unless you've removed the internal IR filter, your camera won't record any IR. CCDs also cut off in the blue, so no UV will be recorded. BTW, how are you separating the wavelengths at the camera? Typically one uses a (expensive) grating spectrometer. 

I don't think it's possible to have a change in the ratio of day to night when averaged on a yearly basis. To do so would require either a nonlinear change in the Earth's rotation or a significant shift in the polar axis tilt within a year. If the rotation were simply slowing down over time, the year-averaged ratio would be the same every year (only the number of days in a year would change). Similarly, the only way a polar tilt could cause a change would be if the change in angle occurred at some (sinusoidal) rate not an integral ratio of the orbital period (year). Either of those putative mechanisms can only change the per-year ratio by producing a day/night ratio in "summer" that is not the inverse of the "winter" ratio, and producing a different non-inverse the following year. (I'm oversimplifying a bit, since the elliptic orbit produces a repeatable asymmetry in the Sun's zenith pattern). 

Based on info from CalTech, a constant density is unrealistic. I wouldn't place much faith in any equations derived from such an assumption. 

No, because among other reasons it's UV, not IR which poses the major ocular damage risk. THere's also the fact that you can't possibly measure a 30 or 40 dB attenuation factor in the method you're proposing. Your source is very weak and your receiver is binary (it responds or it doesn't). 

IMHO the most likely way a cosmological mirror might come into existence is if some localized conditions led to a "cloud" of particles which cause phase conjugation . Since this requires, in general, not only a highly ordered collection of particles/material but also an appropriate 'pump' (optical or otherwise), I'd be both thrilled and astonished if we were to detect such a configuration. 

It occurs to me that part of your confusion may be in defining the difference between a comet and an asteroid in the first place. Here are a couple claims. From UniverseToday, 

Since you're just buiding a Dobsonian, you're not going for aspherics and in fact not going for particularly high-quality surface figure at all. In particular, there's no need to worry about orientation-dependent sag (not that this is a significant factor for such a small diameter in the first place). It's not clear whether you are buying or fabbing the primary. If the latter, just choose a blank such that the center thickness, which is the thinnest spot on the mirror, is at least maybe 5 mm. You also haven't specified the focal length of your primary, which certainly figures into the thickness and mass calculations. If you just like having fun :-) , buy the blank as thick as you like and use an end mill to lightweight it by removing most of the material from behind, leaving a "web" to support the figured surface. 

Sorta depends -- you can't have a uniform density atmosphere, so to reach something close to one standard atm. near Earth's orbit (which, BTW would wreak havoc with orbital stability in the first place due to drag), the density would have to be something horrible nearer to the Sun. This would be an excellent xkcd what-if question if phrased more along the lines of "what density profile" ; my careful, detailed calculation (i.e. pulled out of an impolite orifice) suggests that such an atmosphere would rapidly collapse into the Sun proper due to gravitational attraction. I hesitate to speculate on just how hot the outer reaches would get due to optical absorption -- supposing that this atmosphere suddenly popped into place at an overall temperature in the 200-300 K range and immediately started both heating and collapsing. 

The cockroach and the tardigrade can withstand just about anything. Next, any radiation blast consisting of wavelengths reasonably attenuated with water wouldn't affect, directly at least, all the deep-sea creatures. 

To add to KB's answer: By and large the method involves looking at the IR absorption spectrum. If you see a set of lines which correspond to a known mineral, then you conclude that mineral is part of the asteroid's composition. This assumes you know what's currently illuminating the asteroid (spectral irradiance). If you're looking at the dark side, then it's a similar analysis but looking for known gaps in the not-quite-black-body exitance for a given mineral specie. 

Without any significant change in orbital distance, there have been a variety of long-term (millions of years) tropic or ice ages, and transitions from one to another led to rather a lot of extinctions. In the same vein, a nice big solar eruption could wreak havoc independent of orbital distance changes. I"m not arguing with the other answers; just pointing out that time scale matters. 

[leading to the accepted definition of] $ M_{bol} = -2.5log_{10}(L_*) + 71.1974... $ , where the constant term is the zero-point luminosity $L_0$ . Dunno if this helps, other than that you have to determine the spectral luminosity of the star in question. 

Word choice is important. It's easy to calculate to arbitrary precision but to arbitrary accuracy, not so much. Aside from the shape of the Earth, defining a surface of the sun is difficult as well. 

This is unfortunately a vague question. If, for example, the spacecraft were reasonably large, you could detect it indirectly due to its gravitational pull on other (putative) nearby objects, or even gravitational lensing. So far as heat-sensing or not, the spacecraft would have to be very cold indeed to not radiate in the microwave range at levels inconsistent with the cosmic background. How sensitive a radiotelescope would be needed is a separate issue. And finally, if you had a really powerful lidar you'd easily "ping" the spacecraft -- perhaps vaporizing it in the process.