Usually, the employee share purchase programs are part of incentive. The incentive may be in form a small discount on the price, a certain amount of company contribution if you stay for longer duration, or just a offer by the company to invest in its growth to employees. Contributions are optional, i.e. you have to opt in to buy shares. The company is offering this facility so that you can make money. It is not seen as a loyalty program by the company to see who buys the maximum shares. Though monetary benefits be designed such that long time investors benefit more, but most of the time, your manager would not be even aware of how much stock you have bought, just like your manager wont be aware how much of stock you are buying from the market. It should not be seen as a career enhancement step. Evaluate the investment as you would do to any other investment and do not buy just to show your interest in the company or expect this to enhance your career progress in any way. Chances are high that the company will see this as doing a favor to you. Being a established player, their market cap would be too big to be affected by individual investor. And to answer your last question, if its not enforced, its totally legal :). 

He cannot, however, it may have happened that he has put you in PIP and not informed you. A formal consent is not sought from the employee to put him in PIP, nor you are required to be put sign any documents for that. HR would have been informed, you can discuss with them as well. PIP means you are not doing well in your job. You need to be careful as if you don't pass the PIP stage, you could be fired from the job. I will suggest you document the fact that you were not aware you have been put on PIP. Also ask your manager to share key improvement area's which he is tracking as a part of PIP. Also ask him the duration for the same and set up a regular meeting to ensure that your progress is recorded and tracked. Ideally your manager should be doing all this, but looking at your question it seems he has not done a good job communicating or managing you PIP. I will also suggest to take a look at your performance and see if putting you on PIP is justified. If there are performance issues, either fix them, or look for a new job. 

Its your call. A polite way to handle this would be to just keep the request pending, don't accept or reject it. In today's world, facebook is not just for friends. People have 500+ "friends" on facebook, I am sure not all 500 are friends. Most of them are acquaintance rather than friends. Some people just send the request, doesn't mean they want to be friends in real life as well. The pit falls of having your manager as friend is that you can't take a sick day off and go on vacation and post those pics on facebook. As long as you don't do that, you should be fine. Regarding your online persona being brash, you could choose to limit the information published on facebook now with enhanced privacy settings. Please explore those as well. And lastly, if you think you are in a position to say a polite no, just say so if the person follows up in person. A simple I am not comfortable adding someone from my management hierarchy on my facebook should send the message. Post that, if it continues, it might be worth discussing with your HR. What you do outside of office is your business and it cannot be used for workplace harassment. 

I think you are on the right track. The first step in fixing a problem is to acknowledge that there is a problem. You have done that and have had a discussion with your boss. I will suggest you also have a discussion with your subordinates and get their feedback as well. Once you have all the inputs, create a plan of action as to how you plan to address those issues and give regular updates to your manager. 15 months is a long time for a Head of department to perform. You need to assess is how secure your job is. And that may not depend on your boss alone. Its hard for us to assess correctly, but depending upon how you did, company may already be thinking about asking you to go. Some organizations have a accommodating culture, where as some may think its best to let you go. If the organization is willing to invest in you, its worth staying. If its not, then its best to look for another job. If you are certain that organization is willing to invest in you the next best thing would be to look for a smaller department where your skills could be used. One way could be that you suggest to your manager to swap you with another (possibly smaller department ) head. Your manager may have thought about something, ask him what that is. See if you are open to take one role below your current role. Also explore if there is some individual contributor role ( may be like account management in IT) where you could fit in. It is also not a bad idea to look at this opportunity to switch tracks if you are interested. A few of my friends moved from technology to HR. You could look at some other function. All depends on what your manager has in mind and what you are open to doing. A few organizations have internal job portal. If you have such a thing, then please go ahead and see what all openings are available. If its not so, see if you have friends in HR who could help you with the list of vacancies company is looking to hire for, and if anything is suitable to your role. It is always better to apply for those vacancies. Its cheaper for organization as well to transfer an existing candidate. Also, don't loose heart. Everyone makes mistakes. It takes courage to admit you made one and even more wisdom to try and fix them. Most people are busy defending themselves. If you improve yourself, organization will be very happy to continue with you. If it doesn't work out here, some organization will love to have you. World is full of people who boast what they have done. Very few people have the courage to admit they made a mistake and learned from it. :) 

Are you expected to work in the company's time zone or its just a different office from where the interview is scheduled? If your final work timing are going to align to their timezone, then you should definitely say yes. If not , then consider the position you are applying for and the situation.Is there a reason no one local can take your interview? Can you offer an alternate time? Assuming a 12 hour difference as highlighted by you, would you be comfortable attending an interview late at night, say between 9 pm to 11 pm? You could reply by saying- I was wondering if it would be possible to schedule something before 11 am your time. If its not, I will make it at 5 pm. Usually companies are accommodating and will try to schedule as per your preferences. If they cannot, they will suggest this is the only slot and you should make it. 

Recruiters get a cut on the salary being offered in India. So its not in their interest to offer you a low salary. I think it is fine to disclose the expected salary to the recruiter. They will look for a job accordingly. Regarding your current, its totally your call. If you feel comfortable discussing the same, by all means go ahead. However, you have to be prepared to discuss why you think you deserve the hike you are asking for. Salary surveys, if available, will be a nice way of justifying. e.g. on Monster, I can see that the average salary for this position and experience is X and this is why I need X+ a small amount. Assessment by recruiters is usually at a very high level. Most of them are not technically qualified to hold interviews and just read out a set of questions given by hiring manager. They have defined answers, if you meet the bare minimum criteria, then you are through. Telling a recruiter your weaknesses is again your call. I would suggest not to do it. Instead, you should try to get as much information about the job as possible. Who would be interviewing, what is the exact skill set, is this a generic recruitment or for a particular project. Try to determine what would be needed for the interview and prepare accordingly. 

The reason you have been contacted again is because the hiring manager felt that though you were not a best fit for the position at that stage, you have potential. It might be that you were well liked but eventually they found a candidate somewhat better than you. As a hiring manager, I also interview 4-5 candidates per job. Sometimes I like candidates, but eventually find a even better candidate. So I put the next best candidate on hold rather than reject, so that should another position open up, I can consider them or recommend them to other hiring managers. My take would be to go for it, approach it like a new interview, but at the same time, as suggested in the other answer, consider what you have said before, what sort of questions came in, and if you need to brush up on something which you didn't answer well last time. Most people would not have bothered to call you again if they had no intention of hiring you. Another possibility is that the HR is really bad and they have no record that you interviewed earlier with this hiring manager. In that case, a polite way of approaching would be to as the HR, I interviewed with you 2 months back, what is the time you would consider me again for a position? That may help you get some feedback. If its not in error, I am sure HR will get back to you to say, the hiring manager wants to talk to you again. In that case, lets say you have a very good chance to making it through this time. If not, they will ask you not to come for another round, which would mean saving time for both you and the organization. 

As per Indian law, if you are asked to worked on national holidays, you either get a compensatory off or you are eligible to get double the pay. You can discuss with your manager. Only certain professions like emergency services/ public utilities etc are exempt from it. Make sure you mark your attendance on that day and keep a written record of it, in case it is disputed that you called to work in office. On a side note, if you want to say No, just mention being a long weekend, you already made plans. Tickets are booked, and if cancelled, your manager should comp you for it. There are N number of ways to politely decline. Figure out the best as per your situation. Lastly, working on weekend is always a favor you are doing. If your manager is being polite and requesting it, then consider it. If he is ordering around, well then, its best to look for a change in team/project/org. 

I think you are equating interns with a junior position. That's not always the case. When you pick up internship, carefully look at the role. I would suggest you avoid the intern work offered to someone with no experience. Since you are in computer science, you could look at being an intern in the research division of some company where , if you have interest and a major, work on latest topics like machine learning, block chains etc. Work on something niche or something upcoming, and if possible, work on something which gives you an opportunity to contribute as an Individual contributor. It is for companies benefit if they also get to test the waters with you as intern. The cost of a new hire is too much if they get a bad / misfit guy. Having someone intern and then get a job offer is not unheard of because they like the person too much. As far as ethics is concerned for joining the new company, that depends on what sort of commitment you have made to your existing company. Have you resigned and joined the course or you are on unpaid leave? Did the company pay for your course? Did you sign a contract? And if so what is the exit clause. Also, what is company putting in? Is there a promotion which is promised and waiting for you? Will you be getting a salary hike post successful completion of the course? If there is no commitment but merely an expectation, then you have every right to look at other companies. If you have some contract, then you need to make sure its terms are respected. If it means paying a penalty ( in terms of money), then so be it. If the contract is iron clad, something like you have to work in the company for an year, then I think you should go back to your original company, but still intern for another company. If they like you, they will likely hire you whenever your contract period ends. Keep your situation open to the company you are interning. They will appreciate a person who keeps his word and likely wait for you to join then post your contract expires (subject to conditions, business environment etc etc.) 

Depends on why the pay freeze and hiring freeze has been put in place. Based on my experience with such situation, if a freeze has been put, there is nothing which can change the status quo, including going to HR. On top of it, the promise was verbal, you have nothing in writing. So its basically not enforceable. Going to HR may worsen your situation in this case. My suggestion to you would be to discuss your situation with your boss and director, tell them your expectations at the same time, keep doing a good job and have some patience. There could be valid reasons for a pay freeze/ job freeze which you are not aware of. You need to assess if this is temporary and likely to lift next year or not. A frank discussion with your boss may help. You could try and negotiate a grade and title change without salary change. While this may not make a lot of sense at first, each grade has a specific salary range. With change in grade, you will be at lower end of the salary range of the grade. Whenever pay freeze is lifted, you are likely to get a fat pay rise. If you are willing to stick to the organization for some time, chances are organization will correct the anomaly in your pay and grade ( provided you are a good performer, and you smartly document this). It may not be able to meet it immediately due to business environment. Please discuss and document the decision this time. This way, if the director changes again, or you boss is changed, you would have proof. A simple way of documenting this could be to have a formal meeting with your director and then publish the minutes of meeting. Another way could be to bring it in your performance appraisal and then document the notes in a email to your boss. If your boss/ director promises to resolve the situation asap, ask if they will be willing to put HR in loop of this , so that you don't loose out next year. Lastly, if you feel that the organization is not going to promote you no matter what, or if you don't want to wait that long, its best to look out for a higher grade outside. Since you are already playing the role, it should not be too difficult to convince the new employer that you are a fit for the higher role. Try and assess if the organization is growing or not. If its not growing/ there are management challenges or any other signs that the situation is not temporary, its best to move outside and have a career with some other organization. 

If answer to 1 is yes and you are in a critical position for the company, this may work. If answer to either of these is no, then you should not consider this option. Your situation may be unique, but if you decide to move on, how difficult it would be for the company to hire someone from the market to replace you? My suggestion would be to simply discuss with your manager that you would like a hike. How can he help facilitate that ? Also, what can you put in? Are you willing to go full time on the payroll ? Can you increase your part time hours? It will pass on a similar message as you want without spoiling the relationship. Where as getting an offer will force their hand and it may not always work out in your favor. It may also be seen as arm twisting tactic and your manager may consider replacing you even if they agree to give you an offer in the long run. As far as referrals are concerned, its your call. I will suggest to tell people that you are not actively looking but to keep you posted for any vacancy which may come up. Also clarify that you may not join. If post that they are Ok to process your application in their company, by all means go ahead. If not then don't spoil a relation over getting an offer which you may not join. Some people may mind you not joining. It also depends on what sort of effort the person has put in, if they are looking to place you in their projects. It may reflect badly on their reputation. Also look at how senior the person is. If they are in a junior position, they may not mind as there is less expectations. At higher level, visibility is more, so I would suggest to avoid. They could be really helpful if you need a favor in future. You can always go via consultants to get a job. Again, please say no to an offer if you don't intend to join it as soon as possible so that your reputation is not spoiled.