In order to even experience something as an object, i.e. as being, we would have to presuppose an activity (of knowing) on behalf of the subject, and this goes for the subject knowing itself too. Hence, the activity itself always precedes being. You can find his arguments in his "First Introduction to the Wissenschaftslehre". 

Pietzker's is the most detailed one. Translations of the reviews are available here: $URL$ (pdf available on request). There are several monographs and (collections of) articles on Husserl, Phenomenology, and Mathematics, i.a. Stefania Centrone, Essays on Husserl’s Logic and Philosophy of Mathematics (Springer 2017), Mirja Hartimo, Guillermo Rosado Haddock. Husserl's contributions are much more in the foundations and philosophy of mathematics than in technical matters, i.e. the relation of mathematics to logic, set-theory/theory of manifolds, epistemology, etc. which was (likely) of more interest to philosophers than mathematicians. Husserl's views in the Logical Investigations remarked explicitly on the "division of labor" among philosophers and mathematicians (Prolegomena, §71). 

Disclaimer The theory I described probably has a better source. I know it from the book Anathem, by Neal Stephenson. This book is fiction, but draws heavily on historical metaphysics in a rather odd way, so this idea is probably not original to the story. Possibly specifically because of the MWI In the above mentioned book, two characters are at one point discussing the human perception and multiple universes. They came up with something like this: We model the universe in our minds, throwing away and reconstructing such models constantly. Those models can be quite complex, but are required in order to predict certain things or reason about what we cannot see (that clothing exists on both sides of a person was how this was presented). The simplest explanation, they reasoned, was that those models are real, and that the mind receives data from 'itself' between them - simpler than explaining that the mind can truly process universe simulations at the rate it must. What I Think I like the theory I mentioned. The book is far better at describing it, and much more successful at making it sound plausible than my quick summary. Even if I could do it justice, I wouldn't, because you should read the book. Again though, this is fiction. Neither you nor I should take it too seriously. Unless, of course, it's right, in which case the world in the book exists. And the one you perceive while reading it. The goal of philosophy is to think and to know. Hopefully you now have more questions than when you started. 

Husserl's dissertation Beiträge zur Variationsrechnung (“Contributions to the Calculus of Variations”) has nothing philosophical in it. The work is based on the lectures by Kronecker and Weierstrass that Husserl attended as a student in Berlin and is entirely technical. Scrimieri has published extracts from it (Giorgio Scrimieri "Analitica matematica e fenomenologica in Edmund Husserl", Bari: Edizioni Levante, 1979). There is a French translation ("Contributions à la Theorie du Calcul des Variations". Ed. by J. Vauthier in Queen’s Papers in Pure and Applied Mathematics 65. Kingston, Ontario: Queen’s University, 1983). I think that Ingeborg Strohmeyer also mentions it in her "Einleitung" to Husserliana XXI. But mostly it only gets mentioned for biographical reasons. 

Prior to Husserl, Brentano discusses the immortality of the soul in the first chapter on "The Concept and Purpose of Psychology" of his 1874 book Psychology from an Empirical Standpoint. Despite the fact that psychology would no longer be "the science of the soul" but rather "the science of mental phenomena", it would still be capable of addressing the idea of immortality of "mental life", because there is a continuity of mental life that does not require the assumption of a substantial soul (which inner perception does not show us). The laws of psychology would still hold after our bodily death: 

I believe I have a good answer to this question, and would love to get feedback on my answer as well as see other people's answers. Here is my answer: The following is my sketch of a proof of why 1) theoretical philosophy/spirituality/religion and 2) science are not only compatible, but how both are actually necessary if you seek to understand universal truth. When I say seek universal truth, what I mean is to better understand the world we live in and how it works -- the reality we observe... Throughout our lives we have had a single person's perspective on the world we live in, and we've seen through the lenses of other people who see the world slightly or very differently than us... My belief is that there is an objective reality out there that each of us is observing, and that if we strive to understand it, describe it, and know how it works, that we're doing our best to understand the world we were born into and how to live best within it. All the great religions have lessons on how to understand universal truth, they also have major contradictions with themselves and each other. Most of them say if you don't believe in their flavor of religion then you will be eternally damned, but by choosing any one religion all the others damn you. To me none of those answers sounds very good to me, because I'm just betting on the fact that I happened to have chosen the right religion. Instead I trust in myself to listen to the wisdom from all religions, spiritualities, and laypeople, and decide for myself what I believe to be the wisest way to live life based on the great moral and physical lessons learned from religion science and spirituality alike. First, some definitions: Science - Science is defined as a knowledge base of assumptions and logical rules of inference along with experiments that validate these assumptions and rules of inference. The assumptions are so basic we assume them to be true (for example, mass energy either exists or does not exist at a point in time in 3-dimensional space). The rules of inference are provable ways to get from A to B consistently Experiments are conducted using the scientific method and validate/refute hypothesis made from assumptions and rules of inference to consistently expand knowledge and validate that predictions of scientific theories are accurate. Theoretical Philosophy - This is philosophy that uses reason and rational thought to make conjectures about things that are not provable / verifiable through Science. Spirituality / Religion - This is the belief in a knowledge base which is inconsistent but complete -- Eg it tries to answer all questions, but does not have consistency in its answers… Meaning there can be contradictions found from the knowledge base. It has an answer to all questions, but sometimes can be wrong. Accepted science - This is scientific hypotheses that have been validated through experimentation and commonly accepted as scientific fact. For example, that the world is not flat. Gödel’s incompleteness theorem states that any knowledge base is either incomplete and consistent or complete and inconsistent. I’ll paste a little more detail from another paper to support this claim: Gödel's Incompleteness Theorem Overview Godel’s theorem proves that logic can’t be both consistent and accurate for all truths While many are familiar with the theorem, I will provide a brief overview for those that are not. I will not re-prove the theorem here((, but will leave it to readers to convince themselves – I encourage them to do so as when I first read the theorem I didn’t believe it, until I read the proof several times and thought through it carefully.)) Gödel’s incompleteness theorem refers to any logical system ((you can think of it as the most powerful supercomputer in the world that understands the world as perfectly as is possible… which Godel proved is imperfectly)), which I term here a “black box” which proves things true or false. The “Perfect” black box can tell you exactly what is true or false, see appendix item 1. However Gödel’s Incompleteness Theorem proves that the “perfect” black box doesn’t exist: instead if you are using a black box to prove things true and false, then you will be in one of two situations: Everything you prove true is true, however there are some things that are true that your black box will say are false (consistent but incomplete – See appendix item 2) You can prove true everything that is actually true, however there are some things that you prove true that are actually false (complete but inaccurate – See appendix item 3) Said another way, no black box can be both complete and accurate. Gödel’s incompleteness theorem proves that any black box will either be consistent but incomplete, or complete but inaccurate. ((While this has many broad implications, I will dig into just one for the purpose of this paper)) Note that the black box I will be referring to is the scientific method – Formal logic leveraging postulates and rules of inference to prove things about the world that are true or false. ((may need to add detail about the fact that the postulates and rules of inference proving things true assumes that the laws of physics remain relatively consistent or constant throughout time so we can actually learn something about them.)) Where does science fit in? Science is consistent, by nature… Therefore science is also incomplete… There are things that are true that science can’t prove true. Scientific knowledge is limited today, but even taking into account all that science can ever learn, there are things that science will never be able to prove true, that are in fact true. This shows that science, while it can explain MANY things and explain them consistently and usefully, is limited in what it can prove… this leaves a gap for how you answer the questions that science not only can’t answer now, but that science can never answer. Such questions are things like “What’s the meaning of life?” and “What is moral?” That said, accepted science’s scope is limited now and can grow much vaster. The discipline of making up theories about how science can grow can be termed a part of scientific discovery itself, or we can also call it Scientific Philosophy, in that its philosophy that aims to expand the knowledge base of current scientific knowledge with theories that are either provable or disprovable. It may be worth noting that the difference between something science could eventually be able to prove true and something it can’t, in general, is that something science can prove to be true is something that is provable through experimentation. That is, one can theorize a result of an experiment, perform the experiment, and see if the results are consistent with the theory. There is no experiment one can come up with to prove a universal “meaning of life” and therefore this question is one for theoretical philosophy, spirituality, or religion. Where do theoretical philosophy, spirituality, and religion fit in? Theoretical philosophy, spirituality, and religion are inconsistent… Even the most stalwart zealots of these disciplines will admit that beliefs can be inconsistent depending on how people interpret them. They’ll say there’s a right and wrong way and theirs is right and others are wrong but that itself admits it’s inconsistent (since they have interpreted their belief system differently than other people who share their belief system). While these disciplines are inconsistent, they can be complete (they can prove true everything that is true) in that it tries to explain everything, including things science can’t yet prove, and never will be able to prove. The right path forward Therefore the safest path (and the one closest to universal truth) is to use accepted whenever you believe that science is consistent (accepted science at a minimum), and use theoretical philosophy, spirituality, and/or religion when science doesn’t have an explanation for the question you’re asking. Science and theoretical philosophy/spirituality/religion are NOT at odds or uncomplimentary… In fact, leveraging both belief systems is the only provable way to ALWAYS be right… Though you have to keep in mind that even if you use both science and religion you will be right a much higher percentage of the time, but there’s no way to prove that you will always be right. And SO… we should recognize that the chances are good that we’re wrong about some things and therefore should be willing to accept that we may be wrong, whatever our beliefs are. A healthy skepticism for all beliefs, including one’s own, is the best way to grow and develop your knowledge of the world. Do so leveraging science when it has clear answers, and theoretical philosophy, spirituality, and religion when science doesn’t have clear answers. 

To answer your question about applying cyclical theory to philosophy itself, one philosopher who observed a repeating cycle in the history of philosophy was Franz Brentano. He thought that the same four phases (one ascending, three of decline) have repeated in the same order: pure theoretical interest and then decadence into pragmatic applications and popular divulgation, followed by skepticism, and finally mysticism. According to Brentano, we witness these four phases in ancient, medieval, and modern philosophy: Aristotle represents the peak of the theoretical phase, stoicism and epicureanism the practical one, then classical skepticism of Pyrrho, and neo-Platonic mysticism. The next ascending theoretical phase begins in the middle ages with Thomas Aquinas, followed by Scotism, Ockham, and Cusanus/Lullius, then modernity with Descartes and Bacon up to Locke and Leibniz, decadence sets in with the Enlightenment, the skepticism of Hume, and in Brentano's opinion the mysticism of German Idealism. Brentano himself would spearhead the new ascending theoretical phase. His students tried to apply this model to other sciences as well, and some recent commentators have sought to extend it to the present time (e.g. Simons and Smith). A translation of Brentano's text with extensive commentary is available. 

The majority of programmers aren't attempting to work themselves out of a job. The majority of programming jobs are not even in the AI field. You could make a similar parallel between ancient Egypt and visiting the moon: "If all these centuries of humans haven't figured out how to fly yet, does that mean visiting the moon is impossible?" Technology builds over time. We don't know whether AI is possible now, but that doesn't mean we won't look back and laugh in a thousand years at how trivial answering this question with a "Yes" has become. I can't honestly say that a prediction made now of whether or not true AI is possible has any merit. 

Lets say you have some mystical power to stop any human from dying and make them whole again. Let's say someone in front of you begins choking to death. You have two choices, to save them or not. The idea is that by having said power, whether it is used or not is a bigger deal than if you did not have it. If you could save all the people in a burning building with ease and do not, you are at some level responsible. It isn't a matter of 'taking responsibility' as you have said, but a matter of being responsible, either way. Maybe someone you save will murder someone some day. You could end up holding yourself responsible for that. tl;dr: The phrase could be rephrased as 'The meaningfulness of a choice to do or do not increases with the range of potential results.'