The main differences between the two is the philosophies behind it, and how they are designed to work. First and foremost, it is important to realize that Paleo does allow carbs, just not grains and legumes (or anything that grows underground). Atkins 

The biggest non-food food is lettuce. In particular Iceburg lettuce will take up space in your stomach, but not have any appreciable impact on your diet. However, and I speak from experience, protein keeps you satiated longer than other sources of food. Some people who emphasize protein in their diets, actually have a hard time eating all their recommended Calories. 

For each of the pressing exercises I would work with palms out, palms facing, and alternating hands while crossing your body. You want to focus on getting that pump, so you should focus on more reps with the feeling that you can't do too much more after you are done with everything. The shoulder work and back work will help you maintain proper posture so you can show off the hard work you've done on the chest. It will also help you stay injury free. Also, feel free to spread the work out over the week. Strive for 30-50 reps overall per chest session (3-5 sets x 10-15 reps), so pick a weight where 30 reps is a challenge and work up to 50 reps. Increase weight and repeat. 

There are two aspects of being healthy that play off of each other: strength and flexibility. The problem with slouching and hunching is usually a lack of back or posterior chain strength. You can gain sufficient strength to maintain good posture with any amount of regular exercise--from running to weightlifting. Both slouching and hunching are the results of sitting in a chair all day and looking at things that are not ergonomically placed. Stretching that helps is in the form of increasing your range of motion to be able to complete an exercise that you would not normally be able to do. However, it is possible to be too flexible. Essentially, if your flexibility exceeds your strength you will be prone to certain types of injury that someone who is less flexible with the same strength will not be susceptible to. For example, hyperextension related injuries. If you approach stretching like a treatment to an ailment, things will fall into place. Not everyone is required to be able to do the splits. If your body is preventing you from doing something you want to do because it lacks the range of motion, then find stretches that increase that particular range of motion. But do it on a basic foundation of exercise. The more active you are, the more you will be able to sit and stand with good posture, and the less likely you will hyperextend your joints. 

Applying that to your goals If your goal at the moment is to increase the weight on the bar with a given amount of sets and reps, take as much rest as you need. Just make sure you don't cool down in the process. You are pushing yourself pretty hard, and will need to make those adjustments. If your goal is muscle size or to burn fat, shorten the rest between sets as much as you can. You'll likely have to stay at the same weight while you work on shortening the rest times. Some really strong people train this way. Sam Byrd (a power lifter) performs his squats 5 sets of 5, and works on doing them quicker until he can get it all done in less than 25 minutes. Then he increases the weight and repeats the process. His squat is over 700lbs. If you are feeling a bit worn down, increase the time between sets. Playing with training density (volume / time) is one way to manage fatigue and recovery. If you have limited time to train, shorten the rest between sets and adjust the weight on the bar to something you can do in that time. Over time as you increase weight, but keep the time the same, it pushes your more rested max even higher. You may have to drop 10-20 lbs the first time you switch to short rest periods (1 minute or less), but you'll make up the difference soon. 

Sounds like a variation of unilateral work. The important aspect of unilateral work, or uneven loading, is that you switch hands and perform the same amount of work with the other side. Let's say you are doing shoulder presses with those weights. You'll want to make sure of the following: 

Defining Reward The most useful tool for deciding what a valuable reward is a clear, concise, measurable goal. Wanting to be "fit" is not measurable. I made this same mistake starting out. Because I didn't know what I want, I wasted my time, and the time of my personal trainer who tried to get me closer to his definition of "fit". Even within the world of goals you have to prioritize some goals over others. For example, the work needed to improve your 50 yard dash times will be vastly different than the work needed to increase your endurance. If you want to run a marathon, endurance is going to have to be your primary goal. You can work on speed later, or be OK with the fact your speed as a marathoner won't ever be as fast as a sprinter. There's changes in the way your body has to use energy that are mutually exclusive with these two goals. Both marathoners and sprinters are extremely fit--but in very different ways. 

The pancreas gets overworked producing insulin. In the worst cases it never has a chance to rest. When the pancreas is overworked, it produces low quality insulin and too much of it. The net affect is that the insulin locks away more sugar as fat than it should. Your brain asks for more, but because you are overloading your pancreas you are in a never ending cycle. Your pancreas is also responsible for secreting a second hormone (can't remember the name right now), which is responsible for burning fat. If the pancreas is always dealing with the sugar rush, it will never secrete this other hormone. 

In violent agreement with Nathan Wheeler's answer, I'll just word things a bit differently. "man-boobs" are fat. I had them, and when I was heavier they even hung a little bit. Not flattering at all. Unfortunately, there is no way to target weight loss to any given area of your body. The only thing you can do is lose fat all over, and the man-boob and keg abs (my problem area) will go away. The best way to deal with fat is through diet. Now, if you want something impressive when the fat is gone, you need to strengthen the muscles underneath the fat. Muscle groups can be targeted, and bench presses are an excellent way to improve your chest. As to how my man-boobs have melted away (still a bit in progress): 

Stronglifts 5x5 is best suited for healthy people who can at least handle an empty bar. You are starting from an unhealthy point, so it's probably not the best option for you. The bottom line is that you want to start with something you can do properly without joint pain. Your muscles may get sore and that's OK, but you don't want sharp pain after training. Additionally because of the difficulty you had with bad form, I would recommend some changes until you get some strength and muscle size to help support proper squats. For you, I would recommend starting with 3x8 (3 sets of 8 reps). If you happen to not get all 8 reps on the last set repeat. If you're stuck there after three times, change it to 4 sets of 6 reps. And then to 6 sets of 4 reps. The 6x4 seemed to work well for my daughter. The 3x8 is there to help put some muscle mass on your body. Will you benefit from the novice effect? I'm unaware of your age, but I'm guessing you are a woman. My daughter experienced the newbie gains, increasing strength pretty quickly. Her strength gains are limited by the fact that she is a girl, particularly with upper body strength. That lasted for about 3 months, and now the strength is progressing a little more slowly. I didn't have her do Stronglifts 5x5, but a program I adapted for her that used the same principles. The core movements were the same, but there was a bit more variety in assistance work. Just know that women tend to be capable of performing more reps than men at a certain percentage of their current max. For example, the difference between a 5 rep max and a 1 rep max for a woman might be as little as 5lbs. If I guy can do a weight for 5 reps, he can perform a 1 rep max much higher. Programming Substitutions Floor presses are an excellent substitution for bench press. However, I would use dumbbells as assistance and use a barbell for the main work if you can. I'm assuming you have access to a barbell in addition to dumbbells. The important thing is that you are able to keep increasing weight. Goblet squats however are not great for a main movement. They are fine for warmups or as assistance work, but your upper body strength will limit your lower body development. Without anything to put the bar on while you get under it, there's very little I can recommend. If you have access to a proper gym, you can do leg presses and leg curls. It's not the best training economy, but you can increase the load on them better than you can with goblet squats. I will say this: use goblet squats until your upper body is limiting what you can squat. Then you need to figure out how to squat or afford a squat rack (it doesn't have to be a full power cage). You have the right mentality as far as substituting similar movements. Are warm up sets the only warmup needed? Initially, if you aren't involved in any other sports or activities that might be enough. However, I've found that the same things that help me during my pre-workout also help my daughter who is involved in two sports: 

I also advocate using a tape measure for weekly measurements. However, monthly progress pictures are useful. The key is to be consistent with the progress pictures to help really determine if you are improving or your picture taking is improving. 

There can be any number of causes for pain in and near the joints. There is a lot of connective tissue (tendons and ligaments) in major joints, as well as the cartilage and synovial fluid that lubricates the joints. These general rules of thumb will help you diagnose what's going on: 

There isn't a similar list for number of sets, so instead you are looking at the overall volume of work. Volume is the total sets x reps x weight. If you lift 100 lbs for 10 sets of 10, that's 10,000 lbs of volume. You can shuffle things around and they will all be the same volume. For example 200 lbs for 10 sets of 5. Or 100 lbs for 5 sets of 20. You will find that even though it's the same volume of work, you may find some arrangements very difficult or downright impossible like the last option. Volume is a measure to judge how much fatigue your body is having to deal with. You may find that 10 x 10 at whatever you are using for the weight is difficult but you are able to do it again in a couple days. You may find that it takes a whole week to be able to do it again and feel fresh. As you get stronger, you can do more volume, and recover a little quicker. If your goal is putting on lots of muscle, 10 sets of 10 reps will definitely help you do that. Just make sure you are eating and sleeping a lot to adjust to the work load. 

Mehdi's article is good, but there are some subtle things that are not emphasized in that article which are spelled out in great detail in Rippetoe's Starting Strength book. If you are experiencing scraped up shins, the following tips will help.