I am reading a book on Government and Binding theory [1] and just finished a chapter on big pro (PRO). At the end of the chapter there is an exercise. Different sentences are written with faulty representations and the reader is asked to dispute them. One of them is this: 

is the object of both and . Generally speaking, he says, whenever we have two coordinated structures, if we extract something from one of them we have to do the same with the other. He has also drawn the tree diagram of the original sentence in question, based on X-bar theory, but unfortunately I only have access to the audio file of that session. That's why I don't think that I fully get what he is talking about, and I don't know how to draw the diagram and explain the process. Can anyone please, using the original sentence as the example, explain the process in terms of government and binding theory, saying exactly and step-by-step what constituents are moved and how I should represent the sentence syntactically? [1]: Haegeman, 1994. Introduction to Government and Binding Theory, 2nd edition, page 288, Exercise 4, 9b 

Is it possible for a language to have both left-headed and right-headed compounds? And can one please explain this with examples and with the use of linguistic reasoning based on morphology? 

Now for the second interpretation, I figured I should add the NOM substructure to the first NOM before CONJ: 

As I understand it, the sentence has two different interpretations, with one attributing to both and and the other only to . For the case of attributing to only dogs I drew the following diagram: 

This seems to be correct to me, because it reflects the fact that the attribute is equally applicable to both NOMs. But on the other hand, I am writing words on the added branch that aren't there (have been deleted for avoiding repetition) and the tree reads a longer sentence. Is my parsing correct and if not how should I make it work right? 

Unfortunately I was absent when the instructor covered the exercise in class. It's obvious that there couldn't be a PRO within the brackets, because the I (head of the IP) would govern it and that would violate the general rule that PROs should be ungoverned. I also understand that there couldn't be any small pros there either, because the English language is not a pro-drop language and subject pronouns can not be omitted (unless in imperative sentences) I get it up to here. But then the instructor has analyzed this sentence further. He has said that the sentence is an instance of across-the-board extraction and here two VPs (rather than two IPs) have been linked by coordination. He bases his syntactic representation on the VP-internal hypothesis (= The subject originates in SpecVP and usually then moves to SpecIP), saying that the Specs in the VPs are simultaneously moved. He goes on to say that the phenomenon is also seen in the objects. For example in the sentence 

Ancient Greek does have οὐδενία "worthlessness" (in Plato) and οὐδενόσωρος "nobody's concern = worthless" (in Homer). 

The place to look is Herodotus. The only unaugmented, contracted imperfects forms I see there are ἑσσοῦντο, ἑσσοῦτο 'defeat'; Herodotus did not contract normally. 

So, Grout wrote Zulu affixes as separate words, Colenso as affixes (something Callaway disagreed with). And (I assume!) Colenso also came up with the camel-case orthography, since he was in effect joining up what Grout had written as two words (u Davida, n Kosi, isi Zulu) into single words (uDavida, nKosi, isiZulu). 

The distribution is not quite the same—the oblique in Old French was mandatory after prepositions, rather than indicating motion as in more case-rich languages; but Waringhien drew parallels between the use of the Esperanto accusative in adjuncts rather than direct objects, and the Old French oblique. In any case, the Old French oblique is a merger of all non-nominative Latin cases; so that kind of thing can indeed happen. 

The Good Morning/Good Day formula is pervasive in European languages, but is presumably not universal, and presumably it has not always been around. Do we have any evidence of when and where it first originated? 

Pontic Greek, historically spoken in Northern Turkey, has acquired an animacy distinction on top of its inherited gender system; see e.g. $URL$ : 

This is properly the domain of $URL$ , but at least one actor in Discovery (the one who played T'Kuvma) made a point of saying that he wanted his Klingon to sound African ($URL$ citing $URL$ ). Different prosthetics are likely in play as well. 

The answer from @hippietrail's correspondent is pretty much on point, but the specifics have not quite been dealt with fully. So: Sabbat-ismos "sabbathism, sabbathisation, sabbathising" is indeed a deverbal noun, arising from the verb sabbatizo "to act in a way associated with the/a Sabbath", i.e. "to observe the Sabbath". 

The fact that the perfective simplex δω is not discussed separately from the perfective past είδα and the perfective imperative δες is... regrettable. But yes, Triantafyllides does give principal parts. 

Proto-Indo-European has gone through different stages of development historically, which represent higher levels of abstraction. In particular, the $URL$ which dates from 1879 but which gained widespread acceptance only after it was used to make sense of Hittite in the 1930s, did away the reconstruction of long vowels and /a/ in Indo-European, by explaining them via laryngeals (h1, h2, h3). While the reconstruction of long vowels and /a/ is legitimate, they are held to represent a later stage in the development of Indo-European. (So /h₂e, eh₂/ > /a/.) And even after the laryngeal theory gained general acceptance, references were slow to adopt it; Pokorny's influential dictionary dates from 1959, but still uses the older vowels. Etymonline reflects the older, pre-laryngeal understanding of PIE (which corresponds to a later stage of PIE). Wiktionary reflects the more recent, laryngeal understanding. In addition, Etymonline seems to be randomly dropping diacritics, reflecting bad transcription online; the differentiation between velar g and palatal ǵ has been in the reconstructions of PIE since the start. Nothwithstanding the usual cautions about Wiki sources, Wiktionary is by and large reliable for PIE. 

For many languages, SUBTLEX is considered a good source for realistic frequencies. There is an Italian version, SUBTLEX-IT, available at $URL$ (Crepaldi, Keuleers, Mandera, & Brysbaert, 2013). 

It is often helpful to avoid voiceless sounds as much as possible in prosody stimuli, to get a clearer pitch track. For example, "Mary will win" has no voiceless sounds (from: Pierrehumbert, J. (2000). Tonal elements and their alignment. In Prosody: Theory and experiment (pp. 11-36). Springer Netherlands.). For demonstration purposes, you may also want to use a longer sentence. 

In Appendix A and Appendix B of Rastle, Davis, Marslen-Wilson, Tyler (2000), there are listings of the stimuli used. You want the '-M-S+O’ condition (i.e., not related morphological or semantically, but similar orthographically). There are 48, I think, so maybe that will be helpful. They sometimes differ by more than 2 characters. 

This sounds like one of the series of papers by Kirby and/or Smith; e.g., Smith, Kirby, Brighton 2003. They just call it 'iterated learning'. 

TextGrids are still just text files. The simplest thing for a non-scripter is probably to open it in your favorite editor and find-replace them there. Try TextWrangler or SublimeText 3 if you don’t have a good one you like.(I’m not sure that this is even the correct StackExchange for this, or if the tags ‘phonetics’ and ‘computational-linguistics' are relevant.) So, the tiers probably contain intervals like: 

There are many of these in English, in both directions: adder, apron were once 'nadder' and 'napron'. More examples and explanation on this Wikipedia page on 'Rebracketing', under 'Examples of false splitting' ('In English'). 

It’s true that there is a learning curve, but I’m not sure what the alternative is. What does ‘f0 analysis’ mean here? How can you interpret changes in pitch, intensity, duration without an interpretive framework?The point of ToBI is to assign meaning to the physical observations (e.g., pitch, duration), which otherwise do not have meaning. To do this, pitch contours are interpreted within an abstract framework that says ‘this pattern means this’. I say that it is an abstract framework because it reduces the complexity of the signal by removing variability that is not meaningful in order to more clearly focus on the variability that is meaningful and contrastive for the language variety in question.For example, we notice the final fall/final rise pitch distinction between statements and questions in English. For this contrast, (and speaking a little simplistically) it doesn’t really matter what the absolute f0 is, how loud the sound is, or what’s the duration of the contour; the relative change leads us to categorize the boundary as Low or High for this contrast. In order to have any confidence in our conclusions, we have to have a broad understanding of what prosodic patterns are typical and possible for the specific language variety, how actual speakers interpret those patterns, and a model that takes into account the interactions of all these patterns. This is the same as e.g. segmental phonology (‘why have phonemes when I have a spectrogram?’) or syntax (‘why have a grammar when I have words?’).