This is known as Hume's Fork. By his own criterion, shouldn't we reject his own work? It's not any abstract reasoning concerning quantity or number, nor is it any experimental reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence. It seems as if Hume's Fork is self-refuting. It would surprise me that he didn't notice this himself. Did Hume address this issue? 

Temperature may be a good example. If you give someone a metal bar and a book, which both have the same temperature, say 15°C, people will say the metal bar feels colder than the book. It's different from an optical illusion in the sense that there is a real, physical explanation, namely that (a) the temperature we feel is the temperature of our hand, not of the object we're holding and (b) the metal bar is a thermal conductor (it will drop the temperature of our hand faster), while the book is a thermal insulator (it will drop the temperature of our hand only very slowly). Videos that illustrate the point I made in a very clear manner: 

Argument from Silence decribes making conclusions from the absence of evidence and the Association Fallacy may be the closest thing to describing why people write off science in general when they hear a reversal of consensus. More generally, it sounds like your frustration is primarily causes by people's ignorance which is not something you will find easy to fix or describe to them. In flipping through Wikipedia's list of informal fallacies, I have found the following helpful in describing the plethora of ways people misunderstand, misinterpret, and miscommunicate scientific ideas: 

The multiverse theory explains your question directly. It states that the universe was created when "nothing", which is in an unstable state, sprang into equal amounts of matter and anti-matter, energy and anti-energy. When this happened, the sum of these is still equal to "nothing", so it is allowed by physics (or at least not disallowed by our current understanding of physics). This happens an infinite amount of times and thus there are an infinite number of universes - the multiverse. Stephen Hawking, world renowned theoretical physicist, authored "A Brief History of Time" and other books which explain these concepts in detail in a way that non-physicists can understand (i.e. lots of words, few numbers and equations). 

I could make this a discussion about semantics or I could refer to a dictionary, but I think none of that would be very helpful. A wide array of people The group of people that identify themselves as atheists is not homogeneous at all, just like the group of theists (there are non-theistic religions, so I did not say 'religious people' here) is not homogeneous, and if you ask a number of them about why they identify themselves as atheists, you find that they might all have very different answers. Some people just don't care. They haven't really thought about it, but they just don't see much reason to believe in one or multiple gods. These people would be called apatheists (etymology: apathy and theism). In this case, it could probably be defined as lack of belief in one or multiple gods (this is a passive position). This view is often equated to pragmatic atheism, although I have found that pragmatic atheists often care about the question, but for pragmatic reasons (rather than epistemological ones); they might simply think that they're better off without religion (for whatever reason). What unites these two kinds of atheists, is that they are not overly concerned with truth claims. They may and probably will think that it is unlikely that there is a god, but it's not their main concern. These people are often called weak atheists. Positive or strong atheism is the explicit view that no deities exist. It is the rejection of belief in one or multiple gods and thus an active position. This does not mean that the positive atheist is 100% certain that no God exist (see Bertrand Russell's quote below), but that he thinks it's at least highly unlikely, sees no evidence to the contrary and therefore explicitly thinks that there is no god. These people are, in contrast to weak atheist, very concerned with the question: "does God exist?". They may have other reasons for their explicit non-belief, but the truth about the existence of god is definitely of primary importance for them. So not every non-theist (=someone who is not a theist; i.e. someone who does not believe in at least one god) is a positive atheist. What some atheists find problematic about positive atheism, is that it grants the special consideration to one claim (God exists) over a whole range of other, according to them, nonsensical claims (see Sam Harris' quote). Even stronger is the view of the New Atheists. They not only reject a belief in God, they reject religion in society and think it should be actively countered. They are antitheist: they think theism is harmful to society. Note that atheism is not a necessary condition for antitheism: you might believe in God, but still think that this belief or at least organised religion is detrimental to society. Defining atheism There are very few atheists who are absolutely certain that God (or multiple gods) does not exist, but many of them think it's is highly unlikely. As Bertrand Russell said: 

All of the above happen regularly. For example, it is common for a new study to provide a highly qualified statement in statistical terms which is then taken up in the media as a "possible" effect which is then repeated as a cause-and-effect which then goes a million directions using the above fallacies and will live on as a misunderstanding for decades. Then when the next study finds overlapping statistical data, the opposite gets said and confusion begins. There are also the legitimate "reversals" of scientific consensus which is merely an update to our understanding of things. People who don't understand the most basic concepts of science don't understand the concept of updating understanding and can only see things in the black and white dichotomy of true or false (hey, there's another one - false dichotomy). 

The "fallacy fallacy" is that you reject a conclusion because the argument is a fallacy - even though the conclusion may be right. In general form: 

An example of an author who would disagree with me is Jean-Jaques Rousseau. In his Discourse on Science and the Arts (also called the First Discourse), he argues that the arts and sciences are not beneficial to society, but rather add more dependencies and cover up our enslaved state. He was a critic of luxury (which science and the arts make possible), which lead to more inequality, and even argued that it contributed to the corruption of man and moral deterioration. An example of this moral deterioration is that people, who see a scientist, a philosopher, or any other educated man, will try to be like him. In other words, they'll try to be like someone who they are not. They are being dishonest, Rousseau says. The further we push science and the arts, the further we get from who we naturally would be. 

The most approachable resource I've found is: $URL$ It's not 100% rigorously correct in all cases, but it provides a simple place to start learning. For more detail, you can always read through wikipedia which is maintained well and is well referenced for more detail: $URL$ 

Holes (as the word is commonly understood) are almost always filled with something else, so a filled hole can, in at least some cases, still be considered a hole. The most obvious example is a hole dug in the ground. It is filled to the brim with air (which are particles with mass just the same as filling it with sand would be). In many cases, it is also filled with electromagnetic waves of all sorts (light, magnetic field of the earth, UV light, infrared, microwaves, radio waves, etc.) Common knowledge and understanding that not all matter and energy that fills volume can be seen should suffice for documentation. 

¬(P∧¬S) becomes ¬PvS, by Godwin's law and the law of double negation. This says "I will not buy the pants or I will buy the shirt". Note that the or operator, if no specific indication is given, is inclusive, meaning it's actually an and/or operator. (a) I won't buy the pants without the shirt can be translated as "if I buy the pants, then I buy the shirt (P=>S). If you buy the pants (P), then ¬S (I will not buy the shirt) must be the case (¬PvS, P ⊢ S), thus (¬PvS, P ⊢ P=>S). So (a) is correct. (b) "I won't buy both the pants and not the shirt", while a strange sentence, can be translated as ¬(P∧¬S), which was our first premise. Obviously, ¬(P∧¬S) ⇔ ¬(P∧¬S), so (b) must be correct. 

Arguments that often show up are not necessarily correct. Compare the frequent mistake of reverting an implication. According to my experience, in particular politicians and journalists often conclude that from "If A then B" it follows that "If B then A". First your argument assumes that Y is a (necessary or very probable) consequence of X. That is not always the case. Here is a simple example. Let X: You are jogging. That's good: Sports in fresh air. Let Y: You are killed while jogging. Is jogging bad now? No. It was not X that got you half way to Y. It was the presence of a murderer who also might have caught you at home. But even if Y is a consequence of X you cannot blame X of being bad. Here is the simplest example: Let X: You are living. Let Y: You will die. Is living bad for that sake? 

I'll take an out-of-the-box view of this question to hopefully provide an interesting perspective to the question. There is actually a great example of this in modern life here on Earth in the theory of a multiverse (as opposed to a single universe). The question, "How did the universe begin?" has been one justification of a divine being for all of recorded history. It didn't start itself, and everything has a beginning, so there must be someone outside of the universe (God) who started it in motion. Modern physics cannot disprove this theory. Even the Big Bang has the question "what caused it?" "God did it" is an untestable explanation that is enough to confirm belief for many people. However, this is a problem for people who do not believe in a divine being. People have thought up a wide range of ideas to this solution, but few hold up under investigation. Enter the multiverse. The multiverse is a relatively recent astrophysics theory that states that there are an infinite number of universes in every possible state (only some are capable of sustaining life and each can have different laws of physics). Each spontaneously pops into existence by creating equal amounts of matter and anti-matter and energy and anti-energy. Each universe is totally separate from the others, so no one in one can observe the others. The multiverse theory (and the existence of universes that cannot support life and are not observed - only believed in) allows some people to see meaning in existence by providing an alternate hypothesis to the existence of a divine being. So in this case, a universe as described above does have "meaning."