The Rohloff "500/14 Speedplay" has 14 gears and a difference of 526%, so the fast/high/hard gear is 5.26 larger than the slow/low/easy gear. 

Your other option is to get your welder to make a bridge between the existing seatpost and the existing stays, and then mount a normal saddle on that using an old-school saddle clamp but rotated down. The risk here is the saddle will fall sideways if the bridge tube is round, so perhaps your metalworker can find some half-inch box section and mangle the bike clamp so it goes around a square profile. Edit: Here's a spin bike with something vaguely similar. The seatpost can adjust up/down, and the horizontal box section sits in a channel, and can't move sideways. It can move fore-aft if the hold-down bolt is released. On top of that is a short vertical round tube, where a normal seat clamp fits. 

Assumptions: the bike is a geared bike with a rear shifting mechanism that works okay. You're looking to replace the chainring(s) on the front because they're rusted. If you keep the same number of teeth, then everything else will continue. However if the chainring is worn, there's a good chance you'll need a new chain and new rear cassette as well. Old and new parts don't play nicely on bikes, because they bed-into each other. Also, if the cranks have rusted you might find the bottom bracket is in similar condition. If you want it going and don't care about originality, just replace the whole bottom bracket with a cartridge. So much nicer and easier, and often more water-resistant too. The thing that will decide whether you want the same or slightly different sized chain rings is the front derailleur mechanism, in how far it can move and what differences it can cope with. If you intend riding the bike on hills, a smaller inner ring might be a good change. Likewise, if you top-out then a bigger big ring might help. The rear mech doesn't care so much about the front, it only cares about chainline. 

Answer: No. But you could make design and make one. You'd have to have some creative way to safely disengage one of the chains, and let the higher gear click away on its freewheel. Try sketching up a drawing and posting it for feedback. Not just a description in words, an initial diagram. 

This is the RUN view if you're into that kinda sport. If you have an applewatch there's a thing for that, but I have no experience of this. It looks like this: 

Latch half-opened. Notice the lever is connected to the latch by a cam mechanism, so as the lever moves the latch moves. You cannot have the latch closed and the lever open. 

I've just bought some Look Keo Easy pedals. They have no tension adjust at all, and are locked at the easiest tension. The only problem I've found is that they don't hang right, so will be giving their bearings a lube and service after less than 100 km. Could be they're just a bit too stiff. Why road cleats on a MTB? They were cheap and I already had a pair of road shoes. Testing an idea is always good before committing silly amounts of money to something that may be unnecessary, or worse detrimental. 

Do you use pedal's with cleats? Road shoe cleats will add a bit of thickness to your shoe's sole. MTB cleats are recessed into the sole, but the sole is thicker, which may help too. This could be an expensive way to gain a small amount. Depending on the stop, there may be a kerb/curb where you can place a foot that is higher than the road surface. 

Consider the scratches as war wounds. They're only cosmetic, but they show you ride; that you're not a cycling poseur. If the scratches really bother you, consider bogging it with automotive filler, then file and sand to shape, and paint. It will add grammes of weight though! As for adjusting the hoods, you need a 5mm (maybe 4mm, maybe 6mm) hex driver tool, aka an allen key. You probably has one on your bike multi-tool, but sometimes a longer shop one gives more torque. Unpeel the top of your brake hoods like this: 

Start with the easier solutions above, like long handles on sockets, ring spanners, and penetrating oil periodically for a couple days. Here's your last resorts... For if the easier solutions don't work. 

Ultimately the limiting factor is likely to be your Confidence, and the point at which you reach for the brake levers. 

So the body doesn't need to move up as much as the bike does, but the bike is blocked by the rider's body. Here's a method: 

MTB These ones are primarily for off road or muddy use. They flap around a bit more, weigh less, and catch a lot more air. They also tend to snap off in any form of accident, which is not altogether bad but they're also not overly durable. Almost always made of plastic, these MTB ones don't have a lot of support other than one bolt or clamp. MTB ones may not provide a lot of protection for the drive chain - this picture has an additional one down low on the rear wheel, but in really serious mud this could clagg up with grass and pog. Significant plus is that these are a lot cheaper than full guards. 

Expanding directly on the differences on the two 9 speed cassettes. CS-HG200 is a Tourney and weighs 

Pool noodles, cut lengthwise and held in place with gaffer tape (or hockey tape if you're so-inclined) Bonus marks for colour-coordinating with your bike and car. Do the whole length of the rack upstand, not just the contact point. 

Not ideal, but here's a lady's frame used with cantilever brakes and a pulley hanging off the seat clamp, to give some ideas. This would not really fix your problems because the cable still faces upwards. 

Check the bike over. Low pressure tyres are very hard to ride, so add air with a pump. Look for anything wrong, that's anything rubbing or otherwise out of line. Walk the bike around and make sure it coasts okay. Rotate the pedal crank while lifting the rear wheel off the ground and make sure it looks right with no bad noises/feelings. 

The only time pressure is on your "soft tissues" is when you're head-down and sprinting in an aero posture. For most blokes a soft saddle does MORE damage than a medium or firm saddle, because the sit-bones sink into the softness and pressure ends up in places it shouldn't. Somewhat like lying your head back onto a soft pillow and your ears get covered/touched. Saddles are quite hard to shop for too - you can spend silly money and still have something that never quite works. Depending on your location there may be saddle "libraries" that let you check out a saddle for a while, and see how they work for you. Some examples from a quick google: 

I've been reading a couple of questions on weight loss lately, and cycling or jogging before breakfast was one of the tips. The justification is it kick starts the body's metabolism into "make energy" rather than "make fat" 10 km isn't a huge ride - should be about 20-25 minutes on the bike. You should remember to hydrate sufficiently too. The full video on cycling for weight loss was 

There are three "parts" or zones to a cable-operated brake. 1) The hand lever 2) Inner cable and outer housing 3) The caliper. So you released the inner cable from the caliper. Try pulling the cable through the outer housing and see how much hand pressure you need to apply... it should be relatively minimal. If you have to get a good grip and pull with shoulder muscles, then the cable is suffering friction with the outer. The fix here is to replace both the inner cable and outer housing. With the cable disconnected, the lever should have tension and pull itself back to the open position without problems. If it doesn't restore by itself, then it may be corroded, or deformed (ie plastic or metal bent) You do say cheapo kids bike which normally means terrible plastic levers and budget stamped metal single-side pull calipers. Sometimes these just get tired and the spring power is not enough to overcome the resistance from the inner cable. Sadly some cheapo bikes are really not worth fixing - you have to make a judgement call. 

Materials - some people prefer plastics, some chromoplastics (plastics that look like metal) and there's also steel and aluminium/aluminum options. Probably have a hard time finding carbon fibre/fiber ones, but they may exist. 

Petrol would be used as a degreaser on the rust before sanding. Turpentine would be similar, but that's even more expensive than petrol. Have a look at Suggestions for removal of old chrome? where I am doing something similar to some handlebars. That question will be updated as progress continues. 

Recovery The rider is pretty likely to have suffered physical injury too - Collarbones are are particularly vulnerable because the rider has gone Over The Bars (OTB) as the bike stops. The wheel is very probably scrap. The best fix is to replace the whole wheel (rim/spokes/hub/QR/axle/rotor) You should be able to salvage the tyre/tube, but examine closely the bead near the fold. Stretching may stop it from seating safely on the new rim. Also check the forks closely. Look for damage to the legs, and misalignment. If you have problems getting the wheel out/in because the dropouts are too close OR too far apart then the fork needs servicing, or full replacement. Headsets can suffer as well due to the leverage applied, putting steering bearings under additional load. Any doubts and you should disassemble the headset, and examine the steerer for bending, bearings for damage, and cups for dents. Frames - a classic pattern of damage on older steel bikes was a ring of rust around the top tube and the down tube, approximately 50mm/2 inches aft of the headset weld or 25mm/1 inch after the end of a lug. However modern alloy bikes tend to be much better at resisting damage here. Do inspect for cracks, and include a periodic crack check in your usual maintenance procedure. At best, you will be able to reuse the hub and rotor, and relate them onto a replacement rim and spokes. Examine them very closely for damage before reuse. Reusing spokes/nipples is a bad idea because the ones on the outside of the taco have been stressed and could be elongated. So the minimum damage is a new rim and spokes. 

Its called a "step through" frame, and was initially intended for women wearing skirts. Notice the skirt guard in the upper-left corner of the rear wheel. There's no connection with Asia at all, would have originally been English and European. The curve of the top tube does allow a little more flex, damping out vibrations a bit more. As for comfort - it really makes no difference. There's probably a fraction more side-to-side flex than a high top-tube diamond-frame, but the added damping is a positive. Really cheap and bomb-proof are likely to entail a lot of weight by using additional metal. That alone might make for a heavy ride.