Roman concrete used lime mortar, strongly alkali. I don't know if they used it in dams, but it's plausible they might so it's not too far a guess. Alkalis react with acids, which is why modern concrete and cement also come in sulphate (i.e., SO4 ion) resisting versions. Carbonic acid is also an issue. Acids were well within Roman technology, although I'm not sure of the practicalities. But if you could weaken a critical point with acid, or even by just gradually acidifying the water in some static part of the reservoir in contact with the critical mortar, perhaps it would gradually weaken the dam. As a twist, maybe a tunnel would allow the sub-surface part of the dam foundation to be attacked, removing critical support invisibly, and without having to do it slowly to avoid detection, until suddenly......? 

A huge amount of the answer depends on your motives and aims. Did you join to further some specific research, or because of your interest/work in some specific field? Then you'll probably know exactly what experiments you want to do and can't normally. The answer will be dictated by what you want to learn, that you feel hindered from discovering under normal rules. Are you simply a sadist, or want to feel powerful? (Or perhaps amoral/sociopathically curious?). Then you'll probably have no research goal, just an interest in hideous experiments. Perhaps you'll figure a goal on the way. Are you weak and easily led? Then you'll probably end up going along with others, who will be in one of these above groups. If none of these - why did you join? 

I'd suggest having the magnetic poles stronger and not aligned with the cold zones of the planet. (Neptune and Uranus have magnetic axes strongly tilted to the "_vertical" axis, so its not unreasonable). Also very strong fields and some kind of suitable small companion object to the sun..... This has some interesting side effects for your scenario..... The magnetic poles would be located in prime habitable areas of the planet. In the area around the pole, compasses wouldn't work any more, and the effect of magnetosphere protection from cosmic particles wouldn't be present - charged particles would be attracted to those areas, and if the star system was comparatively active then a person entering these areas would find no compasses working, weird coloured sky and electrical/atmospheric effects, dangerous mysterious wasting fevers/sicknesses unlike any other after a while due to higher radiation levels (dangerously high in some cases - say the sun had a small companion star or object that gave out a large level of particles or xrays), attraction to some particles and lack of attraction for particles that might have provided proctection elsewhere, spooky absence of life (much life will leave and the flaura/fauna will be markedly different). It would need fleshing out but in principle maybe this could provide a zone of the kind described. 

My guess is that they already do exist, just not in the super-powerful-laser form you have in mind. Nature seems to have discovered and utilised a remarkable range of capabilities, so much so that I would be amazed if there wasn't some niche (even on a microscopic scale) where synchronised electromagnetic radiation didn't arise....... 

To add to the answers above, the problem is that there's a limit to how fast you can get heat out of any object. That rate depends mainly on the thickness and material of the object, the heat capacities of the surrounding air/fluid and the object, the presence of any surface effects hindering heat flow (surface ice, clothing, air layers, fur/hair and ease of heat transfer across the object's boundary..), and the difference in temperature between the object and the air/fluid. The problem is that most living beings we know are thick enough to hinder heat transfer out, air has a limited and smallish heat capacity, and there is a limit to how much colder it can get outside. Basically "no". Not possible. 

You can never be sure by testing it using self inflicted injury. It could be a healing rather than immortality spell, or wear off after some time (years?), or not provide the full protection described to him After all, if you were the magician wouldn't you want a hero who, when you reappeared 50 years later to tell him actually he can be killed using something not obvious, and you plan to do so unless he does exactly what you ask? Also crossref the Norse myth of Baldur and Loki - Baldur was made immortal and all his friends spend their evenings tryingto kill him for fun. The one thing that could kill him was a weapon made from mistletoe (a small plant). Unfortunately Loki didn't see a need to tell him or anyone else that minor fact, before passing such a weapon to one of the people playing the game of "use your weapon on Baldur" ...... Your hero's first quest (before or after whatever else he has to do) should be to find someone else learned, who he can trust, and who can tell him what's been done to him. I would suspect that whatever it is, is not known, in the whole cosmos, by only one person..... 

You quote Diamond, in a video. But he did discuss your further question in a book ("Guns, Germs and Steel"), I don't know if you saw it or what the video covers. In the book, he examines the natural resources available in prehistory on each continent (originating seeds/plants, animals suitable for human needs as food or labour, etc) and their usefulness for developing human society. He observes that humans have throughout prehistory had immense knowledge of their natural resources and animals/plants not tamed and used domestically tended to have reasons for these when examined. He also notes that domestication isn't the same as taming - for example elephants can be tamed but have not yet been domesticated despite their usefulness. He then identifies the qualities (mostly commonsense but some surprising) needed to make an animal suitable for domestication as observed from domestication worldwide, such as hierarchical structures (humans able to take over a hierarchy in that species), social and/or harem structures (the social structure needs to enable keeping both males and females domestically as needed, some species' social structures make this very difficult), mating requirements (some animals need aggressive fighting or large spaces for mating "runs" which don't lend themselves to domestication), and so on. I'd have to look it up but zebras were an example he cited of a species that seems like it would be useful but on closer inspection doesn't meet the criteria that allowed domestication. If it had been possible (within early human competence) it would probably have happened. Exact reasons he gives in summary (looked it up now) Domesticable animals need to meet many criteria ("to avoid many causes of failure"); failure on one or two can be enough to prevent their domestication. Domestication involves transforming a species (usually into a similar but different species) so it will be more suited to human needs. These changes include changes to size, hair/fur/wool, milk yield, etc. Domestication failure was not due to society deficiencies (when horses and cattle were available they were rapidly adopted, yet not one tribe of all those in the zebra's range within Africa domesticated the zebra). Similarly many more species are routinely kept as pets, but zebras were never a common pet either. Mitochondrial DNA shows that those species that were domesticated, were often repeatedly domesticated - they were found suitable by multiple societies and tribes over many times and places, suggesting that universal shunning of a species was not an accident. General reasons for failure - diet (finicky? Biomass efficiency?); growth rate (domestication tends to require reasonably rapid growth and maturity to make it worthwhile, it's easier to tame than gradually domesticate a long-lived species or one that will take undue effort to keep/feed/protect until maturity); captive breeding; temperament; panic tendency (some deer will batter themselves to death to try and escape, if panicked); social structure. Zebras specifically - become more dangerous as they age;more uniformly bad disposition (you can't find a breeding line that lacks this, unlike our understanding of ancestral horses it's not really "some but not others" nor does it seem a trait that can gradually be developed in any usual domestication time period); bite and don't let go (injure more zoo keepers than tigers do); virtually impossible to lasso as they can avoid a rope (even by rodeo champions) ..... and from other sources it seems they also tend to panic under stress too. 

The main point is exactly as @nzaman said, the state of life we left behind, specifically multicellular life. Life has taken billions of years to get to (what seems to be) the first technological sentience on the planet, but what would happen after we vanish is a different story, mainly because a lot of that time was taken up with evolving some fairly major jumps in basic complexity of life on earth - cells, multicellular life, cell differentiation, the ATP energy cycle, photosynthesis, land based life, the basic neuronal//brain/spinal cord system, the additional various specialised regions of the brain and the extra functioning they enabled... and a load of stuff I don't know as I'm no expert. Some of those developments also got prompted by climatic conditions. If those (or similar) have to be re-evolved, then it'll take billions of years and there won't be time. Also, if too much has to evolve again, we lose a large part of planetary life conditions in about 1-2 billion years (our protective magnetic field, ozone layer, axial orientation, atmosphere, and surface water, are all unstable on that timescale). Life may evolve to cope and 2 billion is a lot, but it may make it harder. If not, we can assume that developing comparable life will happen relatively fast (see below) but we have no data how long it will take to develop technologically capable life, as we just don't know how readily that happens. If we lose humans and (say) mammalian life, then we may see an "evolutionary explosion" as often happens when a large niche for life becomes vacant - in a very few million years (about 10-20m), life in other areas explodes in diversity to occupy the niches. (Also relevant term: "evolutionary radiation"/adaptation) In that case, and given the record, it looks (casually and fairly speculatively and unscientifically) as if rewriting the dominant life form happens on the order of 50-150 million year part on average. For example, dinosaurs took over and died out over a span of about 165my (of course they existed before and some survived after); mammals took over and reached dominance in 65my... So maybe a pure guess could be that this sort of overturn happens every 50-150my and maybe a couple or so of these happen before we get to one that leads to intelligent /sentient life? Its not much to go on, but we only have one data point from one life form on this planet, its hard to do much. (Note that circumstances such as physical state, volcanic/solar activity etc won't make much difference unless very extreme. Life will simply evolve to handle the planet as it is, if it can, as it always has) Update As an afterthought, I also remember that TV series "The Future Is Wild" also looked at this question, and specifically how life might evolve if humans vanished. It suggested possible new intelligence in the order of 200my, and pointed to molluscs (=squid, octopi) as candidates to migrate to land and take over the intelligent life niche, after mammalian life subsequently happened to vanish. I'm not sure how realistic that is, so its more a resource or info for the OP. 

The answer above say it nicely. Science would be confused (as in, terribly and physics-defyingly confused). Yes. Completely. If they had time to be. To see why, we need a basic point about quantum physics. Without going into great detail, some particles (known as fermions, and including electrons) simply cannot be packed "too close" because of quantum effects. When forced together under pressure or by some force, this effect manifests as a force arising between them (known as "degeneracy force/pressure") , that resists the force that would otherwise pack them closer. This is the reason behind everyday matter taking up space, it's why chemistry and chemical reactions happen (in basic terms the Periodic Table is largely related to electron "shells" as they are loosely called which is why alkali metals share similar properties, as do halogens, and so on). In a star, the fusion reactions take place in the core (or for a large star, in layers deep in the star). Although massive and generating a very large gravitional force inward, the star doesn't collapse for 2 reasons - 1) heat, 2) the "exclusion effect" described above, both counteract gravity. Now consider the same star, when its core runs out of fusable material. If it's below a certain size, the forces between particles (from degeneracy pressure) can counteract the inward gravity indefinitely, alone. So below a certain size, the star simply won't collapse.... and a supernova is a stellar collapse phenomenon. No collapse, no sn. Turns out the size needed for exclusion forces alone, not to be able too counteract gravity, is about 8x the suns mass. So the sun simply can't go supernova, now or ever, left to itself. The most common way for a star under 8 solar masses to become a supernova is if it isn't left to itself - it gets extra mass from a companion star. One day, enough mass reached, collapse! - called a type 1 (or 1a) supernova. The sun doesn't have a companion star though. However, if the star is larger than 8 solar masses, its different. There are 3 or 4 possible/known versions of "different", 2 of them give a supernova. Around 8-9 solar masses isn't quite enough to directly trigger a supernova, but it is enough to trigger a process that gradually removes free electrons from the core, faster than they can be replaced. This reduces the exclusion force instead, so one day - bang! Collapse and supernova. About 10+ solar masses it's more direct. The star burns all its fuel (in a well-known sequence that sees it fusing its previous fusion products in layers, at even higher temperatures), but it finally runs out of fusable fuel, and it already has a massive enough core that exclusion forces can't counter its own inward gravity without the additional outward forces of active fusion processes. So it collapses. But you only get a supernova from this process up to a certain point - if the star was very, very massive it doesn't get a chance to sn, it either collapses directly to a black hole (or weakly supernova's then collapses back into one), or it blows itself apart via pair production fluctuations. (That's cases 3+4). Whatever the route, the supernova process broadly follows a similar path. The core - that's the innermost part of the star, not all of it - suddenly finds it can't sustain itself against the inward force of gravity, even with the exclusion principle at work. It suddenly kind of detaches from the rest of the star and collapses inward - and by "suddenly" think in terms of milliseconds and 3/4 of the speed of light. Massive heating, massive outburst of energy (largely in the form of neutrinos), the neutrinos unlike photons can escape from the core easily and add a further runaway loss of energy and support to the collapsing core, it becomes more likely that electrons combine with protons forming neutrons removing even more degeneracy pressure, in the extreme temperatures and pressures elements more massive than iron and silicon are created, 10% or so of its entire mass is converted to energy - and then the inward free-falling core reaches a density around that of neutrons at its heart, and this, finally, stops the collapse. Instead (and we don't fully know the mechanics of it), the infalling core rebounds, and blasts the blissfully unaware outer parts of the star into space in a huge detonation, leaving behind the newly formed neutron core as a neutron star or other similar object, and a nebula of expanding gas. But that, alas, is one thing our own star will (almost certainly) never do. What would we see, if it could and did? Well... the best description I ever heard was something like this: "what would deliver the brighter flash to your retina (assuming visibility) - a 50 megaton thermonuclear weapon detonating on your eyeball, or a star going supernova at the same distance as our sun?" (the comment below says this is from xkcd, and so it is) One guess :) And by something like a billion times.