Kaleissin is right that the original Proto-Indo-European root *mori-, mōri-, "sea/swamp/lake?", was probably just a large body of non-flowing water, be it technically a sea, swamp, or a lake (but not a river). Cognates in English are mere "sea (obs.), lake/pond (poet./dial.), marsh (dial.)", marsh, and moor, but Latin mare, "sea". For other reflexes see this list at the University of Texas, which is based on Pokorny. Be warned that their website is not always completely accurate. The article on Meer in Duden's Herkunfstswörterbuch explains it too: 

Here it seems clear that neither the speaker nor the listener believe that it is really an apology. Can you say, he said "I apologise", but he did not in fact apologise? Suddenly this seems more reasonable. If you repeat the offence, even while saying I apologise, you are not truly apologising—or are you? It depends on which linguistic level you read I apologise on. If you read it as "I am making an apologetic statement", you are apologising even in this example; if you read it as "I am sincerely sorry", then you are not apologising. Irony makes it so that an utterance is interpreted (by both parties) at a deeper illocutionary or perlocutionary level that is very different from the superficial, basic, locutionary meaning. With irony, you can make any statement mean anything. So it may be a declaration at some level, but not at another. It depends on how you read it, and, again, I think this shows how Searle's classification has its limits in terms of usefulness. 

Native speakers will probably learn nowhere as a spoken word first. So they already have its pronunciation fixed in their minds before ever reading it. Secondly, once you know what it means, it only makes sense that it is no+where, so semantics reinforce this pronunciation beyond any possible confusion. 

Most people would use a question mark instead of an asterisk with well-attested languages if the form or construction is doubtful. In proto-languages, the question mark is sometimes used to indicate a form that is even more uncertain than the common hypothetical ones—for example, if I am in doubt as to the most probable form of a certain root. Some people use the percentage sign to mark something that is only grammatical in a certain non-standard dialect. 

The main problem is that most words cannot be translated one to one. For simple, concrete words like fire, it's less of a problem. But consider a word like up. It has many different senses that would all need to be translated into different words in those other languages: it can mean "upwards", "finished", etc. Or consider a word like certainly. It can mean "as is certain", but also "granted" as in a concession. Etc. That's why even the simplest dictionaries have multiple senses for most words. I'll end with the entry for up on dictionary.com, a relatively simple dictionary: 

There's also croix and champs, but those probably come from plurals, in which nominative and accusative are formally identical. Italian uomo (pl. uomini) appears to come from the nominative homo too. The Vocabolario Etimologico della Lingua Italiana by Pianigiani is not entirely clear; lacking further knowledge about the phonology of that time and a reliable source, we cannot be absolutely certain that the word wasn't shortened from huomino, or something like that. The same applies to Provençal hom. This Spanish etymological-dictionary website says hombre comes from hominem but luz, paz, voz, cruz from lux, pax, vox, crux; however, I would not trust this dictionary: it sounds rather amateurish all over. I couldn't find any good, relatively modern etymological dictionary for Spanish. 

Note that it depends on context whether a construction is grammatical: if I were writing about standard English, I'd have to use an asterisk; but, if I were writing about a certain dialect where this construction is actually used by some, the asterisk is out of place. Note also that "natural language" is a flexible and sometimes unclear concept; if you are researching English poetry of the 16th century, it is much harder to acquire enough evidence than with modern prose. Context or explanation should make it clear what natural language is supposed to be in a certain text. 

Adding /s/ is also quite frequent, especially with consonant stems. The resulting letter may be an x if the present stem ended on -c- or -g-. 

The supine stem (past participle) is regularly (but by no means always) formed by adding -t- after the theme vowel, if present, where theme vowel -ē- changes into -i-. This -i-tus sometimes also happens with consonant stems. Supine stems are just as irregular and unpredictable as perfect stems, and many verbs even have two interchangeable supine stems. 

Etc. Some verbs can typically take this construction (like consider), and some adjectives typically allow this construction with many verbs (like first). 

According to traditional syntax, these are all participles modifying nouns/pronouns. The difference is that the examples 1a–c are clearly predicative, while 2a is purely attributive (modifying a noun), and 2b–c are somewhere in between. Compare she came first, he arrived late: first belongs to she syntactically, but it also describes the action. Those are called predicative adjectives. Non-predicative adjectives and participles (which are in a way a kind of adjectives) modify only the noun, whereas predicative adjectives are said to modify both the verb and the noun the belong to. The distinction between predicative and non-predicative adjectives is necessarily a bit vague, as can be seen in 2b and 2c, but it can be useful. Another thing is that attributive adjectives can be defining and non-defining, just like relative clauses (the table that I bought v. the table, which I bought). When a postpositional participle is non-defining, a comma is usually added. Example 2a is a good example of a defining adjective/participle. 

If I provide you with descriptive information, and I either expect you to act in my interest or I am sympathetic to your interest—because in the long term a strong community may help me protect or spread my genes—, then I increase your power to further my interest. For knowledge is power. In that way, descriptive statements may help my genes spread and survive. 

I'd like to add a few of the underlying reasons why the Greek half of the Empire never took to Latin as much as the western half. During Antiquity and the early Middle Ages, the population and the economic power of the eastern half of the Mediterranean was greater than that of the western half. Its culture had a longer history, and Greek literature and philosophy were a revered cornerstone of the Roman Empire. That is why the Greek world (the elites in most eastern cities had been using Greek for centuries) was not as open to adopting Latin. When the court moved to Constantinople in the 4th century AD, Latin was used by the government for a century or two, but even that was not enough. In the west, however, the Romans had encountered many Celtic cultures, which did not have a tradition of literature and philosophy as ancient and respectable as that of the Greeks. The Romans were seen as bringers of culture in great parts of Gaul and Spain. Moreover, several different languages were spoken in the cities: Celtic languages/dialects, Greek, and probably Punic in the various Carthaginian cities. In addition, before the Romans came, urban life in the west was not nearly as developed as in the east; except perhaps in the south of Italy and the south of Gaul—but that was surpassed by the cities of Asia Minor or Greece or Egypt or Mesopotamia. Consequently, the comparative economic power of Rome was far stronger in the west than in the east. By the time the German tribes arrived, from the 4th century AD onwards, Gaul and Spain had become fairly Romanized. The influx of Germanic people was not enough to disturb this in the more urbanized regions. Nevertheless, it is said that French contains a great many elements from both the Celtic substrate and the Germanic superstrate languages. I don't know much about Spanish, but there is probably some influence there too from substrate and superstrate languages, notably Arabic, which was spoken in most of Spain for six centuries (roughly between the 8th and the 15th century AD). In Italy and Sicily, Roman influence was strongest, because they were closest to Rome, and because they comprised the first provinces the Romans conquered, in the 3rd century BC. Etruria was conquered centuries before that, so that little is left of Etruscan that we know of, except a few loan words like persona, I believe. In addition, Sicily was divided between Carthage and Greece, so that it was probably not uniformly Greek. In southern Italy and eastern Sicily, there were many very large and powerful Greek cities—notably Syracuse on Sicily—together called Magna Graecia, "Great Greece". Syracuse had about 300,000 inhabitants in its days of glory, rivalling even with Athens. This may have been enough for large parts of (former) Magna Graecia to withstand cultural pressure from nearby Rome: they probably never fully adopted Latin in the Roman era. After Justinian had reconquered most of Italy in the 6th century AD, the south remained under Greek Byzantine rule for several centuries more. In fact, about 30,000 speakers of Griko still exist in southern Italy today (Wikipedia). 

An asterisk is generally used to indicate that a certain form or construction is not found in natural language. To be precise, it means there is insufficient evidence to assume that it could exist or could once have existed in natural language. When describing proto-languages, this usually means that a certain root or word has been reconstructed: based on phonological rules, we think it must have been somewhat like this—but we cannot be sure, as it is always possible that some unique irregularity would result in a different form, and we have no written sources that contain this form. When a form has never been found in a real source, we say it has not been attested; in other words, it is unattested. In most proto-languages, all forms are hypothetical, so that they should all be preceded by an asterisk. With modern languages, we usually have plenty of sources to establish whether a certain form is possible. In fact, many linguists make up example sentences when they need to, because many forms and constructions are not at all controversial. So I might use Achilles hated Hector in an article if I needed an example. However, I may also want to use an example that is ungrammatical, i.e. that I believe would never be used naturally in the language under observation. Then I would put an asterisk in front of it: 

Consonant b becomes unvoiced and t may or may not turn into s (but verb stems on -b- are rare at any rate): 

It is much easier to find an antecedentless (and postcedentless) indefinite pronoun when it refers to something adverbial (a time or place) rather than a thing or person. Both Latin and Greek are (far) more likely to add an antecedent than English or Dutch. I was able to find a Latin example, but not a Greek example. Nevertheless, I think the origin of our antecedentless indefinite clause lies in indefinite clauses that do have antecedents, as in Latin and Greek. 

Where I come from, inflection is seen as a kind of derivation, but one that is usefully distinguished from other kinds. It cannot be denied that an inflected form is derived from a stem, like any ordinary derivation; but inflection in general exhibits some properties that other kinds of derivation do not, like some of the ones Lawler mentions in his hand-out. However, verbal inflection is in many ways very different from nominal inflection: a fairly sharp line can be drawn between the two—sharper than the line between inflection on one hand and other kinds of derivation on the other. It could be argued that the division verbal derivation v. nominal derivation is more significant in certain contexts than that between inflectional and other derivation. Consider for example Latin mulier, "woman". I can add the non-inflectional suffix -bris to turn it into an adjective, so that amicitia muliebris could mean "the friendship of a woman". Instead, I could simply use the (inflectional) genitive, mulier-is, which is also normally translated as "of a woman" and which is in many contexts interchangeable with the adjective. I cannot do anything with verbal derivation that would result in the same meaning "of a woman", be it inflectional or non-inflectional derivation. Simple inflection can also be used to create a new verb. The first person singular present ending -o can be stuck on a stem to create a verb out of nothing. The stem reg-, which means something like "straight, right, lead" becomes a verb if you simply add -o, so rego "I lead, direct", second person reg-i-s "you lead". The nominal suffix -s turns it into a noun in the nominative: rex (<*regs), "leader, king" (genitive reg-is "of a king", etc.). Is this added -o derivation or inflection? Or both? An important reason why we maintain this distinction between inflection and non-inflectional derivation is tradition. Not only is this a tradition in the terminology of descriptive linguistics that dates back thousands of years, but it was also a self-fulfilling prophesy among prescriptivists. Because a full paradigm was (and is) the norm, people felt more inclined to fill up any existing holes and create new forms. The farther you go back in history, the more suppletion you will see. It is speculated that the oldest cases were suffixes that were not at all distinctive compared other suffixes, and possibly even enclitics, and possibly even wholly separate words before that. For these reasons, it is best to treat inflection as distinct type of derivation.