Canceling inheritance tax would not be a social democratic idea. It is, however, a Republican party wet dream. Less than 70% of Americans own their own home (even with a mortgage) and less than half of those own it clear of a mortgage (and most of those would be older people). 

Depending on how wealthy your country is and how committed it is to social medicine I think the results would be different. Countries that can afford increased health and education costs might see little change, beyond an increase in taxes to cover the expenses. Countries without socialized medicine systems would see either increases in private health insurance costs or might suffer the effects of not investing in proper care. Poorer countries would likely suffer increases in poverty levels (as these problems will all reduce the capacity of individuals and society as a whole to generate income). As there's a clear link between poverty and crime you would have to expect that the poorer parts of any society would, once again, bare the brunt of the effects, suffering increased poverty, increased crime as both victim and perpetrators. They would be the least able to cope and the most likely to suffer the resultant knock-on effects of debt and increased risk of serious health problems and shorter lives. Civilization, as such, would continue. There would be changes, all negative. It would probably not be catastrophic in the long term, although a sudden onset of these problems on a population wide basis would drastically reduce the effectiveness of most government services and agencies in the short term. Again in the short term there could be a drastic shortage of skilled personal who can work at normal capacity. Governments are generally designed to be robust to personal loss. Although the loss of a lot of people in a short period would cause problems, it would not cause too many as government and even the military and police are, in many ways, procedurally organized and while standards might drop for a while, they would not be crippled. On the plus side, BrExit negotiations are so screwed up that the can't really get worse, and Congress can't agree a budget now so no change at all in Washington. :-) In the longer term there would probably be an even greater deepening of the rich-poor pay gap, as the demand for skilled and effective workers would generally exceed supply in this scenario. However they'd probably be taxed or levied one way or another to cover the costs for society as a whole, so I suspect they would not be getting substantially richer anyway. In the longer, longer term there would clearly be medical research to find a cure Over the medium term I'd expect most governments to develop enough emergency measures to cope. Medium term would be e.g. a year or two. 

Gotta have mid ranking managers with little or no real power. Planet's full of them and while they're a nuisance and get in the way really powerful people (like engineers) they're not going to be able to form and execute any plan, either singly or in a group, that could possibly destabilize anything. No revolution was ever started by a mid ranking manager. Well, probably. 

Firstly, I do not think a law blocking property sales because of your age would be constitutional or even legal - it would be discriminatory. I do not see any such law as surviving the first round of legal challenges, much less passing the supreme court "hurdle". 

Define "a long time". Years ? Decades ? Centuries ? Thousands of years or millions ? Let's say centuries. You need airlocks for leaving the sphere (if you want to). In principle you could prevent most outgassing on those timescales. Note that if an asteroid impacts it could create a leak. It's going to depend on the thickness of your shell, but at best you'd need ongoing maintenance. This leads to another issue with a single large (Earth-sized) sphere. If you have lots of O'Neill cylinders and you think there's an asteroid on the way, it's likely you can move far enough out of the way to avoid the problem at all. Such a cylinder has a huge mass, but it's movable and you can design in enough structure to make it safe for small impulse engines to do this. Your sphere has a huge mass and it's a bigger target. You have to move it further and you need much more energy to move it (and of course return it to it's original orbit). This makes it more vulnerable to asteroids, IMO. To afford extra protection you need a thicker shell. But that means you're making an even more inefficient use of resources than a fleet of O'Neill cylinders would. So it's a poor choice. 

I think perhaps a more practical approach would be a creature that spits or projects two substances which are relatively unreactive apart, but which will combine spontaneously with each other in a violent or corrosive way. A create doing this might store these liquids (or something in liquid suspension) in two separate areas of the body and the propel both out aimed at the same point. Both will combine on impact and burn or corrode. This avoids the need for extremely corrosive acids to be stored or moved internally. I'm afraid my knowledge of biochemistry is too limited to go beyond the concept, but I think it would be worth exploring for your creature. I've made this a community wiki so that others can easily expand or contribute to this without comments getting out of hand. 

I cannot see a reason why the device would leave such a large wound. You'd not design a device like this to be so invasive (you'd probably design it not to be invasive at all !). In making such a device you'd be aware of the potential of such damage. You'd make such the device was removable and replaceable. There's no rational reason to make it so heavily embedded in the arm that removing it would result in such a major injury. 

All of this makes no sense. An immune system would not react to anything unless it did something to activate it. Just being present is not enough. Humans could, in fact, probably live on the surface of your planet mass object. Going inside is pointless. 

You're talking about a speed-up factor of 86,400 times faster. An average human walks at about 5 km/hr. Your speedster walks at 432,000 km/hr. The speed of sound in air is about $\frac 1 {400}$th that speed. How fast is "realistic" ? Well you'll need to drop those numbers down a lot. Energy requirements to travel fast are proportional to the square of velocity. So traveling 86,400 times faster requires over 7 Billion times more energy to reach that velocity. That's not remotely realistic. Also keep in mind that you're moving through air and as you start approaching the speed of sound it will become hard to shift out of the way. The technical term you need to be aware of is compressibility. The practical limit for a speedster is probably in the region of sub-sonic, maybe in the 500 km/hr region. Going super-sonic is doable, but your speedster will be leaving sonic booms in their wake and rapidly draw attention from angry mobs and the authorities. My Brain Hurts. Alas even that 500 km/hr may be impractical. You've a brain and nervous system that operates at electrochemical speeds, which is regrettably slow. This page from Wikipedia on Nerve Conduction Velocity tells us that the faster speed would be about $120$ m/s or about $430$ km/hr. Remember those speed limits posted on roads and all that stuff your driver instructor told you about vehicle separation ? That's for a good reason : people can't react that quickly. The limit is how your brain and nervous system works. Your speedster racing through the streets at 500 km/hr can't (if they have a human nervous system) react fast enough to avoid collisions. So your speedster is really not human at all - no human brain or nervous system, no human anatomy because that can't support such rapid movement. Now humans do drive cars and other vehicles fast, but keep in mind the context that is done is. Driving at 100 km/hr on the motorway is different from trying that on the street - the distances between potential problems is larger giving you more reaction time. Likewise other forms of high speed transport. 

But they must also have some way of being communicated with and controlled. The AI can use that to, even if it needs to do so indirectly. 

Not making steel does not mean you can't make other alloys. I think you need to widen the scope of your thinking here. 

That's so vague as to be useless. Are they enemies ? Are they friends ? Are they neutral ? Are they more advanced, less advanced, about the same ? Are they integrated into your society or completely apart ? Are you able to communicate with them on any level ? If you can't answer detailed questions like this then leave this other race out of your story altogether. 

I think once they discover pizza in cardboard boxes delivered by car or moped no society can be expected to avoid it's own destruction. After all, how can anyone resist Pepperoni Pizza ? So they are doomed, just as we are, unless some clever hamster invents proper microwaveable pizza (or something better than a microwave). 

In theory you can storm any base and take it. In practice you loose most or all of your people doing it. This is almost a certainty when you factor in the nature of the base - all corridors and choke points. It's kill zone heaven for the defenders. For example - put a few containers of Hydrogen and Oxygen in every corridor and blow them when someone enters the corridor (by remote control) - result : Crispy Fried Marine. Makes D-Day at Omaha beach look inviting. Think "Charge Of The Light Brigade" or "Pickett's Charge". That level of suicidal planning. To take the base would probably mean killing every single person in it. There's no easy way to take such a base. You have to fight for very corridor, every room. Even if you did win, you'd look like the Nazis doing it. This has no happy ending, unless you don't like Marines because the casualty rate would be insanely high. So not an option, IMO. The best option : negotiate. Do a deal. Suck it up and make a face saving deal that "looks* like they stay with the US (so they become a new State). Something like that. Maybe they become a US protectorate or some such nonsense. Maybe they'd be OK with that if the cash flow was right. 

First things first : secure this and have a discrete way to use it. How near is near ? investment strategy is dependent on how long terms your investment is for, but how suspicious your apparent success at picking investments will look is also dependent to some extent on how much time passes between buy and sell. It also depends on how you deal with the sell part. Selling at the peak every time will look suspiciously like you know too much. Sell using conservative strategy that may not optimize your profit but will look like someone making reasonable profits consistently without having any suspiciously accurate judgment about when the price will peak. Make the odd deliberate, but plausible, loss. 

Wikipedia has a list of potentially habitable planets and within a 500 light year radius of Earth there are already 11 planets (including Earth) that are possible (including Earth) and 17 more in the "optimistic" category. Now every one of those (except Earth) could turn out to be e.g. a dead, barren world without atmosphere. Or they could all be teaming with varied and abundant plants and animals. We won't know that until either our observational tech gets unimaginably good or we figure out a way to get there and have a look. But the odds that in a galaxy of over 100 billion stars that there isn't at least one region with at one habitable planet in every sphere 1000 light years in diameter nearby are very small (IMO). So it's not statistically unreasonable to expect to find a region with e.g. 10 habitable planets within a sphere of say 2000 light years diameter. 

Dogma rears it head. Dogma is a weakness. Any form of religion is, by definition, a factor that will be considered reactionary by people outside that religion. All a religion does is make it focus for resentment. "Why are we being led by this minority ?" is going to be followed, eventually by "Hang the Bar Stewards !". History is pretty clear on this point. If you have a religion and you want to hold power, it must be a religion the ordinary populace are comfortable with. Which leads us to ... 

I hate to use the expression "impossible", but this is high on my list of things that sound far too hard to bother trying. What you'd actually do ... Sod their dreams. You hypnotize them (or some more sophisticated variant that leaves them in that kind of state). Hook them up to a virtual world controlled by the computer which they see through VR systems (and feel to some extent). Comms from the invaders and scenarios from the computer can now be constructed and controlled in real time with relative ease. How do the invaders speak to the invaded mind ? They speak into the microphone. Because you don't have to control a brain or decode it's activity, you have removed a huge stumbling block. The computer doesn't have to be super anything, just be a comprehensive VR system feeding conventional inputs. The human brain will do the rest for you. From the point of view of the invaded semi-hypnotized person, they'll believe they're in a dream (or whatever) and their own minds will massage the input it gets to match that. This is what people do all the time : map what they get as inputs to a model in a way that matches what they expect to see and hear. It's why e.g. optical illusions work : your brain takes what it sees and maps it to what it expects to see. 

In what way ? Intelligence can take many forms and if they're just randomly intelligent and individual members can funnel their energies into medicine, art, music, literature, games, programming, engineering and so on, that won't really give you many of the 1000 who are actually skilled at the skills of politics and economics that they'll actually desperately need as a small group to survive.