It is sad to see what has become of Ambedkar Buddhism in contemporary India today. For those who do not know Dr. Babasahab Ambedkar, he is the father of the Indian Constitution – a public figure who is far greater and more famous within India than Mathathma Gandhi. If one could ever call someone a Bodhisatva, it is Dr. Ambedkar. After his own conversion as a disciple of the Supreme Buddha, Babasaheb converted all the rest of his half a million people, by Trisaran, Panchasila and 22 vows. This was a historical event in more ways than one. Never in history half a million were converted to any religion at one time and never had conversion been effected by a lay Buddhist and never ever the Hindu Gods and goddesses were denounced by 22 vows which became the inseparable part of rite of conversion to Buddhism in India, and never before it was declared that all and every Buddhist lay person was authorised to convert other willing person. There used to be rite of Upasampada for conversion as a Bhikku, but for lay Buddhist there was traditionally no rite. Ambedkar started this, as he believed one of the reasons of disappearance of Buddhism from India was absence of such a rite. My only criticism of Dr. Ambedkar’s declaration of the famous 22 vows (in 1935 at Yeola in Nashik district in Maharashtra) is the mention of Paramitas. In the number 12 of the 22 vows, he said, “I shall follow the Paramitas prescribed by the Buddha.” The TRUE teachings of the Supreme Buddha do not have any mention of the pāramitās and thus ‘Paramita’ is not Dhamma. The pāramitās are only for the Buddhas. The ‘Buddha Vishaya’ and ‘Loka Vishaya’ is not for the disciples. The entire vast infinite universe is Supreme Buddha's “Vishaya Kshetra”. Our lives are too precious and short to waste time on these unwanted topics. Paramita is one such. Today India has lost the Order of the Gautama Buddha. Those who call themselves as Buddhists have political/social goals as their central component. Furthermore, they have made the Triple Gem impure by worshiping Hindu “Demigods”, by believing in horoscopes, following auspicious times, and even in having a higher regard to being vegetarians [like Devadattha (Buddha’s cousin) & his teacher, Nighanta-Naatha-Puthra] than the Five Precepts. Thus for those few remaining disciples of the Supreme Buddha it is very difficult in the present day to meet in person a 'Kalyana-Mitta' / ‘Noble (or good) Friend’ in Dhamma. For them I would recommend the Buddhagyan Ashram, as there you can find the Kalyana-Mitta that you seek. Many in and around this Ashram in India were able to develop confidence in the Triple Gem because the monks there practice the Dhamma truely. Whenever an Indian friend in Dhamma ask for my advice, always my advice to them is to go to the Buddhagyan Ashram even for a week or two as it would be a life-changing experience for him or her. It is very sad that Dr. Ambedkar passed away too soon before showing the people of India that the Dhamma-Vinaya is our Teacher. Today to help one in the Dhamma path, the Mahamevnawa Buddhagyan Ashram is there. Address : RATTI BIGHA, BODHGAYA-824231, GAYA, BIHAR, INDIA. Phone: 00919006029637 

If we take Papañca to mean “objectification”, then it’s from treating yourself and the world around you as objects–rather than, say, as events or processes–that the perceptions causing inner and outer conflict derive. , It’s because you have passion, desire, delight, or craving for something that you identify with a given thing. In identifying with it, you become tied there. Then you see your sources of food within that puddle as dear, and anyone who blocks those sources as not-dear. From this distinction come envy and stinginess, hostility, violence, rivalry, and ill will. If we take Papañca to mean falsification and distortion, then the three types of thought: craving, conceit, and views, functions to slow the mind down in its escape from saṁsāra. It is the previous memory of mental events play in influencing mental proliferations. These previous memories are equivalent to what are known as āsava in Pali - an important element responsible for defiling the mind. It is the Papañca that makes us think that people are such and such, when the truth be is the opposite of what we thought of it. 

In the second of the eight parts what the Supreme Buddha said was, that if an Arahant so wishes, he/she can create an earth quake, but these kind of earthquakes do not create any harm to any being. There are a couple of examples of Arahants doing such at the request of kings, to show their powers. In the Maha-parinibbana Sutta , The Blessed One states: When an ascetic or a Brahmin or a deity of great power, of great majesty, has, through spiritual power, attained (complete) mastery of the mind, and has developed even a (slight) perception of this earth, or an unlimited perception of water, that individual who encompasses such spiritual powers has the ability to make this Earth move, waver, flutter, and shake. This is the second reason, the second cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. When the Bodhisatta (person striving for Buddhahood) The being (satta) heading for Awakening (Bodhi).descends from the heavenly abode of Tusita, and mindfully, with full awareness, enters his mother's womb, this earth moves, wavers, flutters, and shakes. This is the third reason, the third cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. When the Bodhisatta, highly mindfully, with full awareness, leaves his mother's womb, this earth moves, wavers, flutters, and shakes. This is the fourth reason, the fourth cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. When the Tathāgata attains the supreme state of Sammāsambodhi (unsurpassed and perfect Awakening), this Earth moves, wavers, flutters, and shakes. This is the fifth reason, the fifth cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. When the Tathāgata sets the unsurpassed wheel of the Dhamma rolling (expounds the Four Noble Truths to the world), this Earth moves, wavers, flutters, and shakes. This is the sixth reason, the sixth cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. When the Tathāgata, highly mindfully, with full awareness gives up the “Ability to determine to live further” (Ayu Sanskara) this Earth moves, wavers, flutters, and shakes. This is the seventh reason, the seventh cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. When the Tathāgata reaches Parinibbāna, leaving no basis for aggregates to continue remaining, this Earth moves, wavers, flutters, and shakes. This is the eighth reason, the eighth cause for the occurrence of a great earthquake. These are the eight reasons, the eight causes, Ānanda, for the occurrence of a great earthquake. - (Maha-parinibbana Sutta-DN) 

In the Rohitassa Sutta: To Rohitassa you will find a parallel to this GenjoKoan that you pointed out. For the fish it is the water, and for the bird it is the air. Likewise for the gods / celestial beings, it is the cosmos. This Deva told the Buddha about a desire that he had in a previous life when he was a seer named Rohitassa and its result. He said: 

• SN 15.3: Assu Sutta — Tears {S ii 179; CDB i 652} [Thanissaro]. "Which is greater, the tears you have shed while transmigrating and wandering this long, long time... or the water in the four great oceans?" • SN 15.9: Danda Sutta — The Stick {S ii 184; CDB i 656} [Thanissaro]. We bounce from one birth to the next, as a thrown stick bounces along the ground. • SN 15.11: Duggata Sutta — Fallen on Hard Times {S ii 186; CDB i 657} [Thanissaro]. When you encounter an unfortunate person, remember: you've been there, too. • SN 15.12: Sukhita Sutta — Happy {S ii 186; CDB i 658} [Thanissaro]. When you encounter a fortunate person, remember: you've been there, too. • SN 15.13: Timsa Sutta — Thirty {S ii 187; CDB i 658} [Thanissaro]. Which is greater, the blood you have shed in your long journey in samsara, or the water in the four great oceans? • SN 15.14-19: Mata Sutta — Mother {S ii 189; CDB i 659} [Thanissaro]. It's hard to meet someone who has not been, at some time in the distant past, your mother, father, son, daughter, sister, or brother. 

Thayodhamma sutta (Abandon three things at a time). The Discourse on the Three Things (Regarding Incapability) To abandon… 1. Birth; 2. Old age; 3. Death You have to abandon… 1. Greed (passion); 2. Hatred; 3. Delusion To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Personality view; 2. Doubt; 3. Rituals and observances. To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Drowsiness of the mind; 2. Following the wrong path; 3. Unwise attention To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Unmindfulness (wrong mindfulness); 2. Unawareness; 3. Mental distraction. To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Dislike to see the noble ones; 2. Dislike to hear the noble teachings; 3. Fault-finding mind; To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Conceit; 2. Unrestraint; 3. Immorality To abandon the above three you have to abandon…. 1. Lack of confidence; 2. Dislike to listen to others; 3. Laziness To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Unfriendliness; 2. Disobedience; 3. Bad Friends (Asathpurisa Sevanaya) To abandon the above three you have to abandon… 1. Shamelessness; 2. Fearlessness; 3. Non-diligence. A Sotāpanna (Pali) or "He who entered(āpanna) the stream(sota)." ‘stream” is a metaphor for the third of the Four Noble Truths, Noble Eightfold Path. A stream which rigidly flows will not stop until it enters the sea. A Sotapanna has completely entered in to the Eight fold Noble Dhamma Path(Has gained the first magga-phala). So he will surely achieve Arhathood within seven births that are born in human and heavenly happy realms and his spiritual development will not descend. Attainment Sotapanna is a person who has eliminated the first three bondages (sanyojanas) from the mind. Those are, 

It is very good that you are frank about how you feel. You have identified the problem, and have brought it to the open. You are not hiding it from self or others. Suppressed emotions like pent-up anger is not a good thing as there can be times they can collide violently with disastrous consequences. So you have to learn how to deal with your emotions in a skilful way in more perceptive, intelligent way, and see relationships through the Dhamma perspective. Dhamma can be of great help in learning to use the mind wisely. The most helpful initially is the practice of the four satipatthanas, or establishings of mindfulness. Being ardent, alert, & mindful , helps keep the negative emotions at bay. You begin to develop an inquisitive attitude, to better understand as to why you feel, what you feel at a given moment. Then you get a clearer sense of what’s actually going on, and may even question “Who is this ‘me’ that’s getting worked up. The gift of forgiveness too helps, if you could instil in self. Then even is someone else upsets you, you will not be a victim for it. This will allow you to see things in another way. So the practice of ‘loving kindness’ meditation helps. Your egoism that makes you manipulative will be eradicated if ‘karunaa’ is to developed. Karunaa is an important part of this spiritual path. In the Gopala Sutta: The Cowherd Buddha has pointed out that: