I think you're going about this backwards, no offense. What you need to do when you ask for a raise is research your position. If you go to, for example, glassdoor.com and determine that the average person at your position makes $10 more an hour than what you're making, that is a valuable and tangible piece of evidence you can present to your boss. Most employers don't go around giving people raises out of the goodness of their heart. You have to provide them with the information which can be used to help make that decision. In the above example "I am being underpaid compared to my cohort at this position, and as such I should be able to find a job elsewhere fairly easily if I tried" is good, solid information that your employer can use. The other thing to bear in mind when you ask for something like this is to accept the possibility of the answer coming back being "no". What are you going to do if your boss says that they value you but not enough to raise your pay to what others in your position are making? Some information is really only useful if you at least keep open the possibility that you're going to act on it. If your boss knows you're bluffing about leaving, for instance, they'll be much more likely to take a hard stance than if they understand that your finding another, potentially better job is a possibility. 

While I am really, really not a fan of this guy's phrasing - in software development especially, we are paid a pretty decent amount to do what we do, and what we do often entails researching to figure out how you're going to do the thing that you said you were going to do - I think there is a kernel of truth to what he's talking about. No, you shouldn't give him a raise. There is a point though to where asking a person who doesn't work with mathy things to do mathy things is going to be a bad time for both you and them. I actually have run into a semi-similar situation in my career as a developer. I mean, in some ways it's not exactly the same at all, but still... as noted, I am a developer. I develop stuff. If you want to implement some business logic and get widgets on a web page to jump around and do stuff, I am your guy. I've worked on the back end and the front end, built middle-tier web services, and have picked up new languages and frameworks on the fly when I've needed to. What I don't do - I should say, what I don't do well - is design. If you ask me to design a web page, I will do it, don't get me wrong, but I will do it telling you that I don't have training or expertise in this and you might not like the results. In the end I think you're going to be better off hiring an actual designer and then using me to take that person's design and implement it. So what I would say to do here is to take this guy as if he's telling you this thing instead of "pay me more", because in a sense that kind of is what he's doing. The issue here really isn't so much that software devs get paid X and doing math should get you X + 10%, it's that some software development doesn't really require math and so asking people to do a lot of it means that you are going to wind up with less than stellar results. Depending on the situation, I might recommend: 

I would be very wary about doing work for a company you do not have a contract with. At the very least, you need to get whatever you've agreed to in writing, including wages (I assume that since you'd be doing that part time they're paying you by the hour), how many hours you're expected to work, what times, and so on. This strikes me as a situation in which a month down the line the old company decides they're not going to pay you because you're just completing a task they originally hired you to do or something. The other issue is non-com agreements, which from what I have gathered are mostly all but unenforceable but which also require a bit of courtroom drama before the judge dismisses them. Do you have a non-compete with the old or the new company? Working for them both at the same time, even as a developer, could potentially violate one of them, and unless you have it in writing that both sides aren't going to pursue this, a handshake agreement may be worthless. 

I don't think you can leave an entire year of work off of your resume and hope to get away with it. A month, sure. A year? No way. People will assume that you were unemployed for that entire time and, well, that in turn makes it look a little bit like you were unemployable. In any case, if they ask for a reference from that job, can you find a co-worker or someone other than your boss? That's perhaps slightly unusual but it isn't 100% out of the ordinary. Otherwise, if they just ask for general references, by all means provide them from previous gigs and the like. There's no real written rule that says "your 3 references have to come from your last 3 jobs in order" or anything. The other thing you'd alluded to was what to say if they ask you why you left. You never want to lie or make up a story to an interviewer; these things have a way of getting around, and on top of that maintaining a lie throughout the same interview, let alone your entire career at this company, is not going to be easy to do. Instead, try to provide a neutral answer. "My compentencies weren't a match for my previous organization, but I believe that they'd be a good match for yours." "I didn't feel that I blended in with the culture there." These aren't lies because you're not saying anything, rally. I mean, there's no reason to volunteer that you once streaked across the football field when they ask you about your college either. 

First up, politics is generally not considered a work safe topic of discussion for pretty much the reasons you point out. People have a hard time not personalizing political topics, so in my mind it's right up there with religion on my list of things, anyway, that I don't engage in at work. Because of that, don't be afraid to either not comment, period, even when prodded, or to say something like "guys, I don't think talking politics at work is appropriate". If you have to elaborate, something like "not everyone may agree with your point of view" might be enough but even there, there is an angle where you're almost inviting the other party to say "OH YEAH, YOU MEAN LIKE YOU???? BLARGHARGHARGHGARBLE". Otherwise, resist the urge to "come at them with both barrels". You might be able to totally lay into someone and then, 10 minutes later, keep that conversation completely out of the job you're doing, but there is no way you can guarantee that your co-worker will behave the same way. Sign up for a message board or Reddit if you need to vent some steam when these people say what they will about certain short-fingered vulgarians, but I would strongly suggest refraining from providing your opinions unless you are prepared to deal with the consequences. One tactic I have used in the past on people like this is to figure out an area where you have some common interest with these people and whenever they start spewing their politics, gently change the conversation to that other topic instead. I worked with an otherwise great guy who had political opinions that kind of made my blood boil. We had a shared interest in history, so whenever he'd launch into some politically charged topic I'd try and find some way it was applicable to some cool moment in history and boom, we'd move to that instead. It worked pretty well, I think; I'm sure the guy knew that I didn't share his politics but in spite of the fact that I can be a pretty argumentative person, we did not have an actual political argument until my very last day on the job. 

I think the question you want to ask yourself in general is "is this thing I'm going to ask going to help me ascertain whether or not this company is going to be a good fit for me?". I don't see any answer to this question helping much with that, unless it's really bizarre or really awful. Your time is almost certainly better spent with other questions (if you do want to know about contractor culture, for example, you would ask who you'd be working with, or how many contractors the company employs). 

I don't think you're going to be able to win a job with a post-interview letter; in fact, you run the risk of being pushy and causing the interviewer to rethink a position that they were going to hire you for. People do send out post-resume letters, but for the following reasons: 

You say you are "aware of the workload", but have you really tried working 80, 90, 100 hours a week on a regular basis? My experience with development in general is that even the "laid back" places aren't going to be happy if you put in 30 hours of effort and are only able to increase it to 40 or so when they need you the most. It's also my experience that even 80 hours a week is a lot of time to work. A lot of people can handle it for a couple months, but if you're actually wanting to be a FTE at this other place, it's not likely going to be for just a couple months, is it? Burnout is a real thing, even if you're doing something you love. In fact, in some ways it's much worse when you're doing something you love doing because you'll begin to hate it. You really should make sure that moonlighting is a thing that isn't a breach of your contract with your first company, because a lot of the time companies will put people such as yourself on salary instead of hourly wages because they want all of your attention focused on them. Even if there's nothing in there expressly against it, they might have a completely different, less laid back attitude towards you if, instead of giving them the best 30-40 hours of your week, you give them the worst 30-40 hours. 

It'll help you cultivate your own communications skills (not to say you're not already a good communicator, but this is something all devs can and should work on). It will give your client/co-workers confidence that a. you know what you're doing and b. you understand their needs. If you do get behind on something, or if there's a major change which is suddenly necessary, you and your client/co-workers won't feel blindsided by this. 

Stating you have a weakness and then discussing your current action plan to change it does not mean you no longer have this weakness. It means you have a lesser version of it, maybe (any interviewer worth their salt can read the "I don't suffer fools gladly but I feel felt found X which helps me" as "I still don't suffer fools gladly but I'm working on it"), but it's still there. To some extent, I feel like if you don't approach this from the standpoint of "here is how I am working on this" then the interviewer is left to decide that what you stated isn't even something you consider a weakness or else that you are barely a couple steps removed from those folks who lack the ability to see personal weaknesses at all. If you discover something is wrong with your behavior, don't you attempt to change it?