I think I read above that this isn't a forum for opinion so I'll move swiftly on from that one (!...) but I think again Rawls's answer would centre around the idea of the equal moral status of persons (at least at birth). Clearly, many would argue that during life people through their agency makes choices that mean that they 'deserve' or 'don't deserve' certain things, but Rawls thinks that in the eyes of justice every person is still equal; no matter how 'good' or 'bad', people don't earn preferential treatment from justice (we wouldn't say that someone who gives to charity should get away with murder, or that people who are mean to their friends should be stripped of their wealth). Rawls isn't really interested in what people 'deserve' through their deeds (for that you want Robert Nozick) or through some idea of their innate virtue, but rather in having a social system that isn't predestined to militate against the life chances of particular people and groups. 

On your first complaint, that people are different and not exchangeable, there is a well-known critique of Rawls - and perhaps of liberalism and the social contract more generally - that it assumes that all people are essentially equal and the same, when in fact they are not, as is proved by the ubiquitous fact of need and dependence in society. It is unclear that, say, the mentally handicapped or the very old and frail, or young children, can participate in the (hypothetical) social contract that Rawls envisages, and so - the critique goes - Rawls cannot deal with difference and dependence and need. This argument is particularly associated with feminist critics like Martha Nussbaum or Eva Kittay. I've not explained it particularly well but it is easy to look up and is often called the 'dependence critique' of Rawls. Handily for your second question, both Nussbaum and Kittay are still essentially within the liberal tradition and aim to adapt rather than to overhaul Rawlsian liberal egalitarianism. On your second complaint, that the idea of 'starting off on the same foot' is misguided because virtue tends to increase up the income distribution (at least in the US), it sounds like Robert Nozick would be about the closest to what you have in mind. I doubt that he would express it in terms of the 'virtue' of different social groups, but he too doesn't like the idea of starting off on the same foot because he is interested in property and what it means to hold property justly, and for him as long as property was acquired justly in the first place and has been passed on fairly - such as through a family - then it is still held justly. As a result, his conclusions are essentially very right-wing in advocating almost no redistribution or interference in the market (although not quite as right-wing as suggesting that the poor are less virtuous than the middle class and wealthy and even given the chance would still go sliding back down to a lowly and un-virtuous position...) 

According to the philpapers survey, 78% of the participating philosophers said they accept or lean towards atheism. 14% accept or lean towards theism, and the rest went into 'Other' with 12.6%. You can find the survey here: $URL$ 

According to Chalmers, philosophical zombies are physically identical to each of us, but lack consciousness. By 'consciousness' Chalmers means the qualitative feel we often experience. The what-it's-like to be me, to taste apples, to fear ducks, etc. So, do zombies, by lacking this, already lack any mental states, or do they have mental states, but just no phenomenal states? 

Your questions assumes a lot. The contemporary conception of possible worlds stem from the work of David Lewis. On his account, Modal Realism, worlds are defined as concrete maximal mereological sums, all of which parts are spatio-temporally related. If you don't like Modal Realism (and no one really does), then, if you still want to employ possible worlds in your theory, one option is to think of them as sets of propositions. However, there is no reason to choose one of your two options. There is at least a third option available, namely, that a possible world is a set of propositions (probably closed under implication or so) that describe a possible scenario. As to your first option (list of propositions true now): This would render possible worlds useless for most purposes. One application of possible worlds is to talk about possibilities. But if worlds only consist in sets of propositions that are true now, then there is no possible world in which things are different. As to your second option (set of temporal events and propositions being true at each event), it is unclear what you need the events for. As I indicated in the second paragraph, worlds can just be sets of propositions. They describe how things could have been. Some propositions are about how things could have been in the past. Some propositions are about how things could have been in the future. Some propositions are about how right now things could have been different. For example, one propositions says that I am drinking tea in the kitchen. That proposition is false here, but it describes what could have been true. Response to your edit: I didn't find a quote to back this, but I think a possible world as a set of propositions is assumed to be a maximal description of (actual or) possible realities thoughout its full duration. This in a sense includes the other option, because maximal descriptions of single events will be part of a possible world in the former sense. 

It's obviously a revolution. Cartesian coordinates allows to solve problems compass and straightedge method was unable to solve like cube doubling, cartesian coordinates are a breakthrough after two thousand years stagnations. I agree on the fact it was not a question of method but a question of idea. 

Sorry for my English, I'm French. I believe each time we are looking for a proof, we refer to reason. Kant has well defined the boundaries of the realm on rationalism, and it's demonstration of the impossibility to proove the existence of God is also applicable to its non-existence, so I do not see any possibility to give a rigorous philosophical basis to atheism. 

From a different perspective one can say darkness is the absence of light and is not a being. So there are things which exist without being, it's another way to see borderline existence. This consideration is deeper than it appears as in a christian tradition the evil exists but just as an absence of good, the evil exists without being. 

I think using the term belief hides the fact that we could have an intuition of the world. Even if Kant's synthetic a priori judgements are questionned by modern formal logic, his idea remains very interesting. So rather than belief if we use the term intution we can consider that we do not formulate hypothesis about the world at random but we rather have an a priori knowledge of it. Accepting this point of view, more general than synthetic a priori judgement, the assumptions we use to build mathematics are guided by the intution of the world we have, they are the tool we use to force the Nature to answer our questions, as Kant used to say. We could see in dissipative systems, Goedel incompletude theorem or general relativity the evidence of our world intuition and the inherent limit of formal logic or determinism : neither our mind nor the world we have the intuition of are bounded by theories, we are not sophisticated random access memory machines eventually reduced to determinism and formal logic. Otherwise there is a sounder and very well structured article in Standford Encycopedia of Phyiosophy on synthetic and analytic judgement 

It seems to me that you are reading the wrong books, essays, websites, w/e. For a start, you probably shouldn't read Armstrong et al when you are doing philosophy as a hobby for a few months. I do not mean to be an arse, I just think it is helpful to start exactly where your problems are, at the basic stuff. Consider me doing a bit physics as a hobby for a few months, now I pick up the latest Journal and naturally I won't understand a bit of it. Learning philosophy is a quite slow process. And it is not going to be any faster by skipping all the basics. Quite the opposite, you don't understand much and get confused by technical terms. There are books exactly for this situation, e.g: the Cambrdige Introduction to Philosophy-Series; The Math you need to do philosophy; Philosophical Devices; for logic check out this site: $URL$ There are almost for every discipline excellent readers, one being e.g.: The Philosophy of Language, by Martinich. It covers all the things you just mentioned, the most influential essays, good forewords that explain all needed vocabulary. As to my little example of me jumping into contemporary physics. The language of physics os mostly math. A lot of people, me included, don't understand a word (or number ;)). Think of philosophy as the same: Just because its language is our natural language, doesn't mean it is not as hard to understand as the physics-essay. 

With respect, I think that this suggests a slight misunderstanding of what Rawls is arguing. He is well aware that people are not created equal. However, what he does believe is that every individual should be taken to have equal moral status i.e. our considerations of justice shouldn't start from the starting point of preferential treatment towards some. (I would imagine - or hope! - that very few would disagree with this as a fundamental part of the definition of 'justice'.) So, we're trying to work out fair principles that treat everyone as morally equally important, but these principles are to govern over a situation where people are not equal in strength, mental ability, inherited wealth, social connections, and so on. Now, if we actual people were to try to design these principles then it seems likely that, say, on the whole the weakest or poorest might try to design principles that put their interests above all others, whereas the wealthiest and most powerful might try to design principles that maintain their status. The naturally physically strongest might try to design principles that link power to physical aptitude. And so on - and this doesn't seem fair, or workable. So, how can we avoid this situation? Rawls thinks that we can avoid it by undertaking a thought experiment: if none of us actually knew anything about our social status, strengths/weaknesses, race, gender, etc., but knew that we were about to enter into a society that we were going to have to be happy in, what principles would we choose? What is actually going on here is that the method, in the thought experiment, of depriving the deliberating parties of information is a way of building in fairness and impartiality into the deliberation. The parties can't possibly be *un*fair to one another in their choice of principles because they wouldn't know how, and wouldn't know whether their choices would actually disadvantage themselves. As such, whatever principles these imaginary parties would choose will be fair and impartial. Now, we could argue about exactly what principles the parties behind the veil would actually choose, but, at any rate, the above is the method and whatever else we might say one can understand the thinking behind it and appreciate the philosophical elegance. I think it would be a mistake to suggest that it relies on the idea that people could be 'exchanged'; firstly, it is just a thought experiment designed to generate certain kinds of conclusions in the right way, and so doesn't really have a lot to do with actual people, and secondly, its aim is to arrive at principles that can ensure the just social co-existence of people who, indeed, aren't interchangeable. 

I believe Heidegger set the foundations of existentialism in his attempt to renew the occidental metaphysic by analyzing the existence of the man, he calls dasein by opposition to the Being in his seminal work “Being end time”. The dasein has an unformulated worry, he is cast in the world and abandoned by the Being, he exists by opposition to the Being which is. In German and French there are two words for being, the fact to be and the Being. The ontology of the dasein, the analysis of its existence is certainly the foundation of existentialism even if Heidegger did not recognized himself as an existentialist. The dereliction of the man is at the root of this philosophical movement. 

I believe truth is the mother of all logical systems. Even undecidability is based on truth, propositions we prove we cannot demonstrate they are true or false, which are new potential axioms in fact as the axiom of choice which seems so obvious : it is always possible to select exactly one element of each set of a collection of sets. In fact we always instinctively try to prove that something is true or false, right or wrong and this is true for mathematics. At the beginning people did not want to prove things which seemed obvious, there were true as euclidian axioms were. It is a relatively new idea to consider the proof as central, it's maybe the main difference between modern mathematics and physics, in physics what really matters is truth, what can be tested. Truth is deeply rooted in our culture, much more than provability. 

What other questions are regarded as fundamental (nowadays*) by contemporary philosophers? *Since this particular question is new in the sense that neither philosphers in the antiquity nor middle-age philosophers addressed it. 

This is of course no complete list, but things that helped me so far: JSTOR - collects articles in journals and also has some books. The access is limited, though. I think you either need to pay or enter the page via a university. I checked, and they don't have the paper. PhilPapers - a comprehensive directory of online philosophical articles and books by academic philosophers. Your paper is listed there, but not downloadable. Libraries - My university has the book. If yours hasn't, you can still order it and they will send it to you. The homepage of the author - in this case there is not even a publication list, but many authors put .pdf's of their articles in their profiles (e.g. Sider, to name but one). A site that help me out sometimes is academia.edu: They also allow sharing of articles, but again, yours isn't there. 

The difference is that in the first example, all quantifiers are in the front and that in the second the quantifier appears within the scope of the other quantifier. Is there a difference? If so, where?