There is probably no such thing as a totally comprehensive list of minerals because nobody agrees upon what constitutes a mineral, as opposed to a multiple variants of the same mineral. There is also a grey area between 'natural' and 'synthetic'. That said, however, the international centre for diffraction data (i.e. for X-ray powder diffraction work) has a recent catalogue of minerals called PDF-4 +2015, which includes more than 365,000 entries! You may have to sift through the catalogue to determine which are genuinely natural minerals that you want in your own catalogue. The '-4' indicates actual minerals as opposed to pharmaceuticals etc, which are under a different catalogue. You can access their flyer from: $URL$ 

The apparent angle of the moon is a function of the 28-day lunar orbit, the time of day/night one is looking at the moon, and the latitude from which it is viewed. So, for example, the current (14 May 16) view of the moon is that it is on its side, 'boat shaped' on the equator, but will appear progressively more sideways the further towards the poles that it is viewed. There is a change in the shadow angle, but not obvious on a day to day basis. This is caused by the fact that the earth's spin axis is not perpendicular to the Earth-Moon orbital plane, so that is an annual wobble. 

The 'natural causes' of global methane emissions are, as you indicate, mostly of biological origin. To some extent it depends upon what you regard as 'natural'. There are many and differing estimates of global methane generation, of which I list a summary below. Those in bold you may regard as abiological. Values are in Mega-tonnes per year released to the atmosphere: Wetlands 217 Fossil Fuels 96 Ruminants 89 Landfill 75 Geological sources 54 Freshwater 40 Biofuels 38 Rice growing 36 Oceans - DMS 20 Termites 11 Wildfires 10 It's a moot point as to whether degradation of dimethyl sulphide (DMS) is biological or not. 

This question has tenuous links to Earth Sciences, but the answer is simply that, historically, freshwater has been used to flush toilets, and hence the sewage treatment plants have been developed to treat non-saline sewage. The water can be (and frequently is) recycled for domestic use, whilst sewage sludge can be used to enrich farmland. No such benefits accrue to flushing effluent with saline water. It is then pollution, whether it is disposed of on land or at sea. In many estuaries and deltas around the world sewage sludge does end up in the sea where it accumulates as tidal mud flats with an unnaturally high lipid content. Give this sediment a few tens of millions of years of compression and maturation and it will doubtless yield oil shale. 

The area outlined covers several climatic zones. The northeastern part was, and to some extent still is, permafrost at shallow depth, so obviously this was not good for agriculture. Further south most of the area outlined is covered in podzols, which are generally sandy and nutrient poor. Therefore, where water availability is not a limiting constraint (and we have no rainfall records for the 1500s), and where it is not too cold, the soils could have supported agriculture- but only just. They would most likely not have been high yielding. Even today, such soils need a lot of extra nutrients and additional organic carbon to give good results. Politics apart, maybe this is why much of Russia has remained so poor for so long? 

It looks like late-stage open deposition of some secondary mineral, most likely microcrystalline quartz, but possibly calcite - test the hardness and whether it effervesces with dilute hydrochloric acid. There are some pure white flecks, much smaller than the creamy patches, which might be small traces of crystobalite. This latter mineral is a high temperature polymorph of silica which occasionally occurs in obsidian, and is part of the original rock rather than the late deposition. 

By definition andesite is mainly plagioclase (mostly variety andesine),and pyroxene with either quartz or olivine (not both), and minor amounts of magnetite, ilmenite, zircon, apatite, possibly biotite mica, and maybe a few traces of rarer minerals. The pyroxene is probably a mixture of orthopyroxene and augite. In addition to plagioclase there may be small quantities of other, more alkaline feldspars. Andesite is chemically about 60+/-3% silica, SiO2, but the amount of free silica is very small, if present at all - at most 2 or 3 percent. So no, you won't extract commercial powdered silica. Better than 99.9% pure silica is found very abundantly in some quartzites, a common sedimentary rock. So nobody is going to try to extract silica from other silicates. 

It certainly looks like rose quartz, but best to try a quick test. Chip off a small flake and see if it is hard enough to scratch glass. If it does, then it's almost certainly quartz. The translucence and vitreous fracture are also giveaways. 

I don't know if this theory has any formal name, but of course you are correct in assuming that any mass redistribution on or in the planet will affect it's axis of rotation, causing a wobble. Small re-distributions are happening all the time with growing and melting ice, ocean currents sloshing water from one side of an ocean to another (as in the El Nino). Theoretically, a whale swimming across an ocean will create an axial wobble, albeit far too small to measure. Earth and sea tides, climate change, plate tectonics etc... The list goes on and on, with multiple processes each causing a slight tilt in the Earth's axis. This ranges from barely detectable sub-milimetre range to thousands of kilometers (over geological time - hundreds of millions of years). In addition to the above random fluctuations there is also the 'Chandler wobble' which is a predictable cyclic wobble in the Earth's axis, of about 9 metres, over a period of 433 days. As for human impacts, until recently I would have said that they were puny compared to natural processes. However, recent research points to significant and growing change in the Earth's rate of spin due to human induced climate change. This could have interesting 'knock-on' effects upon the spin axis. The effect is absolutely miniscule, but as the Earth's spin slows, there is likely to be further de-coupling of spin rate between the Earths crust/mantle and core which could well be an additional component to the axial wobble. 

C is purely empirical for any given situation. BEWARE of such equations! Using coefficients to six significant figures gives the illusion of high precision when, in fact, the whole approach is extremely 'rubbery', and highly dependent upon the local geology / soil type / local hydrology. The expression is only valid for the location in which it was calibrated. A small change in drainage can make a huge change in the equation so, personally, I think such stochastic simplifications of complex processes are not worth the paper they are written on! Intelligent eye-balling the potential landslide conditions, with a view to geology and drainage, may be just as good a guide as any (generally poorly calibrated) equation. 

It's a question of rates of erosion. All mountains start to erode from the moment that mountain building begins. The erosion stops, or slows down to minuscule amounts when the mountains are protected by a vast thickness of ice, as in Greenland and the Antarctic. As soon as the ice starts to melt, normal rates of erosion will resume. Rates of erosion on extraterrestrial surfaces are usually much slower than on Earth, and of different kinds. Mechanisms include thermal expansion and contraction, wind ablation (if there is any kind of atmosphere), melting, micrometeorite to bolide impacts, rock tides, and differential gravitational effects. No part of the cosmos is totally immune from erosion. 

This methodology won't work. Haude's method only gives a rough estimate of evaporation. Consider the hydrologic cycle: Rainfall = evaporation (or evapotranspiration) + runoff + surface detention + soil moisture storage + infiltration +/- interbasin transfer. It sounds like you don't have nearly enough data to estimate the aquifer recharge. 

You might get a lava seepage, but I doubt it. The cross-sectional area of a borehole is small compared to the total cross sectional area of fractures that are there already. Note that volcanoes bulge quite markedly due to lava up-welling and deformation due to magma pressure, so the volcano is invariably well fractured. A small hole is likely to fill up with magma rapidly, which would cool and solidify against the country rock, thereby plugging the hole - unless the borehole was very close to a gassy magma chamber. However, there might be exceptions in that very small fraction of volcanoes that are of the 'Plinian' type, in which exceptionally high gas pressures can occur. But then, nobody in their right mind would drill into a potentially Plinian type of volcano! 

1) The density of the core approximately matches that of high pressure Ni-Fe, but is way denser than solid oxygen (roughly 1.4). 2) If the core was oxygen then the overall elemental abundance of the Earth would be nothing like the elemental abundance of anything else in the Solar System (or anywhere else in the known universe). 3) The elemental abundance in meteorites, thought to be left-overs of the original accretionary disk, closely matches Earth with an Fe core - doesn't resemble in any way any supposed metallic oxygen core. 4) The seismic data works well if we assume a liquid / solid iron core. If the core was solid oxygen, then the P-wave shadow would be configured completely differently, because seismic refraction at the core-mantle boundary would bend to make shallower refracted waves, not deeper. 5) A metallic oxygen core would could not explain the Earth's magnetism. 6) It would be bizarre for an oxygen core to have evolved when there are much heavier elements in the mantle. 

Someone (Casey?) can probably provide a fuller answer, but the basic idea is that ice molecules are kind of locked into place by the molecular structure of the ice crystal, and can't vibrate very much. Increase the energy, and the molecules vibrate more until the molecular attraction is disrupted to become water, when they vibrate a lot. Increase the energy still further and the individual molecules are flying about like crazy, thereby turning into a gas. Water is an extraordinary compound. The energy required to break the attraction between molecules in the liquid state is a whopping 2258 kilo-joules per kilogram - a handy property that brought about the age of steam, and the industrial revolution. It is this phase transition energy (latent heat) that produces the cooling. The principle of conservation of energy, as applied in nature, requires that to balance the energy gain by the water vapour, there has to be an equivalent energy loss somewhere - hence the cooling effect on the liquid. 

Impossible to give an accurate answer because nobody has ever studied rates of erosion of this kind of rock in such a setting. Typical long-term rates of cliff cut-back in an exposed position are 5 to 20 cm per year, but that is for average rock, which is much softer than Rockall. This is a complex rock, mainly comprising Aegirine Granite, and containing some unique minerals. I'm guessing that the combination of sea salt corrosion, frequent wetting and drying, and chemically aggressive leachate from all that guano will result in a rate of chemical erosion of 0.5 to 5.0 mm per year. Let us say 2 mm per year - a high value but under the extreme circumstances, certainly plausible. Given that the rock is only about 25 metres along the lesser axis, and that chemical and weathering attack will occur on all sides, that should give a 'demolition rate' of about 6000 to 7000 years. But that's only chemical erosion. There is also the physical erosion to consider. None of the photographs I have seen give a good impression of the potential for basal abrasion. What your photograph does indicate however is that there are eroding oblique fractures. These will facilitate sea water and wave ingress which will eventually fragment the rock and accelerate its demise. Overall I would be very surprised if there is anything left above the waves in 4000 to 5000 years from now. Even without erosion, climate change is likely to raise sea level at least 7 metres by that time, in which case it may completely disappear in as little as 2000 to 3000 years.