I have tried granting full control to the folder share to myself, the SQL Agent account, and the SQL Services account. Whether I run the package as myself or as a service account I receive the error messages. I'm not seeing any more details in the SQL Server error logs or the Windows Event logs. 

How do I handle this situation. This blog post ($URL$ is the only thing I could find for reference and it isn't very clear on the solution. He states adding a second IP address. However, what exactly does this look like in DNS? Do I have one DNS hostname with two IP addresses? 

One option I can see is deleting and re-creating the listener, But is it right way of doing it? will it have any side affects? $URL$ Updated - After deleting and recreating the listener I am getting following warning. 

I am in a process of adding databases to availability group. In one of the steps it was asking "data synchronization prefferences" as shown below 

Update on How to configure it I am using below script to create internal load balancer and it got succeeded. 

We use a centralized backup location on a network share. Each instance uses the Ola Hallengren scripts to perform nightly backups. I have a team that requires folder permissions to the same location where backups are stored. While the team has permissions to the parent folder it seems they no longer have permissions to any of the sub-folders where the backups are stored. I have narrowed it down to the command which executes the procedure dbo.xp_create_subdir. However, I am unable to figure out why the permissions are overwritten everytime this command is run. How can I ensure the subfolder permissions are not being changed with the Ola Hallengren scrips? 

Where I can find detailed information on always-on architecture? I have read many article but none explains the internals. 

PORT 5022 was not added to secondary node's firewall After adding rule, it worked like charm This is how I found the solution Open command prompt 

I have created 2 Virtual machines in azure and configured Windows Cluster using fail over feature. I have enabled the "AlwaysOn" feature in SQL Server Configuration Manager. But I do not anything under Roles section of Failover cluster manager window as shown below. In many tutorials I see SQL Server instance names under roles. How it comes? do we really need them? 

I'm still fairly new to PowerShell so I'm unsure of all the troubleshooting steps I can take to solve this problem. I would like to use the below command to determine if the replica is primary or not. I believe I have successfully loaded both the provider and smo. Intellisense appears to recognize the command. If I run the following command 

The script will run but will never finish. I'm running it on one of the replicas so I'm assuming it should just be grabbing the local host. If I add the -WhatIf flag it still runs without finishing. I've also tried Test-SqlAvailabilityGroup and it never finishes either. What can I do to get this command to work? How do I find out what is causing it to lock up? EDIT: It looks like my issue is with the path.... This path location works 

When application send INSERT or any SQL transactions, which node first the execution happens? Is it on PRIMARY ? When node 1 fails then node 2 becomes PRIMARY, but who will make node 1 up? do I need to setup alerts? if node 1 dies then how HA and DR works? What is difference between active-passive or active-active? 

I have put the mapped drive location path, which was FILESHARE created in azure portal. Now availability group validation fails as shown below, it says "Primary server '[MYNODENAME]' can not write to shared drive during availability group configuration" 

I noticed in the last month one of my SQL Server instances is getting a daily SQL Dump saved off to the Log directory. Unfortunately the SQL Dump is getting large and is consuming the majority of disk space. I don't know exactly where to start investigating why I'm getting SQL Dumps. If I run a DBCC CheckDB against my databases it comes back without any errors. Where do I start investigating why I'm getting SQL Dumps into the log directory? What can cause the SQL Dumps? Will reading the SQL Dump help with my investigation? 

I have a scenario where SQL Server 2012 - Always-on feature configured.The primary and secondary are synchronous for failover purposes. I understand that we will have node 1 (PRIMARY) and node 2 . Also I know during fail over node 2 becomes PRIMARY. My question is, (synchronous commit setup) 

Note: this is not duplicate question. I have setup AlwaysOn. I have created SQL agent jobs manually on both the nodes. right now all the active jobs are running if node is PRIMARY. Challenge My DBA will disable few SQL agent jobs manually in only one node based on business requirements. Now how does it synchronizes to node 2? Will DBA have to manually disable these related jobs in all the secondary nodes ? I am thinking of creating a table (this table will be part of availability group) where I maintain the state of the jobs. and during fail over I am planning to run the script to read the data from this table and set the state of the jobs on other nodes. Is it right way? or do we have any recommended steps? Kindly suggest 

It turns out this issue was due to a restore of a database from an incorrect media set. Since the databases were not exact copies, the package was performing differently on the second instance. After performing a backup with INIT and then restoring that database to the second instance, the package now performs the same on both instances. 

This ended up being a Kerberos problem. We were able to identify through some of the security logs and some network monitoring, that the request was coming in as anonymous. Once we applied the relevant SPNs for MSSQLSVC for the account that was being used to kick off the process, it worked.