Most answers include the point that the behavior should be addressed in private. This is because you as the boss, or the more mature of the two, are obliged to choose the best place to get your point across. Even if you were to correct his actions on the spot you should at least remove yourselves to another location, again privacy. Otherwise you would be shouting to all "O.K. Everybody! I'm going to take care of this issue here! Stand back y'all" The only point missed in the above answers is this. It is best to handle something that makes you angry (or upset etc.) when you are Not angry or upset. The emotional component (or anxiety of surprise in a public confrontation) will make it hard to deal with any situation. This is not a confrontation you are out to win once and for all but a problem you hope to avoid in the future. As a talker who too often gives more information than desired I have received this talk on occasion. 

Why waste storage space by having an Integer variable for this purpose? Use a boolean instead - IsMale: true or false. Null valie if neither male nor female. Problem solved. 

Absolutely no problem here. If you really like to be abroad without changing the (official) place you live, try International Software Consulting or even Sales. In these jobs you will be constantly on the road and live mostly in hotels. If you like to write code, I recommend working as SW Engineer for a company with international facilities, e.g. big manufacturers with facilities in different countries and try to get a position as an Expatriate. Also, there are SW companies who are doing long-term projects for customers all over the world, but I would go for Expatriate if I would like to stay more than a year abroad. 

I agree with the others that you did actually make the mistake of agreeing with the deadline. It is very difficult not to in the circumstances, I know. The essential things to do are from my own experience (and many others) in the "If Only" file of hard learned lessons. The first goal at all times to to manage the clients expectations. Or rather "Make sure you are working towards what they want." This includes getting it in writing that such code will work in such a way on such a date. With that you need to add in time to examine the current code. This takes more time than anyone leaves for it, always will. As reality moves in (usually badly) on what can possibly be coded it is up to you to make the new reality clearly known to those involved. The schedule must take it into account. As far as Machiavellian politics in management I have been through some of what you describe. The record keeping here may not ward of their attacks since getting the job done is only part of what they are after. Sorry you have to step through all this while doing a good job at programming. The major point that needs adding is this. As clever people (or brilliant-?-) the habit is often to underestimate the time needed for a task, as follows. When we have finally, doggedly worked out, or quickly spotted the solution to the issue at hand we can see from the start all the way to the very end. We behold the answer. This "Aha" point is probably the only reason I care about the work nowadays. Estimations based on such understanding overlook countless shovel fulls of -work- that lie between the vision and the outcome. This came to mind as you described your PhD as experience. A PhD is work all right but not like regular people work. School politics is not like work politics. I also agree with those who suggest you cannot win the battle they have placed you in, no matter how excellent your work. You should keep records of goals set and reached and keep your eyes open for your next position. 

The problem is: company B who already made me an offer wants me to act fast and resign from my current position before end of Decembre. Company C has my second interview scheduled for mid January with no way to do that earlier (I already asked). What options do I have? What is the best strategy to achieve the goals I described above? Both positions B and C are equally interesting for me. Keeping my current position (A) is not my preferable solution except they make a far better offer than B and C (note that I dont even know conditions of C) which I honestly do not expect, especially since offer B is already very good and I expect offer C to be at least equally to B or even better. 

Not strange. I work for a company that has as part of a regulatory requirement that our CV is updated on a yearly basis. This comes from FDA audits where the background of those doing the work must be part of a presentation. As an aside - for a previous employer I kept my resume updated on a quarterly basis. This helped me to document what I did for a quarter and could be used for my annual (ugh) self-assessment. 

In a previous life I wrote/supported a program that was used to calculate salaries and bonuses for employees. For this I needed to get a feed from HR during salary review season. The file was supposed to have masked/encrypted fields that were unpacked in my program and only viewable by a set of users and their access level. One year, the program blew up when importing. It turns out the HR clerk that pulled the data that year didn't use the program written (that encrypted the data) but instead ran a Peoplesoft SQR which put the data into plain readable ASCII text. When I opened the file to investigate I could see everyone's current salary. I immediately notified my supervisor. INFOSEC and HR were notified. My manager notified senior management. Then the CD the data was written to was placed in a secure disposal system by my manager. This had some major ramifications but as we (me and my boss) covered our buts it was others (the HR person) were the ones disciplined. You can't be too safe here. Notify your boss. 

Nope. You are not paid to get work done. Unless you have a contract which says you are getting paid only if you perform work x to amount y. What you are paid for is to get work done, when there is work to be done. In your case, there is currently no work to do, and even if your supervisor confirms this - enjoy the quiet times! You can for example use it for developing your work relevant skills by reading related stuff in the internet. But ask your boss first. 

I am currently employed at company A and did apply myself for a position at company B and another position at company C. After two interviews at B, company B agreed with me and sent me a job offer. Company C invited me for a second interview in mid January where I personally strongly expsct to get to an agreement too and get an offer mid-end January (no guarantee though, of course). My goals are: