I think one nice proof that others are conscious is the intelligence and creativity test: if somebody does or makes something that you know you could never do or make, especially if you really couldn't imagine it, then you know another person did it. A few plain examples: the iPhone. Beethoven's 9th Symphony. "A Sunday Afternoon..." by Georges Seurat. Any sculpture by Michelangelo. The comedic work of [name your favorite comedian]. "A Tale of Two Cities" by Charles Dickens. 

Human rights always start with the right to live, which also appears in the right to due process, the right to pursue happiness, the right to property, indeed all other rights. Human duties always start with the duty to protect another person's life, and probably the most well-known Commandment (of the Ten) is "thou shalt not kill". Thus it requires two or three supervening claims about morality to come to the conclusion that for some other person, it is better for you to cause that person's death. I strain to come up with an example. Suppose that death is wished by the individual, who is however incapable of causing him- or herself to die. Still, as that person's friend, traditional friendship demands that you strive to prevent your friend's death, notwithstanding the person's statements, presumed to be in bad judgment. And the Hippocratic Oath demands of doctors that they just don't do it, unless "harm" can be redefined such that a person is "harmed" when you don't kill somebody. Or suppose that the board of directors of a hospital, doctors group, or insurance provider (or state government) attempts to adopt a practice of medical euthanasia under some stated conditions, they might relieve an individual doctor of the final decision. But this seems to contradict the US Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments, which grant all persons the right to due process, in which nobody may be killed without being found guilty judicially and so sentenced. "Pulling the plug" on brain-dead patients is different, in that the patient has been acknowledged by the medical community to be dead in spite of the appearance of certain vital signs. Until this understanding is overturned somehow, there is not a moral dilemma here because the person is dead. The difficulty people feel is a result of our medical technology and the way it prolongs dying. It seems to me that regarding suicide, there is actually little anybody can do to prevent the suicidal from determining their own path. But there is a strong social and moral resistance from helping such a person down that path, including our moral and practical statements against suicide. 

I think that anarchy has several flaws, including this: who will make sure that the system remains anarchy? ...and how is that different from government? The American (USA) system, captured in the US Constitution, is a pretty good start. Essentially, power in government is "by the people, of the people, and for the people". If we don't like the people in power, we take the power away. I think that the biggest criticisms of our electoral system (primarily having to do with money, social media, and special interests) are due to our country's large size and not a flaw with the system. By the way, I have a lot of respect for the Electoral College and I think it's a nice defeater for the possibility of hacked elections. 

I'm pleased by your point 1), because changing the odds in our favor draws attention to the will in free will, whereas people are constantly focusing on the free. Yes, I think you have a point: the behavior of quantum things is free, but there is absolutely no indication that these things have a will, as with human decisions. 

I suppose that science can fail locally (the Tacoma Narrows Bridge) or globally (the burning of the library at Alexandria). Also, I would say that science fails when scientists defy the common good and publish a bunch of dishonest crap for selfish reasons... preventing this is the whole point of peer review. But magazine interviews and TV documentaries don't go through peer review. Still, I think you're right: with the right definition and limits, science as a methodology does not fail. 

I think that your distinction between political mind and scientific mind is similar to an ideological battle that played out between Socrates and a group we now call Sophists. Sophists taught that in order to win an argument, you wait for the right moment (or kairos) and then tell somebody what you want them to believe. Cultivating this kind of rhetorical persuasion was an art that helped many famous people and politicians at the time to gain political power and influence, and to get rich. Socrates taught that if an idea is wrong, it's wrong no matter how or when you say it, or who is saying it. According to Socrates, if someone wants you to believe them they need to answer your questions. And if they can't answer your questions, they are wrong. It seems to me that the scientific mind is kind of similar to Socrates, and the political mind is kind of similar to sophistry. I hope this helps! 

Jesus gave strict instructions to Christians not to condemn other people, over and over again (Matthew 7, Luke 6:37). He even said that if you condemn a person, that is, if you hold another person's sins against them and withhold forgiveness from them yourself, that you can't receive his forgiveness (see the Lord's Prayer, Matthew 6:9-15).* As C.S. Lewis put it in his book "The Problem of Pain": 

Responsibility entails culpability (for bad decisions) and also praise (for good decisions). I don't see how culpability or praise could be attached to an agent without some form of free will. 

But one difficulty I think you will have is converting the thought that "this is how the thing is changing over time" into a thought like "all of this is showing me what we have here." If you have already decided whether to believe the "A theory of time", i.e. that things really do change, then you will think differently than if you adopt the "B theory of time", i.e. all time together is reality in four dimensions and therefore, nothing truly changes ever. 

The most prominent B-theorist of time was Stephen Hawking, no small mind. A quick read of his work will reveal his treatment of these various objections. I suppose it would be a simple matter simply to re-define "motion" according to "the true meaning" of time: just another dimension, like length, width, and height. Another B-theorist was the protagonist of "Slaughterhouse Five" by Kurt Vonnegut Jr. But I think that character was actually crazy.