Old cotton clothing and rags work very well at stopping arrows. Save those old tshirts, jeans, and socks that are too worn out to be used as second hand clothing. Stuff them into a burlap bag or cardboard box and use them as archery targets. That's what I used to do. I would stuff all of our old, completely worn-out clothing in a large cardboard box. When it was full, I'd tape it shut and use it for archery practice. When the box starts falling apart, just get another box and transfer the old clothing. The now-shredded clothing is still good enough to keep stopping arrows, but it will have settled a bit, so throw in some more old clothing and tape it shut again. I've only shot cardboard boxes filled with old clothing. I'm sure a burlap bag or those plasticy potato bags would work very well, too. I've only used cotton clothing. I don't know how other materials will hold up. Very important: This works just for field tips. Don't ever use broadheads on a target filled with old clothing. In order to remove your arrow, you'll need to unscrew the broadhead - which will require you to open the box (or bag) and dig (and probably get a severe cut). 

While working at a fort, built by Manuel Lisa’s fur trading company, John Colter agreed to notify neighboring Indian villages of the new trading post. He then traveled, on foot, throughout the region of what is now known as Yellowstone National Park, discovering geysers, enormously rugged mountains, and high snow-covered mountain passes. 

In Late-Summer, which is mostly the month of September, deer are still acting as they typically would during summer: scattered and mostly relaxed. This is because food is plentiful, the weather is excellent, and even though there are a few hunters out and about in early hunting seasons, most humans in the woods are just camping and hiking and not pursuing the deer. During Transition, late-September through late-October, the weather is growing cold, food sources are changing (some are dying and others are maturing), and more hunters (and fewer hikers/campers) are in the woods. The deer congregate more near food sources, but can quickly become nocturnal to avoid hunters who are more active and spread out away from roads and main trails. From late-October through mid-November, the Rut is on (varies a little by region). Bucks seek out does, often in small herds (whitetail and mule deer herd behavior is different), and are often traveling during daylight hours. They are less wary and easier to find. By late-November, Winter is usually setting in. There is a second rut in December for the minority of does that were not bred in November, and the bucks who sniff them out. For the majority of deer, however, the rut is over and they continue in earnest to build fat for winter. Most bucks did not eat much during the rut and have already burned through some of their winter fat. Both bucks and does travel more during the day, especially during good weather, in search of whatever food is left so they can store as much winter fat as possible. 

Skim-read the books again, answer some of the review questions again. This will remind you of the theory. However, books are no substitute for getting wet and running through the skills. All dive shops / schools will be glad to take you on a refresher dive in a closed environment to go over the skills - rigging the kit, checking the kit, buoyancy, trim, reg out, mask off, descents, ascents, etc. It's in the interest of the shop/school to make sure that you're feeling competent again. The word of warning is that it's said you loose a "level" every year. The problem is the mind (ego?) remembers how one used to do things and doesn't adjust to the new reality. So take it gently for the first few dives whilst you remember just how great diving is and reflect on why you left it so long! Diving's like riding a bike; it comes back pretty quickly. Have fun. 

How about leaving the PADI fold and moving on to other styles of diving, for example technical diving: where you can learn to do much longer dives with decompression (an hour at 30 metres?); where you can use alternative gases - Trimix - and dive deeper; where you can investigate the amazing underworld in caves/caverns/mines; diving with CCR; diving with Sidemount... PADI are great at getting you started, but they're not that well known in the technical diving world where the likes of TDI, IANTD, GUE and others rule the roost. Becoming a Divemaster is fine, but is utterly meaningless in technical diving where excellence in buoyancy, finning, trim, decompression procedures, dive planning are all essential and are required at a far higher standard than required for the recreational Divemaster qualification. Backfinning? Helicopter turns? Frog kicking? Valve drills? Hovering motionless at 6 metres? Ignoring the NDLs? Understanding decompression theory? Accelerated deco? Holding your stops? Not to mention the endless scope for buying tech kit! None of these are covered in the Divemaster course. To answer the solo diving question: what's wrong with diving solo? Imagine you're on a boat and the 'captain' foists some insta-buddy on you. You're then committed to diving with literally anybody; and it's very common to have a novice buddied to you -- they get an experienced diver; you get a liability. Fine if you like that kind of thing, but haven't you paid for a dive too? Provided you've the right experience, skills and redundant kit, why not dive on your own? There's a couple of solo diving courses, such as the SDI Solo Diver course -- that was the best fun I've ever had on any diving course: being blindfolded, asked to follow a course around some submerged ISO containers by touch; tied up (there was some rope the instructor found and dropped on me), air gunned (i.e. simulating a freeflow - so valve shutdowns), having a fin removed and then deploying an SMB then doing a controlled ascent with stops whilst still blindfolded. Interestingly the SDI Solo Diver has a pre-requisite of 100 dives, which is twice that of the Divemaster. The reason is that you've got to be on top of your skills - you're not learning new skills, you're learning how to use your existing skills. 

I've backpacked in places that have raccoons but I've never had a problem with them. Squirrels and a number of birds can also chew/peck their way through a bag to get at your food. I don't know what kind of birds you have in Michigan, but here in Idaho, Clark's Nutcrackers and magpies can be a nuisance. A mesh bag will probably allow them access to your food. When I hang my food, I've used a simple burlap bag with no problems whatsoever. One time, I forgot my bag and then got real lazy and hung my food in plastic grocery bags. Huge mistake. The nutcrackers and squirrels chewed/pecked through the top and ate everything they could reach. To be on the safe side, since squirrels sometimes carry contagious diseases, I threw out a good portion of what was left! Another option is to just hang your food in a backpack. When I load my backpack, I try to group items into ziploc bags. It helps with compression and keeps things organized. It also makes it easy to empty what I need into my tent and then hang my backpack in a tree with the food and cooking/eating tools still inside. 

Game departments have many different issues (varies tremendously by location) to think about when they are planning when and how long to hold deer hunts, in addition to which type of weapon to allow. In one state, a hunter will usually find dozens, if not hundreds, of different hunts to choose from - categorized by date and geography. One hunt area might offer a hunter a tiny sliver of a chance in some type of lottery system just to get the opportunity to hunt, while another area might offer the hunter the chance to shoot multiple deer in one day (the hunter often must choose one hunt or the other in any given year - cannot hunt both). These hunts are designed to help game departments reach their objectives, which usually are directly related to population but can also be related to moving deer out of certain locations, like farmers' fields. (Idaho - which I'm most familiar with - holds a lot of these types of hunts during August when many early crops are maturing. Many states also hold depredation hunts, rifle or archery, which target local populations that are too high and are either causing property damage or the deer will starve if numbers aren't cut drastically and immediately.) Now, with this information in mind, we can attempt an answer to the question of holding an archery season before or after a rifle season. The short answer varies tremendously by area. If it's been a good year for deer and there are way more deer than the land can support through the winter, then they could schedule the rifle hunt (where total harvest is usually much higher) to coincide with those times when deer are easier to find, ie. more congregated and traveling/feeding during the day. That would be during the later "seasons" Rut and Winter, and sometimes at the earliest "season" of Late-Summer. However, if deer populations are only a little high, the rifle hunt would normally be held during Transition, when fewer campers/hikers are in the woods and deer are more congregated but often quickly go nocturnal. If deer populations are about right or a little low, the rifle hunt will likely be during Transition and will be short, sometimes only a day or two - or may be cancelled altogether. (Deer reproduce quickly, so this only happens when some other factor is very abnormal, such as drought, disease, predator overpopulation, etc.) Bowhunting, on the other hand, usually accounts for a much smaller harvest and, therefore, archery hunts can be scheduled to cover much longer periods of time, even during "seasons" when the deer are much easier to find (Late-Summer, Rut, Winter). For example, in Oregon's 2014 deer hunt, about 166,000 deer were harvested in rifle hunts (varying lengths in October [Transition], depending on the area), and about 51,000 deer were harvested in archery hunts in the entire month of September (Late-Summer), and a few weeks in November (Rut) and December (Winter). Link for Oregon's 2014 deer harvest summary. Link for a summary of Oregon's deer hunts. Pennsylvania also has a variety of hunts to choose from. The rifle hunts are very short and are held later: a few short hunts in mid-October (Transition), but most seem to be a few days around the first of December (Winter) and a longer one that starts at the end of December and goes into January (Winter). Archery, on the other hand, starts as early as mid-September and extends into early-November, then starts up again in late-December and goes into January. Despite these much longer hunts, covering all "seasons", archery only accounted for about 93,000 deer in 2014, while rifle hunters harvested about double, at around 190,000 deer. See these links for more information on the 2014 deer harvest and deer hunting, in general, in Pennsylvania. In short, archery and rifle hunts are tools for game departments to manage deer populations while also allowing hunters to TRY to meet some of their own needs. The timing of archery versus rifle hunts depends on many variables, is very complicated, and varies by state. 

The urge to breathe is driven by the CO2 content which is still being produced at the same rate at depth as on the surface. We metabolise the oxygen and produce CO2 as a by-product. In fact at the surface we breathe out surplus oxygen, hence one can perform mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. 'Skip breathing', i.e. deliberately breathing slowly is really not a good idea as you will build up your CO2 content which can be extremely bad giving you a headache or worse. One of the absolute worse things that can happen underwater is a CO2 hit -- called hypercapnia -- which can be fatal. You'll be uncontrollably gasping for breath consuming an enormous quantities of gas and could even spit out your regulator. Divers I know who have experienced this never want to experience it again. Rebreather divers do a lot of training for this eventuality; it's much less common on open circuit. Alas the high partial oxygen pressure at depth (up to 1.4 on the bottom and 1.6 when decompressing -- the air we're breathing now is 0.21) makes little or no difference to the amount of CO2 we produce and expel from our lungs when we breathe out. One's breathing rate does tend to reduce when hanging at a decompression stop. The deeper and longer one goes, the longer these stops will be and they can easily exceed an hour. The breathing rate goes down simply because you're doing nothing; laying flat in the water for 30 mins watching your computer's timer appear to slow down. Good meditation practice - and no mobile phone signal. The other thing that affects our breathing rate is stress. Novice divers tend to breathe more than experienced divers. But there's nothing like an instructor testing you and "breaking" your equipment to increase your SAC (Surface Air Consumption) rate. Or diving in a shark cage: happy happy, then when the shark appears... where's all that gas gone! 

Just imagine bending forward and taking a high step to the side (by swinging the leg back and up) with the second leg following in an identical high step. Remember to move slowly and maintain your balance. If a barb snags your clothing, stop, reverse directions and move back a few inches, lower that portion of your body a little more (or raise, depending on which wire snagged you), and try again. If the wires are strung too tightly for you to easily spread them sufficiently to fit through, then you cannot safely cross between the wires. Then try option #2 below. Option #2 - Crawl under the bottom wire. Follow the fenceline, first one direction, then the other, looking for a low spot beneath the bottom wire. When you find one that you think you can squirm through, then lift your gear over (same as in Option #1 above), return to the depression, get on your belly, and crawl/scoot/squirm (whatever works for you!) under the bottom wire. If neither option will work for you, then do not cross the fence! Look for a gate - while looking for a gate, keep your eyes open for a spot where Option #1 or Option #2 might work. 

Notice the list of items that Zeke carried after three days. Obviously, these are what he considered to be an essential equipment list. But he didn't start with them! He had the knowledge to make them from what nature offered. Mr. Olsen and Mr. Sanchez are modern survivalists who thrive in the outdoors. Other survivalists that immediately spring to mind are Hugh Glass, whom you already mentioned, and John Colter. Hugh Glass (The Saga of Hugh Glass: Pirate, Pawnee, and Mountain Man by John Myers Myers) was forced into service on a pirate ship, escaped off the coast of Texas around 1820, was captured by Indians, escaped after two years (he learned a lot from them), then hired on with a fur trapping outfit heading for the Rocky Mountains. En route, Glass was mauled by a grizzly and left for dead. (The company was in a hurry and two trappers were left behind to help Glass recover or bury him when he died. He wouldn’t recover or die, so the two trappers finally left him for dead. They took everything but his blanket.) He somehow survived, recovered on his own, and traveled hundreds of miles, alone, without supplies, driven by vengeance to find those who had left him for dead. He eventually explored all over the American west for about 20 years, almost always alone, before finally being killed by Indians. Hugh Glass had the attributes of a survivor in addition to knowledge of how to survive. Another explorer of considerable note is John Colter who first went west with the Lewis and Clark Expedition in 1804. (This expedition was well documented with at least three members keeping journal records throughout. Lots of mistakes, equipment failures, disasters, and lessons learned. Try The Way to the Western Sea by David Lavender.) He was an invaluable aid to the expedition, often hunting and exploring on his own. After spending two and a half years exploring the Missouri and Columbian Rivers, the expedition floated down the Missouri River, back to civilization, without Colter. He remained in the wilderness for four more years, sometimes alone and sometimes in small groups. His two most well-known expeditions include (see John Colter: His Years in the Rockies by Burton Harris):