Emptiness doesn't mean 'vacuum' or 'nothingness' (this view is refered to as nihilism sometimes in Buddhism). It means empty of self, or 'self-existence'. In other words things are what they appear to be, and nothing else. The names you give to things, the thoughts, opinions you have about them, woven by your desires, fears, speculations etc. are transitory fabrications of your mind. These fabrications are useful for remembering where you left your car keys, but become troublesome if you begin to believe in them as reality. So the Buddha reminds us that everything is in fact empty. 

I think an hour is too long. It's too long on your body, and it makes meditation a more daunting challenge. I also sit with my eyes open, which is standard in Zen. Having your eyes closed makes you more likely to fall asleep, and having them open brings you fully into the here and now (although you might find it difficult if you're not used to it). Don't sit immediately after getting out of bed. Have a wash, get into loose clothing, spend 5 - 10 minutes having a tea or coffee. You can also do some yoga, which will stretch your body and wake you up a bit more. Have a set time at which to sit so there isn't a debate or struggle going on in your mind. Then just sit. Don't have expectations about what meditation should be. If you're sleepy or distracted, then that's just what is. Sit with it, don't judge it, don't comment on it, don't reproach yourself. As long as you maintain awareness, and correct thinking and sleepiness when you notice them, you're doing it right. Everyone who has an established practice has gone through and continues to go through periods like this, and very often it feels like a chore. Don't have expectations! Just knuckle down and get on with it :) I'd also strongly advise you to make contact with a temple/monastery/meditation group - having the support of fellow meditators who are going through the same things as you is an invaluable aid to your practice. Edit: Don't have breakfast before meditation, food in the belly interferes with your posture and promotes sleepiness. 

I first read 'The Way of Zen' by Alan Watts (maybe a bit technical for a beginner), then 'Zen Flesh, Zen Bones' by Paul Reps (a collection of anecdites). I'd also reccommend anything by Ajahn Chah, who talks about Buddhism in a very down-to-earth way. 

The 'insight' you seem to be searching for doesn't exist. Reality is just what you see in front of you. Accepting it is difficult, so it's easier for many people to cling to dreams - for some worldly dreams, for others spiritual dreams of special states. 

Hakuin describes it himself in 'Yasenkanna' - the problem seems to have been that his focus was too cerebral, and the remedy given by the sennin was to direct his energy to his lower body. $URL$ 

Buddhism points out that both are concepts, reality is free of concepts (unless we impose them). In my experience concepts like idealism etc. are deeply ingrained, unlike "my nose is itchy", so it's useful to remember they're just in my head. 

In Soto Zen we don't sit to accomplish any end or fulfill any need, we sit (and do the rest of our practice) because it's the realisation (i.e. making real) of our Budda Nature. 

One of Dogen's major teachings is 'practice and enlightenment are one' - what is important for Dogen is continuous effort in the dharma, and the basis of that effort is seated meditation. This applies to all practitioners, new and old alike. Dogen tended to be disparaging of other schools, but if you want a less partisan Soto opinion you could read 'The teachings of Homeless Kodo' which acknowledges the value of other types of practice. 

Dogen means that when you practise zazen you let go of troublesome thoughts. When you do this your state is one of ease (in the sense of 'being eased' rather than 'easy'). I think Dogen would have agreed with Hui Neng on the subject of enlightened and unenlightened people : One foolish notion is enough to shut off Prajna, while one wise thought will bring it forth again. When not doing zazen, we should still be practising awareness (some sanghas refer to work in the temple as 'working meditation'). Although sometimes we need to think about difficult stuff. Zazen is just a time when we don't have to and can let go of everything. 

This is probably not an authentic quote, as Suminda points out, and you should always check with Fake Buddha Quotes when you see such statements attributed to the Buddha on memes etc. However, the sentiment is an authentic Zen teaching in the sense that we believe there is no 'aha!' moment after which you are enlightened and there is no further need of training. Dogen (the Soto founder) said that practice and enlightenment were one (i.e. without conceptualising, no separation can be found between practice and enlightenment), wrote an essay on the subject of 'ascending Buddhas' (i.e. Buddhas are still and always training) and the final Bodhisattva vow can be translated as 'enlightenment is unattainable, I vow to attain it'. 

By not getting caught up in thoughts. If you notice that you're involved in thinking, unless it's necessary to the task at hand, let go of it. Come back to the here and now. Keep repeating this practice every time time you notice you're lost in thought, ten, a hundred, a thousand times a day. Keep coming back to the here and now. 

I don't know of any book on the history and development of koans, but I'm sure one exists if you care to search. Many collections have some background information in the introduction, and the individual commentaries often include background information. Further discussion of koans is scattered throughout Zen texts in general. A koan is a koan because it makes an important point about practice and has been used for teaching for a long time, so it's debateable whether or not it's possible to create new ones. There's over a thousand traditional koans in existence, so there's no shortage :) 

I heard a talk recently in which a Zen master said ignorance in Buddhism really meant a lack of awareness of the mind (i.e. letting it wander in stories and daydreams), rather than the normal meaning of ignorance. I don't know if this is orthodox Buddhism (or orthodox Zen for that matter), but it makes more sense to me than interpreting 'ignorance' as factual ignorance.