Now if you look into your output you can notice that only backupsets with archivelogs has tag FIRST. Backupset containing backup of datafiles has autogenerated tag TAG20150515T105436. 

Apparently you dropped the object already. Now to calm you down - corrupted blocks now most probably are in free space and do no harm. They just annoy you during backups. To check that: 

I do that now and then to create test environment. Just for such more complex directory structure I prefer . With it you can resume copying if you run into some disk space or network issues. 

Not exactly an answer to your question but amount of changes generated by the session can be found using such query. 

Now you can unconfigure and remove old machines from old cluster. Of course Oracle version on new machines has to be the same as on old machines. Or it is possible to do upgrade right away on new machines. You should test procedure of course. There are quite a few possible problems on the way. The idea is that Oracle DB does not store anything in "cluster". All the data is in datafiles, controlfiles, redo logs and spfile. Which is stored on ASM can can be mounted on another server. 

What you can do is not always appropriate for the various usages of your relational model. If you were creating a data warehouse in order to analyze customer sales then derived attributes would be appropriate. I have done this for a summary table for a reporting tool. The query would have joined upwards of thirty tables with many aggregations such as sums and show all values an entity has had. A summary table, refreshed daily, listed derived attributes was a great solution for reporting. For an online transaction processing database using derived attributes is not always the best solution. For example: now your total is price * quantity Next month management decides to implement a discount of 10% for customers who order more than $1000 in a calendar year. Your total column now looks inflexible. Unfortunately the things you can say today that "will never change" such as Total = price * quantity are really an example of business logic. Business logic can change anytime in unexpected ways. To continue with your example....if management institutes a discount and you have a customers table, orders table then all you have to do is add a discount table. Then you can create a view which encapsulates the business logic of the day to derive total sales. When the logic changes you can change the view much easier than recalculating the derived attributes that are fixed in a table. And if you really want to be prepared you could store the changes in the business logic in a table in the database and cover off "Who, What, why". So if the Bob the Manager offers a discount and five years later Sue, the new manager, says "When did we start offering discounts and who authorized it?" you are a database star. 

Also I am guessing that you are running database on disks with write caching enabled. Or RAID controller with write cache enabled and no batteries or flash to preserve unwritten data. Do not do that if you value your data! Quite probably you will get some corruptions in case of crash reboot e.g. in case of power loss. 

If Oracle cannot start even in NOMOUNT mode then you can fetch configuration information from spfile: 

This instruction is for Oracle Linux. And you are using Red Hat Enterprise Linux. Even though Oracle Linux is compiled from RHEL sources but they have separate base repositories. You will have to resolve dependencies manually. I tried to download preinstall RPM and install it with yum but it requires RPM which is not available on RHEL. Even if I am not the fan of what Oracle does with RHEL but for Oracle databases I switched from RHEL to Oracle Linux. Less resistance this way. Oracle ASM kernel modules are not available for RHEL and Flash Cache feature is available only on Oracle Linux. 

Then edit processes in cleanup some mess made by strings start Oracle with pfile and recreate spfile: 

We have an Oracle 10.2.0.3.0 on Windows 2003 Server which is scheduled for upgrade within the next six months. One tablespace is about 2TB in size with over 250 data files. Some of these were created with a maximum size of 8GB, some with 16 GB. This database is heavily used by a number of web services that regularly add large amounts of data daily. It was suggested to extend the smaller datafiles so they are all 16GB but we are concerned that this will affect performance as this would cause new data that is regularly accessed, transformed and queried next to old data which does not see a lot of access. Storage is using Netapp on iSCSI virtual disks. Any thoughts on if putting new data in older datafiles will affect the speed of inserts or selects? 

You should look up the CASE construct. Adrian's article is quite helpful. The Oracle documentation is here. With the kind of query you want to do I can't help but think there are some omissions in the database schema.. Surely you can add some constraints on obj_C and obj_D so that null is not allowed? This would simplify things. 

Also there are a bit different instructions in $URL$ but I believe things a bit changed now when flash MOS page is retired. 

For Oracle client you can use Installation using Response Files. Your C# program can generate response file and run installer with particular command line options. 

Inter-data-node latency is much much lower. So data shipping does not have such impact on performance. And all the tables (except some absolute corner cases) are sharded between data nodes. For any data fetch data nodes must find which node holds active part of the required row. This latency still cannot be ignored. One can find that for the best possible performance Dolphin Interconnect is suggested. But: 

INSERT ... SELECT syntax reference. Of course id field has to have unique key and your csv files has to fit in memory. MEMORY engine tables are very fast so you should have just tiny overhead to load data in two steps. As one of drawbacks they have just table level locks so their use is limited. But that does not impact this data load scenario. 

It is possible to restore backup on a different cluster. Did that many times myself. Just backup and restore procedures are not so simple in the case of NDB. 

Here is more information on how I use AQ between databases. I am not an expert and got most of the code from the Internet. Oracle documentation is lengthy but did not really help me. First create the queue: 

I implemented what you are trying to do this way: the transformation to a user defined object happens in a packaged procedure that is called by triggers. 

This yields the same subset as using COMPOSE or CONVERT with AL32UTF8. Two strings that are identical as far as upper/lower case, white space, invisible characters but have a different length. Security restrictions mean I cannot post real data. 

I did not find an elegant way to solve this question but adding a check constraint on the "Owner" column of the metadata tables accomplished the objective of ensuring that only schema owners would be listed. If a new schema owner is added then all the check constraints would have to be changed but that is not too onerous. I tip my hat to Phil for confirming that backing away slowly from system tables is the best approach and wish he had posted this as an answer. 

Edit: the original poster asks how to track incidents. More information is needed such, Oracle version, what kind of incidents, how often do you want to receive notifications. 

Performance will be very similar. GHz difference is not essential because e.g. E5-2690 has 3.8GHz Max Turbo Frequency vs 3.5GHz on E5-2643. You can find full comparision here: $URL$ The big thing may be licensing. If you are using Standard Edition or Standard Edition One per CPU licensing they are licensed per socket. So in case you buy second E5-2643 you will also have to buy one more Oracle license. Of course that it not the case with the Enterprise Edition. If licensing is also not an issue then you still have two decide between two choices: 

To import data into a different schema you need to grant role to the user. Oracle MOS Doc ID 351598.1. Or you can use SYS user: 

Take backup of NDB tables structure with mysqldump. Make NDB backup. Restore mysqldump backup on the new cluster. Restore NDB data using ndb_restore (on both datanodes). Rebuild indexes (command has to run just on one datanode). 

Even such query counts as scan if id field has btree index. In your case we almost all DELETE queries are running in loop with 'LIMIT 1000' or similar value. 

Maybe db_cache_size, shared_pool_size, sga_target or other memory related parameters are set to non zero? Remember that when using AMM those parameters specify minimum memory allocated for particular pool. So if sga_target is 6GB you will not be allowed to set memory_target to 4GB. Also sum of internal variables __sga_target, __db_cache_size, etc. may be more than your specified value of 4GB. If you see those symptoms you can cleanup pfile bounce Oracle with pfile and recreate spfile. In the same step you can also set to zero. 

This very basic script should be configured with details particular to your setup such as the location to backup the files to, crosscheck existing backups, etc. 

One way to do this is to ensure that all tables of properties, or metadata, have a date_created and date_last_modified date. Then you can filter where the date created is in a time period and export the changes as inserts or updates. What I do is harder. All changes to development properties are saved as a script of inserts/updates and I use a project/bug tracker to keep track of all the collection of changes. I refresh development weekly so you see right away if you forgot something like a sequence or a grant. A typical change could involve data inserts, package updates, grants, sequences and triggers so you have to keep it organized. Edit: Luke asks how do you keep changes as scripts? I do two things: 

The answer to your question is, no, you cannot connect to MySQL using the current oracle instant client. 

This sounds like a square peg/round hole problem to me. Your business logic may be defined as User X needs select on this table but if you ask the user they are working with the application. They need to be able to work with whatever the application is displaying. It is common to group tables and views and custom filters to show what the user needs in the application. This is why some applications find it easier to enforce authorization at the application level. What is it about your application that requires database permissions to be replicated in Active Directory?