I suspect that your brakes are misaligned & are rubbing on the tire. The brake pad should be centered on the rim braking surface, look closely & you will likely see that the pad contacts the tire when the lever is pulled. Not only does the pad touching the tire wear out the sidewall, but it also generates heat which damages the tire & inner tube which could cause a catastrophic blowout. I would fix the brakes & then immediately replace the the tire(s). 

(Thanks @Chris H) The science is out the anti-pollution masks, not so much because they are incapable of performing their advertised function, but because exposure levels are much lower for the typical cyclist than most people suppose. Edit two: To attempt to address the last crux of your question, it may be reasonable to say that you are already avoiding more exhaust just by biking & not driving, other than that; take a less heavily trafficked route & otherwise don't worry about it. I suspect general air quality should be more of a concern than incidental exhaust exposure. 

So, if understand correctly, the lock is mounted on the down tube as sketched below? If so, you could try placing the "U" part of the D-lock in the frame mount, hold one loop of the cable on one end of the "U", wrap the cable around the seat post & up over the top tube, then back down to the D-lock & then place the locking mechanism on (also as shown in the sketch below). Is this in the ballpark? It may keep the cable in tight enough to keep from rubbing on your legs. 

Depends on how handy you are with a multimeter, soldering iron & electronics in general. Whatever you do, do not attempt to solder to, open, modify or repair the battery in any way. That would be dangerous. 

Well, from an engineering standpoint, no. It increases complexity, cost and weight. Those might be a deal breaker for the commuters who would likely use them. From a practical standpoint, maybe. @NL_Derek; you could be the first to test one! In conjunction with other folding components (frame like a Dahon & pedals), it may suit the users need, imagine putting your bike in a suitcase. If we assume that the design criteria are such that we need a folding handlebar, nothing here jumps out at me as anything that could not be adequately addressed with quality engineering. You could say a folding bike or folding pedals appear to be very dangerous, but if they are well engineered and manufactured with quality, there is nothing inherently dangerous about them. Whether this particular item is well made, can't say. @RoboKaren, I'd agree that something other than the threaded connection between the two halves might be better unless it has some measure preventing it from loosening unexpectedly, like a cam-lock mechanism of some sort. Just for kicks, I modeled up what in my estimation would be a sturdy hinge assembly, if made with the right materials, roughly copying the design of what is shown in the picture. I don’t have time to do a joining detail though… 

No you cannot. The Hero Cyclone does not appear to have a hanger / mounting holes for a dérailleur. You may be able to install an internal gear hub, but it would likely cost far more than the bike. You may be able to find something used though. 

If you rode the bike enough over the few days, yes it is likely the cable stretched, this is normal for a new cable. However, if you have only ridden a few miles, it is possible the retainer on the cable was not tightened down properly & the cable has slipped. I would suggest making certain the screw securing the cable to the derailleur is tight. If it is, adjusting the limit screws will likely be enough to regain full shifting range. If it appears the cable may have slipped, I'd suggest going back to the mechanic & have him re-adjust it. If you need to adjust the limit screws, reference the Sheldon Brown instructions. It sounds like you may need to adjust the high gear limit more than the low: "The high-gear limit stop is pretty straightforward. It should be set so that the chain almost rubs on the outside plate of the front derailer cage when the bicycle is in its highest gear (large front/small rear). This will reduce the need for trimming as you shift the rear derailer." 

From The Guardian: (I suggest you Click through & read the whole article) "It’s a scenario familiar to any urban cyclist: you’re stuck behind a fume-belching bus or taxi, a choking diesel aroma wafting through your lungs. You think: is this really the healthy option? The good, if simple, answer from pollution experts is: yes. Cycling does remain many, many times better for your health than not cycling, even factoring in exposure to pollution and the risk of accident. What’s more surprising is that on two wheels you might even be exposed to less of the smelly stuff * than those using other forms of transport." *(Emphasis added.) I have read elsewhere (although I can't find the link now) that this lower exposure is due simply to the fact you are up higher than a person in a sedan, and the pollutants tend to sink. Edit: 

You'll have to wait until you get the bike & measure the distance between the holes, using this method. Then you can order the appropriate size chainring. Such as those here. Rather than trying to lengthen the chain, I would recommend you buy a new one as you will be much less likely to have a tight or bent link this way. You should not need to make any adjustments to the derailleur if you are only changing out the front chainring. 

It should say on the package at the store what the size is. If you have a 26 x 1.5in tire, you will just want to make sure the tube you buy overlaps the 1.5in. For example, it may say 26" x 1.5" to 2". You will also want to make sure you get a tube with the proper kind of valve. Either Presta or Schrader. Look at the valve on tube you already have, if it looks the same as the valve on a car tire, it is a schrader. If it is all metal with a lot more threads on it, it is a presta. 

Many OEM forks are not for sale directly to the public. This one very well may fall into that category. That said, there is no need to replace it with the exact same fork. You just need to make sure to replace it with something that will fit. IE, the steerer tube is the correct diameter (probably 1 1/8", but you should verify before purchasing), that it is sized to accept 700c wheels & that it is made to accept disc brakes. Something like on of these may fit the bill: RockShox-Paragon-Turnkey-Aluminum-Steerer SR-Suntour-NRX-Suspension-Threadless sr-suntour-nrx-eld-700c-suspension-fork-electric-lockout-black rockshox-paragon-gold-65mm-700c Not to recommend any one over the other mind you. For other options, I would just start googling "700c Threadless suspension fork". 

They appear to sell under the names "Heico-Lock" & "Nord-Lock". This may be a UK source: $URL$ I should note that there very well may be a similar looking shimano specific part that functions differently & that I am not familiar with. I'm basing this suggestion solely on appearances. If someone knows that these are in fact not the same as the item pictured by the OP, please enlighten me! EDIT: To add further to possible resources, at the bottom of this page: $URL$ There is a list of "Wedge Lock Nuts & Wheel Nuts" (Nuts with an integrated washer half). I do not see any resale links though... 

I agree with Blams comment, I don't think you would want to pull that cart behind a bike. Since you still want to take it into the store, maybe use that cart & mount it on a flatbed trailer with bungee cords. Something like this maybe: $URL$ 

Other things to note: Having full suspension on the bike will rob you of significant forward motion due to the bobbing motion that can accompany pedaling, especially up hill. - You could replace the front fork, but again this may cost more than the bike did. You are stuck with the rear shock as it is integral to the frame, & it is not practical to swap out the frame. 

Whether or not all of these gear combinations are actually practical to use is another question though. 

The ones on the left are made to work with trigger shifters, while the ones on the right are made to work with grip shifters. For reference, some examples of grips meant for use with grip shifters can be found here. (Edit: I'd avoid the thread spool idea. Go over an unexpected bump while resting on the bar ends & they pop off because they were secured with a thread spool... loose control & crash!!) 

You didn't say where you live (what country?), so you may not have this particular option for a store, but you could use a 3/8" drive extension: $URL$ With a 3/8" drive hex driver: $URL$ (You might also be able to find a T-handle hex driver that is long enough, although a quick google search didn't turn one up for me.) This is of course assuming the base of the hex driver will fit into your fork tube, which it may not, you will have to check. Also, before trying to loosen anything you should spray the bolt / any seized parts with penetrating oil (like WD-40 or PB Blaster) & let it sit for a while. That alone might end up being enough to free the stuck parts. If you do get it apart, you should really consider doing a proper overhaul on it & determine if it is even fixable / worth fixing. 

It is a little hard to tell from your photos, but do you have grip shifters? For setups with grip shifters, the grips are generally much shorter / narrower, as part of the "grip surface" is the shifter itself. If you do indeed have grip shifters, you can do as ojs suggested & move the shifters / brakes in towards the stem, or, you could return the grips you purchased & get something sized properly to work with grip shifters. Notice the difference in width of these grips: 

So I recently replaced the stock suspension forks on my Giant Cypress Hybrid with a Suntour CR9 Lock-out fork I noticed that (like my mountain bike with a Manitou fork), I can engage the lockout while the fork is partially compressed, but unlike the mountain bike’s Manitou fork, the Suntour does not return to the top position when un-loaded while locked. Instead it will remain in the position it was when I locked it. My question is, would I be risking damage to the Suntour fork if I ride it while locked out in a partially compressed position? Or should I make sure to return it to its top position before locking? (It may be relevant to note that the pre-load is adjusted with the same lock-out lever) 

It looks like the washer in your photo may be a "Wedge-Lock" washer like those available here: $URL$ 

My advice: Buy a used rigid frame commuter bike on criagslist & turn around & sell this one for $80. If you are intent on working on your current bike, try: 

Short answer: No. There is no product out there to make a rim look wider. Just wider rims. Which may or may not fit your bike. However, if you tell us what size tires you have, provide the make & model of the bike & maybe some pictures of the frame where the tires run closest, we may be able to advise you as to whether or not you can fit wider tires. Also, I am assuming that when you say “frames on my wheels” you mean the rim. Don’t paint the wheels. First of all if you have rim brakes (most likely) the paint will damage the bikes ability to slow effectively while braking & would eventually be rubbed off by the brakes anyway. Also, after a few miles with maybe a little gravel or road debris, the paint will chip & look trashy. As for painting the frame, if you can afford to, you should really consider having it professionally powder coated. Even a well done spray can job will scratch easily & not last anywhere near as long as a powder coat job. If you insist on painting it yourself, either sand blast the original finish off & then clean with an evaporating residue free solvent, or at the very least remove any and all decals or stickers, clean with solvent, roughly sand the entire surface, clean with solvent again & then paint. 

The best thing to do is go try out as many bikes as you can & see what you like!! You can probably do 20 miles or so in two hours, depending on how hard you ride. As far as being concerned about the gears adding complication, although there is a learning curve to figure out what gear to use when, a quality bike should shift easily & smoothly with minimal problems. There won't be too much difference in this regard between a good road & good hybrid bike. You will be more at risk for flats with a road bike on that terrain for sure. Otherwise, with a cyclocross or hybrid you can get tires like Schwalbe Marathons or Specialized armadillos to name just two. You need to consider what your expectations are (for speed, riding up hills, your own riding ability & athleticism). I hope I’m not making an unfair assumption, but since your last bike was a cruiser, can I guess that you are probably more of a beginner cyclist? If this is so, you would likely want something that provides you with some easier, slower gears, especially if you are going to be riding even moderate hills. For comparison: Cyclocross bike: There might be two front crankset gears with 36 & 46 teeth. The smaller the gear in the front = the slower & easier it is to pedal. So 36 tooth is the low gear & 46 tooth is the high gear. The rear cassette might have 9 or 10 gears ranging in size from 12 teeth to 30 teeth. On the rear, the larger gear is the easier / slower gear. Hybrid bike: The front crankset will likely have three gears instead of two, like a 28, 38 & 48 tooth gear. So the gearing is significantly lower / slower / easier. The rear cassette may have gears that go from 12 or 14 to as large as 34 or 36 teeth, again the large being a lower, slower easier gear. (It is worth noting that the higher / faster gears on the hybrid may have the same number of teeth as the cyclocross). Road bike The front crankset will likely have two gear, like a 39 tooth & 53 tooth gear. So the gearing on the low end is significantly higher / faster / harder. The rear cassette may have gears that go from 12 to only 25 teeth, again the large being a lower, slower easier gear. Also, having come from riding a cruiser, you may find the hybrid to be more comfortable. Unless the above doesn’t apply to you (or you just really want to ride with drop bars), I’d recommend the hybrid / commuter bike. There is one other classification of bike that you may have overlooked, Touring Bikes. Touring bikes typically have gearing much more similar to that of a hybrid like the gearing I have noted above, but have a somewhat more aggressive riding position with drop bars (although still relaxed compared to a road bike or cyclocross). 

I think the terms used here are a bit confused. Rather than saying that a road bike has 22 "gears", you should be saying that it has 22 "speeds" (or more correctly, as pointed out in the comments, "gear ratios" is the technically correct most accurate term (when people say 'gear', they are using it as short for 'gear ratios')). Even that can be a bit confusing, but to figure out the number of "speeds" a bike has, you would multiply the the number of gears in the front (in the case of your bike, 3) by the number of gears in the back, (in the case of your bike, 8). Meaning that your bike is actually a 24 "speed" bike. A typical road bike manufactured today might have 2 gears in the front, & 10 or 11 in the back - so a 20 or 22 speed bike. For a mountain bike, 30 - 40 speeds is a bit of an exaggeration. Most mountain bikes will have 2 or 3 gears in the front & up to 10 or 11 in the back. The largest cassettes (gear set in the back) manufactured have 11 gears. So the max number of speeds (again, gear combinations) a bike can have would be 33 (3 in the front x 11 in the back), although this may be an uncommon combination. Here is a photo of a 30 speed drive train.