The general rule of thumb I've always read/heard is does the trigger hand placement naturally allow the finger to reach the trigger if you were to set the butt on the inside of the elbow - stick your arm out to your side, bend it so your forearm is pointing up, set shotgun/rifle on your arm out by your elbow. Does your hand naturally reach the grip so you have proper trigger position? If not, you either need spacers or to have the stock length shortened. The second thing would be your non-trigger hand reaching the forearm. I have short arms so I just have to deal with most pump/SA shotguns and hold it as far to the rear as I can. You normally want to have the supporting arm to have a fair bend or you'll tire quickly if shooting competitions. Not as big a deal for hunting where you're not shooting for much time. Third thing is sight line. Is your eye aligned with the sights when you naturally rest your head on the comb? Do you have to tilt your head up, down or to the side? You may need to add or remove material if it's not adjustable (most aren't). This is more important in competition where you must be fast. Fourth thing is balance. Most shotguns are barrel heavy, which helps facilitate smoother swings while tracking birds, but some could be uncomfortably heavy for weaker or smaller shooters, especially if they'll be shooting for longer sessions. If you can stand in position for a couple minutes with no discomfort it should be OK. 

My competition triggers were normally about 2 ounces. However, you can train yourself to use any weight within reason and 7-8 pounds is reasonable for a hunting rifle (people still manage to have accidental discharges). The key is a smooth squeeze directly to the rear, regardless of firearm type. Any force component that misaligns the sights while squeezing is obviously bad and why handguns are harder to shoot accurately than long guns. Everything is about consistency when shooting accurately. Same grip, cheek placement, shoulder placement, pressures in each of those areas, trigger squeeze, etc. Even if you technically don't have great form or technique in some area, if you do it exactly the same each shot, you will be accurate (meaning small group size, not where the group is placed relative to where you wanted it unless you can adjust the sights to compensate). As the sage advice says, "Practice, practice, practice." One exception to the above may be rapid fire. Very hard to work on a smooth squeeze and consistency if you must shoot fast for some reason, which is naturally why most people can't shoot fast very well (discounting effects from recoil). This shouldn't be a concern for normal hunting. As Erik said, your biggest concern should be the break. It should be crisp and clean, no creep. A gunsmith should be able to fix that up for you. Even our competition triggers were somewhat mass produced so some could benefit from a polishing job. The typical firearm could certainly do so. I'll add one more thing. Don't use a scope with too high a power. Just enough to clearly see that you are on target. The more magnification, the more movement you will see and most people have more of a natural tendency to jerk the trigger as the crosshairs are passing by the intended target zone. You can bump up the power a bit if you want once you've got better body hold technique. Or shoot from prone or some other "well rested" position. 

Fastening the lamp further down (eg, chest, waist) generally provides better perception of trail features and makes it easier to wear a headnet. If the light source is above your eyes, you won't be able to see the shadows cast by trail obstructions as well to judge their height/distance. If the light is below your eyes, roots and rocks would cast a shadow that you could see much better. 

If you can't break it free with pliers where you've added some kind of protection against the teeth (rags, etc) gouging the bullet, you are left with either a collet puller (top) that goes in your press or hammer style puller (bottom). 

What the 2-stage gains you is having a perceived lighter trigger weight even though it is the same overall. I forget the technical term for it, but the first stage takes up the "slack" or travel in the trigger up to where you reach the second stage. From there it acts just like a single stage. So the potential benefit is if you can set the first stage high enough, you need just a little bit more squeeze to fire the trigger. For example, in your other question we assumed you had a 7-8 pound pull. With a single stage you keep squeezing until you reach that 8 pounds and BANG. With a 2-stage, you could set the first stage to say 6 or 7 pounds (depends on the springs how much adjustment you have). So now you pull back 7 pounds and you reach a stop. At that point you know it's just another pound until BANG. There isn't really much against having one other than cost and being slightly more complex. For hunting I wouldn't bother, but it would give you something to play with. :) 

A rectangular would offer the most choices. I have used a 8x6 and 9x7 in a half-mid pitch above treeline in the Rockies. Whether it is rectangle or square, which is also a rectangle, is insignificant since you could do the same pitches with either one assuming the sides are long enough for the coverage you desire. You would need longer sides if you want to be fully enclosed unless you don't mind cramped space. Where you run into issues is with shaped tarps that can only be done in 1 or maybe 2 pitches. 

I use a kids toothbrush (smaller size than adult) and cut down the handle a bit. Skip the toothpaste since your teeth are cleaned by the brushing action. If you really want it for your breath (???) some dry little dots of toothpaste to take with them. 

This isn't an answer but it's too long for a comment. Since I was the author of that quote you snipped and info from BPL (where I'm a member) has already been presented, I'll just offer my anecdotal evidence that shoes are fine for your stated parameters if you have nothing wrong with your lower extremities. To me it boils down to being fit for the activity. If your ankles are weak (as evidenced from your's being sore when you wear approach shoes) then you need to build them up before going to shoes all the time. By "weak" I mean using some muscles more than they are used, just like doing any activity that stresses muscles in ways they aren't used to will cause you to be sore the next day. I just had to contort myself in all different ways to paint my deck and my back, neck and shoulders are letting me know. I only get to take 1 big trip a year. The rest of the year I may get to do a couple local trips but they are short and easy terrain. My first trip in 2009 at age 42 I rolled one ankle 3 times pretty well. It was quite painful for a while but I still managed 100 miles over 10 days in the Smoky Mountains. I guess I should note I didn't work out and sit behind a desk all day. 69" tall and around 160 lbs. After that trip I started wearing only sandals nearly everywhere. I think on the 2010 trip (first time in Rockies) I only rolled it once but I was in much better shape that summer from gutting/remodeling my house (and down to 145 lbs!). 2011 trip I had a major knee issue (took first major downhill too quickly) and a couple small ankle tweaks. After that, I realized I needed to train more before my trips with the goals being to strengthen my knees (and by default the rest of my lower extremities) and build some cardio for the elevation. Now I walk/jog the bleachers at the high school for an hour 3 x /week a couple months before each trip. That's it. Well, I also started biking a little this year. Since then I've not had any knee or ankle issues. I can almost guarantee I would have severely sprained/strained my ankle on this last trip because of the difficulty of the terrain, but the many times I felt my foot shift to the side or rotate it held up just fine. I would have fallen if I was wearing boots. Of course, the flipside is a I move much quicker and hop to smaller rocks sometimes since I am wearing shoes. That brings up the other huge benefit of shoes is they are still lighter than any similar boot and that is a proven advantage. Think I saw a question here where someone posted the Army study. No, shoes aren't for everyone. Some people clearly have foot/ankle issues that may not work well with shoes. Some people are so clumsy they need ankle protection from rocks. :) However, that could be a false assumption on their part since they may not need the protection if they were in lighter shoes that allowed them to be more nimble. Some people are not willing to put in any effort to strengthen their feet/ankles over time. For the majority of folks hiking on trails (or off trail) in summer, shoes are the superior choice. I think those that try them and don't like them think they'll feel as good or better the first couple times and that's just not the case unless you've already got solid feet and ankles from playing sports or similar. Or perhaps they went with too light a shoe with little or no rockplate. I could add more but this is long enough already. I just figured I should chime in since you had quoted me. :) Oh, and I personally use Inov-8 Roclite 315 shoes that sadly aren't made anymore. :( If you find a brand/model that works well for you, buy several pair since they normally only stick around a couple years.