The Russian Olympic Committee was suspended from the 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games as a result of state-sponsored doping and testing fraud in the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympic Games. They are disallowed from any national presence at the Games. 42 Russian athletes were banned and had medals stripped as a result. Athletes from Russia were permitted to apply and compete individually (respectively, as individual teams in sports such as curling or bobsled) apart from 

The following paragraph then specifies that the umpire will be shown the line of the ball (i.e. whether it was going towards or besides the wicket only) and that any judgement of height is left to the bowler's end umpire. 

In the case that the team recovering the ball has not committed an offence or infringement, and depending on the circumstances, continuing to play on may be to their advantage. Finally, under the Notes section of laws regarding Match Officials, we are given a clear indication that the referee (and they alone) may decide what advantage is, and whether it has been obtained. They must also allow advantage only when the non-offending team both has an "adequate opportunity" for an advantage and has attempted to use it. The former explains why play is not necessarily stopped for a scrum: the player gaining the ball may have advantage from playing on. The latter explains why players will immediately try to regather the ball and make a territorial gain from that position: they can only have advantage if they try to make use of a potential advantage. In the worst case, they are brought back for the scrum, which by custom and by law, almost assuredly gives them possession. In the best case, they make great gains in territory or are able to score a try. Hence, both players and referees have incentive and ability under the laws to play on, not needing to stop play first. 

Other Countries Germany's Bundesliga 1 and 2 do not have a maximum foreign player limit, but instead a minimum "local" player limit. At least 8 players must have played for the club in three seasons each before turning 25, and at least 4 further players must have done the same at any German club. France's Ligue 1 appears to have a limit of five foreign players (with a similar meaning as above) and further allows only four to be playing on the field at any time. However sources on this are unclear as to whether the five is actually four (and thus the second limit is unnecessary). Actual regulations are not easy to find. English Premier League currently requires a minimum of 6 "home-grown" players in the match list of 18, which is expected to rise to 7 and additionally require a "club-grown" player in 2018-19. Notably this rule explicitly disregards nationality or citizenship. Such players must have played three seasons or three years for an English or Welsh-affiliated club before or during the year they turn 21. 

This term is not known to a group of cricket enthusiasts and fans, and a Google search using various parameters relating to cricket wicketkeepers and overthrows did not find any results with the phrase. I conclude that this term specifically for an overthrow by the wicketkeeper is not common in the world and probably limited to a small region or regions. 

The team who won away is placed over the team who won at home, if this happened. If both won at home or both won away, the teams remain tied. 

No. Penalties are awarded by the officials. Team preference is not a factor; they do not have any input on the decision. Rule 15.1, page 25 of the NHL rulebook makes clear that 

This gave about 18 months of events, and qualifying ended four weeks prior to the opening ceremony. A similar standard and qualifying period can be expected for the 2020 Olympic Games; you could need a score notably above 8000 at an IAAF event during 2019 or 2020 prior to the Games' beginning. Entry by Nomination If you do not meet this standard, there may be one "saving grace" method of entry. For the 2016 Olympic Games, contrary to prior Games, a National Olympic Committee which did not have any athletes meet the entry standards in one of a list of specific events, could nominate a single athlete (in each sex, as and where appropriate) for those specific events not qualified to. This guaranteed every NOC could have at least one athlete in every event of the athletics components of the games, if they so desired. It is not known whether this alternative method of entry will be in place for Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. You should aim to learn and to meet the full qualifying standard regardless of whether others in your country can or cannot also meet it. 

Sources: GQ, CBS Sports, Lost Lettermen, NY Times, LA Times From 2000 to 2003, the Harlem Globetrotters played 22 games against college teams. The college teams lost 13 of those games (see the full list of results). In 2004, the NCAA banned teams from playing against the Globetrotters. In 2006, the Globetrotters lost a game to the NABC College All-Stars. The Globetrotters Wikipedia article mentions some of these games: 

Has this ever happened? Have two college basketball teams ever played each other 5 times in one season? 

Wikipedia has a list of the men's singles Grand Slam finals in the Open Era, and it shows the player seedings. There have been 30 unseeded men's Grand Slam finalists since 1968. Eight of those players won the final. There has never been a men's Grand Slam final in the Open Era in which both players were unseeded. The Tennis Channel has an article that lists the unseeded women's Grand Slam finalists of the Open Era up to January 2010. There were 11 unseeded women's Grand Slam finalists between 1968 and the 2010 Australian Open, and 3 of them won the final. 

This rule says "one or more suspended in air" though, so it doesn't exactly match my situation where the balls are still touching the table. The International Billiards Association has a rule for a "jammed balls" situation: 

This question is inspired by the fact that the NFC currently has six teams (all outside of the NFC South division) that could finish with an 11-5 record or better. If that happened, one of those teams would miss the NFL playoffs because a team from the NFC South would take one of the playoff spots. Currently it is possible for a team in the NFC South to make the playoffs with a 5-10-1 record. What is the best record to miss the NFL playoffs, and what is the worst record to make the NFL playoffs? 

Tim Donaghy, a former NBA referee, wrote a book titled Personal Foul (it was originally titled Blowing the Whistle but was renamed after he had to find another publisher). Deadspin published some excerpts from the book. Donaghy wrote that the fans pay to see star players score a lot of points: 

As for your "race to 4/3" example, I believe that is specific to double-elimination tournaments in which you play a different number of games depending on whether you are in the winner's bracket or the loser's bracket. So "race to 4/3" means it's a "race to 4" in the winner's bracket and a "race to 3" in the loser's bracket. Here's a page where it mentions a different "race" for the winner's and loser's brackets in one tournament: 

The Kansas City Chiefs have not had a wide receiver catch a touchdown pass so far this season (through Week 15). According to team stats, only running backs, fullbacks, and tight ends have caught a TD pass so far this season. According to the NFL_Stats twitter account, the Chiefs haven't had a WR catch a TD pass since December 8, 2013: 

They played each other in an early season tournament. (You can see this year's Battle 4 Atlantis tournament includes Butler and Georgetown - both from the Big East conference.) They played each other twice as part of the conference's regular season schedule. They played each other in the conference tournament. They played each other in a postseason tournament like the NCAA Tournament, NIT, CBI, or CIT. 

He also wrote about how referees would start calling fouls in games that became too physical in order to try to rein in the players. He said they would only call those fouls on non-star players to ensure that the star players remained in the game: 

I found an article at RPIRatings.com that has a list of college basketball teams that have played each other 4 or more times in one season. It is not a comprehensive list, but it is still pretty impressive as it has data going back as far as 1906. The article says: 

Are there any players who have won an NCAA football championship while playing for two different teams? 

But then in 2014, the Kansas City Chiefs went the entire season without a wide receiver catching a touchdown pass (from the Sporting News article):