Really, I would work this desire into the growing "humanity" of the robot. They have a complex brain that is suddenly idle. Maybe they spend hours just watching the water. We build houses in places where we have a good view of the water, in many cases, near the beach for example, this creates houses that require much higher maintenance due to weather, much higher construction costs, and much higher risk of damage and destruction. Is it worth it? Yes for many. Moving water has deep spiritual connotations for humans. It has philosophical connotations "Can a person step in the same river twice?" If your robots are lost, and searching for their souls, and if they are anything like humans, it seems perfectly reasonable for them to share a fascination with water. As a literary device, it can be used to effectively create a bridge of sympathy to your robots. In this way it is not a question you need to "answer" in your book. It can be asked, explored, and ultimately left open. 

Being aliens, these creatures would indeed be more "insect-like" than "actual insects", (presumably with lungs, a cardiovascular system, etc) but that could still leave them with "growing pains" from the exoskeletons. Thing is, the species here on Earth that use exoskeletons (like crabs/lobsters/etc), tend to have to shed them regularly as they grow, leaving them vulnerable until the new one has been properly grown. Which would be why insects have this stage where they grow their one and only skeleton, which they then keep using until they die. Hence the three stages (egg, larva, pupa) before going into full adulthood. Our alien friends could be expected to have a somewhat different road to adulthood. Like the queen giving birth to live larvae to bypass the egg stage. Being large enough to be intelligent (even sentient), they may also have a way to school their young in the new ways of a world that changes too fast for (natural) evolution to keep pace. That way the new adults would have more than just instincts telling them what to do (and how to do it). 

Cargo would be strapped down for the long time in zero-G in a vessel where position of center of mass is critical for precise maneuvering. It's also possible that the hold of a large freighter would be unpressurized. Also a sudden hole in the side of the craft doesn't mean that everything is jettisoned, the gas inside will rush out but the heavier objects take time to get moving. A quick vent will also have the air move around the slow object instead of pushing it out. 

Yes, the adaption would be beneficial. Your main concern seems to be a combat imbalance with non cold adapted humans, and adaptability to non-cold climates. Lets take these one at a time. Combat: Likely not a negative factor, particularly when fighting in the cold, on "home turf" These humans will need to be active and mobile, and capable of carrying and managing the movement of loads. If they are living a tribal lifestyle, that involves a lot of hunting, gathering, and general hard labor. Putting on "armor" for combat is unlikely to have a large factor in home turf. Humans, are combat capable while carrying a lot of gear: $URL$ Their warm weather adversaries would need to bring their combat gear, supplies, AND warm clothing. They would be at a distinct disadvantage. Now when traveling to warmer climates and trying to manage heat they could be at a disadvantage, and suffer symptoms of heat exhaustion/hyperthermia in temperate climates, and be unwilling or unable to enter warmer tropcial or desert climates. Adaptability: They would have an advantage in adapting to temperate climates, Their thermoregulation, maintenance of body heat, requires the burning of calories. As long as they are not so warm that they are fighting against the heat, they are simply burning fewer calories than their "home turf" baseline. This would give them the ability to expand into temperate climates during the winter, fortify, and attempt to defend them during the summer. 

Summoning spell: Godzilla Guaranteed to turn your a Tokyo into a parking lot. Do be careful that you don't get his lawyers tagging along. 

Depends on how interconnected the plates are and how well these interconnections handle the heat. Worst case is each major section is isolated from the rest using padding and isolating lubricant. In this case there will be arcing across the seams and possible fire of the padding. If the wearer is touching the metal in 2 spots or the leather is thing/compressed enough to conduct it (or the salty sweat created a conductive path) one of which is near the feet and the other is close to the impact then some of the current will go through him. Possibly killing him. Best case is where the armour is fully interconnected (using polished chainmail across gaps or even explicit wires for this purpose). Here you have a faraday suit which will protect him fully and allow him to laugh it off. Unless the high power lighting is sustained for a long period which will turn the armour into an oven or burn out some of the interconnections which will result in the option above. 

Security. Malware is rampant, and the more code that is running, the more code that is available to be hacked or corrupted. If they are hacked en route and re-directet, they will have no ability to detect that something is amiss, since they are in cryo. They will simply at the wrong destination, staring at the business end of a laser-pistol, or not wake up at all. Because of this, the number of network connected systems is limited to the absolute bare minimum, The code bases are well known, checksummed, SHA-Hashed, and routinely re-installed back on bare metal from source. There is simply no reason to risk your ship, crew, and cargo, because you want a pretty display 

Fire resistance; fastest way to level a field is to torch it. However that doesn't touch the roots and in the after math the quickest growing plants able to sprout again from just the root (like many grasses) will sprout up first and push out the slower growers. Other naive methods of trying to eradicate them is cutting it all down. Again a fast growing plant that can sprout from roots will dominate the field quickly after. For increased unwanted spreading of the plant you can make the seeds survive in the digestive tract and sprout from the droppings of herbivores in the manure pile. They also seem like a tasty additive for cat and dog food though again viable seeds will pass through intact. Local wildlife can also partake in the spread. Before long local fields, woods and backyards will start sprouting the plant, signaling the start of the burning/chopping and weedkiller. 

I imagine such an interface would feel like an extra limb or two - say, an extra pair of hands. Or eyes. Or a whole new body, depending on how far you want to go. The only real problem I see here, is where exactly these "limbs" will be "attached" to your physical body, especially without feeling like they'd bump into things around you. My guess here is going along a "fourth dimension" or something. (Which is what the whole internet thing is already, anyway.) As for feedback from these extra "limbs", it'll be like moving your arms about with your eyes closed; you can still feel how the different joints are stretched out, and this will tell you where your hands are without you having to look. And this is before you get the skin's feedback as you start bumping into things. Similar with these implants. The most sensible (to me) option, is to have them feel like arms/hands/fingers with a set number of joints, and so moving those joints would trigger events; kinda like moving your fingers across a keyboard. Get some proper practice with this, and only then do you assign which events go with each "keypress". One advantage of this, is you can "key" and "mouse" indefinitely with these extra "limbs" without suffering (physical) fatigue or carpal tunnel or anything, while fiddling with that drawing/song/whatever. Not that this would exclude composing by "thought-to-MIDI" or anything; tapping directly into the thought process sounds like a nice, quick way of writing/composing/etc, while the extra "limbs" deal with commands like "dial this number". These are two options, and it'll be possible to have both. 

Your animal could have a hyper-slick fur belly, and powerful limbs on the sides, rather than under the body. This would allow them to slide along the ground. Penguins and river otters do this when traveling across the snow. They are built for swimming rather than running, so this is their best when conditions allow for it. But they are not optimized for it. 

Green hair could be a natural color variation for this particular race. Green hair could be caused by algae living on or inside the hair. Polar bears in captivity have been know to turn green from algae inside their hollow hairs.