I'm still not entirely sure if I'm understanding -type adjectives correctly, but I figured I'd give you an overview of Korean adjectives. I suspect that Korean does have the -type adjectives you want but I think they also have -type verbs too. Both adjectives and verbs in Korean inflect in almost identical ways. Both take sentence-ending inflections (such as the formal , less formal , etc) and tense inflections (such as the past tense ). Compare the verb (to go) to the adjective (to be large): 

In spoken language "ah" is an interjection. It is simply an arbitrary, nonsense, semi-involuntary sound that people make to express surprise, excitement, understanding, etc. I say arbitrary since, in my experience, the choice of interjection varies slightly along with other linguistic and sociolinguistic factors. For example, the stereotypical Japanese equivalent of the English "ah" seems to be closer to "eh/ey" while the Korean seems to be closer to "uh". Also note that the other sounds such as "oh", "aw", or "heh" would have resulted in no change to meaning what-so-ever. I say nonsense because, although it is not vacuous in meaning, it is extragrammatical and context dependent. I say involuntary because "ah" is not a word in the same sense that "apple" is a word, it is a sound that the body makes almost reflexively in response to certain stimuli (such as saying "ow" when hurt, or the act of laughing). "Ah" as a written word is a different matter all together. "Ah" the written word is simply a phonetic approximation of "ah" the sound/interjection, remembering that "ah" the interjection has special status as a word and is semi-involuntary. It is in that respect that "ah" the written word is onomatopoeic. While the top rated response to this Yahoo! Answers question shows confusion as to the definition of onomatopoeia (confusing it with interjection), the second response was useful to me in understanding the problem. 

I have recently started learning Esperanto because I thought it would be an interesting exercise to compare and contrast it with the natural languages I speak. Anyone who has done even light research on Esperanto know its two main selling points are its claim that it's easy to learn and its claim that learning Esperanto first makes learning other languages easier. For now I'm most interested about that second claim. Pretty much every website discussing Esperanto in some way references that second claim, usually by saying something to the effect of "one may become more fluent in French by first studying Esperanto for 6 months and then studying French for a year and a half, rather than studying French for two continuous years." This seems like a rather counter-intuitive notion and made me rather curious. None of these websites seems to offer any citations in support of this claim. In fact, a cursory Google Scholar search also turned up nothing. Furthermore, these websites offer conflicting accounts of why learning Esperanto is supposed to make learning other languages easier. Some claim that Esperanto helps learners become aware of the essential characteristics of language which allows them to focus on their target language more clearly. Others claim that Esperanto's ease and quickness of learning allows learners to gain confidence speaking in a foreign language which they can then take with them to their target language. Does anyone on this board know of any academic sources which address this claim (either supporting or refuting)? I'd be particularly interested to see any experiments which explicitly tested this notion that 6 months Esperanto + 18 months of another language is better than 24 months of that same language. 

Korean arguably fits the bill as a language with both a high amount of homophones and a highly phonetic writing system. I will start with the writing system since it is the most cut and dry. Hangul is by far the most common writing system in Korean. Spelling adheres closely to pronunciation with a few exceptions. It should be noted, however, that those exceptions are all regular. That is, knowing a small handful of pronunciation rules you can reliably produce a faithful pronunciation of a word from written form alone. Some of these rules include nasal assimilation of approximates when preceded by a nasal (as in 종로, literally jong-ro, a district in Seoul, but actually pronounced as jong-no), and neutralization of codas (받, 밭, 밧, and 밪, literally bat, bath, bas, and bac respectively, are all pronounced as bat due to neutralization). Hangul is kept highly phonetic by occasional revisions to Korean spelling to match modern pronunciation (note: I was unable to find an appropriate citation for this. This is what my sociolinguistics professor told me.). I believe the last such update was in the 1950s. North Korea uses Hangul exclusively however South Korea does have a second writing system, Hanja, which is basically Traditional Chinese characters (with some variation, but less than Kanji or Simplified Chinese). This system predates Hangul as before Hangul's invention Koreans wrote using Chinese characters. It should be noted that these days Hanja is almost exclusively used in TV news and newspapers (mostly for disambiguation), as well as for artistic purposes (store signs, calligraphy, etc.). The relatively recent invention of Hangul combined with the existence and use of the Hanja writing system is what makes the statement "Korean uses a highly phonetic writing system" debatable. However from my experience living in Korea and learning the language I would argue that since Hanja is used only in limited context (you will never see a sentence written entirely in Hanja, if only because all Hanja-based verbs and adjectives must end in 하다, ha-ta, dictionary form of "to do", which is pure Korean), it does have a highly phonetic writing system. Second, the statement that Korean has a high level of homophone (note: forgive the non-academic source). It should be noted that this statement too is up for debate as, amongst other reasons, homophone usually does not create ambiguity when viewed in context. Much of Korean vocabulary, especially written and formal vocabulary, is adopted from Chinese (much like English uses French/Latin vocabulary). Given the relatively small sets of phonemes in Chinese and the fact that Korean is not tonal and thus can't differentiate through tones, this leaves many sets of words with identical spellings and thus pronunciations. Common examples include lexical items like: 

Furthermore, both Korean verbs and adjectives can use the construction. Usually the is a noun derived from Sino-Korean vocabulary. (song) + (to do) = (to sing). Similarly, (strength/health) + = (strong). However, even when using this construction they still use their respective noun modifier inflections: 

Homograph. Literally "same spelling". Any two words with different meanings which are spelled the same regardless of their pronunciation (it could be the same or it could be different. It doesn't matter). Taking the discussion of abjad to it's logical conclusion, I see no reason why this term couldn't be extended to even completely non-phonetic writing systems. I can easily imagine some Chinese-like ideograph which represents two separate concepts (perhaps with the same pronunciation or not). Since they are orthographically identical I'd still consider them homographs. 

Short answer: "no". To start, your premise is slightly faulty as descriptive grammaticists are more common than prescriptive grammaticists since most people just follow their own local dialect anyway, regardless of what prescriptive grammaticists say. Further more, with very few exceptions, prescriptive grammar has not had a large effect on language change. The history of prescriptive grammar is a history of futility. Even today, prescriptive grammaticists are merely a vocal minority, as they have been throughout all of history. This should be obvious since they tend to oppose language usage which they deem incorrect but is in common usage and common usage is, by definition, common! I don't have my copy in front of me, so I can't give you any explicit citations, but the book Language Myths by Bauer and Trudgill offers citations for how prescriptive grammaticists always seem to think they are living in the first generation to taint the English language and that only a few decades ago everyone spoke like Shakespeare. That said, if one stretches the definition of "diaglossia" a bit, prescriptive grammaticists tend to promote the standard dialect, typically regarded as the H dialect. Common usage, by virtue of being common, is usually seen as the L dialect. Thus there is social prestige to be gained by overtly aligning oneself with the high-class, more respected H dialect. Basically, supporting a prescriptive grammar yields greater rewards than descriptive grammar and thus will continue to attract people. Therefore, I see no signs of their numbers decreasing nor their public influence waning. Additionally, in my opinion they (prepare for blasphemy) serve a somewhat useful purpose. They help to codify and propagate the standard dialect. A standard dialect is important for ensuring mutual intelligibility across a wide audience. Although people should not be forced to use such a standard dialect at all times, if one wishes to be understood by a wide audience then they must at least have the ability to conform to that standard when the need arises, especially in written form. Can you imagine trying to a read a daily newspaper written in the style of James Joyce?! For further readings about the conflict between allowing people to speak naturally and teaching them standard dialect, look into the controversy surrounding BEV (Black English Venacular) or AAE (African-American English) in US schools. 

Most text books focus on single consonant onsets (called simplex onsets) so dealing with a complex onset like /st/ can be confusing. If you take a look at section 2 in this overview of moraic theory, you can see that complex onsets do it in one of two ways: the either treat the complex onset as two separate consonants or they say that the features of the consonants linearize, for lack of a better word, and effectively turn into a single consonant. Either way the result seems to be that a complex onset does not take significantly more time than a simplex onset and thus does need any extra moras. However, You should also be aware of superheavy syllables, defined in the Wikipedia article for syllable weight. These are syllables with two V segments (a long vowel or a diphthong) plus a coda or a single V and two C segments in the coda for a total of three moras per syllable. Superheavy syllables don't appear in every language but I believe they do in English. So the question is whether the vowel in "steak" is a diphthong. For me it isn't but you seem to think it is. 

vP (pronounced "little v P") is a type of phrase needed because of the double object verbs I talked about above. For your purposes, just think of it as a VP. Finally, I would strongly suggest you first skim an introductory syntax textbook or try to find some introductory lecture slides online because syntax, especially minimalism, has a tendency to build on itself. Without a strong foundation it is hard to understand the more advanced topics. Unfortunately, the book you are reading sounds at least moderately advanced. My school uses Syntax: A Generative Introduction by Andrew Carnie and also Core Syntax: A Minimalist Approach by David Adger in its syntax courses. Both books are good, but I think that Carnie's writing style is a bit more engaging. I think a quick look at one of these books would be quite helpful. 

I was thinking about your "The Dark Knight Rises" example and I was thinking "well, if it was properly capitalized then it's obvious that it's a title of something." Then I thought "but it wasn't capitalized and I still knew. How can I tell it's a title, even if I didn't have real world knowledge that it's a movie?" One of the ways I can tell it's a title is because of the way it's embedded in sentence. On the surface it's an embedded CP but it is taking the place of a DP. That got me thinking about how syntax might help you. I think you should read about the double object construction. The current view of double objects was first put forth in "On Double Object Construction" by Larson (1988). I can't find a full version online for free but these lecture notes that I found should give you the main ideas. If you generate a syntax tree it should be easy to pick out the arguments you want. Although I have never used it before today, I've been playing around with the Standford Parser and it looks like you might be able to adapt it to your needs. Incidentally, the Stanford Parser was able to identify "the dark knight rises" as an NP: