As Assistant Manager, presumably you have occasion to speak confidentially with Mary about people issues. Use that opportunity to bring up the subject of Ethan. Explain from your viewpoint how you see her acting with Ethan, and that you aren't sure you understand her view, but want to learn more about it. Listen to what Mary explains about the situation. Compare Ethan to the other team member whose relationship with Mary changed, and learn how that happened. Then, ask Mary if she would like to "salvage" the relationship with Ethan. If she would, offer to help. This approach puts you in a position to learn more deeply about your boss's outlook, and at the same time positions you to help improve a team member's standing, while working with her rather than against her. 

You might start by improving your information here so that you don't go into an interview completely uneducated about appropriate salaries. Look through some of the job sites that server your market area - many of them have salary ranges. Also, look through $URL$ Instead of making it clear that you lack information, try to make it clear that salary isn't at the top of your needs list - that, for you, the career change, and what you hope is a better work/life balance is far more important. 

Nothing has to be listed in any particular order. A resume is a sales tool that can be crafted in any way you choose. However anything other than reverse-chronological order for a chronological resume would be confusing at best, and a sign of "this one doesn't understand resume conventions" at worst. A reader might conclude you made a foolish mistake. If you choose to create a functional resume, you could list the most appropriate functions first. But if you choose a chronological resume, adhere to the norms and keep things in order. Use a cover letter to point out the most relevant aspects of the applicant's experience - without regard to when they occurred. As @HorusKol wisely comments: "the resume is history, the cover letter is the sales pitch". 

This isn't difficult. When you enter the building, go up to your manager and say "Hi boss, how are you doing? Hey, what time is my break scheduled for today?" 

One of the primary points you should consider is your financial situation. You have indicated that you don't have any emergency funds sufficient to cover your costs during unemployment. And you have indicated that, despite trying hard, you haven't been able to find a new position in 8 months of trying. Unfortunately, that doesn't portend well for your finances should you quit. If your recent past holds true, you can expect to be out an extended period of time, with no income, and no emergency fund. I would wonder how you will support yourself (and your family?) without income. And I would wonder if that would be a cause of stress and anxiety at least as bad as your current job situation. You could consider taking a contracting position for the short term, while you look for a permanent job. That could help lessen the financial impact, and keep you on a payroll while you look. You will do whatever you feel comfortable doing, so we are just providing opinions here. For me, I'd find a way to stay on a payroll while I looked for my next job. That way, I wouldn't feel rushed, and I could be careful enough so that I don't choose yet another bad job situation. If you were part of my family, I'd advise you to work harder to find your next job before leaving your current job. Although it seems to me that you have already reached a decision, and are just looking for confirmation here, if I'm incorrect and you still cannot decide, this might help: $URL$ . As wacky as it seems, just taking the decision out of your hands and putting it into an inanimate object might relieve some of the stress tied up in the decision-making process. 

The only way for sure to know your employability, is to attempt to get a job. Try to be more positive when you do. Focus on your strengths, rather than worrying about your weaknesses. Flexibility regarding tasks, location, and pay will open up more possibilities than if you are less flexible. Remember - it only takes one employer who likes you in order to land a job. 

That is probably a mistake. It sounds like an excuse - it's best not to call attention to excuses in your CV. 

You cannot continue to take hours away from your work time and try to "cover up" with your boss. Basically, anything you are doing, that you wouldn't admit openly to your boss is questionable. Eventually that will catch up with you, and may have serious work repercussions. It appears that there are only two real solutions here - either have a convincing talk with your family, or find a different place to work. It can be hard for families who don't understand office work, and remote work, to see that you really are working when you are in your room on your computer. For some families "being in your room" means you aren't really working, even when you are. Sit down with your parents. Explain the work you do, what is involved, and the kind of uninterrupted time you need to complete it. tell them which hours of the day need to be "work hours" (for example 9:00 - 5:00) and which hours are not. You might even consider showing them what a "day in the life" of your work entails. Ask what you need to do in order to get a full day of work without having to take time out to do home chores, babysitting, lawn work, etc. Perhaps all chores can be done after hours or on weekends (just as they would if you worked in an office). Perhaps you need a lock on your door. Perhaps there is a different space in your house other than your room which would better convey a sense of "work". Sometimes a basement office can be set up. If that doesn't work, you'll need to find somewhere else to do your work. You might be able to "work from home" by working somewhere other than your room. Perhaps a library, perhaps a space in a local university, perhaps a coffee shop. (I once had a remote worker spend every day in a coffee shop for a few months. The coffee shop was okay with that as long as he actually purchased coffee.) If you can afford it, some cities now have shared office spaces. You basically rent the use of an office or a desk, and have a few shared office amenities. You might even be able to rent an unused room at a friend's house inexpensively. And if all else fails, you may have to look for another non-remote job where you can drive to the office and work without having to do home chores at the same time. 

In my experience, it would be unusual to be asked to solve an assignment without first having any knowledge of the company at all. 

People seeing your resume are going to note the short duration between starting your job, and seeking the next one. Just saying "I found the company intolerable" probably isn't sufficient. So best to be prepared to tackle that question more fully during an interview. 

There's never a need to reply to a cold call (or email) from a recruiter. It's common (and perhaps even expected?) that most people just ignore the call/mail if they aren't interested. If you wish to "keep your name in their file", you can respond as you have done - indicating that you aren't looking "right now". This hints that maybe you will be interested at some point in the future, and that they should continue to ping you with potential jobs. You didn't do wrong, depending on your intent. 

Only you can decide if it's worth it to stick around or not. For me the answer was eventually always that it wasn't worth staying. Your mileage may vary. 

Some employees just work the required amount. They arrive on time, they leave on time, they do what is necessary, but no more. In my experience they comprise the majority of workers. A company can get by nicely with many such workers. Other employees work less than the expected amount. They sometimes (often?) come in late, are out a lot, and put in less effort. They are in the minority, but a company can't work effectively with many such employees. And some employees go above and beyond. They work more, and work more intensely. They can be counted on to get important things done even if it means working through lunch, staying late, or working an occasional weekend. They are in the minority, but are very valuable. You get to choose which kind of employee you want to be, and you don't need to feel guilty. If you feel good about yourself nobody can make you feel guilty, but you can bring that upon yourself. That said, you certainly can understand that good employers reward those who go above and beyond and you can understand why. Your employer specifically told you how you can get ahead in your company. Now you can choose to take that route or not. I'm sure it wouldn't actually take "90% of your waking hours" to get there. You are exaggerating. 

The premise behind the question title is incorrect. Many employers do indeed invest in training employees. What you are encountering is a market with many job seekers, but fewer positions. In that market, employers can ask for and find job seekers with experience, even for lower-level jobs. Unfortunately, you are competing against them. Keep looking, try not to get discouraged. Many employers are willing to hire smart college graduates with minimal experience and train them up - they do indeed exist. You just may have to look harder and longer to find them. Also consider casting your net wider. When you say "I can't compete" when you see experienced folks applying for entry-level jobs, you are probably wrong. 

The simplest way is to get an enterprise license subscription to an online service for electronic books. Some services will set up recommendations, and some will allow you to use your own local recommendations. 

That may be true in some cases (perhaps your friend is a headhunter and that's the way his company does business), but it is certainly not true in all cases. In my experience in my locale it is not true in the vast majority of cases. Perhaps your locale is different. 

If this is at all true, and if you have any confidence at all in your abilities, then you simply decline their offer. No need for a big explanation here - companies offering internships will understand. Something like "Sorry. I'm really not ready to accept a full-time offer quite yet." should do. If at the end of the six months you find that you have overestimated your value on the open market, or change your mind about your career goals, you can always go back to them and apply for a position. If they like you now, they will probably still like you in six months. It makes no sense to accept an offer that you don't feel is a good one for you personally. 

If you conclude that you simply cannot salvage this job, think hard about what you could have done during the interview process to see what this job would become in just 3 months. Perhaps there were questions you could have asked, or outside opinions you could have sought out. Let this guide you as you search for your next job, so you aren't back in the same position in a few months. Lastly, don't resign until you have found, confirmed and formally accepted your next job. Then give an appropriate notice period and move on. Try to at least leave on as positive a note as possible. 

This is a ridiculous request and doesn't even deserve an acknowledgement beyond the first. Just keep saying "Sorry, I like my hair the way it is and I'm not planning to cut it. So let's stop asking, okay?" until the requests stop coming. 

You basically got a counter-offer that came out differently than you expected. The "worth" of raising this issue is something only you can decide. Reducing the base and increasing the bonus increases the risk that you won't end up with $X + $5k at the end of the year. You have to hit 100% of your proposed bonus to make this possible. If it were up to me, I'd want to find out how the bonuses are calculated. In some shops you are completely in control of your bonus. The payout is based solely on your individual performance. But in many other companies, the bonus is based partly on individual performance, partly on team performance, and partly on company performance. That means your bonus depends in part on things that are likely completely out of your control. I'd want to discuss that with the hiring manager, and hear how that worked out over the past few years, before I made my decision. In a few companies where I have worked, it was possible to attain more than 100% of your bonus. If it were me, I'd want to ask about that, and about how often that has actually happened in recent year. That could tip the balance of "worth". You need to consider how confident you are in your own abilities, and thus your ability to hit your bonus targets. You may also want to consider (assuming bonuses are only paid annually) if getting paid $X - $3k spread out over each paycheck is workable for you, or if your cashflow needs really require $X. So you get to decide if it's "worth" raising the issue before you formally accept the offer or not. But if you do decide it's worth raising, I hope I've given you a few things to consider. 

In general, if items aren't written into a contract, they aren't part of the terms of the contract. In general, if there are no consequences mentioned in the contract for resigning early, then you are free to resign without consequences. But to really interpret the contract fully likely will require a lawyer. 

I understand how you feel. I generally try not to worry what others are paid, particularly sales. My feeling is - if they sell more, we all benefit. If they make a good living at it, then good for them. If sales slow down and they get less commission, I still expect to be paid my regular salary. 

If this coworker had wanted you to know, he would have told you. Thus, you must hold your comments to yourself until such time as he chooses to make things public (if he does at all). Just be your normal kind, thoughtful self toward him, and toward everyone else. You never know who has a serious issue but hasn't shared it with your circle of friends. And as @DavidK wisely points out, don't go around telling anyone else the news you weren't supposed to know in the first place.