The most recent thing I know about is Frank Jackson's work on the topic. Here's a blurb from the Stanford Encyclopedia article on analysis: 

One implication of the undecidability of the halting problem might be that it implies limits to our ability to know some conceptual truths a priori. See this paper by Martinez for some ideas about what this might look like. 

I don't see why "teleology" is ruled out in the definition of naturalism. There's plenty of goal-directed processes in nature to which biologists and other natural scientists appeal. What you mean to rule out is the idea that God's eye is on the sparrow, everything happens for a purpose and so on, but that isn't the only thing one could mean by "teleology". Aristotle doesn't think any of those things, for instance, but his philosophy of nature is the paradigm case of a teleological worldview. If you're interested, I can dig up a piece by Ernst Mayr about different senses of teleology in contemporary biology. 

Not a specialist on Lewis, but here's my stab at an answer. I take it your question boils down to something like: 

There is no substantive ethical theory implemented in the US constitution. By 'substantive ethical theory' I mean a theory that says "an act is good if and only if . . . " You might argue the US constitution embodies a social contract position, since (at least some versions of) social contract theories say that you don't need a substantive ethical theory to serve as the basis of legality or political authority. Look at Rawls as the best expression of the kind of ethos implicit in the American legal system as it has developed over the last century. Not only do we not need substantive views about the nature of moral goodness, encoding those in law would be positively harmful, since it would license certain kinds of discrimination, such as wracked Europe during the wars on religion. Given this, isn't the reasonable thing to do simply to let everybody have whatever substantive moral theory they like, but not let any one of those theories become the basis of law? EDIT The reason social contract theory is not supposed to endorse substantive views about the good is that it's supposed to be relying upon self-interest. You're reason for wanting not to persecute heretics is that you don't want to get persecuted yourself, not because you think there is some deep moral code against doing so. 

I wrote my dissertation on this! The ship of Theseus is just one example of a broader problem called the problem of material constitution, the literature on which is enormous. As far as the history of the problem: The ship case is first mentioned by Plutarch, in his Parallel Lives. And the general problem of identity over time is a topic among stoic philosophers in the Hellenistic period (inc. Chrysippus, IIRC.) The problem is resurrected in early modern philosophy by Hobbes in a work known as the de corpore. For a nice collection of contemporary papers on these issues see the collection called Material Constitution by Michael Rea. 

I would ask this question this way, "What counts as the maxim upon which I am acting for the purpose of the universalizability test?" In general, remember that for Kant a maxim is an action plus an intention--not just "I steal" but "I steal because it is the only way for me to survive." That's the answer to question 1 as you've asked it. However, there's another problem lurking in the wings that you may also have in your mind. Kant himself doesn't seem to think that it's that hard to tell what the intention is because he doesn't give us explicit rules for how to determine what the right way to describe the maxim is, but he seems too confident about that. Elizabeth Anscombe and her followers call this The Problem of Relevant Description. Suppose that I see that a man I hate is about to commit a murder, and I shoot him to prevent him killing an innocent person. Is my action the murder of my hated rival, or the protection of an innocent? What kind of action my action was seems to depend on my intention in acting, but it seems like my behavior is completely consistent with two very different interpretations of my intentions. "existence" and "uniqueness" are exactly right. Kant, like Mill, thinks that ethics is decidable, every moral problem has exactly 1 correct resolution, which is provided by the universalizability test. The reasons that he thinks this are because he wants morality to be universal (commanding the same act of every person, at all times, in all places, etc.), necessary (it isn't just by chance the case that you should do p--you have to do p, in just the same way that 2+2 have to = 4.) and a priori (discovered as a necessary condition of having moral experience at all, not learned through habit or from particular chance events). If moralsity is universal, necessary and a priori, then it had better be decidable too. Mill certainly claims something like this in Utilitarianism but it isn't clear that this is right. For Kant the items that are tested under the universalizibility test are actions+intentions, whereas for the utilitarian, the only things that seem to matter to the morality of the action are the consequences, not the intention of the agent. (There's an important distinction Mill draws between the morality of the act itself, which is determined solely by its consequences and our judgments about character which might take intentions into account.) 

For Quine a good case could be made for: "Two Dogmas of Empiricism" and "On What There Is". For Putnam, "The Meaning of 'Meaning'" Kripke's "Identity and Necessity" also comes to mind. I'd say those four are pretty important, but the difficulty with an "article" field like analytic philosophy is that it's much harder to get a basic fix on the shape of the current terrain just by reading a few pieces. Still those would be good starts. If those four capture the reader's attention, I'd recommend the Blackwell Analytic Philosophy reader as a great collection to try to work through systematically. 

The best way to show someone that their argument is fallacious is to use a concrete counterexample. For instance, suppose somebody gives you an argument that affirms the consequent. You say something like, "Your argument is just like this one: `If it is raining, then the street is getting wet. The street is getting wet. Therefore, it is raining.' that isn't right, right? The street could be wet for all kinds of reasons, for instance, somebody might have opened a fire hydrant. All the first sentence guarantees us that if it rains, then the street will get wet, not that rain is the only way a street could get wet." Most people don't know any logic, but people's verbal reasoning skills are actually sometimes more acute than you might think. (Verbal reasoning is quite a common skill in daily life.) 

Aristotle does in fact recognize the existence of a modal scope fallacy, and I'd argue that he's doing so in the passage you've just quote. Aristotle is pointing out that the inference from: "Necessarily (A or not-A)" to "Necessarily A or Necessarily not-A" is not valid. And Aristotle is surely correct about that. Now I don't know of anywhere that Aristotle starts to think explicitly about the value of that scope distinction. Aristotle sees the force of the point in this particular case, but I'm not sure he ever reflected on the connection between modality and scope explicitly. (I haven't read Aristotle's treatment of modality in the Analytics in a long time, and I might have missed something.) However, although Aristotle might have recognized the modal scope fallacy as a fallacy, it might still be the case that he himself committed it sometimes. There are a couple of important places in Aristotle's philosophy where it looks like the argument turns upon just that fallacy. For example, early on in the Posterior Analytics (IIRC), Aristotle argues like this: (1) It must be the case that If I know Socrates is a man, then he is a man. (2) I do know Socrates is a man. (3) Therefore, Socrates must be a man. In other words, it looks like Aristotle is saying: (1*) Necessarily (if K, then S) (2*) K (3*) Therefore, necessarily S. (1*) looks quite plausible, because it simply says that that it is impossible to "know" a falsehood, which seems to capture an important intuitive fact about knowledge. However, (1*)-(3*) contains a modal scope fallacy. There is no valid way to infer (3*) from (1*) and (2*). In order to derive (3*) Aristotle would need a very different first premise (1**): (1**) If I know Socrates is a man, then necessarily Socrates is a man. From (1**) and (2*), (3*) would follow validly. However, (1**) is very implausible. I know lots of things, some of the things I know seem like they could have been otherwise. For instance, I know Paris is the capital of France. But it seems absurd to think that the French couldn't have chosen some other city as their capital, such as Nice, or Lyon. The fact that I know something might entail that that thing is true, but that's a far cry from my knowledge entailing that that truth is a necessary truth. Now, in Aristotle's defense, usually when he's thinking about knowledge, he's thinking about knowledge of the essences of things or knowledge of mathematics, and in these very restrictive cases something like 1** is much more plausible. So it's not necessarily the case that this logical mistake on Aristotle's part is fatal to his overall philosophical project or something. Nevertheless, it does show us something important: even if you are as smart as Aristotle, it pays to be really careful and explicit about your logic to avoid making dumb mistakes. tl;dr -- Yes Aristotle recognized the modal scope fallacy, even though he also sometimes committed it. 

I think the title of your question and second paragraph of your question look like they are asking a very different question that the first paragraph. In the title and para 2 it looks like you mean to ask: Can somebody say truly that something doesn't exist? That's related to a classic problem in 20th century philosophy of language about the status of negative existential propositions. The answer to that question is that of course it is possible to say (truly) that something is not. Here's an example, "There are no such things as unicorns." That's a perfectly coherent, logically impeccable sentence to utter. What makes it true is the fact that nothing that exists is a unicorn. However, in the first paragraph of the question you seem to be asking a rather different question about the legitimacy of using the impossibility of an infinite regress to prove some statement. Again, there isn't anything logically odd going on here. To see why, take an argument like: (1) If p were true, then there would be an infinite regress. (2) There are no infinite regresses. (3) Therefore, not-p. I have now proven the falsity of the sentence p. Why we should believe (2) is a separate philosophical question, so if you would like to know more about it, I suggest posing that as a different question.