If you mean - does that make them the only winning team never to lead during regulation time? While the play time stopped with the score, technically, the score happened at that time, so they were officially leading during game time (the last official second of the game), I believe. The answer is yes. Since no other Super Bowl game has ever gone to overtime before, that means all other winning teams led during regulation time. 

If you think about the math, suspending a starting "field" player for five games prevents that player from contributing to his team for the next five games. If a pitcher was only going to be able to contribute in a meaningful way for that one start over that period, a five game rip, even though it really only affects one start, still has the same result of the player not being able to contribute for five games. Plus, you never know what might happen. If the pitcher is slated to start game 1 and they have to move to a temporarily shortened rotation (Game 3 pitcher gets food poisoning), it could cost him two starts. If they get into a marathon extra inning game, that pitcher is not available to pitch to a single left-handed batter in the 18th inning as the manager perhaps would have wanted. In any scenario, the same net effect of not being able to contribute to five games holds. If you had a non-pitching bench player who was a backup and used mostly as a substitute or pinch hitter, how would that be evaluated for suspension for involvement in a bench-clearing brawl? Would they also require a different kind of calculus? Generally, with rules, the simpler they can keep it, the less subjective it is and the less opportunity for controversy over arbitrary treatment of one player vs another. 

If it rolls foul before reaching first or third base, it is foul. If it is fair at that point, and then rolls out, it is fair. You are correct. 

There is no immediate recourse, as mentioned by Mastermind_Ed, but, long term, if there is an issue, a team can let the league know they have concerns, and the officials are constantly having their work reviewed, graded and evaluated (as they are in all sports at almost all levels). If an umpire can't consistently call balls and strikes, they will be replaced and will not be assigned to those duties at that level. Letting the league know one has concerns, especially with today's technology in looking at where the ball crosses the plate in relation to the strike zone, can probably bring attention to and accelerate a review where necessary. 

The puck has to entirely cross the line. If it happens to be on edge, and all of the puck is across the line, how is that not entirely across the line? The disposition of whether it is a goal or not has nothing to do with it's final resting position. Many pucks entirely cross the line, strike the netting or a back post, and come back out. One that hit a part of the top frame, deep, might never touch the ice, at all, while across the goal. And yet, those goals all count. Why? There is nothing in the rule that specifies any eventual position on the ice as part of the criteria. All of the puck being physically across the line is just that. What it does after being entirely across the line is meaningless, because there is no requirement for anything else. 

This is not materially different than the accepted answer, just some more elaboration. In a nutshell, the options you listed are not the only possible outcomes. The runner at third has to wait for the throw to be released by the catcher, or he/she risks the catcher not throwing to second and instead getting the lead runner in a rundown or tagged-out situation at third. So, if the runner leaves early, you get a runner on second, no runner on third, and another out. That's, objectively, worse than 1st and 3rd without the added out. So, let's say the runner waits for the throw, that gives them less of a jump for the run to home plate. Sometimes the fielder covering 2nd base doesn't even try to tag the runner, and comes straight home with the throw, getting the runner out, with the same result as if the runner left early and got caught. If the catcher's throw is perfect, the tag for the out at second can be applied and the fielder can be up and throwing home in almost the same instant, then you have both players caught stealing, two more outs, and no one on base. Sometimes (less common) the catcher even throws the ball on a low trajectory and the pitcher will intercept it if he sees the player at third breaking on the throw, much like a cut-off man with a throw from the outfield. All of these scenarios have happened during regular play. 

The catcher stands where he does, for an intentional walk, to give the pitcher a big, fat, easy target so far out of the strike zone that a player could not lunge and hit it with the hope of decent contact without leaving the batter's box. This insures that the batter can't twart the intent of the intentional walk and get a hit, instead. If the pitcher is sloppy and the batter can reach it, there's nothing that prevents the batter from taking a swing at it. Likewise, there's nothing that would stop the pitcher and/or catcher from changing their minds and throwing strikes. 

The main benefit is going to be insurance coverage. Many facilities require sports team participants to be registered with an organization that offers insurance coverage, so they don't have to go through the process of getting additional coverage, and then documenting people covered to the satisfaction of their facility's insurance carrier. This coverage usually covers the team against liability and medical claims, and covers participants for medical costs if injured during an organized activity (practice, training, competition). 

At the recent IAAF World Championships in Athletics, Hong Kong and the P.R. of China had separate teams in the 4x100m relay. I understand why the PRC and Chinese Taipei compete separately, as they are de facto separate countries, but why does Hong Kong have its own team? 

A lot of what you're seeing in the news these days is driven by two problems which aren't solved by comprehensive in-competition testing. One is accessibility of athletes for out-of-competition testing, which is an issue in e.g. East Africa, where many elite distance runners train. Maintaining the infrastructure needed to get samples and test them in an unpredictable way is expensive, and despite some significant investment (e.g. by the World Marathon Majors) there still needs to be more funding to do this properly. Much of the negative news about Kenya from WADA has to do with the lack of testing infrastructure. The other problem - and this is what we're seeing from Russia - is the presence (or rumored presence) of state-sponsored structures which facilitate doping on a national level. If anti-doping "agents" (for lack of a better word) are simply testing individual athletes, that's one thing; if they're contending with an entire system which is coordinating evasion of out-of-competition testing, that's entirely another. And the stories coming out of Russia about evasion of testing are real James Bond stuff: local police detaining testers in order to give athletes time to get away, or to invalidate the samples either environmentally (keeping them from being refrigerated) or by breaking the chain of custody, athletes giving their whereabouts as in closed "military cities" to prevent surprise visits from testers, etc. When the full apparatus of the state is employed in protecting dopers, the "arms race" between cheaters and anti-doping officials becomes very expensive, underlining Canadian Coders' point about finances. So, the short answer to your question: in-competition testing happens and is pretty comprehensive, but it's not enough and the implications of closing the gaps are all expensive. 

For the track events, you've nailed it: the 200m standard indoor track means races of the same distance (e.g. 800m) can be notably different from races on a standard 400m outdoor track. In the sprints, the tight banked turns can significantly change the athlete's approach to the race, and some events (e.g. 60m) are only held indoors. For the field events, the reasoning for different records is more tricky. In the throws, e.g. shot put, the implements are different (size and weight). For the jumps, though, the differences are entirely environmental: lack of wind (either supporting or impeding) and different runway surfaces, mostly. In these events, competing indoors can actually be easier (although long jump and triple jump may be limited in the length of their run-up - I'm not sure if that would help or hurt an athlete). 

Generally the drop of trail running shoes will vary by model in much the same way it varies in regular running shoes. The principal differences that make a running shoe a trail running shoe are traction and durability; both of these will have an impact on the cushioning. Trail running shoes generally: 

The first difference is generally considered to be an advantage to the runner on the inside, i.e. lane 1 has the most advantage and lane 8 the least. This is generally why people consider Van Niekerk's lane draw remarkable. The second difference, on the other hand, is mixed. The inner-most lanes (1, 2, and sometimes 3) are considered technically more difficult than the outer lanes, which have gentler turns; the wider sweep of the outer lanes means an athlete can put more energy into moving forward instead of turning their momentum. Individual runners' physiology and form can mitigate this problem; for example, Usain Bolt's long stride would theoretically be hampered by the inside lanes, but Bolt has also compensated for this by apparently developing very good form for the curve. So in theory the inside lane is disadvantaged and the outside advantaged by this, but in practice it varies. (This is why tracks with a full 9 lanes will run sprint races in 2-9 rather than 1-8.) (This, incidentally, is also why 4x100m relay teams sometimes put their fastest runners on the 1st or 3rd legs rather than the last, "anchor" leg - because starting from the blocks and running the bends are very specialized skills, and teams can pick up some advantage by putting runners who excel at those skills on those legs rather than on the anchor.) So with Van Niekerk as one "exceptional" lane 8 runner, it's worth also remembering two similarly exceptional lane 1 runners: both Angelo Taylor and John Akii-Bua won gold medals in the 400m hurdles from lane 1, with Akii-Bua, like Van Niekerk, setting a world record. Regardless of lane, however, it's clear that Van Niekerk is an extraordinary talent with excellent coaching and support to enable such a run. If the 2016 gold-medal run is not the peak of his career, I can't imagine what he will do to top it. 

I'm thinking specifically of two classic races, San Silvestre de Vallecana and the Corrida Internacional de São Silvestre, but those are far from the only such races. What is it about this saint that gets road races where others don't? Is it as as simple as New Year's Eve being the saint's feast day and also a convenient day for road racing (in the same way that Thanksgiving is a big day for road racing in the USA)? Or is there something particular to associate the saint with running? 

Your question, I think, proposes changing this rule, and you're looking for arguments against. The IAAF rules don't offer justifications, so it's difficult to argue from grounds more specific than "but that's the rules", but here are two reasons a mechanical system would not work: