In physical terms, continuity refers to smooth change of something through time. To go from nothing to something surely is a non-smooth event, a discontinuous change. So if continuity is to be followed, we must have 'from nothing comes nothing'. Also, can we say that continuity is a more basic principle, or at least on a par with nothing - as it can be used to establish its invariance in time. Of course this is not a mathematical argument - and can't be understood rigourously. More fundamentally, if one has nothing, then one also has no time either. So its a triviality that 'from nothing, nothing'. So in the argument should one allow at least both space and time? 

Anaxogoras, of Clyzomanae in Asia Minor, around 500 BC write of nous as an ordering force in the cosmos: 

Now, Kant showed that there was a multiplicity of phenomena but which is presented to a unified consciousness and is unified there. Bergson focuses on the immediate data of consciousness which is also a multiplicity, which is considered as such in Husserls Phenomenology, but forges a different interpretation to open out a new notion of freedom distinct from Kants which is atemporal & aspatial - he considers such data as temporal, this is la duree, and within this duration there can be no juxtoposition, and hence no causality (for there is no sequence of times after each other), and without mechanical causality we are free in that duration. 

There's nothing wrong with your understanding of prior here. You've understood what he is saying correctly, though it appears you think he is wrong in claiming this. 

The Anthropic Principle states that the fundamental physics of the universe must allow the possibility of conscious life in the universe - as that is an observable fact. It's often qualified as pseudo-science. The pseudo qualifier is pejorative. Yet it certainly sets bounds on what the fundamental constants of physics must lie in - if we take the machinary of the Standard Model as fixed but the constnts variable. Is it falsifiable which is Poppers criterion for a scientific theory. If not, then what actually is its philosophical status if it lies outside the realm of falsifiable theories? Can it still count as scientific and objective as physics proper - as it has a direct bearing on the parameters that the standard model can take? EDIT As evidence that the Anthopic Principle is taken seriously in science with as Schellekin notes 'palpable reluctance' the following quote may help: From the abstract of Schellekens paper Life at the interface of Particle Physics & String Theory, an Invited contribution to Reviews of Modern Physics 

The title of the poem reveals Deleuzes fascination with the thought of Nietzsche (he was one of the few to revive Nietzsches reputation from the suspicion of fascism) and the surrealists fascination of the affects and intensities of the body. A quote: 

edit You might also find the essay by Karin Verelst & Bob Coecke in the inter-disciplinary book Metadebates on Science: Einstein meets Magritte worth looking into, its titled Early Greek Thought and Perspectives for the Interpretation of Quantum Mechanics: Preliminaries for an Ontological Approach; it's also available on the arxiv; it begins by: 

Which demonstrates the reappearance of some antique Greek Mathematics - Pythagorases Theorem. What this suggests is that there is a natural scale of lengths; and taking into account, conjecturally that nothing is continua as such, but fine-grained, atomic or quantised; then we might conjecturally suggest that the natural scale then is the minimal values of such: ie the minimal charge, of which the others are multiples; or the minimal mass and etc, etc. But then the fine-tuning question disappears; and the question that replaces it is - why is the universe fine-grained or atomic? A better question - physically and philosophically - possibly. So, does the argument above refute the fine-tuning argument, contradict it or re-orientate it? I would suggest the latter. And this done without a cornucopia of multiverses being conjured out of wormhole! 

Secularism, at least in my reading is a neutral point between competing interpretations of Christianity. Its historically located in Europe and arose after the wars of Religion in the 16th Century. In this reading its not a positive force - that its doesn't promulgate positive doctrines on belief, but attitudes towards toleration. There is also another line of thought that argues that secularism aligns itself with modernity which positively disavows traditional religion in its myriad forms and is a positive force in itself. It even has its own art movement - Futurism which exulted in technology - the steam engine & the aeroplane. One might usefully compare this with the carvaka materialist movement in Indian antiquity which pursued a similar thought against the religous authority of the Vedas. It is within secularism here, or athiestic modernity (there are theistic kinds however) that one cannot speak of the soul: the soul being a concept of the Abrahamic religions. The idea of a soul is conceived with our understanding of interiority, or of subjectivity; this was famously enunciated in Ibn Tufails The Floating Man, and what motivated Descartes famous axiom of subjectivity, the rock upon which he fixed his theory of knowledge - the cogito: I think therefore I am. Though this is spelt out as a syllogism, in Ibn Tufails conception it is simplyone thought: I am; not in its external aspects but in its internal ones. Whereas we can simulate many aspects of conscious behaviour by computers crucially we lack a theory of interiority or subjectivity; though we can explain the colour red, say; we cannot explain the qualia of red. A theory of simulation is neccessary to disentangle what in future will appear to be a world of simulations - virtual reality. One doesn't for example confuse a film of a tornado with being in one yourself (or being a tornado as such). Modern science is fixed on material considerations - in Spinozas dichotomy extension rather than thought. Thus we measure and by this we construct empirical theories of the world. Science essentially ignores subjectivity; this is as true of consciousness studies as it is of physics. However, Spinoza constucted a theory of mind and matter; one could say of soul and matter that is seen as rationalist - that is based on deductive reasoning; there are a myriad of modern forms that take of from here. One line is pan-psychism: there are English philosophers like Timothy Sprigge or the Australian philosopher Freya Mathews. In the Islamic tradtion there were philosophers called Falsafa who attempted the rational construction of something similar (it was Al-Ghazalis decisive intervention that turned Islamic Philosophy away from this). 

Knowing a definition, is only a knowing a definition... To know how to use it, is a techne; but it isn't one until a certain level of fluency is reached - and there are degrees of such. This is know-how. To understand why this definition, as opposed to something similar; for example in your Fourier example - why not square waves, or triangular ones; is episteme: And in this way it may also relate itself to itself, say mythically - the story of physics as a physics student might learn it: which emphasises saliency in hindsight; or genealogically - as an upturning - as in the priveliged narrative of Galileo wrestling knowledge away from the ecclesiastical hierarchy. This is episteme, along a different axis. 

This is probably something of an exaggeration given that his father was a noted Swedenbergonian theologian, and was well connected to the intellectual and literary elites; it's likely his philosophical orientation was fixed in an unconscious kind of way through his families milieu and circle. [1] The thought and character of William James, Vol 1 - Ralph Perry 

Hylomorphism was Aristotles solution to Platos problem of how a form could act on matter; he simply posited that they couldn't be separated in the way Plato suggested. Hence the form of a man is his soul - it's animating principle; and the matter of a man is his physical body. In a sense hylomorphism is a kind of monism rather than dualism. Properties are what distinguishes substances; they are either essential or accidental; an accidental property of a ring may be that it is made of gold; an essential property is that it is a circle or has a 'hole'. There is a substance man who has two kinds of properties, mental properties and physical properties (but he, himself aren't reduced to them). So hylomorphism connects Platos theory of Forms to Aristotles theory of substances and their properties. Example: consider Jameel from Eritrea He is a man (ousia/substance), and he has mental properties (thoughts, feelings, passions, appetites) and physical properties (weight, colour of skin, the skin itself) and so on. He considers himself a unity; simply as a man; when asked about the relationship between mind and body - he is confused; as he doesn't conceive of them apart from each other. 'I am Jameel', he says; 'I am a man'. I would suggest its because of the success of Descartes project that the dualism of mind and body figures so widely in popular philosophy. 

Euclids definition, if I'm interpreting it correctly, is a local definition; this is why he's talking of the points on the line, lying equally. In a modern context, we would say that the line is locally flat; it's also used as the definition of a manifold in that it is a space that is locally flat. From here, we can as he suggests in his postulate draw a line from one point to another; whilst tracking our motion locally as moving in a straight line; this is parallel transport. Both this, and the other definition you suggested - the variational definition are both used in modern geometry, and in (mathematical) physics. 

Where equal and opposite are not to be understood in quantifiable terms; but in the terms outlined above. And this argued as an outcome of action by contact; and by contact that one is simultaneous in place and time with another; and that this relation is symmetric. 

Interesting question, I look forward to seeing your detailed answer. 1) The answer that I've seen in a few places for example the SEP/IEP is that he was responding to Humes sceptism which awoke him from his 'dogmatic slumber'; and specifically his critique of causality. However the Cambridge edition of the CPR points out that that the evidence that he'd read Hume is poor, and that he was responding to Liebniz/Wolff - on what account I'm not sure. 2) His transcendental method relies on arguing back from possibility, positioned as an a priori synthetic proposition to conditions. In the first section of the critique, in the Tr. Aesthetic he argues for the Tr. Ideality of space and time so that mathematics is possible, geometry (space) and counting (time). In the second, the Tr. Analytic he uses the categories to further ground the possibility of knowledge and experience; that is he asks how are a priori synthetic propositions of science are possible; this is where he grounds his notion of causality contra Humes psychologism. (I'd like to add a bit more detail to this section - but I've only looked at Kants actual critique some weeks ago; and quite to my surprise some of it began to make sense rather than wholly not). 3) Kant accounts for two kinds of cause - voluntaristic freedom and natural cause; and then ties this second to cosmological freedom. But why he is desperate to defend freedom I've no idea - was freedom under threat from Wolff/Hume, say? More no doubt can be said, but not by me at this point; it seems if I'm reading the SEP correctly that Kants transcendental method goes only so far and can't defend transcendental ideas such as free will, the soul and God; but are in a sense neccessary as outcomes of an objectified subjectivity - his Tr. Illusion (Schein) - and for this I have the impression that here he is treading on traditional grounds and methods. This last is interesting from a materialist/physicalist account of reality - in that these notions, if he is correct, will become manifest in some other manner or by some other means - immortal humans as AI, the Singularity as God - maybe.