Stop the current crusade/jihad from advancing further Cull extremists from both sides Establish yourself as a prophet of a 'God of light' and establish a religion Destroy the validity of both Christian-esque and Islam-esque religions not with overwhelming military/fire power but influence and if possible economics Establish a pantheon of false(nonexistent) gods to denounce Christian-esque and Islam-esque further. Destroy all scriptures of the 2 religions Convert most(60%) of the population to your church, and you shall name it 

My answer for this question is to use magic... specifically time magic This creature can be starve with right application of time magic. I doubt it would survive in a time capsule that has its time bubble accelerated to million years per second... It is a living creature thus it needs sustenance... the passage of time is your friend in this case 

Centuries? With current tech it would take 30,000 years to get a probe to our nearest star, Proxima (as they say in the news today as there's a planet there - lucky!). However, as Proxima is a small star that spews out so much deadly radiation, you'd have to go to the next nearest, which I think is Tau Ceti, 4 times as far away and possibly still uninhabitable, even if it does turn out to have a planet in the right zone that has the right atmosphere, and no Ceti-dinosaurs (or whatever). So you're pretty much on to a loser right away, considering all of recorded human history is roughly 6,000 years old and you have to spend 5 times that just to get somewhere bad... you will either have to stay on board forever, or stay nearby in orbit. So a world-ship that can sustain a population has to have quite an extensive ecosystem (eg Earth itself is one), complete with enough materials to self-sustain for millenia. It doesn't have to be as big as the planet but it will have a maximum sustainable population, but I think you will underestimate how big it still needs to be to house only 500 people. If you have technology then you will also not only need to be able to maintain it, but also have to maintain a society capable of understanding how to maintain it - and note: a priesthood that knows the magic words to turn the big atmosphere machine on and off isn't going to cut it, you'll have to have proper engineering understanding that can also cope with changes in society that will inevitably occur over 5 times the length of human history! Or you could sit in orbit as a new independent "country" and trade with the planet below for whatever they need. This is far more practical until (or if!) someone develops a FTL drive. 

So a man who was about to die was given a chance to evade death under the circumstances that he must travel to parallel world earth where magic exists and has only medieval level technology. He has 3 years to prepare before his departure, the date of his death. One of his preparations is about a powered assault armor. With near future technology and virtually unlimited funds. He must achieve the following for the powered assault armor. 

for example Munroe effect for armor piercing attacks, Electrical acceleration to have a railgun/coilgun, continuous casting with the help of looping rune(program) and etc. you can assume runecrafting is almost the same as programming and can be fueled by either mana(internal magic), prana(external magic or worlds magic) Limitations of magic is stated in laws below Law of magic - Every magician worth his salt knows this, this is the limitation of what magic can do. 

The simplest way is dogma. If you have a holy book, that is written to be less vague about things, then it can be used as a source of a single absolute truth. Any deviation from this is unacceptable to that religion. This in itself becomes "fun" as times change and proscribed ancient practices become outdated... but if the book is clear enough then schisms can be prevented. Killing anyone daring to even think about questioning it helps a lot too. Basically, killing anyone not toeing in line is the easiest way to keep solitary control of the religion. If you don't want violence and oppression, then the next best thing is to have a historical genocide of such epic proportions that everyone considers its not worth letting it happen again, such that everyone basically agrees to keep things stable whilst possibly having enough laxity in secular life that the religion continues its practices and teachings without any opposition or schisms forming. 

There are plenty of alloys, particularly "stainless" steels that temper well and passivate on the surface, and would last many centuries; plate it with gold or other noble metal to give it even more life and spruce it up. 

Try having an inner asteroid belt made up of small asteroids graze your planet. Most impacts will be on the unpopulated starward face at an angle that will induce retrograde rotation from their higher orbital velocity. If that's not enough, put in an outer belt to add more angular momentum. Perhaps the asteroids were perturbed out of their usual orbits by a rogue planet. Or someone redirecting them. Or magic. Also postulate that your planet is very, very nearly symmetrical so that the locking forces are small, or you could get rocking. 

No, of course not. You could have super-intelligent aliens who either don't bother to develop at all beyond what they immediately need because they have no 'ambition' but can have whatever tools are needed for any task at hand - so an aggressive species could stumble across a completely peaceful world and next thing you know, the clever but peaceful aliens have produced a whole heap of war machines. I'm particularly thinking of the moties in Niven's Mote in God's Eye novel, but they had a different character flaw - one of constant reproduction that led to overpopulation, war and social destruction. But they were really good at making whatever tools were needed for a task/ So, given alternative motives or impulses for these aliens, you can skip straight to the good stuff without having to slowly invent better and better tooling. That said, you could let them get better tools by default - we built stone, then copper, then iron etc because we invented these things. If your aliens had, say, super-strong plants that could be trained to grow in certain shapes, you could go straight to the 'iron age' (or the plant equivalent with iron-strength leaves when they grow to maturity in shaped moulds built around young plants), or plants trained to grow into the structures we eventually learned to build out of iron. 

The answer to your question depends mostly on the prevalence of rare recessive genes that are harmful only if received from both parents. These can be engineered or bred/selected out of a population, although mutations from chemicals or radiation can re-introduce them. Even in a large population these genes will meet and cause birth defects or miscarriage occasionally. Even with a reasonable number of defective recessives, your population can be very small if they are willing to cull the inevitable hemophiliac or Hapsburg jaw. Almost half of our states allow first-cousin (though not double-first-cousin) marriage. You might want to check birth defect stats for these folks. 

As the title says... What would be the effect to earth or an oceanic planet if it lacks the presence of Radioactive Elements in its crust and mantle. Also can you explain what would happen if we don't have Radioactive Elements in core? 

Time Space storage device in form of watch Atomic re constructor device in form of a box which can be resized according to needs Orbital Microwave satellite cannon 

The problem After 4 years being a baron, the empire that you are sharing a border with decides to declare war to your suzerain. It will take at least a year for them to muster their whole army and knock on the doors. You, the Baron has one year to prepare for war. The rest of the country refuses to help you due to the elitism of country's nobility. The royal family can't help you without showing favoritism and tells you that this is a trial on how well you handle the situation. Furthermore, the nobility have decided to protect the second line of defense instead of your barony. The nobility sees you as a social climber who knows nothing and they prefer to leave you to the enemy. They see this as an occasion where you can prove yourself (how useful you can be). They will barely supply you with anything but trading activities remain open. Your task is to delay the enemy at all cost since the country has little knowledge of war logistic. but no one said you cant stop them. The adversary, the empire, is a regional dominant power that can muster more than a million professional soldiers of its own, 4 million levies and another 2 million mixed of professional and levy soldiers from its vast vassal states. Economy wise, they can maintain a standing army indefinitely. They also deploy land battleships with no gunpowder but with numerous ballistas and formidable magicians that serves as the battleship's main weapon. The empire is not festered by corruption and uses divide and conquer tactics to subjugate adversaries. The Solution If mana containment fails can be very disastrous or in this case very beneficial for your cause, with the power to vaporize anything within 600 meters radius. This is the medieval-magical version of nuclear bomb, one or two of these can bring serious political discussions on the table when this thing hits the capital of the enemy. The Issue You know how to magically guide these bombs (magic remote control car) to their target. But that is too slow, you need something that will deliver this nukes to their targets in a timely fashion. Now comes these 2 solutions. 

The amount of spin a planet starts with depends on how the momentum of the accretive material came together to create its angular momentum. Imagine a zone of the accretion disk of a star which comes together, like an ice skater pulling in his arms, thereby rotating much faster, and in the same direction as the disk. This can be increased or decreased by further off-center impacts of smaller bodies. Your planet may have had some major impacts early on at an angle that countered its rotation. The spin slows gradually from tidal effects: motions and shifts in the planet from the variation of gravitational forces as it rotates in proximity to another celestial body. That energy comes from the rotation and reduces it. Clearly, the closer and more massive the other body, the greater the effect. Your planet may also be squishy or crumbly. To truly lock, there must be some slight unevenness in the density or shape so that there is a tiny bit more pull at some points of rotation, so it should not be too spherical and should have lumps of differing density. 

To begin with the gods of both Islam-esque and Christianity-esque in my story are just super humanoid beings with semi-immortality(They won't die but can be killed) but they already died including all their offsprings that would have taken their place. All thats left are their super advance technologies(The 'gods' were in fact the last 2 of their super advanced civilization). Come 500 years after they died the religion that they established is still going strong with Crusades and Jihads dividing the world in half. The world has magic(a mutation from the god like humanoid beings) The good thing about the crusades and jihad is that because the whole world is split in two and its might makes right rule in most areas, the roads are fully developed, there are industries capable of of supporting the armies of both sides on a massive scale. But also the population is always culled due to the crusades and jihad so suffering and poverty in most war torn places runs rampant but the inner territories of both sides flourishes due to its distance from war zone. The difference between the rich and poor is so large that the fear of rebellion can be realize once the crusades and jihad ends Now you come to the story as someone from modern day earth and see the world divided in to two, just that this world is ripe of strife and suffering. Being the good person you are, you want to put a stop to it. The only probable way to do it is to create a religion to false gods. Upon stumbling on their hidden cache of technologies you are only able to use 3 things atm. 

nitrate based explosives. The only reason rioters use molotov cocktails today is partly because its trivially easy to make a firebomb (gas + rag + bottle, so simple) but also that making explosives is significantly more frowned upon by the authorities. In the dystopian future, I feel such niceties would be ignored. As such, making home-made explosive devices, perhaps with shrapnel, would be more of a weapon of choice. Fuses can be interesting, but either radio detonators, or more simply a small bomb with a fuse attached to a long bit of string (that pulls the pin when the bomb has travelled to the extent of the string, raining nails down on the security forces from above their heads) would do. Simple nitrate explosives are pretty easy to make even if they don't pack as much bang as professionally made ones, and nitrates are widely available (assuming they still eat vegetables in the far future).