This sounds very general and very abstract. It makes me ask - how abstract a definition (axiom) can be, and still be "valid"? As far as I know, definitions are axioms in modern mathematics. Axioms are supposed to be obvious, taken as true without proof. Yet, some definitions (axioms) are better motivated than others. To remind my earlier point - I could just as well find a different generalization of Cauchy's continuous function, such that if a function was continuous according to Cauchy, then it would be continuous according to the new, different definition. It follows that mathematicians are still formulating new axioms, by creating generalizations of definitions such as those mentioned above. They can informally justify them, but not prove them (well, that's why they are called axioms). But somehow, some axioms (definitions) are more true than others. We're trying to measure the correctness of a definition by the strength of its motivation, justification, which are informal considerations anyway. In summary: How are generalizations created, justified and accepted? Could we have chosen different generalizations (I'm suggesting that we could). Is every generalization a creation of another axiom? Is there the only, ultimate, correct and valid generalization? 

As far as I know, the notion of open set has been formulated after the notion of open interval in the real line. Was the goal of generalization to allow the definition to work in higher dimensions? 

This is not limited to the discussion of God, but is global across philosophical discourse. A concept that is contradictory is not compatible with classical logic; if one wants to proceed with philosophical discourse beyond this point, one must either proffer a non-classical logic (such as dialetheism) or limit oneself to apophatic statements. In either case, one has reached the limits of rationality. 

No: the argument would be valid, but not sound. And that's the distinction that makes a difference. A reductio does not need to result in a contradiction; it can also result in an absurd conclusion which is clearly false. (This is technically a reductio ad falsam, but it is generally considered a subtype of reductio ad absurdam. 

There are a lot of people doing research in this area, and as of yet, there are no answers. Nobody (yet) knows how to make a machine that has qualia, or if such a thing is possible. If this topic interests you, reading Chalmers (and his critics) is a good place to start. 

The quoted example appears to be type of Consequentialism; more elaboration would be required to specify it further (for example, it may or may not be Utilitarianism). (If the SEP article is too dense, a more introductory account can be found here.) 

Which question? The one in the headline, or the one at the end of the question text? Because there is an interesting slippage between the two. Clearly, no human being, philosopher or otherwise, is going to be equally conversant and skilled in all branches of knowledge. Which means, it is all a question of degree-- in other words, we can rephrase the question as "what level of mathematical learning is a minimum for someone to function effectively as a philosopher?" It seems to me, the appropriate response to that question is "Why do you care? What is your reason for asking?" 

To give another example, consider the definition of continuous function given by Cauchy. Function f is continuous at x, if for all ε > 0, there exists some δ > 0, such that if y is no further than δ from x, then f(y) is no further than ε from f(x). A more general definition used in topology is (X and Y are topological spaces): 

When generalizing from any notion A (in this example, open interval) to a notion B (here - open set), our goal is to ensure that if A is true, then B is true as well. So we want to define a generalization of open interval in such a way that if an interval is open, then it's an open set. Obviously, we don't require the converse to be true. Is it the only definition that qualifies as generalization of "open interval"? I could find some other definition of open set that would satisfy the condition that if something is an open interval, then it's an open set (remeber, the definiton of open set would be different here). What made mathematicians agree on this particular generalization? 

First, suppose what's happening when I say I don't understand something (let it be a proof of some mathematical theorem). What does it mean? Probably that I can't see all logical connections between given facts and statements, right?. And then it comes to me that eureka moment, when I finally 'get it'. What if I shouldn't understand it and I'm just fooling myself this proof or anything similar makes sense? Given some proof we were told is correct, we basically stop thinking about it once we feel we 'understand' it. Maybe we shouldn't think we 'understand' it, because it contains some major logical flaws and our initial intuition with regard to it (that we didn't understand it) was correct? In other words, when we don't understand something we feel we should, and it makes potential mistakes harder to spot, because we adjust our thinking process to arrive at the conclusion 'yes, this statement makes sense and is correct'. On the other hand, if we attempted to falsify every statement, we could never finish the process, because maybe we would never find any flaw in it. It all comes down to proving axioms, which is impossible (stating that it's impossible to prove an axiom is an axiom - it can't be anything else... quite circular thing though). In the end, we take it as an axiom that if a billion people find no flaw in a statement, then we could accept it as an axiom. 

Cosmological arguments, for the existence of "God", like those of Aquinas, are functionalism and materialism. They are functionalist, i.e. because they usually focus on the singularity of "God", which is false, due to the weakness of singularity. They are materialist, i.e. because materialist empiricists, usually appreciate Aquinas's 'proofs'. Ontological arguments on the other hand use definitions and are more objective. Here's another ontological argument for the existence of God: God are "the Creator", therefore God exist because creativity exists. 

Honesty in religion and philosophy relates to "gods" and "goddesses", which is a sensitive issue many do not like to discuss. 

Thomas Hobbes in his book Leviathan promoted violence by the sovereign, for order. Machiavelli who advised princes in his book The Prince, probably did the same as Thomas Hobbes. 

"Heraclitus of Ephesus on the western coast of Anatolia in modern Turkey (535-475 BCE) posited that all things in nature are in a state of perpetual flux, connected by logical structure or pattern, which he termed Logos. ... The Eleatic School, called after the town of Elea (modern name Velia in southern Italy), emphasized the doctrine of the One. Xenophanes of Colophon (570-470 BCE) declared God to be the eternal unity, permeating the universe, and governing it by his thought.[7] Parmenides of Elea (510-440 BCE) affirmed the one unchanging existence to be alone true and capable of being conceived, and multitude and change to be an appearance without reality." (From: $URL$ on 12 Sep 2017) It could be argued the most ancient view in history is related to the Eleatic view about the One unchanging cosmos because change was frowned upon by despotic leaders. Aristotle regarded the First Mover, his Absolute. The First Mover moved. Socrates regarded "hesis" ("kinesis"/movement) supreme and stated God revile(s) "stasis" (constance). Jesus died, partly because of his kenotic rejection of the life giving force of movement. He did not leave Jerusalem, but could. Socrates, as well, died, partly because he did not decide to move to Crete. Plato, according to Popper, wanted to "arrest all change". Marx opposed new ideas and called labor "the creator". Marx, according to Adorno's summary, could have been more in line with Plato than Socrates. The Socratic book, The Republic, however has been presented as a communist text, partly because of communal property, promoted in it. It's complicated and I do not claim answering the question, but knowing of the two ancient views ("hesis" and "stasis") of divinity, resolves some thoughts, regarding the question. "Hesis" meant "a going forth" or leaving a place. "Stasis literally means “standing” or “taking a stand.” In Classical Greek the word denotes disagreement, dispute, internal conflict, civil strife, and even civil war. References to stasis abound in Greek literature, from the Homeric epics through to Hellenistic times." (The Encyclopedia of Ancient History, $URL$ on 12 Sep 2017) Most people prefer constant circumstances when financially secure, whilst others who are not financially secure, prefer change. Marx regarded technological change negatively because new technology, caused by new ideas, replaced labor. 

That is true, but remember that Camus is not recommending suicide. For Camus, the fact that the universe is absurd means that there is no meaning to life which precedes our existence; in such a situation, one of the most important philosophical questions to grapple with, in fact, perhaps the only philosophical question, is whether to go on living. To continue to live (i.e., not not commit suicide) is a choice-- the question then becomes, what is that choice based upon? This constitutes the meaning of one's life. 

According to the Pope, gender is not an accidental property of the body, but an essential attribute of each being; that's his point. He's arguing that God creates souls as essentially gendered, and quotes Genesis 1:27 to back his argument up. Naturally, other philosophers and schools of philosophy have very different opinions on the subject. 

Actually, the circumstances are even more special than you indicate; Descartes had a series of three dreams on the night of November 10, 1619, which he viewed as a divine sign, and which directly inspired the project that consumed the rest of his life: an attempt to prove philosophical truths with geometric precision. 

Actually, children aren't taught this. They are taught that different cultures have different values, and that it is important to be understanding and tolerant of those values, and that right and wrong is always made in the context of a particular system of belief. But, at the same time, they are also taught that there are some universally held values (such as those encoded in the UN's Declaration of Human Rights). So, when it comes to matters of whether or not it is permissible to drink alcohol, or eat pork or beef, etc., it is prudent to defer to local customs. This does not mean, however, that we need to look the other way in cases of torture or genocide. EDIT: I want to flesh out this answer a bit more, as I coincidentally came across some passages in some unrelated work I was doing that seems germane to the point. The passages are in reference to skepticism and epistemology, but I think that the notions transfer (ceteris paribus) to the ethical domain in a straightforward fashion. First, let us begin with a quote from Myles Burnyeat: