Economics works well for you whether your goals are purely humanitarian or totally opportunistic. Regardless of your final goal, you need to take advantage of economies of scale. Making currency won't work long term because of the serial numbers, so you'll have to go down to the local pawn shop and get a few pieces of ordinary gold jewelry. Duplicate them several times and sell them until you can afford a more serious gemstone, and build a website. Start shipping the gems out to those who will buy it without a certificate. Get progressively more and more expensive materials - tanzanite and so on. The box plays a less and less important role after a time. You now have a significant amount of capital which you may invest however you like. At some point you'll need to hire someone to handle your money. Do everything through shell companies and try to keep it separate from the surprising amount of diamonds and tanzanite you produced. Now you're buying and selling ideas, companies, patents and factories. From here, you will be guided strictly by whatever moral code moves you most. For myself, I like to think I would purchase patents on the most expensive medications in the world and free release them, while turning around and funding the research that those fees were paying for. This will save far more lives than duplicating or purchasing the medications themselves could. It will also give you a global platform on which to solicit charitable gifts for more good deeds. If evil and greed are your thing, pick your targets and watch them fall to the power of simply going bankrupt. If that isn't as much fun, buying "accidents" shouldn't set you back much, unless the target is very high profile. What's interesting is that the above two scenarios aren't actually mutually exclusive - nothing actually stops you from saving the masses and killing the few. It just all depends on what flavor of self-aggrandizement you are into. 

If they already have to speak verbally in so many situations, then it might become the default mode of communication. However, I suspect it would still be used to clarify assumptions/understanding or establish facts. Consider the impact on testing, teaching, and legal systems. E.g. testing an apprentice's understanding of your craft; teaching what front-line warfare is like; "Is my kindergartner lying to me?", ask for the memory. 

See the other answers for reasons you can create, but to elaborate on @DaniellYancey's comment, the logistical concerns are: - Distance Imagine my coworker is leaving, but I need to clarify one thing before they go. To start a telepathic conversation I have to first catch the person. That's less convenient then shouting at them to stop and then catching up to them. Imagine leaving a restaurant. Frequently the staff will thank you for coming, but that won't work telepathically. Meetings where the participants don't fit nicely in a 5 ft circle wouldn't do well with telepathy—at least as the primary form of communication. And some other conversation situations: the lazy coworker shouting at you from down/across the aisle; bump into a friend at the grocery store and shop together; a teacher instructing her students. - Delivery This may be less of an issue, but if someone is focused on their work and shielding from all pings, how effective would a telepathic "Fire!" be. Or a gunman in a store. 

Any first year EE student has observed that you really can make a (fairly poor) voltage by simply waving a coil around in the air. This works in the usual way, because the earth has a magnetic field - nothing weird. It is weak - maybe even weaker than you think it is. But, it's enough for what we need. The biggest problem now is that the time traveler absolutely must have a way of rectifying current flow or else fail entirely. The reason why he needs it is because we need to feed the output of the generator into the input of a handwound electromagnet at the core of the generator end through sliprings - literally a round piece of metal that another conductor can ride on, to which the magnet is connected. If the input isn't rectified, then the north and south poles of the magnet switch places every cycle and your alternator doesn't alternate very well. If you can do that, the next problem is controlling the feedback loop. When trying to start the generator, everything is great - you have a tiny little current flow gradually bolstering the field of the ferromagnetic core. Once the field comes up, you have a problem - you are passing a non-zero voltage through a very low resistance. This is will do one of two things - most likely, it will prevent your generator from being able to develop a workable output, because it is shorted. But if you work real hard, and have steady hands, and built a pretty good generator head, the feedback loop will spike the voltage on the generator head and utterly destroy all your work. Note that this isn't free power - the equation sacrifices current flow for voltage and you arc through your insulation. This is almost the exact reason why permanent magnets are used so often - since they are constant, you don't have to have as robust a regulator. I'll skip over some of the more technical stuff by saying that it is much more likely that the brave adventurer would be forced to build a DC machine. This is actually harder to make, but, it allows the use of a special mechanical rectifier called a commutator. The commutator is a multi layered ring of conductive sections separated by a mineral insulator in thin strips, on which a conductor can slip while it is rolling. Each set of sections on opposite sides of each other is connected to a separate conductive loop, and no two sets are connected. Since the current goes into and out of the commutator at fixed angles, the corresponding magnets can be placed at a certain angle with respect to the commutator entry and exit conductors - the rotor spins but the relationship between the magnetic fields doesn't reverse. (Yes, this is about as non-technical as I can make this - sorry guys.) This still didn't solve our regulator issue, but if your time traveller knows how everything above works, there's a reasonable chance that he knows what a magnetic amplifier is, and that it's way easier than building a vacuum tube from scratch. This is basically a fancy transformer, designed intentionally to saturate at a specific point and then have a much reduced response. Without getting too into it, if he can do the math, and has copper and an insulator, he can do this and the electromagnet should self start AND not burn up. So, thousands of hours of grueling material round up, refinement and tool manufacture later, if he didn't starve to death or have a surprise party with some velociraptors, he now has what is actually probably a fairly decent generator head. The engine should only take about ten times as long. Build a bicycle, maybe. 

I'd like to note that your problem might be stemming more from your approach. It sounds like you might be describing the material world more than you are describing the culture. As a reference, Treasure Planet comes to mind. It's a futuristic world, but has a heavy colonial and piratic feel. 

Organic The quantum-powered hero gets headaches when perilous situations are coming up because he died in some other possibility and it collapses back through time to a point of low peril. Some possibilities collapse clearly; others don't. Naturally, boss fights are especially dangerous futures, so it's natural for collapses to happen right before such fights—it's a relatively—and for you to subsequently collapse back to this point. Unknown The small shrines to the ancient god of death aren't recognizable by most these days, and it might be the god has a shrine guardian preventing people from noticing. Regardless, you're in his employ, so you can pray at these shrines and the god of death will remember your prayer. Then you go assassinate someone as part of your beliefs. If you fail, well, the god of death isn't done with you; he'll reject your death and return you to the last shrine you prayed at. Perhaps a shrine is constructed there for your convenience since the god of death gave you this dangerous assignment and suspected you'd need it. It could also, be a natural feature the enemy camp incorporated into their layout. Maybe it serves as a common household decoration, and the unwitting decorators for your next target have helped you out. Immovable Due to the nature of the Ancient's engineering, there's no practical way to move the their restoration chambers. If only someone had the right genes to make use of them... If no one is known to be able to exploit these inconvenient chambers, then enemies will just build around them. If this spot is the best for the enemy boss, then the "unusable" restoration chamber outside the door doesn't make a difference—it's alien tech that they had to work around. Note: This one doesn't work in the long-run. Anybody finding out that an enemy can just respawn indefinitely in their base will relocate somewhere safer. Secret Some of your robotic compatriots have discretely embedded some reconstruction points in the enemy base. It's doubtful the humans will figure out about the reconstruction points: all robots look the same, so how could they know it's the same robot attacking again and again. Even if they were looking, it'd be hard to find them without a special robotic vision mode/mod. Your compatriots would naturally plant these points in optimal spots for you, and right before the Big Bad Boss is, I would think, very optimal. Note: This one doesn't work well in the long-run unless the antagonists are really dumb and don't pick up on the pattern, but it would probably work longer than the immovable solution. 

Smoking has statistically dire consequences on its users, and as such is regulated in many ways. Going with the numbers as is, a 70% die off suggests that the systems are abundant and popular enough that potential regulating authorities were ensnared beyond some sort of tipping point that might have made this preventable. It's the plague that everybody wants to participate in. In all this, there would be a hard kernel of resistance. I suppose this could have overtones of religious fundamentalism, as in the example set by the Sovereign territories in the Surrogates franchise. It is possible to have electronic computers be banned entirely, as what happened following the Butlerian Jihad in the Dune series - but I seriously doubt that this would be the actual course of action taken. Having only 30% of humanity remaining, we will need every edge we can get. It seems to me that the most likely course of action is the simplest one, and that would be to outlaw the total body VR interface. By limiting the input/output options to more ordinary forms of Human Machine Interface, the situation resolves itself rather handily. Extraordinary circumstances call for extraordinary measures, though - the full interfaces could still be authorized in cases deemed too cruel to otherwise allow, such as in the case of advanced physical disabilities. New governments (or non-governments?) would form; the world map would become unrecognizable in short order as the remainder of humanity attempts to regain what is lost. Collaborative efforts would take place over what is left of the internet, probably utilizing basic VR as a medium to hold events that look a lot like town meetings, to discuss best practices, share locations, and in general reach out and make contact - the world just got a lot emptier. The young governments have hell waiting for them - warlords, despots, and "prophets" the world over would be taking opportunity of the situation to draw people into their folds, consolidating power and making a play for absolute control over whatever it is their greedy little minds want most. Life out in the remainder is cheaper than usual. Ghost towns are normal. Fleets of vehicles rove the world trying to find a workable population center to join - other groups of wild people think they are playing the starring roles in Mad Max. On the whole, humanity weeps, reconnects with itself, and does the one thing it has always been able to do - move on. 

Hard science: No. That said, the best theory I can give you is that humanity has always had the potential ability to manipulate reality—something intrinsic to our intelligence probably. To activate the ability requires the right mindset, and maybe the right genes. The right mood or mindset creates the right brain chemistry to allow the ability to turn on, but then it also takes the right effort or skill to actually apply the ability. You can cite all the scriptural miracles as evidence. If your character isn't a prophet sort of person, then maybe his genes are a new mutation that allow for a wider range in brain chemistry to turn on the ability than the rest of humanity. 

Most people have referenced personal taste or societal trends or fashion, and indeed this is a sufficient reason. I'll focus on two other reasons: Status A futuristic world could have a growing population living on a relatively fixed amount of land. In such a case, land is a commodity, and having a large amount of personal property would be a visual indicator of wealth. Now it defeats the purpose if the house doesn't match, so why not make it extra large? Add a handful of guest rooms, a ballroom, an oversized library and/or study, and you've got yourself a manor or a mansion. 

I'm the random submarine guy, and man do I have some things for you. See, when we're alone out in the water, we try to be as quiet as possible for our own good. It helps us identify what's in the water near us, minimizes false positives, and helps us stay undetected should a potential enemy show up in our patrol area. There is only one really good tactical reason you would ever broadcast active sonar pings in the water, outside of testing - when you suspect you are not alone, but you are absolutely postive you still have the upper hand once you announce your presence to the enemy. This sort of situation really only comes up in battle groups and task forces, because that is essentially the only way to ensure a tactical advantage. Even then, when you go active, you light up the water with a ping - an enemy may suddenly find himself with his torpedo tubes pointed directly at you, when before he wasn't even sure you were there. Most submarine commanders, in wartime, will take the shot they have right before they try to evade, and you stand a very good chance of dying. To point this up a bit, in 8 years of service, I never once heard either of my boats go active anywhere other than for testing in undeniably friendly water. Another thing about active sonar - you're still guessing, a bit. Yes, the guys who were listening are almost absolutely positive that the thing behind you is a whale, but now? Everything sounds like ping. You have what the computers can sort out, which might be an enemy submarine, or it might be a cruise liner through a thermocline that's making it seem to be in the wrong place. Good commanders maintain an awareness of what they think is out there, and that helps bridge the gap in the tactical picture. So, you point the rifle, start the sight, send a broadcast, probably get shot at, and you get a range ping back... But from what, who knows? It would be hard to tell the difference between a rock and a riot shield. Now stop for a minute, and consider your own, ordinary human hearing. You can probably readily identify the sound of a car shifting into reverse - it's pretty distinctive. Your brain can also pull apart the sounds from a three way conservation, identify who is speaking without looking, and give you an idea of how far away they are. As an electrician, on the boat, I knew when we lost an electrical bus the second after it happened because ventilation fans whine a bit when they're winding down. Electricians were already running for the engine room by the time anyone was talking on the announcement systems - we all knew that sound. It's your world, so by all means, if echo sights are a thing, then by golly they're a thing. But if you want a more explainable, realistic technology, what these guys need is parabolic microphones, silencers, and lots and lots of patience. 

It seems for someone to fit your requirements, they can't instigate what they are famous for. Even if they don't instigate it, you may disqualify them for having an aforementioned trait whether or not that trait (indirectly) caused the thing or was utilized in their response to it. 

Frankly, I think notable on any significant scale entails historical impact. Here's some examples along ozone's famous victim path. 

Function Shield generators are great, but it's not like they can shield themselves, right? That's you need walls around them to protect them from the direction they don't project the shield. And even if you've got future tech that spits out balls of plasma at enemies, you've still got something that looks like a cannon. It doesn't hurt to elevate those on a tower to get a better angle at footmen while distancing it from the shield generators so they are less likely to become collateral damage.