I doubt it's helpful to always avoid such pronouns. It makes sense to use it sometimes: e.g. when you go to a doctor to say, "I am sick" rather than "This person (points finger) is sick." If you're not a monk it might be basic politeness too, when shopping: "Good morning. I would like a loaf of bread, please." There are plenty of uses of the word "I", e.g. on pages like the following: $URL$ These Zen stories are full of the word "I": $URL$ Buddhists are at least supposed to be tolerant of each other, I don't see why you should have to avoid "I". 

Annihilationism One reason to worry is that annihilationism (the belief that death ends all) leads to materialism (the belief that 'physics and chemistry' are all there is) leads to hedonism (the belief that it's right to take pleasure in the here-and-now because that's all there is -- 'eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die'"). Or (less likely), materialism might lead to asceticism: 'what's the point of enjoying this life etc.?' The problem is that either extreme (hedonism or asceticism) leads to suffering; whereas, to end suffering (even in this life), what you should look for is e.g. restraint, equanimity, love, wisdom, honesty, and so on. Suffering The first Noble Truth is that "suffering exists." What are you going to to about it? 

The Abhidamma isn't the same as the suttas. Both the Abhidamma and the Suttas are parts of the Tripitaka (the Pali and/or Theravada canon), but I think there are Buddhists who prefer the suttas. 

Do the next three parts of the definition of dukkha relate to the next three skandhas? If so can you please explain how they're related (i.e. how each of the other three skandha are dukkha)? Are "association", "separation" and "not getting what is wanted" each associated with three different skandhas? Or is that all skandhas are equally able to be a type of "clinging" or attachment? 

Is there a difference in the Pali language between "intention" (as in Right Intention) and "motivation"? I think that "right intention" (or "resolve") is connected with a sense of purpose -- with "purpose" meaning, for example, "I do this, in order to (for the purpose of, with the intention to) accomplish that". I think that "right intention" is the second factor of the path and that it's closely related with "right view". I think that "right view" would explain why you want to do something, and could therefore be described as the "motive" for subsequent intention. Similarly "wrong view" conditions wrong intention and so on. harmlessness seems to be more passive and therefore maybe not a motivation in the same way One of the doctrines of harmlessness is Chapter 10 of the Dhammapada, the first verse: 

I think it's originally from the Visuddhimagga It's used before that, e.g. in the first sutta, it's in the definition of the third noble truth: 

Also there is the Parable of the burning house. I thought that this book might be like what you described, i.e. written or synthesized by the author without entirely quoting from suttas. According to the book, the author, "serves the congregation of Vipisanna Meditation Retreat in Willis, Texas, as its president while teaching English at the University of Houston-Downtown." The author is a bhikkhu and his congregation is presumably not. 

That seems to be the usual translation. It's specifically associated with removing afflictions. The PTS dictionary pairs it with (i.e. as a complement of) metta, 

The Kalama Sutta says that you should "know for yourselves". It also suggests that one should consider the opinion of "the wise". Elsewhere too it's said to be important to have admirable people as friends. Something like the Sarakaani Sutta suggests that faith (faith in the "text", perhaps) is beneficial; but that it's also possible to "destroy three fetters". The commentary says, 

The meaning of the text is clear. Nibbana is nothing but not-self. I don't think that's clear. He're the original text: 

So according to one version (i.e. the Pali), he praised Devadatta, and may therefore have been "proven wrong" by Devadatta's subsequent misbehaviours. 

That is or was difficult. Other people have tried what you are trying to do (i.e. compare sutras with the Pali versions). To find whatever work they have already done, you might search for papers about the specific named Sutras. In his book A History of Mindfulness in 2005, Bikkhu Sujato (who compares Nikayas with Agamas) wrote, 

Another single factor (not one of the three poisons and not sufficient to guarantee "complete awakening") is in verse 17: 

I think there's some justification for that in a text like the Dhammapada, for example in the whole chapter on violence, which starts for example with, 

Rice isn't a "living being", and one does not have "social contact" with rice. Also I don't think that rice is capable of "suffering" (because it isn't sentient; it's inanimate), and so it's not a suitable object for "metta". Is it theoretically possible (according to Buddhist theory) that such a practice might have an effect, an effect not only on the mind of the practitioner but also on the object I don't think so. I think you're asking that the rice last longer before spoiling, that it be less impermanent; and I don't remember seeing doctrine which I could construe as saying that "wishing that something were less impermanent is enough make it so". Conversely there's doctrine about doing rather than wishing: saying e.g. if you want a long life then you should do things which are conducive to long life (not just wish for it). Perhaps being careful about preparing the rice you care for, and doing something such as cleaning the jar more carefully or sealing the jar more tightly, might show an experimental effect. 

Your calling it "suicide" (i.e. intentionally killing yourself) and "committing" (a crime) suggest that the action/intention/view you have in mind are not appropriate. 

This Controversial 'Buddhist' Teachers & Groups page includes these references in its "Useful information in English" section: 

I think that different schools tend to emphasise or de-emphasise different aspects of Buddhist doctrine (I think that Navayana for example maybe discounts the doctrines about rebirth). I think that the regular practice of SGI centres on chanting a mantra, which (I don't know) might be a practice that's in some ways analogous to some forms of Christian prayer. 

Is understanding a phenomenon? That depends on definitions, I guess; but if you're asking whether understanding is a conditioned or an unconditioned phenomenon, I think that the answers to topics like How are 'conceit' and 'identity-view' not the same? suggest that "understanding" e.g. in the sense of "having a view" is conditioned (therefore impermanent). I will again fall into ignorance I'm not sure that's so: because the understanding that "there is an I" is presumably a conditioned phenomenon, and subject to cessation. That (identity-view) is presumably part of what (wrong views) ceases on the way to attaining Nibanna. 

I guess it depicts a person who is not in the habit of saying disparaging things about people, and is reluctant to. Perhaps it implies that there's normally no benefit in saying something 'bad' about anyone, that doing so isn't profitable, benefits no-one, would be malicious, isn't said at the proper time (i.e. right speech). Maybe that is especially true within the sangha (the sutta is addressed to monks). Perhaps the example you gave (a job reference) is one of the rare times that might count as being "when asked, when pressed with questions". In that case you might "speak of another person's bad points not in full, not in detail, with omissions", for example suppose you were to say, "he may not be the best candidate for that job", and maybe add an observation which supports that statement. In a competition, even saying only good things about a person might not get them hired: 

Will I be reindividualised after death? Perhaps the answer depends on whether you are "individualized" now? In this answer, Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu wrote (emphasis mine), 

The Buddha's not viewing the world as 'self' wouldn't stop him from having compassion. Compassion is one of the four recommended attitudes to have towards others. 

I'm not sure that's a good/close translation; maybe it's a paraphrase/summary. See also this translation of the whole chapter: Sukhavagga: Happiness The contents of (i.e. section titles in) that chapter are, 

I started to read Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha (the PDF, version 3). Before page 22, there's some text which says that (I paraphrase) sensations are fleeting and that consciousness-of-sensation is consciousness just of the echo of an already-previous sensation. Then, on page 22, there's is a description of an exercise, which I quote below. He introduces it as being "useful for jump-starting and developing insight into impermanence"; later, says that this same exercise promotes concentration and stability; and finally says that it was the only technique he used for five years. Can you tell me more about this? Is it some hybrid/mixture of insight and concentration? Is it at unusual exercise? It seems to take 'two-pointed concentration' as its object, which I haven't ever read about before. Are you aware of any specific advantages or disadvantages of this technique (or, whether and when it ought to be recommended or not recommended)? Is there something it does well, too well, not well enough, not at all?