I think @freiheit already said it: paint the outside of the outer links! If you ride single/fixed, this part of the links never touch anything else, so the paint does not wear out neither damage other working parts. I would do it degreasing the chain very well (boiling with soap in the end, perhaps) and then using a hard foam paint roller, with the chain over the ground with its side facing up. If you don't mind paying for the job, most the colored chains I've seen in google seem to be powder-coated (electrostatic) or anodized. This would give a probably good result, but I think you wouldn't want to pay the price :oP 

When needed (usually chain too black/stainy or too dry/squeaking) I take it off the bike, put it inside a plastic bottle, and shake violently with about 100ml kerosene, repeating as needed until the kerosene comes out reasonably clean. I let the kerosene rest so that dirt goes down, you can use a bottle of kerosene like forever this way; With the first more-or-less clean doses of kerosene coming from the chain bottle, I clean the gears, front and rear; The last rinsing is with new, pure kerosene, so that residual dirt comes off. I then reassemble everything and go out for a ride. As soon as the chain gets noisy enough, I stop and apply the oil, which I always have along. 

I use to successfully reshape chainrings like these using a round file (diameter more or less similar to the chain roller). This is a tried and tested method, and is very easy (much more than doing the same with the cogs, which I also do when needed). The only limitation is with skill and time, since it is a bit monotonous and require a bit of labor. You just have to remove material in a way that it gets the same shape as the others, which means the teeth would be thinner looking from the side. Of course, it is necessary to remove the chainring from the crankset. (and a final advice would be: change the chain often, before this happens again) The picture below shows the regions that must be removed: 

THEN, I decided to abandon what common sense would say, I switched to a longer bar (3cm more forward), even with the final result being a longer reach than I had in the previous bike. Immediately, the bike felt much more stable, and my shoulders became unstressed. The conclusions I get are the following (and this is a very personal theory): 

I always find it more worthy to ride the new chain as is, and clean it when needed. Since if you'll need to clean it anyway, at least take advantage it is already lubed, although with a less-than-ideal lube. I use KMC chains, by the way, and they are in the sticky end of the spectrum, but I didn't perceived any dust-attracting property, at least not more than any other lubed chain, wiped to remove excess or not (I never remove the excess, but try to put just the "right" amount of oil, not an easy goal although...). 

I think that, besides having fun - which is of utmost importance with kids otherwise they give up and choose to do something that is more fun and less distressful -, after they learn to keep balance and speed up, I'd say the next things must learn are to brake properly and to control their trajectory. That said, one of the most exciting things to do, in my humble opinion, is to play tag (chasing game), or "follow the leader", in a park, taking turns on who is the leader. When you are the leader (of course, not going too fast), she has to chase you and so she learns to do quick turns, brake, and change directions on demand (reactive). When she is the leader, she develops her ability to read her surroundings and form trajectory-planning strategies in her mind (proactive). Motor control resides in the cerebellum, and it must be automated by exhausitve repetition until it becomes automatic. There's no better way do do it than by playing and having fun, specially if it involves bicycle riding skills. It literally "grows in you". (I think that's why people say that no one ever forgets how to ride a bike). Hope this helps 

Trackstands (a trick in which a rider, usually on a fixed-gear bike, keeps balanced with zero speed, by pedalling back and forth with minimum displacement) can be employed either on the track or on the streets, mainly at traffic lights. In the track, the rider can slow down and create a hard time for an opponent. On the traffic light, one can keep himself on the bike and be ready to go. That makes the trick "desireable", so it is either regulated on official events, and used itself for "trackstand competitions", mostly in the fixie subculture. What I have to ask is: 

Pitlock (www.pitlock.com): these require a special shaped key to open. You carry the keys with you, and no thief could take the wheel. Neither yourself if you lose the damn key; Velo Orange anti-theft skewers: a 5mm allen bolt with a pin inside. Need a special 5mm allen key with a drilled tip, to open. VERY clever... No thief in the world would have this drilled key; Gravity-activated skewers, like this one by Zéfal: there is some moving part inside the skewers acting as a lock on certain bike positions. When your bike is locked to something else, it cannot be turned upside down so it's impossible to take the wheels away; "Numbered padlock" style skewer: these have those infamous numbered dials. You have to match a secret code to open the skewer. Although one can try to guess the number, there are 1000 combinations on the 3-digit models. Don't know how they react to weather and dirt, though... 

From what I can see here: $URL$ ...you are going to have an excellent tire. These tight-fabric protection (kevlar or aramid, I guess) work great (at least are working great in my Marathon XR). For XC and off-road, I think the tight fabric might be preferred over the thick-inner-rubber protection (a la Schwalbe Marathon Plus) due to performance issues (weight and rigidity, mostly). Another option would be to use anti-puncture tape (Mr.Tuff, Sttones) between the tire and the tube. On the road, these have served me very well (after I finally gave up being skeptical - suffered so long in vain...). In the other hand, on off-road, where pressures are lower and tire deformation is higher, perhaps the built-in protection is a better choice. Hope this helps 

I have a Manitou Black with reverse arch (an old model) and it seems to me that the posts get dirtier than if it was a front arch model. Specifically, the grime that comes "in the air" hits the posts directly (without the arch acting as a sort of protection), and the mud that comes with the tire ends up getting everything dirty anyway, sooner or later. Also, since the O-ring around the posts is tilted backwards due to steering angle, mud actually tends to form a deposit behind the post. Incidentally, I have rim brakes attached to the brake posts, and due to the arch being behind, I am forced to use a brake booster, otherwise the blades of the fork flex A LOT while braking, with poor performance. In the end, I agree with the ones that think it's more marketing than engineering. Besides, if you Google "dual arch suspension fork" there are already some models around, and I have seen at least one "middle arch" fork, though I can't remember the brand. 

I have seen (and recently bought) entry-level rear derailers from Shimano (Tourney for MTB, 2300 for road bike), and I keep wondering why they are making these parts with such large pulleys. I don't think this make the parts cheaper to produce, since large size means more material, and I can't see why customers would find this more attractive or adequate than the smaller-sized ones (unless customers would prefer more expensive models because they DON'T HAVE large pulleys...). Also, I imagine there might be advantages to larger pulleys (less chain link rotation, less wear, slower pulley rotation), but the reason why entry-levels are big, while more expensive models continue to be the same old size, is very unclear to me, not to say arbitrary. 

(unfortunately the gauge from my floor pump broke, and I am becoming expert on "sensitive" tire inflation methods :o( As a bottom line, if your tire is designed for 110 PSI max., that doesn't mean (at all!) that it will instantly explode as soon as it reaches anything beyond that pressure, because that is the maximum pressure recommended to BE RIDDEN. If you get, say, 130 PSI with the cartridge, you'll probably feel it is too much, so you can deflate it a bit before riding. In the end, between too hard and too soft, there is a lot of room for personal taste, specially if you just want to go on riding, after a flat. Just as an example: I had (have?) a lot of friends who ride mountain bikes with knobby tires up to 80 PSI (it's crazy, I know), just because the bike "rides much better on asphalt". So far, no explosion happened (except one with a very low quality tire targeted at 40 PSI max... The girl literally hugged the road, but she was ok...) 

Disc brakes are very precise and the pads run very close to the disc even while not braking. Due to this, even small misalignments might make the pads (or even the caliper) rub against the disk, producing the noise you describe. A simple test would be to lift the wheel (or turn the bike upside down) and spin the wheel slightly. If it stops quickly, the brake is rubbing. Try to visualize where this rubbing happens. If it is actually rubbing, you have three alternatives: 

Your rims are different. One of them has a smoother surface, or a different alloy, or a different quality alloy, and the actual friction is lower in one of the rims. I have this problem currently with one of my bikes; One pair of brake pads is different. It can be from a different batch, or different model, or different brand, or different material, etc.; If your pads are the (very common) asymmetric type, THEY SHOULD ALWAYS HAVE THE LONGER SIDE POINTING BACKWARDS! Everytime you brake, the pads tend to rotate "outwards", pulled by the moving rim, and that's why it's always best to assemble the pads with the longer side pointing backwards; One or both of your brake bosses (and overall bike structure) flex when you brake. Specially on the front, where the "rotating outwards" can combine with the (carbon?) fork "opening" while braking. This is very successfully solved with a (somewhat infamous) "brake booster"; There are some possible geometric tunings, but this specific model doesn't seem to allow for tuning the pad position or the straddle cable length. If that were the case, attaching the pads away from the brake arms (thus widening the angle between the arms) and increasing the angle of the straddle cable gives the best mechanical advantage; The pads have not burned in yet. Going for a tough ride, with long descents and possibly some dirt, could allow the braking power to emerge; The braking surfaces keep being contamined by some non-cycling-related influence in your house: car exhaust near the front wheel, use of some spray product near the bike, oil coming from some wierd place, etc. 

Both conditions contribute for the slipping due to reduced friction coefficient. So, to REACTIVATE the grippiness of the material, you should: 

Grease shoudn't be applied, because it does not naturally flow to the inside of the chain due to its visco-plastic behaviour. Besides, it would be terrible to remove when needed. Oils, even thick, will eventually flow inside the chain due to their pure viscous behaviour, thus reaching the only important parts that need to be lubed, which are the internals. Light oils penetrate fine, but due to the high surface friction while pedalling, won't work as well as thicker oils. I use SAE 90 gearbox oil, which is the chain oil recommended by the manual of a Honda motorcycle I had. This oil is cheap, the bottle lasts forever, and it also lasts a lot in the chain. It's very similar to Finish Line Wet (green) lube.