I'll assume you find this interesting, and want to read about it: Let G be a group (finite is good), H be an abelian normal subgroup of G, and Q be the quotient group. If σ is an automorphism of a group G such that σ(H) = H, then σ induces automorphisms on H and G/H=Q. If σ(h)=h for all h in H, then σ(H) = H, so we are interested in those σ that are "invisible" as automorphisms both of H and of Q. The paper's condition is that no automorphism is invisible, which should seem a reasonable crutch if you want to talk about automorphisms of G in terms of those of H and Q (here it helps if H is also characteristic). What do invisible automorphisms look like? Well every element of G can be written as a product q*h for some q in Q and h in H. (q1*h1)*(q2*h2) = (q1*q2)*(h1^q2 * h2 * ζ(q1,q2)) where ζ:Q×Q→H is a (set-theoretic) function called a 2-cocycle. If you are only interested in semidirect products, then ζ(q1,q2) = 1H can be ignored. What does σ do to q*h? Well it takes products to products, and h to h, but it only takes q to another element of the same coset, q*δ(q) where δ:Q→H is another set-theoretic function. Hence σ(q*h) = q*h*δ(q). A good example to keep in mind here are the extra-special groups, like the dihedral group of order 8. They have lots of invisible automorphisms. For instance (x,y)→(x,yz) where x,y are the main generators and z=[x,y] generates the center. Now clearly not all δ can work, since surely δ(q1*q2) is related somehow to δ(q1) and δ(q2). Indeed σ(q1*q2) = (q1*q2)*δ(q1*q2), but it is also equal to σ(q1)*σ(q2) = (q1*δ(q1))*(q2*δ(q2)) = (q1*q2)*( δ(q1)^q2 * δ(q1) * ζ(q1,q2) ). Ignoring ζ for a moment, one gets the equation δ(q1*q2) = δ(q1)^q2 * δ(q2), which expresses the fact that δ:Q→H is a derivation of the Q-module H. It is not too hard to see that the implications are reversible, and derivations help to define automorphisms fixing H and Q. Not ignoring ζ does not change things very much, as instead of the subgroup of derivations inside the abelian group of all functions from Q to H, you just take a coset of this subgroup determined by ζ. At any rate, so in your semi-direct products the condition is that there are no non-identity derivations from Q to H; the only derivation should have δ(q)=1H for all q in Q. Now of course derivations can exist even when Q and H are coprime: Take G to be the non-abelian group of order 6, H to be its subgroup of order 3. Then δ:Q→H takes the non-identity element of Q to any one of the three elements of H, giving three derivations δ. Checking the automorphism group of G, it is easy to see that every automorphism must take H to H, and must act as the identity on Q, since Aut(Q) = 1. Of the six automorphisms, three act as inversion on H, so are not inivisible, but three must be invisible, one for each δ. In particular, being cyclic of prime and coprime order is not sufficient. Your coprime condition does, however, severely limit the variety of invisible homomorphisms that are available: they must all be conjugations by elements of H. An automorphism of G induced by conjugation by an element of H must act trivially on H, since H is abelian. It must act trivially on Q, since hH = 1Q in Q. Hence every automorphism induced by an element of H is invisible. If G is to have no invisible automorphisms, then H must be central, since q^h = h^-1 * q * h = q* (h^q)^-1 * h is only the identity on G if h^q = h for all q. In other words, the paper's condition implies H is central, so you are looking for a group Q with a trivial module H whose first cohomology vanishes, but whose second does not. I think this is reasonably rare. Probably a very standard example is a perfect group Q that is not superperfect, and H to be its Schur multiplier. For instance, take G=SL(2,5), Q = Alt(5), H = Z/2Z. 

If you have explicit finite presentations of G and H is small and finite, then you should be able to just ask GAP or magma for a presentation of the kernel of the projection. This is another disguise of the Schreier transversal. Let me know if you want code sample or algorithmic references. This will likely fail for things like Sp(6,13) which are simply too large, but I think it should work out for Sym(3) and Sym(6). 

The paper: Herzog, Marcel; Praeger, Cheryl E. "On the order of linear groups of fixed finite exponent." J. Algebra 43 (1976), no. 1, 216–220. MR424960 DOI:10.1016/0021-8693(76)90156-3 contains the important bound, if G ≤ GL(n,F) where F has characteristic coprime to |G|, then |G| ≤ exp(G)n. Obviously these bounds can be obtained over large enough F (containing exp(G) roots of unity), as the diagonal subgroup generated by eth roots of unity has exponent e and order en. The exponent of a finite group divides the order of the group: the exponent of a group is the product of the exponents of its Sylow subgroups, and a p-group always contains an element whose order is equal to the exponent of the group, so by Lagrange the exponent divides the order. Also, every prime dividing the order of the group divides the exponent of the group, by Cauchy's theorem. In particular, the possible orders of finite groups of exponent p, p a prime, that are contained in GL(n,C) are exactly p1, p2, …, pn. The elementary abelian subgroups generated by diagonal matrices whose entries are pth roots of unity shows the existence, and Herzog and Praeger eliminate all other orders. Note that when p is large, these are all possible anyways, so that the theorem is probably only interesting for small p. For instance, GL(3,C) contains no non-abelian group of exponent 5. 

I liked the references of Kerber listed in the wikipedia article. The most relevant chapter is available online, along with both volumes which were quite useful. Kerber's presentation focusses on the idea that H is going to be cyclic and specifically handles H of order 2, but like MacDonald handles general H abstractly. GAP handles the hyper-octahedral group this way too, using generic code for wreath products written more or less solely for the hyper-octahedral group. The "bi" in bi-partitions just refers to the two conjugacy classes of C2, and the general theory replaces "bi" by however many conjugacy classes H has. 

A new proof was published in: Isaacs, I. M.; Knutson, Greg. "Irreducible character degrees and normal subgroups." J. Algebra 199 (1998), no. 1, 302–326. MR1489366 DOI:10.1006/jabr.1997.7191 This was extended to cd(G)=5 in: Lewis, Mark L. "Derived lengths of solvable groups having five irreducible character degrees. I." Algebr. Represent. Theory 4 (2001), no. 5, 469–489. MR1870501 DOI: 10.1023/A:1012706718244 It mentions that "Because of the length and complexity of his argument, Garrison never published this result." and has some other useful comments. 

For n=2, your question is addressed in: Gagola, Stephen M., Jr. "Characters vanishing on all but two conjugacy classes." Pacific J. Math. 109 (1983), no. 2, 363–385. MR721927 euclid.pjm/1102720107 In it, he shows that if such a nearly-zero character exists, it is unique, and the unique faithful irreducible character of G (similar to the extra-special 2 and 3 groups mentioned by Kevin Buzzard). A doubly transitive Frobenius group has such a character, but the non-solvable doubly transitive Frobenius groups are in short supply (five or so). The possible forms of more general non-solvable examples are restricted in Theorem 5.6 (basically SL2). 

I'm looking for some examples of actions on Sylow p-groups, and often those actions appear in the case of finite almost simple groups. Given a finite almost simple group, I understand in principle how to calculate its Sylow p-subgroups (here p is usually 2 or 3), but perhaps I am just too slow at doing it. In particular, I am familiar with the papers of Weir and Carter-Fong. I am not sure how to do the reverse calculation: given a p-group P (possibly described as "the Sylow p-subgroup of the almost simple group X", and X is something explicit like "PGL(3,19)" or "M11"), find all of the almost simple groups that have a Sylow p-subgroup isomorphic to P. I am pretty sure some people know how to do this, but it's not really clear to me how to go about it. For instance, it would have never occurred to me that PSU(3,8), PSL(3,19), and 3D4(2) have isomorphic Sylow 3-subgroups. Is there a description of how this is done? I think there is likely to be a finite answer to the question: Obviously only finitely many (and probably O(p)) alternating groups could work for a given P. We take for granted that only finitely many sporadic groups could work. It seems that, similarly to the alternating case, there are only finitely many ranks (again probably O(p)) of Lie groups that could work, and hopefully for each Lie type (and rank), there are just some congruences on "q" that indicate which ones work and which don't. However, I've not had much luck doing this calculation in examples, and so I am looking for papers or textbooks where this has been done. I have found some that state the result of doing something like this (post CFSG), and I have found several that do this in quite some detail, but pre-CFSG so they spend hundreds of pages eliminating impossible groups obscuring what should now be an easy calculation. I'm looking for something with the pedagogical style of the pre-CFSG papers, but that doesn't mind using the standard 21st century tools. Alternatively: does anyone know of a vaguely feasible approach to construct all groups with given Sylow subgroups? Blackburn et al.'s Enumerating book has some upper bounds, but they are pretty outrageous and don't seem adaptable to a feasible algorithm for my problem.