This is not to say that a mathematical idea is art because an artist could convey it visually: this is to say that an idea could be apprehended independently by mathematicians and visual artists, and presented in different forms, where the medium of the visual artist is the one better suited for a popular audience. Yes, mathematics is an art, and every calculation in math class is analogous to a study of how to express or exercise some idea. If it is a little recondite, can we not say the same for contemporary art, or atonal music? If the subject or the expression is a little recherche, perhaps this puts mathematics in good company (or perhaps one might say in practise that it puts the other pieces of difficult to appreciate art in good company). But undoubtedly mathematics has many of the features of an art whose purpose is to explore an idea. Back of the envelope calculations are hasty sketches; we even call them "proof sketches", though the sketch is not of the proof but of the idea that the proof itself is meant to convey, just as a sketch is developed upon in portraiture. If the art objects of mathematics are not as unique, it is merely because the techniques of mathematics are easy enough to grasp, for enough others, that it is an art uniquely amenable to forgery — except that we don't think in terms of forgery, because as an art the priority of mathematics is not so much unique expression as elegant expression (can you forge the art of a dancer?). This is in part because we use the representations we create to try to better grasp at a difficult subject; and as far as pride and professionalism are concerned, first expression is what most people obsess over (as with other works of art as distinct from their forgeries). As for the final question — can there be a melancholic mathematics, a joyful algebra? — though economics may be called a "dismal science" (where the latter part of the term is perhaps an unsupported allegation), I don't think this is the point. Does Excher's Angels and Demons have an emotional impact? Perhaps if one is strongly religious; but what of his other works, such as Metamorphosis II? 

Equality, as viramolar indicates in his answer, is a facet of justice, which basically is a question of knowing what range of actions one is allowed to take, and having that range of actions not be so restrictive as to prevent meaningful or beneficial choices. "Equality" in economic terms in particular tends to address equality of economic opportunity. Opportunity, however, is a tricky thing to make precisely equal, and is tied in with all manners of sociological conditions. Statistically, African Americans have less opportunity than caucasians, and for similar reasons Gen-X workers have less opportunity than Baby Boomers: in each case the more senior positions have been disproportionately filled by the latter groups, who — due to social and, in some cases, prejudicial reasons — may not consider applicants from the former class as readily, for advancement. It is not really possible to completely equalise opportunity: whether or not the wage-lowering effect you describe actually occurs, it requires a level of vigilance which would completely stagnate economic activity — just as an obsession with perfect justice and the complete abolition of crime tends to lead to police states. But as in law enforcement, perfection is not necessary. All that is required is for economic differences to be small enough. What "small enough" means in practise will depend on the values of the society, and will typically not be clearly defined, but only identifiable by its absence (e.g. if unemployment is high and there are very rich people paying essentially no tax to support the society which supports their lifestyle). 

then the theory of the Tao more or less trivializes in classical logic. However, if we weaken the second postulate above to say that "the enduring and unchanging Tao is worth emulating as much as possible", we obtain a philosophy of life that one should try to improve one's approximation of the true way, even if one cannot be sure of having achieved the perfect truth, or indeed even if capturing the perfect truth completely is impossible — to adopt a modus of trying always to be less wrong. This is an ethical prescription which is implicit even in somewhat popular readings of Christianity. 

or "I am Elvis Presley, and anyone who is not me is not Elvis Presley". We can simplify this logically (albeit at the cost of making it slightly perverse phrasing in normal speech) by taking the contrapositive in the second part: 

They take pains to describe the situation in terms not of God not existing, but just as an object which is not accessible to us through the structure of the theory, although 'God' is thought to be the source of the theory (in that he is posited to have made the notion of "positivity" accessible to us). It is in Section 3 that they treat the positivity property and describe (as I will choose to phrase it at this juncture) how to understand a model of goodness which does not include God. p. 16: 

which we might interpret as "there is someone who is Elvis Presley, and [he is unique, i.e.] anyone who is Elvis Presley is none other than the Elvis Presley". (Using the definitions of the restricted quantifications, we could even write this as : "there is an Elvis Presley, and all Elvises Presley are the same person".) If we wanted to say that there are at least two Elvises Presley, we could negate only that part of the proposition above where we claim uniqueness: 

First, as a pre-amble, given your apparent grounding in ideas of philosophical naturalism (as opposed to mere "atheism", or disbelief in gods, which is a frequent conclusion that naturalists come to): 

It is perfectly possible to adopt position #1 as a scientist, in exactly the same way that you might decide between two potential scientific theories: you examine the predictions of the theories and the evidence for how the world actually works, and you make an informed judgement as to whether a theory seems to work well, either on its own terms or compared to another. You can even tentatively adopt both theories if they are both compatible with the observed evidence (though you might want to bear in mind where and how much the two theories conflict); and you can also reject both theories, deciding that neither of them are even provisionally satisfactory. In this regard, you can be an atheist simply because you see no particular reason to believe in god; you "have no need for that hypothesis". This doesn't necessarily entail that you reject all possible god-notions out of hand — although you may feel justified in being skeptical of them, just as you would be justified in skepticism of whether time-travel is possible based on awareness of the sorts of paradoxes it might give rise to. But this leads to position #2. Position #2 is potentially non-scientific depending on how it is presented. But to determine whether or not it is scientific, we must ask some questions which make it even a candidate for scientific consideration, the most important of which is this: What is a god? 

Now you're talking about 'being' as a state of affairs which obtains; conflating an object's existence with obtaining of a condition of objects. They are similar concepts, which however apply to different things. An object may fail to exist (or rather, there may fail to exist any objects which satisfy some collection of properites); and a condition of such objects failing to exist may obtain. But conditions do not 'exist' except inasmuch as we use this turn of phrase to describe the fact that there is a situation in which the condition obtains. This is, to be fair, a nuanced problem. Does fire exist? But fire is a phenomenon of rapid and exothermic oxidation — it is not an object but a condition which obtains of a system, e.g. a pile of wood or paper. Do apples exist? But apples are macroscopic conglomerations of atoms configured into complicated organic chemicals, including sugars which make the apple sweet, pigments which colour the skin of the apple, and fibres which help the mass retain a stable form — and the fact that these properties obtain is not a passive, but an active process involving electromagnetic forces on the nanoscopic scale. We abstract phenomena and conditions all the time and turn them into nouns, objects for our consideration and manipulation: rain, heat, winter, etc. are all nouns which describe conditions to which we are subject, rather than objects which we can e.g. pick up. What of nothingess? This is different — it is a condition not of an object or the interaction of objects, but rather the condition that (in some region of space and time, say) there are no objects. If applied in the cosmological sense, it is the absence of any objects in the universe of discourse: the proposition that ¬∃x holds. When you talk about nothingness "being", it seems to me that you are referring to the notion that this universe without objects still has facts: for instance, that ¬∃x. However, facts don't count as things which 'exist' in a first-order theory; and even if you move to second, third, etc. order theories, in which facts about one level are objects in their own right one level up, one can still have first-order nothingness (the absence of first-order objects) as a second-order object, without contradicting itself.