Love and attachment are only incidentally related. Of course that depends on how you define love. I would propose that love can be crudely understood as the act of giving. Naturally "investing" yourself in any "thing" particular will cause attachment to that particular "thing". And when we give, we have a tendency to at least subconsciously perceive that as an investment. You can however rid yourself from these reflexes. You can give without expecting. Without succumbing to remorse if your feel your gift is non accepted or squandered. Children have a talent for giving parents that feeling. Please note that I am not saying that you should not have any expectations towards your children. I believe you should. But you should not think of these goals as the desired fruits of your love. You should love unconditionally and independently set these goals in terms of what you genuinely believe will make your child happy. You will need a certain level of detachment/distance to make that assessment. You will even need to accept that your child (or anybody that you love) may reject the goals and head straight for something that makes them unhappy. If that is so, it is an experience they must be allowed to learn from (at least to the extent that the resulting harm to them is not devastating). Not expecting anything in return for your love will make it a lot easier for you to give it even then. Try seeing the child not as your child, but the child that you choose to love regardless of the outcome. That is love without attachment. 

According to Mahayana doctrine (at least within Nyingma linbeage), different incarnations of body, mind and/or speech of a same sentient being are possible. By which I deduce that a sentient being of a lower realm could also be reborn into a human realm having, say, two bodies of opposite sexes. Hence, given the conditions listed, my questions will be: a) Can a same sentient being be reborn in a human form in two or more body incarnations having opposite sexes? b) If yes, would a sexual union between, say, two such body incarnations of a same sentient being having opposite sexes in a human form count as a sexual misconduct, provided the other requirements for a proper sexual conduct are met? Any reference to a sutra and / or abhidharma text would be of a great help. 

Whenever I examine the concept of rebirth in Buddhism, I cannot help it but feel great skepticism. To put it in my own clumsy words, we have many fears and one of the greatest is to cease to exist. The solution that I have found in Buddhist teachings is to outgrow that fear in particular and fear as whole, while you're at it. In contrast to that, religions commonly introduce some concept of life after death. Which I think is a just a very comfortable delusion, self-induced to cope with this primordial fear and with the loss of loved ones. What strikes me is that "Buddhists" talk quite a lot about rebirth and will actually give extremely precise and concrete responses to questions on rebirth, that can quite obviously not be challenged by the examining mind. It is my (limited) understanding though at its very core (if such a thing exists) Buddhism generally denies to answer any questions that cannot actually be challenged and particularly denies to answer this question. I feel that much is to be gained from the concept of rebirth if explored as a metaphor, but it is my impression that believing it literally is diverting attention from the here and now and more practical aspects of Buddhist practice, thus ultimately being harmful. It seems to me like failure to remove the poisoned arrow. At the same time it makes me nervous that I cannot see any truth in more physical and concrete notions of rebirth, because it's far more likely that I am just blind, rather than everybody else being deluded. So: what is it that I am missing? What do I gain if I embrace the belief that "I" will roam this world in a new body once this one dies? 

To often one with dicerment can see that especially literary learned people, but without having it really practiced to understand, if they are fools, simply destroy all there goodness (past merits), when ever they learn more, since they use everything to give their defilements (here stinginess) excuses and ground to stay so. Of two people, one good literary informed, but lacking on genuine goodness, and another person, even lacking totally on literary knowledge, but with genuine goodness, the secound can not only be expected doing further undertakings for accumulation of merits, but also that he/she successes in it, while it is not sure for the first to even start to try. In regard of reverence and respect, one may find tips and reverences here: Respect and Veneration Given that: 

No, it's not possible to attain Nirvana without an external help, because attaining Nirvana without a help from an external teacher would be relying on self-existance exlusively -- not in the sense of 'ego' but rather in a sense of svabhava. So it is not a conventional self (ego) is an error, but rather the idea of it as of something perpetual, undividable and non-dependent on other phenomena, such as non-dependent on causes and effects. 

I think that depends mainly on the tradition and/or a practice chosen by a person to follow. In Theravada, a person has to follow all the precepts (for a lay person or a bhikshu(ni) accordingly), a qualified answer to your question is to be provided by a scholar. One of the core Theravada obligations, as I understand it, is to achieve Nirvana by obligatory following of all the percepts. In Zen, a person also can be either a qualified master or a mundane follower, yet even an enlightment can be achieved within a single lifetime by any sentien being, even by ; a rebirth to lower realms can be a deliberate choice because of compassion. In addition to usual percepts, specific Zen vows are to be taken. In Mahayana, a person can be a layman, a scholar or ordained monk/nun/lama within an institution, and many depends on previous karma plus a state of mind at the moment when a person experiences death. A person can be either a layman and a scholar or a scholar and an ordained practiotioner; the number of percepts and/or vows to be taken depends on a school and its lineage. In Vajrayana, it is the tantric vows (which in some cases may contradict or exclude those taken by laymen) and their purity that define the outcome, together with a state of mind at the moment of death. A person can be a layman at a superficial appearance, and an ordained practitioner and a well-learned scholar by one's nature. A number and essence of the vows depends on a deity and a transmission lineage together with ethics. 

Marxism is strictly materialistic. It builds on the idea that if you distribute all goods evenly, people will stop suffering. That was a reasonable assumption to make when the vast majority of the population suffered from uneven distribution of goods. Buddhism on the other hand does not regard changing the outer conditions as being important in overcoming suffering. More precisely, it suggests that transcending the outer conditions is the key to overcoming suffering, so in essence it denies the core question that Marxism seeks to give an answer to. So I would say that they are pretty much orthogonal. Buddhism could probably act as a formidable complement to the Marxist theories when trying to build a society. But to individual Buddhists, Marxism is not necessarily useful. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

Seldom he taught the transcendent path and the backward to householder. Seldom he taught sunnata to householder. Why? Because the untrained mind would not understand and not protected by firm Silas and precepts "Yogies" dwelling in "housholder-equanimity" would cause them all the reasons to fall into hell, after their "equanimity" journey, gross transgressions, totally unaware, one self totally overestimated. They would easily, which a notion of "there is no I" tend to pernicious false beliefs which causes them to fall to hell. 

That depends mainly on a lineage or on a specific Buddhist teaching you follow, so the definition of 'being a buddhist by practice' varies greatly among different schools, lineages and teachings. Because you have tagged your question as 'mahayana', it would be safer to ask your spiritual master about this topic. If your question means 'does one become a buddhist by reciting a mantra' than the answer would be 'it depends greatly by your intention and state of mind when you recite it', and also 'what kind of a mantra is in question'. Yet, Buddhism is not Islam and my understanding is that you don't become a buddhist just pronouncing a mantra X times, because motivation and transmission of a mantra matters. 

Simply focus on what is skilfully and unskilfully, making clear that one not acting skilful by himself can not be easy a place to relay on, find out by yourself what leads to longterm happiness while searching for approve from the wise and then, end your teaching, after indroducing to the Brahma-Viharas, like him: 

Nyom Chris and those interested, my person find it always very useless to explain such as "Buddhism" and ways of "Buddhists" because what matters is to do the right things which would help others. Helping ones mother and father is a natural intent of a person with integrity, and as the Buddha taught: 

My questions concern Monkey Year Teaching held by Kagyu lineage (Great Phowa of Chagtsugma). Is this type of Phowa similar for all Monkey Year Teachings held through the Kagyu lineage? What is the destination land and deity of this Phowa? Are there specific samayas and life-long obligations related to this teaching? 

The gross psychological interpretations of the 6 realms are as follows: hate (hells), craving (pretas), stupidity (animals), passion (people), belligerance (asuras) and pride (gods, or devas). These are samsaric worlds, which means that even the worlds of gods are still mundane, not 'spiritual'. That means that it is important to understand 'a realm level' for mundane purposes or for understanding another person's / one's own state of mind/existance, that is, at least from the first two Noble Truths, but it's irrelevant from the point of the Fourth Noble Truth (ayam dukkha-nirodha-gamini patipada). There are also four more realms in the Tiantai school and Nichiren lineage that give a way to liberation from the samsaric existance, which makes ten worlds altogether. These are of Learning, Realisation, Boddhisattvas and Buddhahood. As milestones on a path, they are important from the position of the Third and Fourth Noble Truths. In Nichiren lineage, this interpretation results in ichinen-sanzen concept stating that any moment of a human consciousness embraces three thousand different states of mind from the ten worlds. Because a human being can hardly encompass all the three thousand states at a time, it is not important from an [unadvanced] layman's perspective, since in terms of conventional logic we are capable of perceiving only a single state of mind within a given moment.