Motivation is tough.....what motivated you prior to stopping? and has that goal(s) changed? Everyone gets/is motivated differently, I like to write my goals down and visualize what it is I'm going for. Some people get motivated by being in groups (social), others by watching movies (try a Rocky movie). What it comes down to is that it's easy not to do something or coming up with a reason why - twist it around, just do it and unless you can come up with 5 good reasons not to, continue. Make it a routine and over time you won't even think about it. 

The only real answer to this is: see a doctor. I'm not sure of your age or health, etc. (sounds like you're a college student) - but after a small amount of exercise you should NOT be feeling muscle fatigue. See a Dr. and get a complete physical, blood work and nutritional assessment. Don't take this feedback from your body lightly....it's a clear warning sign that something could be wrong. 

I've read on a few websites (BodyBuilding and t-nation) that Box Squats are good exercises to help with dead lifts. You don't get the full range of motion and through doing them I seem to feel more tension on the back rather the glutes or legs...so, are they somehow more like dead lifts? Is it the drive from the box that provides the benefit to dead lifting? 

Frequency, weight to use, sets/reps are all point-in-time individual specific settings. What works for you today many not work tomorrow or for anyone else. What I would recommend is: 

I agree with the previous answers about there being no way to 'target' belly fat. Sounds like you're aware of your diet and are trying to modify it to reduce your weight. The most important change I made (and lost about 20 lbs - went from 220 to 200, back around 210 but healthy weight) was to keep a journal (simple book and pen) of what I ate and what exercises I did. My diet changes were similar to yours: smaller meal size, but more frequent, cleaner eating, removing BAD things like ice cream and soda........and fast food. I also started a heavy weight lifting program and Tabata (the best exercise routine I think for cardio in a short time frame available). 

What are the pros/cons of board bench pressing? I know it helps reduce shoulder strain, but what benefits are there based on being able to lift more weight and what cons since you don't have full ROM (range of motion)? And if you focus on board benching with heavy weights, how do you retain for regular (non-board) post so that you don't hurt those muscles/tendons that aren't used to the heavier load? 

I think it depends on what you are trying to achieve. If your doctor tells you (as mine did me) that you need an HRM, that means, Doc is concerned, you should be too, and so, accuracy is extremely important. However, if you are casually measuring HR and accuracy isn't important, or, you have other means to account for accuracy of a particular device, or, you can change the method of calculating HR, then you have lots of options. Right now, there are two popular methods on the market to measure HR. One is optical heart rate monitoring, which uses LED to measure the expansion and contraction of capillaries, which do so because of the heart beats. The problem is that certain exercises can cause muscles and tendons to affect the contraction and expansion of capillaries, in addition to the action of heart rate, and so, OHRM method is not usually reliable when used during some workouts. Weightlifting, martial arts, combat fighting, some calisthenics, etc, anything which uses the arms, can garner an inaccurate reading. Walking, resting, some swimming, some yoga, etc which do not generally use the arms, can garner a more accurate reading. OHRM is mostly found in wrist-worn devices, like FitBit. The latest news reports show these devices to be as low as 60% accurate, and cite the reasons I mention. Read the sources to find the details. These are convenient and comfortable devices, and as long as you know the limitations and can work around them, these are fine. The other HRM technology are the chest strap-ons, these usually go around the chest and measure electrical impulses, much like an ECG machine. These are much more accurate, but many people find them to be uncomfortable, and the devices are devoid of the many other features a wrist-worn device has. My guess is, if you find a device which uses chest strap-on for HRM combined with wrist-worn for data gathering and other features, that would be an ideal compromise when you need to measure HR during those exercises which are known to garner inaccurate readings. How accurate are Fitbit trackers? Just How Accurate are Fitbits? The Jury is Out Validity of Consumer-Based Physical Activity Monitors for Specific Activity Types Here's How Accurate The Fitbit Alta HR Actually Is Note that the BuzzFeed article, the last one, went on the cheap and compared their results with a chest-worn device, which they claim to be "scientifically more accurate". However, they do point out an important warning: that FitBit specifically states that their devices are not to be used for medical or scientific purposes. That means, Fitbits, et al, are for entertainment purposes only. You'd have to get a device which IS meant for such purposes... and gue$$ what? My doctor told me the devices are great, but for accurate HR monitoring, short of lugging around an ECG on a tricked out gurney, a watch and two fingers is best, if not convenient. He wanted my HR within ranges, and so, accuracy for me was not important to me as it was for one of his other patients who had severe weight and heart issues. In that case, his patient had to wear devices which were needed for accuracy, and had to have insurance take care of the costs. 

You cannot target specific body parts for fat reduction - you can target certain areas for muscle growth - but this is usually not recommended. Depending on your genetic make up, gender and age you will have different locations on your body where fat cells are more prevalent. You will need to reduce overall body fat (bf%) in order to see a reduction in those areas you're interested in. 

Here's a link to a site with stretching/exercises for the hand: $URL$ Sounds like you might have bruised a tendon or its the start of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome ($URL$ I would recommend using dumbells or some pushup bars to hold on to OR knuckle push ups to take the pressure off the wrist/palm. Like the old Dr. said, if it hurts, don't do it. 

I'm assuming you're talking about Olympic bar types. The differences in weight 'seem' to be related to the width of the bar, the 33lb sometimes being called a woman's bar since it's diameter is smaller. The larger the diameter of the bar, the more it works the grip/forearm muscles and helps activate the CNS (central nervous system) in some cases (I'm not sure if this is scientifically proven) helping the person lift a little heavier. If you're lifting a certain weight for your program, the weight of the bar needs to be taken into consideration to determine total weight BUT the weight itself is not important. What does matter (as stated above) is the width, the stiffness (helps with some lifts hurts others BUT only for high end lifters) and the ability for the bar to hold some max weight. 

How much weight are you talking about? A good test is if you bounce on the floor do you go through it? Seriously, I would recommend a plywood platform to keep your floor from getting messed up, make sure you put padding under it and that it's thick/strong enough for your weight plus the rack plus the max weight you plan on lifting. Make sure that any drops won't 'rattle' dishes, pictures, etc. in adjoining rooms. I think the main reason for most home gyms in basesments is due to the need to keep the wife happy OR general space issues. 

When lifting heavy I use a combo of over/under hand grip (left and under and right hand over and on the next lift I reverse this) - I found that this gives me the ability to lift heavier (I also do the same when I get fatigued doing pull ups). You may also want to look into straps( $URL$ but don't use them as a long term crutch and start building up your hand strength by holding the final up position doing deadlifts. 

First off, I wouldn't be surprised if you can't find a study that addresses this - most fitness-related studies are done by grad students, and the topic they pick needs to be easily addressable within the time they have. Further, I think it would be hard to design a control for this study; if you built one that forced people to maintain weight you would probably add a lot of confounding factors. As you probably already known, increased fitness = training stress + recovery. As long as you are meeting your body's recovery nutrition requirements well, then your fitness improvement should not be compromised if you happen to lose some weight along the way. It's a fine line, however, and if you are in calorie deficit and not getting your recovery nutrition right, or trying hard to lose weight, you will compromise your improvement. WRT muscle strength improvement, long exercise can easily lead to muscle catabolism, where you end up breaking down your muscles instead of building them up. Pro cyclists training for stage races with significant climbing spend their time walking this line, but they are generally more concerned with power/weight ratio rather than pure power (though power is important in the TT stages, if you lose significant time in clmbing stages the TT stages don't matter). Low weight is less of a factor on single-day races, and I think it would be the same for triathletes. Somewhere in one of Carmichael's books ("food for fitness?"), he states that it's very hard to lose weight and increase fitness at the same time, though whether he has any credibility any more is an open question. So, I wrote all that, but I think the best chance of getting an better answer to your question is to drop an email to Joe Friel - he regularly answers questions like this on his blog. 

If your instructor is a cyclist, I have a possible explanation: In cycling, "tempo" is a pace where you are working hard but not so hard that you will be forced to stop soon. It's roughly correlated to zone 3 and pretty close to your lactate threshold. 

First, a bit about physiology. Just like some people have big feet and some people have small feet, some people have big hearts and some people have small hearts. Those that have smaller hearts have higher heart rates in general; their resting rates won't be as low and their maximum rates may be higher. That's just natural variability. It's also generally true that, as you get older, your maximum HR will decrease. So, resting HR and maximum aren't very useful to compare between people. Resting HR can be a useful thing to track over time as a reasonable indication of your current fitness state; as you train your heart's stroke volume increases and therefore your resting HR goes down.