A stele was found in the area of ancient Moab from the 12th century B.C. during Pharaoh Rameses II's domination of Canaan, which depicts a local ruler flanked by two (possibly Egyptian) gods, and the stele is made in imitation of the Egyptian style. 

It may be taken for granted now that Islamic countries use both, but since they appear to be exclusively European innovations at that time of the Renaissance Islamic adoption of it must have been taken from them at some later time. Islamic art was of course prolific at that time, but I've never heard of Islamic use of canvas during the Middle Ages, for example. Also, although I am especially interested to know the answer to those questions specifically in instances outside of the European continent, in terms of spread of influence I have to wonder if the Muslim held portions of Spain during the Renaissance Era were perhaps the earliest adopters of those technologies for printing and art. Can anyone provide at least a rough guess for when those two things first appeared in the Muslim world, even if we do not know the actual earliest instances precisely? 

Life expectancy upon reaching adulthood was shorter in the past than it is today (e.g. you'd live up to age 64 or so on average in late Medieval England if you made it to adulthood). Yes, a nobleman or a monarch, who enjoyed slightly better hygiene than the commoner, and more/better food, would have lived somewhat longer. Primarily, I'd put forward, because the upper classes had food to begin with during famines. 

The main driver was China's open door policy, which started in 1978. Before that, China had no material commercial relationships with the US. The latter didn't even have diplomatic relationships with mainland China (they treated Taiwan as the legitimate China) until Nixon visited China in 1972. In the mid 1980s private sector began to be a thing again in some areas, and things quickly picked up from there - it naturally helped that the US was the world's largest consumer market and that China had a cheap workforce. Per the comments to your question there was already a trend to manufacture toys in Asia in the 60s and 70s, but the real inflection point occurred when production moved from Hong Kong (and Taiwan) to - much cheaper - China in the late 1980s. 

Edit: Now that the OP question has been reworded for clarity I will tip my hat to pokep as being closer to answering the intent of the inquiry. It was not clear to me originally where orality and myth came into the picture with literature in the question. Nonetheless, I'll leave my answer here in case it helps anyone. I'm afraid you're probably not going to get away without doing some research of your own on this, but perhaps some pointers could help. Firstly, since you give such generous leeway with respect to the period of time under consideration (from the lifetimes of the ancient philosophers up to the Middle Ages) I feel at liberty to jump around a little bit. Firstly, from your title alone ("How much of what we know about ancient philosophers comes from oral literature?") I immediately thought of the matter of Socrates and what we know of him and how we know it. We have no writings from Socrates himself, and are dependent largely on Plato for telling us what Socrates taught. That in itself presents us with a dependence on orally transmitted details about a person of a truly ancient provenance (almost from the get go). So oral transmission of knowledge about a person need not be something long after the fact and also need not be inherently suspect or inaccurate. It seems ironic, however, that the historicity (existence) of Socrates as a person and the essential content of his teachings are rarely called into question, despite us having no written records from him personally; yet all the while some "mythicists" call into the question the historicity of Jesus of Nazareth and his essential teachings (which also relies on sources that provide orally transmitted details from early witnesses who knew him personally, rather than from any direct writings by him). The same can be said for Siddhārtha Gautama (Buddha). There are good reasons to regard them all as real historical figures whose teachings have reached us accurately by their ancient witness-bearers who wrote them down. To take one ancient example from the Hellenistic world, the fields of New Testament studies (in the case of Jesus and early Christian history - as Koine Greek speakers and/or writers), Orality, Textual Transmission, and Historiography are all even disciplinarily related - resting upon the same historiographical foundations and inquiries - to this same question you raise about orally transmitted details of ancient figures and their teachings. The questions and methodological principles for analyzing such orally transmitted accounts (especially in such a largely oral culture) applies equally to New Testament studies and the study of any Greek or Roman literature or historical sources in general. So studying orally transmitted details about Greek Philosophers will involve the same interdisciplinary considerations to determine historicity. The field of study on those topics of orality and historiographical textual studies is vast, and I have seen much discussion of it in NT studies (which is why I mention it), and no doubt broader studies on Greek literature and historical sources may be found which would apply to Greek Philosophers. I would just recommend spending time on a search engine, journal aggregate sites like JSTOR (which now provides some limited free access), or book catalogues such as WorldCat searching for keywords like "Orality" and "Greek literature" or "Greek History" (Substitute "Hellenistic" for "Greek" where appropriate) and start where you can. Further, aside from such foundational matters, if you wish to find a good compendium of ancient knowledge about all manner of elements of Greek and Roman culture and language as understood by a later civilization, the Byzantines, then I recommend doing some research on the Suda. This may help bridge the gap from classical times to the Middle Ages, as you discussed. As Wikipedia states the Suda "is a large 10th-century Byzantine encyclopedia of the ancient Mediterranean world". It is part lexicon and part encyclopedia but presents a broad understanding of knowledge of the classical world, and may provide you some clues for what you endeavor to research. I often see it cited in academic literature when someone is debating the meaning of Greek words in classical literature (often as applied to exegetical analysis of Greek texts), but it also provides some details of ancient knowledge and facts as understood at the time. As the Wikipedia article states: 

Some counts are off because I didn't bother dropping a day when a session ended on the same day as the next one began - but it's no big deal to see trends. The sheet also breaks down whether Congress was in session during spring, summer, autumn, or winter. (But unfortunately not how many days.) Anyway, a few patterns emerge: 

Across the Atlantic, the Thirteen colonies used Colonial Scrip before Independence. They didn't mint much, and relied a lot on foreign coins (Spanish dollars in particular) insofar as I'm aware. But not minting much doesn't mean they didn't mint at all. Massachusetts seems to be the earliest of the Thirteen Colonies to have issued currency, and in fact it minted coins 4 decades before it introduced fiat money. It did so in denominations of of 3 and 6 pence and 1 shilling. Below are 3 pence and 1 shilling New England coins (the 1652 date on the coin reflects when they were first authorized, rather than when these specific coins were actually minted), followed by two more recent ones from before the US dollar was introduced. 

This is additional corroboratory evidence that the Egyptians successfully introduced their religion to their Canaanite vassals, and the Balu'a Stele is most likely evidence of that in Moab as well. As for additional reading on Chemosh, in a discussion I had with the Hebrew scholar Gershon Galil about a Moabite seal of a ruler bearing a theophoric element of Chemosh's name, through his Facebook page (possibly viewable to the public here), he told me: "For Chemosh see Müller, Hans-Peter. "Chemosh." Dictionary of deities and demons in the Bible. Edited by Karel van der Toorn, Bob Becking, and Pieter W. van der Horst. 2nd ed. Leiden: Brill, 1999, 186-189." I hope that helps. 

Without you narrowing down your inquiry further though it is tough to know what specific areas to hit upon. However, those topics about Socrates, the Suda, and later Byzantine Greek scholarship were the first things to come to mind when I read the OP. Perhaps this will be of some assistance. 

(The article on microscopes has a similar claim with a few other potentially useful references.) Cursory googling for medieval lens examples yields this page, among others. It has a pictures of a crystal lens that pre-dates eyeglasses. In fact, the latter article yields reading stones, which might very well be what you're looking for: 

Wine has no vitamin C at all, so the answer would be: definitely no. But there's a twist. To expand on @LarsBosteen's comment: the wiki page on Posca and romae-vitam.com claim that Posca, rather than wine, actually may have been the antiscorbutic the larger population relied on. It's basically a mix of wine vinegar, water, and additives thrown in for flavor (Romans, as an aside, thought of drinking wine pure as vulgar). That is a lot more plausible - especially given the recipe suggestion on romae-vitam.com: 

Based on: A Pictorial and Descriptive Guide to London and Its Environs: With Two Large Section Plans of Central London... Ward, Lock & Company, Limited. 1819. 

I'm a little surprised that no one has mentioned, among the various theories so far, the possibility of the figure of King Arthur being (at least loosely) based upon the military leader Riothamus. Whether or not Arthur was real and the stories about him true or embellished, there are - as another answerer said - "plenty of theories regarding the existence of such a person". At least one worth mentioning, which I first learned about from watching a documentary on the subject, is that Arthur was Riothamus. I will leave the following quote from Wikipedia to speak for itself: 

Though the title may be vaguely broad, I have two specific things in mind I wanted to ask about. While I was recently considering the cultural and technological advancements of Europeans in the early Middle Ages, which was soon to be spread by them to the New World, I also began to consider Islamic history and cultural advancement at that same time (especially - for them - in areas of science, literature, and mathematics), and particularly in North Africa where some of the the Portuguese had contact and intermingled with Muslims through trade. So along parallel historical tracks I began to wonder at the comparative development between Renaissance Era European culture and Islamic culture at that time, and pursuant to that a few unusual questions arose in my mind. In particular I was wondering about two innovations of the Europeans of which I have never heard mention of their first use in the Islamic world (in terms of their initial adoption, though of course in the modern world there is hardly any distinction now): Firstly, use of the printing press; and secondly, the use of canvas (hemp-weaved) for painting (which first took off in Italy). In terms of technological advancement I'd say the former is more significant and utilitarian, while the argument about the "sophistication" of using canvas for art seems more subjective and preference driven (whatever its actual practical and aesthetic advantages may have been), though I still am curious about it. So to plainly state my two questions: