It can also be the result of riding the tire while the pressure is too low. When you do that the tube tends to move in the tire and can get cut against the edge of the rim. I hope that helps. 

No, you will need a set that is Campag compatible. Some Campagnolo cranksets use special chain ring bolt that bolt through the ring and into the crank, at least behind the arm. The Athena 11 speed appears to be one of these. One of the 5 bolts is longer than the rest. And unlike other brands, these bolt into cranks, not into a receiving nut. This is a picture of a compatible set. 

All of these tools are excellent quality and have reasonable likelihood of replacement taps and facing cutters being available through the years. Campagnolo, and Park Tool are fairly certain to stand the test of time, and I'd recommend on of those two. 

Yes, there are aluminum backed organic brake pads available for the Elixir series brakes. The SRAM part number is with the description , according to the 2014 SRAM Spare Parts Catalog. 

Yes, you can, as long as you don't go more than one size smaller, or the differential is not too extreme. A 1.25 in a 1.5 is fine. A 1.25 in a 2.25 is likely to have issues with flats. Your LBS will have tubes. Are they that bad that you won't even buy tubes from them? 

First, to answer the question asked: you can use them physically, but the shifting performance will suffer. Second, there is no limitation on the wheel, for a campy 8 speed hub. Put a 10 speed campy group on the bike. 8/9/10 speed are all the same, unless you truly have a freewheel, as opposed to a cassette. For 8 speed campy, that is fairly unlikely, but I'm not looking at your bike. If you don't have the option to run a new group without new wheels because of the freewheel, then my experience is that running an 8 or 9 speed drivetrain with a 10 speed chain ring set will produce slow and noisy shifting on the front chain rings, when shifting up to the larger ring, and pretty normal shifting when moving from large to small rings. It will also rub on the small chain ring, when in the bottom 2 or 3 cogs in the rear. 

You're not exaggerating the risk as far as what would happen to the object that managed to get jammed in to a fixie drivetrain at speed. You are perhaps exaggerating the risk of that happening, though. I don't see many objects managing that feat, without serious planning on someones' part, and unless it's flesh and bone, or something that was hard enough that the chainring wouldn't cut through it, then there would be minimal harm. If a stick gets caught in the chain ring, it will get cut in half. So what if it does? Nothing will happen to the rider, and even the chance of damage to the bike is minimal. Same thing with brush. Unless it's large enough to stop you pedaling, then it's not a problem. And since fixies are rarely ridden off road, the chance of these 2 things happening would be pretty remote. I've had my pant's leg get caught in a fixie chainring, and all it did was tear the pants, and teach me to choose better what clothing I ride in. There's no real harm to a chainguard, but not a lot of benefit either that I can see, so if you want one, go for it, but I'll be fine without. I'd say the lack of brakes is a far bigger hazard when riding on the road. 

The solution is to sandblast it. Then polish the aluminum with a metal polishing compound before repainting it with a clear finish. This is easy, if detailed and time consuming work. 

The facts are that you don't wear a seat belt for the days when you plan to get in a crash. You do it because you can't guarantee you won't, and it's just smart. I feel the same way about child seats on bikes. You can protect yourself. The kid can't. And you can't protect them by guaranteeing no accidents. 

There are a number of factors to consider here as others have stated in comments, this upgrade may cost more that you are willing to pay given the cost of the bike originally. I'm going to assume you know that and answer as if you are going to do it regardless. This bike is an 8 speed rear cassette, which controls the type of crank sets you can use without upgrading more parts. You will need an 8 speed crankset, to make sure your chain is compatible. The BB is a "standard" 68mm threaded shell, which can be adapted to a variety of options for cranksets. The SHIMANO M361 Hybrid crankset 48/38/28 tooth in square taper is an inexpensive and reasonably likely direct fit replacement. It is impossible for me to judge the length of BB spindle required after you change the crankset, however, so you should be prepared for the need to change that also. Depending on the offset of the chain rings on your original crankset, and the difference in offset on the new one, you may need to get a longer or shorter BB spindle to adjust the chain line with the new crank. The best way to do this is to measure from your seat tube to the center of the teeth on your middle chainring with your original crankset, and note the measurement. Install the new crankset, and measure again. Note the difference. If the new measurement is larger, you need a BB with a spindle which is shorter by the difference in your measurements. If measurement is shorter you need a longer BB spindle. Since this can't be checked ahead of time, you be to be prepared to have the bike non-functional while you get the new BB. Then you need to readjust the shifting on the front derailleur to match the new crank. This may require a new from derailleur cable and housing, or it may not. This will cost a fair bit of time and work, and between $100-150 dollars. Whether that is justifiable on this bike is up to you, but it is approximately half the cost of the bike, not including labor. I hope that is helpful. 

I bought a 700c Jericho hardtail in 1997, which came with a Rohloff 14 speed internally geared hub. I used it as a commuter for five years, at least 150 miles per week, 50 weeks of the year. That's 37500 miles. Even assuming I took a week or 2 out in there for whatever reason, call it 35000 miles. After that, I continued to ride it one or 2 days a week, for less strenuous rides. I have just sent it back for its first major service, other than lubing and cleaning the external components. The Rohloff is a ridiculously burly hub. The Alfine, or the i-Motion9 would do well to match half that performance. But I'd say based on people I've sold bikes with Nexus or Alfine hubs, and how rarely we see them for service, and how much more rare it is that they need major service, that 20000 miles is not too much to expect. The Shimano and SRAM hubs are both user serviceable, unlike the Rohloff, which should extend the useable life significantly also. I was trying to find any formal service interval information, but both SRAM and Shimano say that aside from cleaning off the external parts, the hubs are "well sealed" and the service interval should be "long". Sheldon Brown's site also says, "Service should be quite rare on these well sealed hubs." 

Freewheel threading is pretty universal. You can put any freewheel which is appropriate for your drivetrain on those wheels. Regardless of whether you choose Campag or Shimano, stick with gear designed for one system, and as much as possible one gear number. (8 speed, 9speed, etc...) For instance, if you use an 8 speed Campag freewheel, use 8 speed Campag shifters, chain, derailleurs, and either an 8 or 9 speed Campag crank set. You will need the appropriate bottom bracket to match your crankset. It is possible to mix and match a bit, mostly the chain could be either Shimano or Campag without major issues. But best to stick with one system, especially if you don't understand the compatibility changes you're making. By the way, those wheels are tubulars. That is, glue on tires. Were you aware of that? 

You do need an indexed, Campagnolo shift set which is set up for the same number of gears that your bike has. Centaur is 10 speed Campag, if I remember correctly, so something like this: Campag Record 10 speed bar end shifter If you bike is 11 speed, then this, or similar: 11 speed Campag bar end shifter Keep in mind that you will also need a new set of brake levers without shifters, and that most aero brake levers are set up for a bullhorn style handlebar. You may want to change that as well. You will, of course, lose the ability to shift from the hoods or drops. As for price, you should of thought of that before you bought Italian components to begin with. :) Edit: Must I use: 

It is possible, as long as you use the SRAM Red Black Edition 2011 or earlier. The new 2012 Exogram SRAM Red requires a different front derailleur design, and while it will physically bolt up, it won't shift well at all. Any other SRAM compact (110 BCD) chain ring will work fine. 

If I understand you correctly, you don't have a B-Tension issue. B-Tension sets the clearance between the upper derailleur pulley and the chain, and should not be used to add spring return force to a derailleur. In this case, I believe that the derailleur pivots are in need of cleaning and lubrication, and I would start there. If that doesn't fix the issue, you can look at replacing the derailleur return spring (#2 in photo)behind the fixing bolt of the derailleur and/or the cage spring (#1 in photo)between the derailleur body and the derailleur cage.