I would say, Say what you were going to say! (Though perhaps not the same way!) Honest and above board is almost always the best way to go. Honestly say that you would prefer to live closer to your job and that you believe their company may be a better fit for you personally. Something along the lines of, 

...since even when you have done the research, there may be too many options to choose from, I would recommend keeping three things in mind: 1. Be open and honest You don't have to shy away from the facts. Honestly tell the potential interviewer that you are swamped with interviews and really can't handle them all. Explain that you have already committed to other interviews, and that you simply can't handle all the possibilities. Though I don't recommend this approach, I know someone in IT who actually used the fact that he had multiple interviews offered to bargain his salary up before the actual interview. 2. Be appreciative Emphasize the fact that while you cannot take the interview, it really is a good fit for you, and you appreciate the prospective employer taking the time to make the offer. Express gratitude for his taking the time to make the offer. 3. Leave the door open as much as possible Offer to call him / her back if ever the other interviews fall through. It might not work with all employers, but some would be just as glad to have the possibility of having you call back later, and it leaves the door open if ever the other companies don't end up being a good fit. 

You may be hurting your own cause by doing that: You believe you are making yourself more valuable to the firm, and perhaps you find that necessary because of your absences and acknowledged lack of very many credentials - that is understandable enough, and objectively speaking it is laudable. Unfortunately, what happens in the workplace is not usually so kind and idealistic. You may actually be unwittingly cheapening yourself: "IT guy? He's a maintenance guy too - knows a little bit about everything and not very much about anything. I saw him painting the other day - let's ask him to take out the trash and clean the bathrooms after everybody goes home..." (That is all honest work, and I don't mean to demean those who do such work - they are hard-working, valuable people. But it's not your work.) Shine at your assigned role and leave the rest for those whose job it is. That's how you highlight your own particular value. 

As long as that's outside of the workplace, the above applies. However, should it come to your attention, either through your own observation or "through the grapevine" that she is engaging in such behavior in the workplace, then it does become your manager's and HR's business: An employee spreading nasty gossip in the workplace about another employee is unacceptable. The caveat here is should that come to pass, you must make sure that you have solid evidence backing your claims. "My friend from downstairs told me that Ms. X was talking about me" or "I saw Ms. X whispering to her friend and looking towards me in the cafeteria" is not going to be enough. (Secretly recording, on your own, the conversations of another employee may be illegal and/or against company regulations, so you should avoid that.) Your best bet in such a case would probably be to engage your manager if possible - if that's not viable or doesn't help things, your next step is HR. (keep all your personal issues out of it - just say you had some issues with employee X outside of work and she seems to have brought them into workplace, which you believe is unacceptable) Whatever you do, you must line up other reliable employees as allies/good witnesses (not just more gossip and hearsay), should the need arise, otherwise, as others have pointed out, you become the problem as far the firm is concerned - you're bad-mouthing a fellow employee with no basis at all. That makes you the bad employee, not your target. 

It does. Your job could get outsourced to a vendor. Your performance might not reach the right ears. Whatever. Also, while you should talk to your reporting manager about these issues, keep in mind that his primary role now will be to "hold the ship" together. So if he gives you a negative answer, you need to start looking out for another job immediately. Even if he gives a positive answer, you should check out market value, understand what roles are available, what are your best career prospects, etc. In conclusion, an acquistion is something where you always need to be careful, especially if you are in the company that has been acquired. 

The first thing to understand is that you are in a good dilemma. Being made redundant, and having to be unemployed create stress on the mind. Hence, it was logical on your part to take the job offer. Note that had the first company valued you highly they could have made you an offer at market rate. I am guessing that the reason you were able to close a better offer so much faster is because the first offer was below market rate. Having said this, morally and legally you are not liable to continue with the company just because you have spent a week with them (I am presuming there is no contract that you have signed). You should politely, and professionally inform your reporting manager that you have another offer in hand and would like to leave. If at all, your manager wants to discuss (don't bring it up first), you should give him the chance to negotiate and counter offer. Companies behave like rational agents when making offers, because their stakes in it are often quite low. You need to focus on getting the best career and job that you can. 

IMO your idea may not be entirely appropriate. I've been a code jockey for twenty years and never been in a situation where my bosses or co-workers were too interested in what I or others did on our own time, except in the most casual manner - friendly conversation, nothing more. For many years I had my own side projects using technologies that weren't being used at work, and if my bosses would have started picking my brain about such things I would have been reluctant to share unless I knew that I would benefit from it at work. What did happen many times was that I was able to make contributions at work that I was compensated for because of knowledge and experience I had accumulated from my own home projects - I was able to advance because I was knowledgeable about the technologies I had been working with on my own, because they became relevant to projects at work. But I never voluntarily brought my home projects into the office to share. This might not be "nice", but such is the nature of the business world: Developers are laborers for the firm that do work and receive compensation therefrom, not friends and family of their bosses and co-workers. We all know the hard, cold reality of business: A new boss or co-worker or merger or acquisition comes along, or you slip up badly somehow, and before you know it, you're out hunting for a new job. So, you keep your hobbies and private projects to yourself, just like any other aspect of your personal life that you don't share at work. You've already mentioned that you have limitations due to management, etc. Perhaps you should be taking these limitations as a cue that your idea isn't such a good one. 

Make full use of this. When you go looking for your next job - which maybe some time away - your title will matter. At the same time, don't get pushy with your new company. 

One way to look at these conflicts is to pretend (takes time and effort) that they are merely technical problems rather than the personal, ego-based issues that they are. Assuming you have the time or can take some out, call get everyone's inputs, and tell them you will take a decision based on the respective merits of the library. Option A: If having two libraries is not a maintenance issue (the code does not give you too much trouble) simply let both lie and tell both people concerned there are many more important things to do - discuss pending Quadrant II deadlines here. Get them involved in those. Option B: Let both people that you are looking at cross-domain skills, and you will decide on a library - but the person who has earlier worked on the library will not be the one doing the implementation, the other person will. This is slightly nasty, but should tempers cooled down pretty fast. For the long run, create the impression that you do not want to discuss specifics, are not interested in personal arguments - but do want to help the person grow as a whole. They will eventually stop complaining. In general, never literally get into a fight between two subordinates and take sides - as in when it is actually happening. 

I understand your feeling - it's like you have been "ratted out" unnecessarily. But, I would not call her behavior "extremely rude". It's entirely possible that she simply wanted to avoid a personal confrontation with you - not everyone is comfortable undertaking such a thing. You might be skilled at doing it the right way, but not everyone is. She also might believe that in a work environment, the appropriate action is to go through the chain of command - there is good argument to be made for that approach - keeps things business-like and impersonal. 

I'm repeating this because of its importance: In all of your dealings at work - with your manager, HR, other employees, etc. - keep all your personal distress and grief out of it as much as possible - you will just hurt your own cause otherwise, by making your own personal issues the problem: Just say you had some personal issues with employee X outside of work, she seems to have brought them into the workplace, which you believe is unacceptable - and here is the proof. The rest is up to them. 

There are many ways to approach such a situation. A lot of this depends on your personality. The general strategy I would employ would be give subtle, verbal and non-verbal signals that fighting is not appreciated among the team. This would include letting the people concerned know that it would impact their appraisal negatively -again hints rather than threats. You should be able to carry this off for it to not backfire. 

Legal Angle - I personally would not go down this road. Reason is two-fold - doing so might not be legal (you would need to check separately for that). Worse, it would spoil relations with the team. Unless, you are in a rule-based union shop, I don't think spoiling relations is a good idea. Personal Angle - I have been in a few situations like the one described above. (I can speak three languages, and understand a fourth, though not converse too well in it.) In one situation, I was with some people whose first language was my fourth. In the other, I was with some people who spoke my first language. In all these situations, my experience is that is there is no language like your first language for comfort (for the sake of reference - English is not my first language though I am quite fluent in it). 

Hard to say how you can prove the intention. But I'm old school: Since you say it's not difficult for you to get to work, then you most certainly should, especially when first starting out, and being the lead developer. You need to be where the action is taking place if you want to establish your position, authority and credibility. You need to learn face-to-face about the people you are working for and with. There is nothing that can replace personal interaction for that. Right now, you have nothing to lose and everything to gain by going in to work every day. Remember: No matter how much you work and interact on-line, as soon as you go off-line you are out of the loop - clueless. You might as well be on Mars. That's never good for anybody, particularly a team leader. (I'm speaking from bitter experience...) You could get on video conference and give what you think is a great motivational speech about team interaction, but miss out on entirely on all the eye rolling and laughing that takes place after you log off... (Sure, that can happen when you're there as well, but it will be much easier for you to pick up on it or hear about it when you're on site.) Once things are established and your position is solidified, perhaps you can consider working from home, at least part of the time. But by then you may realize how important it is for you to be on-site every day. 

is just not possible. Now let's come to the difficult part. The most common reason to acquire another company include synergies between the two companies, the acquiree company is not being well-run, and there is potential for cost cutting. The synergy reason is the most compelling from a growth perspective, but is the most difficult to realize in practice due to culture clashes, knowledge silo, operating and legal issues, and a hundred other small things. The acquiree company not being well-run, and the cost-cutting are what get picked up in the short term. When a company is being set up they tend to acquire a lot of people who are needed to put the departments and processes in place. As they do their job, they get rewarded with C-level positions, and can't be asked to leave without causing culture and morale issues. With an acquisition, ALL positions will get looked with a fine-toothed comb, and a "strategic perspective". The top level management has the most difficulty in justifying its role, because they generally drive long term projects, and don't do hands-on work. Either way, if they are leaving, they have been asked to leave, or been given a hint. Either way, you need to be aware yourself of what is happening. 

Perhaps explain that you are experiencing financial hardship, and since you are doing the work of an analyst and working on the degree, maybe they can make an exception and pay you as an analyst for a stipulated period of time - for example until you can negotiate your financial difficulties (six months or a years, etc) or a reasonable amount of time for you to finish your degree and acquire the official title, so you can be duly compensated without a special exception. Do not ask for a "blanket exception", one that relinquishes you from all responsibility - IMO that doesn't smell right. Also make sure that you are indeed doing the work that demands higher pay, and that you aren't dealing with a perception problem: Doing more than you think you are. You can probably verify this by talking to co-workers, etc. 

I would not use the term "burnout". You can just say that you felt you had reached a dead end at that job and wanted to take some time out to rethink your options and regroup - and that's not really a lie. 

The problem here I think is with the word "office". Try to change this to something else. You could try Manager, Growth or something else. I think going into jobs, a title that talks Business Development is more likely to be appreciated than others. 

This is management jargon. And it cannot be factually correct. Companies acquire other companies in order to make use of their technology, their patents, the knowhow their employees possess, the brand value that the company enjoys. The acquiring company will bring its own expertise into play in order to increase market share, take the company into new markets, introduce it to existing clients of the acquiring company. All of the above are good things, but they show that: 

This is a good responsibility to take up and prove that you have managerial skills apart from technical ones. Just be careful not to rub people the wrong way, or to lose your technical skills in the process. 

As a supervisor, your niece can always pull rank, and ask them to talk in English. What impact this has depends on: A. What relationship she has with them. B. Are they doing any cribbing compared to just talking about stuff. Your niece could also look at it as a challenge, and learn the language. Apart from making the team feel nice, it also creates a situation where the fact that your niece cannot speak the language is clearly emphasised to the people speaking it.