Romanticism combined with the need of the Mexicans to have some sort of moral superiority to claim over their northern neighbours. Wouldn't do to give the Americans in the Mexican-American war (and the Texas war of indepence from Mexico, and the other conflicts between them) a ready made image of hordes of bloodthirsty savages intent on cutting the hearts out of their conquered foes to use as propaganda. And the romantics that formed the bulk of 19th century historians were quite eager to help create that image of the "noble savage", even when the evidence stared them in the face in the form of mass graves, altars with carved imagery of people brutally slaughtered, etc. etc. 

Far more likely they were drawn together simply by the fact that both were shut out from the "international community" and felt slighted by the UK and US (and in case of Germany France). That's no different than Iran and North Korea being very chummy nowadays, despite having ideologies that couldn't be further apart (like the German race laws, Iran's religious laws would dictate them exterminate their ally rather than deal with them). So as is so often the case, the enemy of my enemy is my friend, or at least my associate. 

And of course at least on paper many European countries still have an "official religion", usually the one held to by their royal family. Enforcement of these religions on the population may no longer happen, but remember that the last of the organisations like the Spanish Inquisition were disbanded only a few decades ago (though the Spanish Inquisition was officially ended in 1834, some of the laws under which it and similar organisations elsewhere operated existed well into the 20th century). Many would flee from such things, often to the Americas. The sacrifice of doing so was high, high enough that it stands to reason that it would be those of very strong religious beliefs would be the more likely to go to the Americas rather than convert (at least in public) to the official religion of their home countries. Leaving everything behind for an uncertain future in a rough, violent, country, rejected by your friends and family, probably with a death sentence over your head if you give up to return to Europe isn't something for the faint of heart. 

This is in part because many barracks would be just repurposed other buildings, and of course building styles would vary over time and space as well. 

That's not NASA's duty, and tbh it's not needed. All these people were heavily vetted and cleared of war crimes before being granted US citizenship and coming to work at NACA (later NASA). They're not war criminals in the same way that your average German soldier returning from the front in 1945 was not a war criminal. Did some do things they in hindsight probably weren't proud of during the war? No doubt. But then again so do most people who end up involved in armed conflict. Not everyone who was an SS man was a lunatic mindless killing machine revelling in slaughtering innocent victims in the most gruesome ways. In fact most of them weren't, they were just normal people recruited in a massive machine of an organisation that provided them with jobs that were generally better paid, with better facilities, and less threat of ending up conscripted to the eastern front, than other opportunities. It was similar to taking a job at the CIA now, or at MIT or Berkeley university. All have done things that in hindsight weren't nice (including medical experiments on human beings...), but we're not calling for the public erasure of the achievements of anyone who worked there while those things were going on. 

The closer to your area that the "borrowed" item originates, the higher the chances would be it would be known to the people in that area. That means geographically close but also economically close. Say you're recreating an area that had extensive trade with Sweden, they'd likely have access to Swedish items as well as locally produced goods. If they're close geographically to parts of Germany, gear from there would be known to them and likely used. 

In Dutch politics the prime minister and his cabinet are formed through negotiations between a number of political parties. Which posts are provided by which party (ordered by size or whatever) is not automatic. I don't know what determined the distribution in this cabinet, but quite likely the choice of prime minister was determined by who was most acceptable to all parties involved in order to lead to the most stable coalition government. It's also possible the KVP had the best financial expert, and was therefore given the ministry of finance, the finance minister typically being the deputy prime minister that would then logically lead to the second largest party providing the prime minister (it's normal in Dutch cabinets that the PM and finance minister are provided by the 2 largest parties, but not by the same party). Also remember that the cabinet is not decided solely by the parties involved. The person in charge of negotiating the cabinet is appointed by the ruling monarch, not parliament. Though often an elder statesman and/or senior member of parliament (and often of the largest party) this isn't guaranteed. The ruling monarch also has final say over whether the negotiated cabinet is acceptable and can take office, and some monarchs have been known to require their personal political ideas to influence the composition of the cabinet (and the Dutch royal family are Dutch Reformists, the KVP is Roman Catholic, so the Queen may have intervened in the choice of prime minister). 

Quite simple really, and basic economics: More money circulating in the economy, combined with no comparable increase in things to do with that money, leads to an increase in prices. And as the Spanish government used the bulk of that silver to coin money to pay for their wars, the amount of money in the hands of people in Spain increased dramatically. If there's 10 people offering 1 pig each on the local market, and there's 10 potential customers, each of which has 1 ounce of silver to pay for it, the most a seller can charge for a pig is 1 ounce of silver. If there's 10 pigs on offer and 100 people each of whom has 10 ounces of silver, the price of a pig can go up to 10 ounces of silver and he's still likely to sell that pig. That's how you get inflation (and yes, I know this is overly simplified, in reality there are of course other factors in play, as the farmer is himself a customer and his cost to raise that pig also changes, but that works along the same mechanism). 

There wasn't really any standardised design, as you can see from the variations in the images already shown. 

Overall your "question" seems more of an anti-Bush rant rather than a real question. "why did Wyatt get votes outside his home state" is a clear indication of how ill informed you are (or how bigotted). OF COURSE people get votes during the primaries outside their own state. They'd have won the right to enter into the primaries by winning enough support in their state, but that doesn't mean nobody outside their state likes them. That's how Bush won the primaries in the first place, by getting the support of people outside his own state of Texas. 

The body taboos now ruling India were AFAIK only introduced during the Muslim occupation by the Mugals, and later by the Victorian British. Looking at old photos of the Dutch East Indish, you see topless women there at least in rural areas as late as the 1920s or '30s. 

------------------------------------- Digging up more about N.P. Malshakov in particular, now that as have a name for the person wearing the uniform. $URL$ mentions him in a position that appears to be related to the KGB, dealing with Solzhenitsyn, and gives him the title "deputy chief of the department of administrative organs", whatever the hell that is, in a communication by Yuri Andropov in 1972.In that function, if it is indeed a KGB function, he would have had a uniform, and given his flowery title probably a general level rank. 15 years later we see him again, as listed here $URL$ when he is appointed chief arbiter of the USSR by Gorbachev (who, of course, had also held a high ranking KGB position at some point, maybe he knew Malshakov from that time). www.dtic.mil/dtic/tr/fulltext/u2/a361245.pdf again mentions Malshakov, this time in an interview with Pravda in 1988, where he spews typical communist lines when questioned about labour issues. $URL$ here is a photo of Malshakov taken in 1989, from the archives of the Soviet news agency Novosti, showing him a much older man than in the photo @Anixx has and wearing a business suit. Leads me to conclude the uniform worn in the older photo is probably a KGB uniform, the photo taken over a decade before he took up the position of Chief Arbiter of the USSR. 

the WW2 carrier was not as we now have a multi role carrier. Each carrier had a specific task, be it air defence, ground attack, ASW, etc. etc.. Therefore a task force that had more than a very limited role would have multiple carriers assigned to it, at least one for each role requiring aircraft. An amphibious assault group for example might have a strike carrier and an air defence carrier. A convoy crossing the Atlantic would have an ASW carrier and maybe and air defence carrier as well (though most didn't, adding a small complement of fighters to the ASW carrier as chances of meeting hostile aircraft were limited). For larger operations where the number of aircraft in a single carrier's complement would be too small for the task, multiple carriers would be assigned to a single task force. That has not changed by the way. During Desert Shield/Storm multiple carriers were assigned to the operation at any one time. Same in Vietnam where at least 2 carriers were on station at any time and during peak periods 3 or even 4 were assigned.