I haven't had performance review in my career and it might seem odd but I feel danger, my manager is based in another city and we are in another. He is coming for our meeting. I know I had issues and i might get laid off today but do I get a chance to talk of why I am so slow or why I had trouble communicating or I do that in a appeal (If I am allowed to appeal the decision)? 

Declining means, either you have an attitude or not a team player or too committed to give new company times, all which IMO are red flags. 

Sometimes it seem that my day just go by and i am unable to justify myself, where i spend and doing what. I am in a new role, where i am waiting for a external company to provide design and i can start working on it, meanwhile i explore and do what is told to me but again i want to audit my time and how i spend it, what i learned because if a manager asks me and I can tell.Sometimes i stray to other websites such as news or amazon but how can i manage and audit my time, especially when i got nothing to work on? 

Sometimes it happens that being a part of team, my manager won't understand why it cannot be the way something was example. I am working on a very very bad code clean up and making changes for a website to make it responsive, but the code is so badly done that when i do a semantic coding for standardizing as per html validator would pass. It breaks a lot of things. I am unable to convey my message across as a team member would want to know what is wrong with code, and his reply is "it doesn't matter", where as being hired as a expert i know it does. So all drill down to my manager asking why isn't it way it was e.g formatting, alignment, as he is committed to bank end. I want to know how can i convey my message across, without offending or making my manager think i am unable or running away and in future, code should be good for me to work on. 

I am just one month into a 6 months probation, where my work is very tough as I am trying to catch up on a matured project with little to no help on how and where to, all I get is "look at other examples". It has send me into a worry state which is affecting my health every now and then. Does sick day on probation affect the outcome? Given one is trying to cope up, take extra time to finish a task because he/she are new to project and help is limited. I have 1-1 with manager, he might bring all these things up. Can taking sick leave be a reason for my termination? Although my manager says in email "to take good care" 

This sounds completely normal to me. If you are a part of a smaller engineering team, your responsibilities are greater then that of a engineer in a team of hundreds or thousands. Every day I am switching between different languages myself, I improve and learn on my personal time and occasionally during down periods I am allowed to use work time to learn. My employer also offers each employee a personal development budget once a year (that is quite substantial). Although I am aware many don't have such a luxury where they work or even know of such programs. This is the norm I am afraid. It's sort of a misconception that there are developers out there only working with one language, especially if you work with the web. It's not uncommon for a modern day web developer to know all aspects of front-end, but also multiple back-end languages, databases and server administration. I would definitely bring this up in your next review and I encourage everyone else to do the same. Speak with your manager or boss about wanting to advance your skills in the form of extra study, new software or even just getting a couple of hours per week to experiment and learn something new. TL;DR This is very common. There aren't many places that just stick to the one language, the software/web landscape is constantly evolving and we're all expected to be good at many things instead of great at one or two things. At times it can suck, but the world keeps on advancing and we have to move fast to stay on top of it all. 

You might need the job, but I have a feeling you'll probably regret it. If you can hold on for a while longer, I am sure something more suitable will come up for you. 

Asking for proof of current salary is poor form, in my opinion. Information on market rates and salaries is out there for companies to obtain and it is quite easy for a company to know if someone is bluffing. I have never been asked to provide proof of what I am earning, although I have never lied about that to an employer. There is never a reason for a company or individual to ask for proof, if they think the salary a candidate says they currently earn is inline with the market and/or what they're willing to pay, that should be the only deciding factor. If you're in X position currently and you say you're getting paid $120k when you are only being paid $100k, but the market says on average someone with your experience in your chosen field earns $130k, then that is pretty easy to work out. Lying about your current salary might be something many people here disagree with, but if you are currently being underpaid in comparison to what other people in your industry are, then I cannot see the harm personally. Especially knowing that companies can easily obtain information on market salaries for comparison. There are worse things you could lie about (such as your experience). I am not saying that lying is okay, but on the scale of dishonesty it is quite low. The bottom line is: if the company is willing to pay, what is the harm? 

I have performance review and it is within my probation period. While I never had one before and generally I find many question regarding performance review after a 1 year in a job. I am curious to know what goes in the meeting and what are the the do and don'ts of discussing it in meeting despite your review going bad, good or worse. (Although I had been lagging behind my task) 

I can get someone else code and push into my repo, having your code public doesn't help to hire a manager to hire you. 

I am a Front end developer. I am sometimes assigned task that i do before time, therefore i ask my manager to check it. Is it a good idea to ask your Reporting Manager or Project Manager to have a look, making him jump off his seat to come and look at the work or it is better to do it and keep it aside while i do something that is good for me i.e study online or watch tutorial. In both cases i just don't want to sound bad, because when i call my manager to have a look, it remind me of time of school, when you use to call you teacher to ask you have done your work first. :P 

I have never given a noticed period so I am not sure how it is going to be, but my question are post notice period.Am I obliged to give an answer to the question if my manager asks things like what company you are going to or what package they are offering you, so we might know and offer you same? Am I obliged to answer those as notice period I am still under the contract and I to sound rude in other words burn all the bridges. 

It helps them filter good from bad, and I don't think anyone gives a really big test that is time-consuming unless you don't know it, if someone is good at something, they should welcome it and it is a plus that you can add it to your repo, and your knowledge even if you get hired or not. 

I got a team, and i am new to the company. Sometimes they are in discussion of something that i am not aware of many things they talk, i feel awkward as all developer are brainstorming and i always have some work, even if i give my advice. I am not "really" able to help them expect give them pointers. However when i need help, they really help me out like a pro. How can i overcome this lack/guilt that i am not much capable of helping them as they are to me. Does this have negative impact on my probation and job? 

Always get things in writing and signed off for piece of mind. However, if the communication was done via email and you have emails that that show them agreeing to pay you $20 per hour, for 40 hours per month then that in itself is a contract. It might not be an iron-clad contract with clauses and protections, but you have an agreement nonetheless. If you both agreed to a specific price and you can show that the employer agreed with this, that shows intent and agreement. While emails can definitely be faked, if you use an email provided from a company such as Google the emails can be checked for authenticity (in the case of Google it is DKIM + SPF). As always, if you're in a different country to the employer (or even the same country), the cost for challenging this in a court would be very expensive and sadly most people who mess remote employees around like this know that is the case. 

Firstly, $20 per hour for an iOS developer is a very good price and you are underselling yourself, even with only three years experience you would be paid more than that if you went into the workforce and found yourself a full-time iOS development position with a company. Before proceeding, I am not a lawyer nor am I qualified to give any kind of legal advice when it comes to contracts and obligations. You should always seek legal advice from a qualified lawyer. 

No reputable or honest company should or would ever say that to a candidate. I also do not believe that they do not have the money to hire you as per the original promised amount. The first step of the hiring process besides who you want to hire is how much you can afford to pay them (employers always have a salary ceiling for a job role). If they're being honest, then it sounds like a poorly run company and one you probably shouldn't work for. There are numerous red flags in your question: 

Do not work for this company. I am not familiar with the specifics of why the company reduced your offer, but the last line in your question is troubling to say the least. 

Never speak of a current or former employer in a negative way. Even if the negativity is warranted, it never translates that well across the table to your new employer (even if it's the truth). As always, when you leave a company that has negatives it is all about how you frame it. It is worth pointing out that disclosing a company you work for is not doing well financially or X other reason might be considered private information which could be used by a competitor against the company. In that kind of situation, it is best to give a generic reason or say nothing at all to protect yourself. Some generic reasons for leaving are;