The exact controls would greatly depend on exactly what kind of ship they are for I would think that in most scenarios, a supercomputer would be responsible for most of the detailed operations, with a human pilot giving basic instructions. For instance, a pilot might enter a command to go left, while the computer actually calculates the exact specifications of the maneuver and controls the engines, scanners, and everything else. Still, there would probably be buttons and switches for everything, in case of computer failure. The pilot would still need to be highly trained, just in case something goes wrong. And of course there would be a self destruct button, because you just can't have a spaceship without one. 

I came up with a concept for a shielding system for space vessels. The outer hull plating is made up of a special material, like modified steel perhaps. Energy from the ship's main power source is used to strengthen the atomic bonds in the material, making it extremely hard. My hope is that this could be used to defend against a variety of things, such as explosives, energy weapons, radiation, physical impacts, etc. Would a system like this be possible? 

The government has recently implementing a law in which you must apply to have children. To prevent unsanctioned pregnancy and illegal child births they are looking for a way to control when either men or women are fertile. Would it be possible to prevent either men or women from being fertile in a way that can be temporarily reversed? Perhaps some sort of implant for women which can be removed by the government controlled doctors and reimplanted after the birth of the child. Similar to the current implant women can have. Would this be feasible, or is there a better way? 

In Futurama every person has a chip implanted with their personal details and a predetermined job. On the show the chip seems to be implanted in to one of their hands, and is easily removable. Where would be the best place to have such a chip installed at birth that would be extremely difficult to remove? 

In Medieval England how would a stronghold town be laid out, and what would their defenses have been? I'm putting a city together and one important points is that it is secure from attacks. Attacks from both people and creatures. I first contemplated a big wall surrounding the town or city with guarded entry points and watch towers strategically placed, but i'm not sure how feasible that would be on that scale. Then I considered a type of armed police force or army constantly making their rounds, but that could just be a drop in the ocean of what is actually needed. 

I could think of multiple ways that your sea creatures could attack land dwelling humanoids assuming they have the same level of technology. If they are capable of building functional vehicles as described then they obviously would have reasonably efficient ways to mine materials and create large constructs. One idea would of course be for them to build water filled weaponized mechs, but this would most likely be far to expensive to do for the entire military force, and only worthwhile if the mechs were extremely overpowered and capable of taking out large amounts of enemies at a time. Other vehicles, like planes or amphibious tanks, might have a better chance. A much more effective strategy might be to use ranged weapons capable of being launched underwater, perhaps even nuclear missiles is your species can create them. However if that were the case than the humanoids could likely use the same method against them. Either way the war would be over quite quickly. The sea creatures would obviously have a huge advantage underwater. If they waited for the humanoids to attack them, which would probably require the use of submersibles, the sea creatures would have a pretty good chance of winning. This might be the most effective strategy for them to win. Overall if the sea creatures are attacked by the humanoids then fighting them underwater would most likely be the best solution. On the other hand, if the sea creatures are attacking, ranged weapons would probably be the way to go. Either way, with the same tech as the humanoids they should have a decent chance. 

In one of the stories I'm writing, I have a character that falls from our world into another, far less advanced one, and brings his smartphone with him (along with a few other things, but they aren't important). Now, due to a magical artifact he finds in the region he ends up in, his smartphone is constantly charged, and has an internet connection through which he can view a static image of everything available on the internet at the time he left (no posting on forums or watching livestreams, but reading old blog posts/info sites/SE questions and watching videos that aren't live still works). Now, the battery I can explain away fairly easily with magic involved, but the DNS system and others that make up internet connections aren't as simple (there's a reason it's called a net, after all). I could just say, "It's magic," and leave it at that, but I'm not the kind of writer to toss out internal consistency; and, frankly, the restrictions inherent in a logical explanation will most likely make for interesting plot points. So, without unduly stretching suspension of disbelief, what is the most logical way that magic could get around the handshaking and delays inherent in the internet system, and provide a static representation of the internet at a single point in time that is otherwise indistinguishable from how our internet appears here? EDIT Section! Yay! There are a few things I need to clarify here, so I'll make a list: 

Given an almost unlimited budget, would it be safe and possible to have wireless charging everywhere within a town? For example I could be walking down the street, phone in my pocket, constantly being charged. Never having to worry about it running out? 

What methods could be used to make a very westernised country, such as England, turn mostly vegan without too much resistance? So far I have thought about putting high tax on animal based products such as meats, milk and eggs etc . This along with a massive marketing campaign that emphasise the dangers of this life style. I initially thought about fines, but people would just do it in secret or even protest for their own rights. The faster the method the better but I'm looking between 5 and 10 years. 

You could always buy it in secret and alter any document which has its origin. Embargos only apply to the country or countries that issued it, so Another option is to get another country to purchase it, and sell it in to you.