*This is of course soemething of a simplification of the literature on non-configurationality. **Full disclosure: a professor of mine. 

I'm not quite sure what you mean by a "direct n-language creole." Creoles can and do draw their lexicon from many different sources; I would argue looking at aspects of syntax often doesn't let us identify any clear parents at all. (Berbice Dutch, a SVO language, developed from Ijo and Dutch, both SOV). So it seems that creoles from exactly two parents are not the norm, and furthermore considering different aspects of a creole's grammar/lexicon can give different answers as to what language(s) are the parents. Nonetheless, here's an attempt at answering your question from a couple points of view. Whinnom proposed a principle of "tertiary hybridization" which states that three language groups must be in contact for a creole to form. This is perhaps best illustrated by an example: in Papua New Guinea, Motu speakers were responsible for much coastal trade; they spoke pidgin Motu with their trading partners. The Hiri Motu ("Hiri" means trade) language arose when various of the trading partners began using their common pidgin Motu as a communication device among themselves. Motu could not form the basis of a creole (so the theory goes) when actual L1 speakers of Motu were in abundance, because they would perpetuate Motu grammatical norms as opposed to allowing a novel creole grammar to flourish. But I suspect that you are asking about creoles with a significant lexical contribution from many languages. Smith (1987, The genesis of the creole languages of Surinam, a Univ. of Amsterdam dissertation) speaks of a core of lexical material found in English-based Atlantic creoles which comes from various African languages. It was probably first amalgamated in a pidgin English spoken in African ports, then carried to the New World by slaves. There is also Saramaccan, which is among the most "mixed" creoles known, having drawn large portions of its core vocabulary from both English and Portugese. However, it also has other European and African influences. 

One word for this phenomenon is collocation - which is defined in many ways, but generally refers to two or more words which have a tendency to co-occur. The wikipedia page ($URL$ currently defines it both as 'a sequence of words or terms that co-occur more often than would be expected by chance' and as 'partly or fully fixed expressions that become established through repeated context-dependent use' (two different definitions with different theoretical implications). Examples on the Wikipedia page include 'nuclear family' and 'make a decision'. Research is ongoing to explore the idea that collocations are (mentally) processed differently from other groupings of words. A good starting-point to read about this could be Michael Hoey's theory of lexical priming, which holds that what we know about a word comes from our experience of it, so that our mental representation of it includes knowledge about the words it tends to co-occur with. Hence when we encounter word X, we will more easily retrieve words which often co-occur with word X than words which co-occur less often with word X. An example of a study referring to lexical priming in relation to language processing is Gagné (2001) [1]. [1] Gagné, C. L., (2001), 'Relation and lexical priming during the interpretation of noun–noun combinations.', Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition, Vol 27(1), Jan 2001, 236-254. See: $URL$ 

The contrast between (1) and (2) shows that adverbs related to the speaker's perception of the event (luckily) must precede adverbs related to the subject's state of mind (mistakenly). And subject-oriented adverbs precede adverbs describing the event itself (tenderly), as (3) and (4) show. He has many, many more categories of adverbs than just these, and by pairwise comparisons he puts them all into an ordered sequence. He then argues that each adverb is associated with a functional head, and that the heads are also so ordered. Mark Baker proposed the mirror principle in this paper (JSTOR link). It says that, of two affixes, the one which is syntactically closer to the stem must be morphologically colser to the stem as well. So in a structure like the following, wherein Z is the root and X and Y are suffixes, we predict Z-Y-X and not Z-X-Y. 

(The judgments given correspond to most but not all dialects of Spanish. Whether a non-human living being gets a personal is, as I understand, a particular locus of dialect and speaker variation.) This is of course orthogonal to gender, which is marked in the usual Romance way on nouns, adjectives, determiners and pronouns. 

Another interesting point about Thai prosody is that it keeps changing. A highly respectful person once said that he had noticed that Thai people today speak differently from Thai people yesterday. I researched into old video clips, and I've reached the same conclusion. One of my observation is that the more you go back in time, the more obvious the syllable-timed aspect of Thai language is. (For example, you can try watching this old commercial Thai ad: ถ่านไฟฉายตรากบ.) It is my belief that Thai become lesser syllable-timed (in other words, more stress-timed) through our exposure to Western cultures, especially through education, technologies, music, and movies. And through my own observation, most younger Thais could sound quite stress-timed like in their natural speech without being aware of it themselves. 

Even though I'm not quite sure about the exact definition of "conditional protases" (or "antecedents"), especially in the first language of my own (Thai), I believe it's safe enough to make these points based on your examples: 

Another technique that would be relevant for your comparative task is keyness analysis, which basically looks at words* which occur significantly more often in one group of texts than in another. The technique comes from the field of corpus linguistics, a field which has developed a number of techniques and tools for analysing large amounts of texts in both qualitative and quantitative ways. Wikipedia has an introduction to corpus linguistics ($URL$ and you can find a brief introduction to keyness analysis on the site for Wordsmith Tool, a corpus linguistics software ($URL$ *note that keyness analysis can be done at the level of words, but also semantic groupings of words or POS categories. In the latter cases, it would involve identifying categories which occur significantly more often in one corpus than in another. 

That I am aware of, most corpora of British English are not freely available. There are, however, corpora of British English, including POS-tags and formal language, which can be downloaded by individuals, although I am not aware of any which are open source. These include: 

As someone has already pointed out in the comments above, Thais pronounce every word in syllables, because that is what we were taught since the primary school (equivalent to Grade 1 in the US). This is also strengthened by our poems. There are many sub-types of classical Thai poems. Each and every one of these sub-types will have a set of specific rules for the rhymes and number of syllables in each verse. This can explain why no one would label someone who speak Thai in a very syllable-oriented manner as incorrect. He will be perfectly understandable; he just might sound a little too stiff and might sound unnatural. But that's all. This is quite similar to when a native English speaker speaks in monotone. No one would accuse him for speaking sub-standard English; he just sounds uninteresting. However, Thai natural speech (informal speech) can sound quite close to a stress-timed language, to the point that it might be mistaken as a true stress-timed language. It is also true that if you observe native Thai speakers carefully in their natural speech, they will group words into two or three or four or five or even more syllables, and each group will have one or more quasi-stressed syllables. (I use the term quasi-stressed because those stressed syllables are generally not very dominant.) And, having all that said is still a very simplification at best. There are no exact rules for stressing in Thai. However, without any explicit rules, Thai people can nonetheless speak approximately the same way somehow. One way to understand Thai's stressing system is to compare it to English's intonation system. It can vary very widely from one person to another, or one region to another. And, except for those obvious rules (such as, in English's intonation: end questions with rising tone, or end declarative sentences with low tone--which are not particularly true in real English speech), you can confidently say that there is no definite rule at all. 

If I'm remembering correctly, according to Atkins and Rundell (2008) [1], many projects build their own software, but there are also commercial packages such as TshwaneLex ($URL$ Atkins and Rundell (2008) go into some detail about the requirements of such software, so you may find their book helpful. They mention that there are two types of software which are needed for any lexicography project: what they call a Corpus Query System (CQS) and what they call a Dictionary Writing System (DWS). The point of a CQS is to access evidence on the basis of which dictionary entries can be written; in that sense, their needs are very similar to those of standard corpus linguistic software* (which include the ability to draw up concordances, as well as other features). The point of the DWS is to offer an interface for generating and storing what will make up the content of the dictionary. [1] Atkins, B.T. Sue and Michael Rundell (2008) The Oxford Guide to Practical Lexicography. *an example of corpus linguistic software is AntConc, which is free, though probably not powerful enough for a lexicography project. You can see a list of commonly used corpus linguistics software here: $URL$