A lot of variation in country names is based on translations. For instance, "Netherlands" means "Low Countries" and is called, in French, "Pays-Bas" which has the same meaning, but looks significantly different. It shall be noted that the United Nations has six official languages into which most UN documents are translated; therefore, though each UN member decides on its own name, it has to provide (at least) six variants for these six languages. Since these languages use widely different signs, one of them (Chinese) being non-alphabetic, a country cannot, logically, have a single official name valid worldwide. Beyond translations, it so happens that countries may change names, and the new name is not necessarily adopted immediately and worldwide. For instance, in 1989, Burma changed its name to "Republic of the Union of Myanmar", shortened to "Myanmar", but many countries refused to recognize the legitimacy of the government of Burma (a military dictatorship), hence its ability to change the formal name of the country. As a UN member, the official English version of the country name is still "Myanmar", but "Burma" remains in wide usage in some other countries. For instance, this official document from the Australian government can be seen to use both "Burma" and "Myanmar" as country name, sometimes switching within the same paragraph with no explanation. Country names have a huge symbolic value and can lead to interferences with and from other countries. Case in point: Macedonia (in the UN, Macedonia is known as "the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia", a name which is officially "provisional" and has been so for more than two decades). 

In earlier times, people already felt strongly about religion; but no situation arose where the religion alone could possibly serve as justification for mass killing. For instance, during the Third Punic War, the alleged practice of human sacrifices by Carthaginian was a recurrent theme of Roman propaganda, and Romans found it abhorrent. However, since Carthage was a distinct polity from Rome, its destruction is not described as religious persecution, even though the cessation of the practice of human sacrifice was one of the goals of the endeavour. (Whether the practice was real in the first place is an orthogonal issue.) From a conceptual point of view, people tend to define themselves relatively to some absolute notions which can be religion, ethnicity, social class... and will fight each other based on their respective stance with regards to these notions. Your feeling that people "did not fell strongly about religion" prior to Christian times may be an illusion due to the fact that religion had not previously achieved, by itself, the status of a war-fuelling absolute. 

Waiting for one or a few years would not have improved that situation. Within a few years, Hannibal might have built a navy, but this would most probably have been noticed by Rome, and deprived Hannibal from the advantage of surprise. You don't get competence in siege warfare by training but by attacking cities; extra years in Spain would not have granted that experience. Crucially, each passing year would have dwindled Hannibal's army of veterans: most were mercenaries that were expensive to maintain in peace time (when there is no loot, you need gold to keep them around), and even old age would have cleared his ranks. Meanwhile, Rome would have been free to engage in other battles elsewhere (e.g. in Greece or Illyria) and gain experience. In antique battles, the experience of individual soldiers was a huge advantage, more important for the outcome than the raw head count. 

In that sense, the WWI victors pushed for the creation of a single state of Yugoslavia: Serbia, Croatia, Montenegro... could not be nations on their own (too little), and there was no problem in putting all of them in a single country since they were all "South Slavs". This kind of myopia, when it comes to defining post-WWI borders, is famously illustrated by the 14 points of Woodrow Wilson, who, from Washington, could idealistically rant about the necessity of adjusting frontiers "along clearly recognizable lines of nationality." As for Czechoslovakia, a similar process implied grouping areas based on language, but other forces were at work too. The Czechoslovak Legion fought along with the Allies so as to secure independence after the end of the War, with as big a territory as possible; e.g. inn 1919, Czechoslovakia and Poland fought a small war over some disputed areas. 

It is entirely possible that the whole story is fabricated. Genesis of Greek myths has been analysed by Paul Veyne; the corner point is that during Antiquity, there was no real difference between history and mythology, as practised by authors. The narrative was what mattered, so a "true" story was a story that "made sense" in a literary way. In the case of the Trojan Horse, the story had to explain how the Greeks had prevailed, even though the walls of Troy were famed and both parties had their own heroes and the support of some gods. Note that the Trojan Horse is described (succinctly) in the Odyssey (Virgil expands upon it in the Aeneid, but Homer -- or whoever wrote the Odyssey -- still has precedence), a poem dedicated to Odysseus, whose main "philosophical" theme is the search for a restored order. Odysseus is far from home, lost, thus not in harmony with the Cosmos (the Cosmos is both the essence of divinity and the whole World). In his search for getting back to where he belongs, Odysseus even defies the gods, e.g. by refusing the gift of immortality and eternal youth offered by Circe. It is thus fitting that the same Odysseus would find the trick to resolve the Trojan war, that had kept locked all the kings and gods in a dead-end. One can therefore analyse the Trojan Horse as a metaphor for mankind being able not to reach divinity, but at least to find through intellectual craftiness a way to restore order (Chaos is the real Bad Guy of Greek mythology and philosophy, and a ten years long war is an incarnation of chaos). Of course, a lot of other mundane explanations have been suggested, by people who really want the story to be based on an actual event. Treachery was one of the tools of war (it has always been), and in such times it was not considered dishonourable (the importance of "fighting fairly" is a late medieval idea). Yet another interesting suggestion is that the Trojan Horse symbolizes an earthquake: Poseidon, god of the Sea, was also god of earthquakes. Thus, an earthquake damaging the Troy walls could have been turned, later on, into a story about an offering to Poseidon hiding a god-supported act of war. (Note that neither the Odyssey nor the Aeneid claims that the horse was considered as an offering to Poseidon, but making offerings to the god of the Sea before setting sail makes a lot of sense.) Traces of earthquake damage have been found on Troy's ruins, albeit not in the level commonly associated with the mythic war. 

A necessary precondition for any group of people to be persecuted is to be a cohesive, recognizable group. Jews have, throughout history, remarkably maintained specific cultural elements and retained their integrity through generalized endogamy (this is what makes Jews a people, and not only a religion); and yet they were very successful in their dispersion and survival. Many other religiously cohesive groups have suffered persecution (e.g. Zoroastrianism) but did not achieved a universal specific term because the persecutions worked. One may note that anti-semitism is a worldwide phenomenon only insofar as Christianity and Islam are worldwide phenomena. For instance, China has no history of anti-semitism prior to its recent "westernization" (when Jews were persecuted, it was because they were a "foreign influence", and not specifically targeted at Judaism). 

(found on this page) Nevertheless, these non-decorative uses of gold have always been a small minority, when considering the amount of involved metal. (**) The underlying idea in all this is that people who want gold do not, actually, want the metal for itself, but for what it can bring to them. Prescott explains it vividly in The Conquest of Peru: when Pizarro and his companions ransom Atahualpa, their main motivation for such a craving of gold is to be able to come back to Spain as grandees, to gain access to the highest planes of the highly hierarchical Spanish society. 

(*) This is not entirely true. Nowadays, gold has some industrial uses, especially in electronics. Even in ancient times, gold was used for dentistry, as in this example found in an Egyptian mummy from around 2000 BC: 

The Soviet threat was much overestimated by the US/NATO for all of Cold War, for a variety of reasons, in particular these two: 

This looks more than a coincidence than anything else. Romans did conquer lands which could not grow wine, e.g. the British Isles: the climate of Atlantic-facing areas of Europe is reputed to have been somewhat warmer than usual in Roman times, but this does not mean that winegrowing was actually possible, let alone done by Roman colonists. In fact, archaeological evidence points at massive imports of wine rather than local production. Conversely, Romans did not conquer some neighbouring lands where winegrowing could be done, e.g. what is now Ukraine. According to Edward Luttwak, the pattern of Roman conquest is best explained through strategic and economic reasons, of which winegrowing is not a significant part. In his analysis, Rome first had an expansionist phase which was building an Empire (in fact, though not in name): to the core group of Roman provinciae was adjoined a vast number of client states, who were subservient to Rome and served as buffer against hostile foreigners, especially raiders from Germanic people. In the client state system, that state is responsible for its own policing, and Roman citizens are safe; the cohesion of the Empire can be maintained with a relatively small number of highly mobile legions. This expansionist phase mostly ended after Augustus' reign. Afterwards begins a phase where external boundaries do not move much; there were some external campaigns but only in some places, and conquests in Parthia and Dacia proved too expensive to be maintained in the long term. During that phase, client states were gradually converted into provinciae, which allowed for direct taxation and thus a large increase in revenues for Rome; however, it also implied ensuring the safety of these new taxpayers, hence the limes: a linear, static defence system at the boundary. This process was mostly complete by the third century AD. The abandoning of the "mobile legion" system implied also a stop to expansionism. Wine does not appear anywhere in this analysis of Roman strategy. It seems unlikely to serve as a primary motive for expansion. Instead, Rome conquered the neghbouring tracts of land that were already, at that time, harbouring large chiefdoms or states, and thus could be conquered and turned into client states with minimal post-conquest occupation cost. What is true, though, is that Romans were great consumers of wine and tried to grow grapes wherever they could; this can go a long way toward explaining the approximate overlap of Empire and winegrowing areas. 

In general, all native groups were eager to pursue the fur trade and were quite happy to have found a seemingly unlimited market in these weird white people. On the other hand, most if not all groups were also quite market-astute and were keen on maintaining their monopoly. Thus, they were prone to be hostile to trappers who would venture into the actual hunting grounds. From the point of view of a Native American group, the best place where Europeans could be was the trading post, and certainly not further inland. This biography of Samuel de Champlain contains ample descriptions of the relationships between native groups and European explorers/traders/colonists in the Saint-Laurent and Great Lakes area; a recurrent theme is a combination of friendly welcomes and evasiveness when it comes to actually describing and mapping the geographical features of the continent. Moreover, North American tribes were operating under a complex set of very fluid alliances, agreements and generalized warfare. European traders who were dealing with native groups soon became embroiled into these diplomatic vagaries. Fur-related deals often implied terms such as exclusivity, and possibly overt hostility toward other traders. To my knowledge, there is no example of a group who was opposed to trading outright; only hostility toward specific groups of traders, and an eagerness to maintain "trade secrets".