I didn't have a way to test this, but I went with a pivot of the display name and a dynamic column creation for other products and moved the cleaned up Inv_AddRemoveProgram table into a temp table: 

I don't have enough points to make this a comment, but it looks like based on this page the answer is . 

What you are asking is to be able to create a report name dynamically, which is not something that can be programmed, on download, say, from Report Manager. You can (although I've never tested this) possibly do this through a subscription using @ParameterName @ReportName. citation from msdn It's about the best you can do for now, and there's a link on the citation that allows for this feature to be voted up. 

It seems to me that you need to set the Timestamp column to . This would set the column to return the time to the three digit precision you are looking for. 

Let's say I don't happen to have the ability to create a Stored Procedure, but I have to run the same query on a regular basis. Would I be able to put my query in a .txt document and be able to run it from Powershell by calling it? What syntax would I use for myquery.txt to run? Put another way, what's a way to end-run not being able to use a stored procedure on a query that should be made into one? 

EDIT: I apologize as I first gave you a pseudo-SQL Server solution, but with some additional research learned that SSIS behaves a little differently. I'm linking my source that gives multiple solutions, and for an answer will include the first. It seems that you could add a derived column component that would allow you to add a new column (e.g. from your table using the Type Cast operator DT_STR which will convert the unicode to string. You should then be able to use this derived column in place of the original column in you CSV destination. source Hope that helps! 

The way you are describing the expected result; I am concerned that what you are looking for won't get you what you want. Taking the example from the referenced post, you may actually want: 

If it was me who doing the design what I will do is create a with name each nationality have ...and since the the user have multiple nationality ...in the table I will create two columns () for nationality and referencing the table . the above scenario in case for two nationality . for multiple nationality (unlimited) check the below scenario the scenario for this situation will be similar to Customer and orders (one-to-many) ...one customers have many orders ...you will need 3 tables in the table you will the following columns ,, ...the is column referencing the in the table and the is a referencing for the table . hope that will help . 

Hello everyone I'm unable to connect to my Oracle Server remotely using SQL developer ....while I can connect from SQL developer when I'm in the server directly ....I get the following error when I try to test my TNS listener 

Hello everyone I have made a backup to my Oracle 11g dtabase with SID=ORCL using the command this my output after performing this command 

I followed the Oracle help ...and I found out that My Oracle service ORCL is registered this is from Oracle support ORA-12520: TNS:listener could not find available handler for requested type of server Cause: None of the known and available service handlers for requested type of server (dedicated or shared) are appropriate for the client connection. Action: Run "lsnrctl services" to ensure that the instance(s) have registered with the listener and that the appropriate handlers are accepting connections. this is the output of ` 

I have recovered my Oracle database using RMAN after following this tutorial $URL$ after I have recovered the database I have created listener ORCL using NETCA ....when I run SQL developer it can connect to the database on port 1521 when I'm on the server ... 

Hello everyone I have got a product stock table with a time-stamp column so the so any updated to that row will update the time stamp ,I'm happy with this setting but sometimes I want to update the row without updating the time stamp,so how to write mysql statement that update a specific column without updating the lastUpdate column ? this my statement: 

Can you try this , now your password column will be if you want try to do the same for the username . if that does not work please share more info about your table by executing the command in MySQL.