I am close to issuing an internal compliance report on the internal processes at the company where I work as part of a quality review. During testing, some process weaknesses were found for which I documented. I have discussed with appropriate parties.My main problem has being the the inability to obtain a response A response can include acceptance of the result or remediation going forward. I sense the reason may be political as it is uncomfortable for management to be confronted with weaknesses in work they is responsible for. I am a junior in my team. As a result of the non - cooperation / non - response, I am unable to issue an clean opinion and might be forced to issue a adverse finding, per due diligence and professional care standards. I would rather not issue a adverse opinion and possibly create friction.. How can I discuss this with my manager and limit damage? As I have received nothing but a stone wall, is there other steps I can take to encourage a response / cooperation? 

Point out the how their actions hurt the company. I will give an example "We have a major audit coming up". "I appreciate the care and precision of your work. However, we as a team need to prioritize the order of our work so we don't get an unfavorable finding. A finding will cost us approximately X hours to remediate." In this way, he can see the bigger consequence of his actions. 

I believe the basis issue you ae facing is lack of proper role management. In my place of work, each person has a designated role, but which still allows for flexibility in assignment. Working in IT Audit, certain roles are clearly our group's responsibility - testing of controls, documentation of IT processes ...etc. If your employer does not use a project management system such as JIRA that allows for assignment of tasks, tracking of tasks by employee, then I highly suggest your employer adopts such a system 

I would definitely bring this issue up with your supervisor. If you are not receiving enough support or direction in performing your job, it is your responsibility to make this known to your management. He or she cannot be expected to be psychic and magically know your grievances unless you let them be known. Ask whether your manager can suggest additional resources for you to learn, whether it be a senior peer mentor, books, or technology. 

I agree with your assessment that the email from candidate's sister was inappropriate. Candidates should be judged on their merit and to have a relative of the candidate suggest that her brother be given special consideration due to personal hardship is indeed unprofessional. It may also be somewhat insulting to the candidate him / her self, as though he would not have been hired otherwise. 

A malicious individual now can get complete control over the server and override other security settings set by your IT folks. He can delete / steal sensitive data that may happen to reside on the server (violation of integrity) He can bring the server offline and deny access to legitimate users (violation of availability) He can intercept communication (violation of confidentiality) 

This part here could be part of the problem. Distancing yourself from your coworkers is not a good idea in general, but is especially true when you are new to a job as you indicted in your post. Having said that, there will always be people who are insensitive and make rude remarks in the workplace. I suggest you take high road and respectfully voice your concerns to them: that you are offended by their behavior and please request them to stop saying / doing what they are currently saying / doing. It is entirely possible they are oblivious to the effect of their behaviors on you. Do not assume people can read minds. Keep the discussion calm and focus on the verifiable facts of the problem so as to not let the discussion disintegrate into a character attack from which people are likely to become extremely defensive / hostile. If nothing else helps, HR might be a viable path for you. 

If some of these items are not kept confidential prior to being remediated, (e.g: pen test report), then security vulnerabilities of the company may be exploited by insiders. Other items such as audit committee correspondence contain sensitive corporate governance information meant only for a few select teams / individuals to know. Today, a team member started to discuss information classified as sensitive at lunch where colleagues from multiple outside teams were present. I cut the person off and reminded him not to discuss sensitive issues outside of the select individuals who needs to be privy to this information. This has been the second instance in about 3 months when this team member made the judgment lapse. All employees take security awareness training annually in which data protection / disclosure is covered. I can be very prescriptive by setting and enforcing rules but want to take a more personable approach to solve this issue. In my profession, (InfoSec and IT GRC), discretion and restraint are necessary traits for an employee to have. In my previous question here, I encouraged team members to rely more on their professional judgement. By taking a prescriptive approach through strict enforcement of rules, I feel I would send a mixed message to the team. Listing exactly what information should / should not be shared with whom is not feasible because the decision depends on circumstances of the situation. 

At my most recent employer, I have experienced quite a few instances in which my coworkers gave me feedback for which I disagree or expressed sentiments about the way I work in a blunt, brusque manner. My work was in IT audit, and I when have to discuss with coworkers about an observation as part of peer QA / review, I tend to be straight, and not mince words, in exact the same manner as your coworkers. What I have found works for me is the following: 

First, as a practicing InfoSec professional (IT auditor), I wholeheartedly agree with the remaining answers You must tell your boss and IT Security function if you have one 

I may get down-votes on my answer but I will answer as I work in the IT Security profession, and see fundamental security issues that are not addressed and present a real risk to you. There is also an implicit question which is very legitimate: