There are even Western Buddhist monks (here) that greive when the war maker Hilary Clinton loses the election in favour of Donald Trump who at least said America should not be supporting wars in Syria & the Middle East. One of the rationales of this monk was Mr Trump did not support abortion for women. 

The idea there is no path is itself a path, which obviously has a goal. If there was no goal, why did KM teach? The Buddha's path, properly comprehended, is the abandonment of craving & letting go. This is similar to what KM was attempting to teach but, unlike KM, the Buddha comprehended there is actually a path (patipada) or method (gamini). 

If it is a Thai temple (eg. 76-16 46 Ave Elmhurst), the service is where the devotees chant to (take refuge in) the Buddha, Dhamma & Sangha, request the five precepts, generally offer the monks food, and receive a blessing in return, including sprinkling of water, as described here: $URL$ & here: $URL$ A Vietnamese temple (2222 Andrews West Bronx) would probably have the same service, such as shown in this video: $URL$ It is best to go to an Asian temple (rather than a meditation centre or even a Zen centre, since meditation & Zen centres are usually run by Westerners & may not do food offerings & blessings) because a traditional Asian service involves an 'exchange' of devotion between the monks and the people. That said, a Zen centre may do a ceremony followed by meditation. You needs to check with your teacher whether 'personal meditation' is a 'service'. Taking refuge, food offering & blessing service would probably occur on the weekend but could occur each day. Contact the temple & have fun. 

In Buddhism, the word 'birth' ('jati') refers to the arising of 'self-view' or egoism. Please refer SN 22.81, for example, or SN 12.2, which defines 'birth' as the production of the view of 'a being' ('satta'). 'Re-birth' is psychological rather than physical. 

Buddha-Dhamma is not about deceit & political correctness but is about acting according to reality with honesty. Therefore, when a teacher, be it a monk or lay teacher, provides knowledge, compassion, help & assistance in a virtuous manner, it is appropriate & proper to address that person as 'Venerable Sir' or 'Lady' (rather than merely as "Friend"). But if a monk is undeveloped in body, speech & mind and rotten to the core, it is not required to address that monk (falsely) as 'Venerable Sir' because this would be False Speech. The Dhammapada says: 

Your personal actions. The social, political & economic environment of others, which influences their actions. 

Yes. But when that intention is not clung to; it is not "kamma". When AN 6.63 refers to "kamma", it refers to kamma that leads to five destinations, none of which are enlightenment. To quote: 

The word 'dharma' means 'that which supports' thus craving also supports life but it is an 'akusala dhamma', namely, an unskilful means of support. For example, the suttas state: 

Nirvana cannot be a process because this would make Nirvana 'conditioned'. Nirvana is a state (dhamma; ṭhānaṃ) or a sense object/base (ayatana; Udana 8.1). 

The psychological problem with pornography is related to wrong view or delusion (rather than lust). Readings: Five Mindfulness Trainings & Sexual Responsibility by Thich Nhat Hanh 

There is no real ephemeral 'self' in Buddhism. In Buddhism, 'self' is a 'view' or 'idea' born of ignorance. It is considered to be a 'disease' or 'suffering'. 

This taking 'birth' as the 'owner' of sense objects is explained in the definition of 'birth', below: 

All kamma produces a result in the present & also future. For example, if my mind gets angry or annoyed, my body & mind become stressed. This stress is a result of kamma. The most small act of clinging produces a result of dukkha, which is why MN 140 & elsewhere states conceiving 'self' is a dart, a tumour, a cancer. In the 1st noble truth, the Buddha summarised 100% of dukkha as 'upadana' ('attachment'). But in MN 26, Buddha said this generation that delights in attachment cannot see attachment is dukkha. That is why this generation believes attachment to a wife, husband, girlfriend, boyfriend, child, etc, is happiness. 

As for 'rebirth', the Paticca-samuppada-vibhanga Sutta explains 'birth' ('jati') is the mental generation of the mental idea, view or 'assumption' of 'beings' ('satta'). SN 5.10 explains that, apart from 'view' or 'conceptual thought' (which are mental formations), there are no 'beings' to be found. SN 5.10 also states the idea of a 'being' (or 'soul') is a view held by Mara (Satan). It follows, as explained in SN 22.85, each time the mind gives birth to the 'self' idea & believes it is a 'self', that is 'birth' ('jati'). To quote: 

Do not allow the mind to develop the idea of "beautiful" but instead bring to mind the undesirable qualities of a woman. 

Thich Nhat Hanh made an error because he was attempting to rationalize another error. If Thich Nhat Hanh actually understood the teachings, he would not state the teaching of 'samskara dukkhata' is false but instead, simply rectify the error in the interpretation of the teaching. The spirit of what Thich Nhat Hanh said is correct, namely, there is no inherent or pervasive suffering in the five aggregates & there is a state of bliss & freedom living beings can experience, which is called Nirvana. The teachings explain quite unambiguous that it is attachment (upadana) to the five aggregates that is suffering rather than the five aggregates themselves. As for the Three Characteristics, the 2nd characteristic is not 'suffering' but 'unsatisfactory'. The five aggregates are unsatisfactory (in that because of their impermanence they cannot bring lasting happiness) but the five aggregates are not 'suffering'. In short, the idea of all-pervasive suffering ("the suffering of composite things",samskara dukkhata) does not exist in the Pali suttas because the term 'samskara dukkhata' does not mean "the suffering of composite things" but means "the suffering of mental constructing". Thich Nhat Hanh has correctly said that nirvana is the joy of completely extinguishing our ideas and concepts. However, Thich Nhat Hanh does not intellectually understand that the word 'samskara' has many meanings dependent on context and, in the context of the compound 'samskara dukkhata' means 'ideas and concepts'. Thus, using the language of Thich Nhat Hanh, the three kinds of dukkha are translated correctly as: "suffering about pain" (dukkha dukkhata); "suffering of ideas & concepts" (samskara dukkhata) and "suffering about change" (viparinama dukkhata). Intellectually, Thich Nhat Hanh was wrong but spiritually Thich Nhat Hanh was correct. 

An example of 'Buddhist' copyright clauses are here: Buddhanet Copyright Details and here (bottom of page): Piyavagga: Affection. A discussion is here: Copyright on the Dhamma and here: Dharma should be free? The easy solution is to simply change of few words and claim it as your own translation. If the Buddha was alive, he would say: "Frankly, my dear, I don't give a damn". 

Therefore, these three types of becoming simply reflect the levels of sustained & continued attachment to: (i) the physical body and its sensations; (ii) attachment to fine-material states of meditative absorption (rupa jhana); and (iii) attachment to the immaterial states of meditative absorption (arupa jhana). For example, the mind of a man sees (has sense contact with) a certain woman (sense object) and due to pleasant feelings & craving/lust towards the woman, the male mind gets stuck on or "picks up"/"carries" the sense object in his mind & starts thinking about the woman. This beginning to be mentally pre-occupied with the woman is attachment or grasping (upadana). The male mind then becomes fixated or obsessed with the woman, falling in love, thinking about the woman all the time & dreaming about how they will live romantically forever. This continued establishing & transforming of the mind in relation to the sense object is "becoming". Then the man & woman have a marriage ceremony and the man "becomes" the woman's husband and the woman "becomes" the man's wife. The marriage ceremony is "becoming" and the finality of actually being a "husband" or being a "wife" is called "birth" ("jati"). "Jati" ("birth") is defined as the mental creation of the ideas or social conventions of "beings" & the "various orders of beings", such as "man", "woman", "husband", "wife", "lawyer", "doctor", "me", "you" etc. Therefore, in summary, 'becoming' is just the continuation of 'attachment', however more intensely, to the point that the mind 'transforms' itself into something different to what is was previously. 

The above sounds like the practise of Hindu meditation (rather than Buddhist Anapanasati). Losing "I-ness" but not completely is not difficult to explain. It is easy to explain. It is precisely the "death" ("marana") of "the entity" ("jati") the Buddha explained in Dependent Origination . Although this "death" ("marana") of "the entity" ("satta-jati") is giving a initial sense of some peace and thoughtlessness, you ("the entity") is not committed to Nibbana and you ("the entity") is not ready to "cease" ("nirodha"). You ("the entity") is not practising to end suffering but sound like you are playing games with meditation. What you should do in this situation is to stop fondling (playing) with meditation, be it Buddhist meditation or Hindu meditation, and return to ordinary worldly life. The Buddha did not teach anatta (not-self) meditation to worldlings. The Buddha explained this situation in the following sutta: 

The meaning is exactly the same. MN 9 says asava & ignorance are the same. When nama-rupa & consciousness are unaffected by hindrances, it will be discerned the most basic non-verbal non-volitional disturbance is asava disturbing in the in & out breathing (kaya sankhara). When nama-rupa has samadhi, it will calm the kaya-sankhara. But if the asava gives rise to a non-volitional distracting thought or memory, this distracting thought or memory is vaci sankhara (thought) & citta sankhara (perception & feeling). When nama-rupa has samadhi, it calms the kaya-sankhara; calms the vaci-sankhara & can even calm the citta-sankhara (perception & feeling; nirodha samapatti). When these sankhara are calmed (samatha), ignorance & asava can be destroyed (vipassana). When ignorance is destroyed by vipassana, Dependent Origination is also destroyed. The most basic disturbance that can be experienced is non-volitional kaya, vaci & citta sankhara, which are non-volitional vibrations caused by underlying ignorance & asava. This is the experience of sotapanna & higher noble disciples of the Lord Buddha. Every meditator with samadhi has a duty to confirm & verify whether the above answer is true or false. 

Thank you for your lovely & inspiring post. My explanation is this was a vivid experience of the inherent purity of mind/consciousness, including experiencing the capacity/ability of the mind to purify/cleanse itself of conditioned impure emotions (refer to Pabhassara Sutta). The peace is the Nirvana Element and the vibrations are the Suffering (Dukkha) Elements and when the Nirvana Element 'touched' the Suffering Elements, the Suffering Elements were dissolved/shattered by the Nirvana Element (just like pure water can dissolve/clean dirt). Thus, your accumulated PTSD from the mind attaching & clinging to the vicissitudes of life was also shattered or cleansed. I would say your experience was not 'jhana' but it was a profound cleansing catharsis (from which consciousness can get very exalted), which is a most excellent, beneficial & healthy experience to have. The mind (rather than "you" or "ego"), after many years, itself decided to clean up the mess in its house. Its like the digestive system deciding to go to the toilet. This video about Ajahn Chah may be relevant: $URL$ 

The psychic powers of a Buddhist monk cannot be tested by science because it is forbidden for a Buddhist monk to demonstrate psychic powers to lay people, i.e., to scientists. 

Therefore, when 'nama-rupa' is polluted & controlled by ignorance (remaining unchecked), this will lead to the sense organs being polluted & controlled by ignorance. PaticcaSamuppada is about psychology rather than about biology. 

Click on the Sutta Central link; then click on the cog wheel at the top right; active the Pali-English function; highlight the Pali & try to do the translation for yourself. 

Every modern/civilised government occupation has ethical guidelines. When government officials cease to be perceived as acting ethically (such as police in an emerging totalitarian state), it is obviously not the specific occupation (e.g. policeman) that is the problem but the entire government itself. In addition, democracy has also failed. For example, there are moral principles in Buddhism about how government should be conducted (both monarchy & democracy). When this violent totalitarian government occurs, the general moral principles of Buddhism will dictate livelihood rather than an occupation (vocation) itself. 

'Dukkha' means 'difficult to bear'; 'hard to endure'. It is any emotion that is 'difficult to bear', such as sorrow, grief, pain, fear, frustration, confusion, terror, jealously, anger, lust, unhappiness, worry, etc. 

Instead, what is an illusion is the mind & particularly the perceptions & thought constructions of the mind. 

In early Buddhism, which taught all things are not-self (anatta), this view is unacceptablea, as explained in SN 22.79, which states it is wrong view to regard memories of the past as "I", "mine" & "myself", as follows: 

When Gotama left home, he was not enlightened. However, fortunately, his leaving home ended being the right decision since he provided salvation to many people. 

When the tank attains emptiness (sunnata), the Dhamma is given because no amount of giving money can bring enlightenment. To quote what the Gautama Supreme Buddha allegedly taught: 

The almost universal tenuous translation "bodily fabrications" is of the Pali word "kaya sankhara". The "kaya sankhara" is defined in the Culavedalla Sutta as the in & out breathing. Therefore, calming the kaya sankhara means calming the breath. There is nothing to debate here. This demonstrates the proper translation of kaya sankhara should be "body fabricator" or "body conditioner", as explained in 'Anapanasati: Mindfulness with Breathing - Unveiling the Secrets of Life' by Ven Buddhadasa Bhikkhu. As for vitakka & vicara in the 1st jhana, there is no need for the beginner meditator to be concerned about this since the 1st jhana is too advanced for the beginner. 

No. The suttas do not mention "seven more lives". The suttas only mention: "seven more", which obviously means "seven more fetters to breakthrough", as indicted by SN 13.1: 

For me, it is not so necessary to judge or criticize another as "unwise" or "uncompassionate". Instead, the answer referred to in the question is simply not a Buddhist answer but a philosophical approach more similar to the Tao Te Ching or Krishnamurti. Maybe, for some people, this approach is more beneficial because, even in Buddhism, although the Buddha clearly expounded the path, not every Buddhist has penetrated & realised the path. 

Feeling occurs with sense impression, which later generates craving. A pleasant feeling generates a craving, such as love, lust & greed, which wants to 'pull in' or acquire a sense object. An unpleasant feeling generates a craving, such as irritation, hatred & anger, which wants to 'push away' or destroy a sense object. A 'vague' neither-pleasant-nor-unpleasant feeling can generate a craving, such as confusion, delusion & ignorance (not-knowing), which 'circles around' or does not understand a sense object. Otherwise, a neither-pleasant-nor-unpleasant feeling, such as of equanimity, can still give rise to ignorance when the true nature of the sense impression & sense object is not comprehended; such as when a person is 'spaced-out', like a zombie; or has 'oneness' in concentration. As an explanation, MN 148 states: 

In Buddhism is explained immaterial meditative absorptions (arupa jhana), such as the dimensions of space, infinite consciousness & nothingness. Many 'Buddhists' (particularly Mahayana fixated on non-conceptuality/non-thinking) mistake these for the unconditioned Nirvana. Nirvana, the Unconditioned, is the destruction of greed, hatred & delusion and is permanent for the arahant. Therefore, if an arahant thinks or speaks, the mind can no longer abide in the arupa jhana of the dimension of space however the mind continues to abide in Nirvana because an arahant can think & speak without greed, hatred & delusion. This simple fact shows why space is not the unconditioned & why non-thinking is not Nirvana. 

Your question is clear. I have not read anything in Buddhism that explicitly states that hate is a survival instinct. This is because Buddhism concerns itself with ending suffering & hate is something that is not peaceful (SN 35.28). That said, from an evolutionary perspective, your idea is compatible with the fundamental Buddhist principle of 'cause & effect' (conditionality) since Buddhism studies 'natural law'. Buddhism explains hate is an underlying tendency (AN 7.11) that exists within the (subconscious) mind/brain from child birth (MN 64) (even before a child can express hate). Buddhism states hate is a natural element or dhatu (MN 115).