This is a tuffy, but here are my thoughts: Let's take something like adrenaline to start. What does it really do? Adrenaline, aka epinephrine increases blood flow to muscles, output of the heart, pupil dilation, and blood sugar. How does it work? It binds alpha and beta receptors (G-proteins found in many cells). Now let's look at morphine, how is it capable of "muting" the feeling of pain or most things for that matter? Similar to G-proteins it affects receptors within the immune system, in fact it affects a tonne of different parts of the immune system. But the good news is that WHO (world health org) states it's the safest needed drug in the medical field. Not to mention it's produced naturally from poppy flowers (opium). Now something from Sci-Fi+Sci-Fact, Black Goo. I like the idea of both black goo and nanobots due to their ability to be virus like. However you want enhanced abilities. Sure thing, you get vitamin K from the bacteria in your gut, so why can't you drink some robots or alien bacteria that improves your vision or hearing for a short while? Nanobots can self terminate to avoid using too many resources and the alien bacteria is eventually destroyed by your immune system after a day. I'm no biologist but creativity isn't much to ask for. Finally, Adrenaline in some advanced form could likely compete with Nanobots on the level of attribute improvements you would receive. Morphine could be a template for an advanced resistance / tolerance "potion" and black goo stretches as far as your imagination can let aliens be awesome. 

One of the dangers I worry about when I see questions like this is that you're trying to world build yourself into a story rather than building a universe around the story you want to tell. 

It could be a cultural/religious thing, like the Amish. I know - you said that it shouldn't be a superstitious/religious thing, but in my experience, Amish people don't use certain technology for pragmatic/community based reasons more than for religious reasons. Many Amish families families DO use technology. They use telephones, they use diesel engines in mills, battery powered tools, cash registers, and propane refrigerators, and when they hire out to do work for the English they ride in cars as passengers, and some groups of Amish use tractors on their farms - So they do use technology, but they also use animals for many things that we've replaced with mechanical tools. They're very selective about what technology they use, with the idea that what they use shouldn't impact their way of life, but instead protect it. I'm not an expert on Amish thought, so I can't say exactly all of their reasons, but here you're just looking for a reason for people to do or not do something - and the Amish people's philosophical model of not using a technology because it doesn't fit within their community might be a good fit. It's not that they can't do it - they just don't believe that they should. 

Another question concerning the Tetrapi, I would like to know if having haemocyanin-based blood (copper-based blue blood) would be an advantage over having haemoglobin-based blood (iron-based red blood) for an air breathing aquatic species. Is the fact that the majority of animals have red blood grounded in evolutionary pressures or is it just an evolutionary quirk? In a nutshell, do I have to follow strict guidelines or am I spoilt for choice? What I want from you is: Find the most efficient blood type to extract oxygen from an atmosphere composed of 28% Oxygen, 72% Nitrogen, 0.4% Carbon Dioxide and 0.6% other gases with an atmospheric pressure of approximately 0.85atm. Please justify your choice. The answer does not require hard science, although some citations and illustrations would be most helpful. 

I am designing an semi-aquatic sapient species known as the Tetrapi. They have an appearance similar to that octopi, only with 4 tentacles comprised of 3 opposable digits. Unlike octopi, they are air-breathing and show full control of their behavioural responses. They are at a technological level of around Ancient Classical Greece and have devised a colour-changing language by chromatophores and a non-linear writing system of carving. They have a central brain with a size of around 1550cc although neural clumps can be observed at the tentacles. How can I make the Tetrapus brain smaller than a human's while not sacrificing neural capacity? Would a greater density of neurons even work or would there be frequent misfires? Also, should I scrap the neural clumps or would they prove to be an advantage? Your task is to find if this change is plausible within natural or artificial selection and why this change would occur in a logical way. I'm sorry if I'm asking too much. I am a new user and I don't have much experience on this website so please be gentle! 

Islands roughly like Hawaii could not support 100k hunter gatherers. At it's height, the Hawaiian islands only supported a population of about 160k people and that was only possible through intensive agriculture. Without agriculture, the only real easily available food sources that Hawaii had were birds and fish, and there wouldn't be enough of them to feed 100k people. Tom Dye says in his book, Population trends in Hawaii before 1778, "By the time of Cook's visit, the lowland forests of the Hawaiian islands had been greatly altered by more than a millennium of industrious gardening." What that means is that you're going to either need to adjust the technology that the population has available to it, or reduce the number of people that are in the population. Also, the amount of land required to support 100k people will need to be pretty vast - especially if you're considering it to be roughly equivalent to Hawaii, with it's topography created by vulcanism - there will only be a certain amount of usable land and the rest will either be on hillsides too steep to farm or otherwise unusable. This means populations will be concentrated into farming communities in the lowlands. You aren't going to have cities - instead you might have large villages. This makes a central leadership and communication difficult and unlikely. The kingdom of Hawaii didn't exist until 1795 and wasn't fully unified until 1810 - this largely through the instigation and technology of westerners. See the Wikipedia article here. You may run into the situation that the Spanish did when they conquered the Aztecs - they happened to meet with other groups of Native Americans, like the Cloud Warriors, who happened to be in the middle of a fight with the Aztecs and who used the Spanish and their technology as an opportunity conquer them. Any way you look at it, the end result is bad if if the natives fight. They need to make some powerful western friends quickly or they're screwed.