"Kayanupassana" comming under "Chathu Satipatthana". You can find detailed discription in "Maha Satipatthana Sutta" Also refer and search for "Anapanasati Meditation". Refer:$URL$ 

Are gandhabbhas belongs to gods or demons? I tried to find details about them. But couldn't solve my problem. According to the Buddhas Teachings, I want to know whether Gandhabbhas are divine people or evil people. 

For this question you can get clear answers by reading Kalama Sutta. In Kalama Sutta The Buddha said; 

"He sleeps in comfort. 2. He awakes in comfort. 3. He sees no evil dreams. 4. He is dear to human beings. 5. He is dear to non-human beings. 6. Devas (gods) protect him. 7. Fire, poison, and sword cannot touch him. 8. His mind can concentrate quickly. 9. His countenance is serene. 10. He dies without being confused in mind. 11. If he fails to attain arahantship (the highest sanctity) here and now, he will be reborn in the brahma-world. 

However in addition, when the Dhamma teaching is no longer available in the human world, some of the upper realms may still abundant with being knows Dhamma and still possibly attend nirvana. Ref: $URL$ 

Here in this answer I am going to give some resources I found in the web and not going to copy and past anything here as the process is quite lengthy and detailed. You could learn about Kasina meditation from "Visuddhimagga (Path of purificaiton)". If your refer page 117 and onwards describe the details about "Earth kasióa". If you need a shorter version please refer here. Further you could refer this page which describe how the create "Earth Kasina"(object) and describe how to do the meditation in details. Hope this helps. 

There isn't a 'best posture' for meditation (although I have a yoga book which attributes all sorts of special mystical powers to the full lotus). The best posture is the one that's best for you, that gives you a stable base (knees and buttocks) and lets you maintain your spine in a good upright position. For some that will be full lotus, others half or quarter, others burmese (all on a cushion), and for others it will be seiza on a cushion or bench. You definitely shouldn't be deciding how to sit based on answers from people on the internet, you should go to a temple or monastery where experienced meditators with a variety of cushions and benches can observe you and help you find the posture that's best for you. 

Actually Buddha stated in his suttas after following the Eight Fold Path to attain Nibbana, you should give up the path when you attain the supreme bliss of Nibbana. It is something like this; think that you wanna cross a river. There's no boat near by. So you collect wood and creepers and finally build a small boat and you cross the river using it. After crossing the river, will you carry the boat with you where ever you go thinking "this boat helped me to cross the river"? No. You'll leave the boat by the river and you'll go where you need to go. Buddha state that similarly one should give up the eight fold path after perfectly attaining the supreme bliss of Nibbana. 

So It is quite possible that a normal person can attend the Sotapatti state with the normal life style. In fact there were lot of lay people who attended these stages. Found this wiki page with lot of information about enlightened lay people according to various Suttas. 

There are lot of archaeological evidence align with Buddha's life story. I think those can be considered as the most trusted third party evidence. Here I am listing some of the web search findings. 

You could find the full story from here and here Apart from that, king Ashoka built Pillars at Buddhist monasteries, many important sites from the life of the Buddha and places of pilgrimage. This was done around 200 -300 years after the Buddha parinirvana. During that time those important sites and monasteries should have left some sort of evidence to support Buddhas existence that convince King to build the pillers. So it also can be considered as good indication. Further: 

'Suffering' in Buddhism means the pain we create for ourselves, not pain which is outside our control. Buddhism won't stop others assaulting you, stop you having accidents or stop you getting sick. The suffering we create for ourselves, according to Buddhism is not spontaneous, in the sense of arising by itself, but has a cause, which is our ignorance. 

$URL$ If you just want to do intensive meditation I think you would quickly find homelessness (especially homelessness without the support of a sangha) was more of a hindrance than a help. 

According to the Monk's Sila, they can not accept money, since money is related to sensual pleasures. Therefore when monks have to deal with money, it's better to take help of a lay follower. In Sri Lanka, in the past and even nowadays in some places, there's a lay follower called "abittiya" is residing in the temple or the monastery to intervene in actions like dealing with money in order to help monks. In some occasions the chief donater of the temple too engage in such activities to help monks. So it's better if someone can help monks in such actions because it's a great help and also a meritorious act since it help a monk to protect his Sila. 

Aspects of Communism may be compatible with Buddhist teaching on greed, but any ideology (including Buddhism itself) can become dogmatic in a person, and that is often likened to drunkeness. An adherent is drunk on ideas and a prosyletiser like a drunk encouraging others to drink with him. 

Jukai doesn't create any commitments between you and the preceptor (unlike monastic ordination which initiates a master/disciple relationship). Anyone's entitled to it, only an osho (I think) can perform the ceremony. The main preparation is to sew a rakusu. 

Conceptualising puts you one remove away from reality. Buddhism is about being in and harmonising with reality, not a private side-show that's going on in your head. Buddhism is not against thought per se, just thought that increases your sense of separateness from reality. 

I think this is quite complex area and we cannot have correct or incorrect answers. anyway I am trying to give my opinion here. If you refer the Maha-mangala Sutta, the first advice is related to this topic. It goes 

The Origin: As I know the origin goes, before the Buddha's enlightenment. According to the legend, Siddhartha Gautama in seeking Enlightenment sat under the spreading bowers of a giant Nuga Tree lying close to the bank of river Neranjana. Then the daughter to the village chief name "Sujatha" offered a bowl filled with rice, thinking he was the divinity of the tree (You could read the full story here. Purpose: