Why not? Simply read? Take what you feel is right? There are many explanations. You may be mislead. That's why I said simply read. Don't stop yourself from reading/exploring. But why should you get carried away by what's in the books of a person? Most importantly, start reading your own life. Look at what's happening to you in situations, how you react, how you respond, what you are doing. Take conscious actions. That will give you more than enough knowledge on what you need than all the books in the world. 

Your observations are quite correct in a capitalist mould. Survival of the fittest and stepping on your neighbor due to ambition or desire to achieve something is quite common. We cannot, quite simply, get out of that mould in a day or even in a week. This is due to the mental model we have created for ourselves and the world around us. We are quite literally aping the animals because their environment is a and can only do so much for their species. Having said that, there are a few animals who are sensitive and capable of compassion and love. Dog is one such being you mentioned. There is a human core or collective consciousness in us, that is empathetic and capable of kindness and compassion. This is by realizing the fact that we are all capable of feeling and emotions and need not hurt or lie to each other for perceived success. Of course, doing what you must, as a duty in daily life to achieve some goals is important, but definitely not at the cost of others. I would go further and state that this consciousness need not be human alone. This includes all sentient beings, including animals and insects. In metta meditation, we visualize the well being and happiness of every sentient being starting from our inward "happy" core and spread the vibrations of goodness to every living being on the planet including trees and plants. In all this, it is important to recognize the ego (mental model of a "fixed, permanent being") in our reactions to any happening. For example, you creating a dent on my car in some way may hurt me mentally, even though it is only the car that has been damaged in some way. We don't recognize the fact that our mind, our body, our possessions, our relatives, are all ever-changing and impermanent. The solid core, that is the created ego, is capable of changing a man into a monster. He is perfectly capable of calmness in every situation. But he changes into a monster because his ego perceives something did not go as per his desire. Betrayal is not the only scenario. It is part of the whole sphere of emotions that we are beset with in contemporary society. We are quite simply slaves to it. 

This is not true, The Buddha did not say that one only achieves nirvana (the highest happiness) after renouncing the world. Arahantship or enlightenment is caused by the ending of mental fermentations, defilements, pains, hankers, cankers (asavas), not from merely giving up worldly possessions (this is something repeated throughout the Pali canons). There were lots of people during The Buddha's time who gave up worldly possessions but did not achieve arahantship. When Siddartha Gautama did severe austerities (like starving) he found that it had no benefits and just made him weak. When he started eating again after regaining his strength he found it easier to concentrate, but his enlightenment came only after the ending of mental fermentations (asavas). The Buddha discovered the "Middle way" in between the extremes of austerities and the extremes of a worldly life. The rules for monks are there to help one achieve arahantship in this lifetime, but arahantship won't come until the ending of mental fermentations, defilements, pains, cankers, taints, hankers (asavas). When you go too much into the extremes of austerities it becomes difficult to end mental fermentations and when you go too much into the extremes of a worldly life it becomes difficult to end mental fermentations. So it's the "Middle way". In the Cula-dhammasamadana Sutta (MN 45) The Buddha describes: 

To an extent, you have to see patterns. What they did, how things happened, etc., But spiritual path is a very subjective process, your internal nature as it has happened by your past accumulations and external circumstances. It is about YOU. Unconscious and conscious mental/physical impressions have played a large part in how you are right now. One more thing, please don't split yourself up into parts like , etc., It is all a mental construct. Throw it away. You are one person. Please be that first, and start from there. 

So there is a mind (one that asks this question) and there is the body (fingers typing this question of the mind). This is not "I" or "me". So when the body goes running and when the mind or brain is thinking, why does it get tired? Or is it just the illusion of tired? 

Yes it is pointless, but if you want to, you can attach a point to it like everyone seems to do. But that would be moving away from the truth/fact of the matter. Do you want to do that? It depends on you. But I want to say that today you will ask this question, and in a few days you will forget this question, and then you will ask the same question in a different form after sometime. These are not questions to be answered like Q&A. They are subjective experiences and feelings which only you know and which don't have an answer as such. Please accept this fact. And help yourself (or not if you don't want to). 

The answer is yes, but in a different way. Maha Brahma, Great Brahma: Maha Brahma really exists, but his existence is viewed as temporary and impermanent, He is an extremely powerful being who mistakenly believes himself to be the all-knowing all-powerful Creator of the universe, who comes into existence at the beginning of the universe: 

Do this exercise for 6-7 days and you will see that your body control and concentration would've improved, you will find it easy to relax, concentrate, and not be disturbed. 

After enlightenment The Buddha was doubtless, fearless, and always in bliss regardless. The Buddha and arahants described this bliss and happiness many times: 

Acting leads towards hell (or lower destinations), it is one of those things perceived to be harmless but actually causes harm. But it's not true that all actors would go to hell just that acting itself leads towards hell. In fact believing "all people who do certain things go to hell" is a wrong view that leads towards hell according to The Buddha: 

I've read stuff from other spiritual teachers and those who claim to be enlightened but still they don't compare to Gautama Buddha's teachings. Some may be paccekabuddhas but their teachings are limited and aren't as well-reasoned and thought-out as Gautama Buddha's. My personal experiences match in closely to what I read from The Buddha. When I concentrate I can accomplish certain things, like healing myself. I believe I've achieved at least something like the first jhana but am not sure if it's exactly what The Buddha described as the first jhana since he describes many different states (see Pancakanga Sutta). I just know that when I concentrate on destroying painful feelings or fermentations that I feel this strange energy go from my forehead to the top of my head, and if I keep trying to eliminate more fermentations I go higher and higher. What I experience then is a happiness unlike any other. I feel doubtless, fearless, sorrowless, angerless, full of confidence, calm, unstoppable, full of enjoyment, such an extreme type of enjoyment. Once I had experienced this type of enjoyment I thought this was the correct path and no other form of happiness, bliss, or enjoyment was worth pursuing. It is entirely different from the other blissful states I had experienced (like deep relaxation, or the dream-like bliss) which are like blissful states but lacking energy and enjoyment. Maybe some day I'll find out everything and the whole truth... 

While on the surface there are more distractions in today's day and age than any other before, there are in fact not any more distractions than there have ever been. While it would appear that what pulls you away from meditation is , these are not what pull you away. What will always pull you away, and what has always pulled any human away is the stream of incessant chatter that you hear when you sit down and close your eyes. There is nothing in the external world that is capable of causing distraction by itself. There are stories of Zen Monks who did not stir from Zazen as an earthquake struck. Distractions happen internally; not externally. I'm going to limit the scope of my answer to a specific kind of meditation - the kind of meditation where you sit and focus - but for the record, meditation is in no way limited to that one definition. Meditation is available always; independent of circumstances. For now, what would be powerful, I think, is if you really tell the truth to yourself about some things. First - I don't know anything about your circumstances; but I'm gonna go out on a limb and suggest that time is not the issue. If you really confront how many hours you have in a day, and what it is that you are doing during each of those hours; I would be shocked if there were not 20 minutes you could claim for uninterrupted meditation time. Most people live their lives in a haze of abstractions and stories about reality. Few people live their lives grounded in reality. In reality, you can only ever do the thing you are doing when you are doing it; and whatever that thing is doesn't take a long time or a short time - it takes some specific relatively predictable amount of time. In our stories, "I have too much to do", "I never have enough time" , etc. In reality, quoting Werner Erhard: 

You don't believe in any God. Ok. You don't believe in rituals. Ok. Very likely you already don't. So why Buddhism? I'd like to make an important point here stating that Buddhism is anything but a religion. The right question to ask would be why would you want to follow anything at all. You will find many answers here that will give you sources and some googling will give you additional reading. "Access to insight" is one place to read some suttas and translations. But I would say some practical advice is worth it. Get a cushion, or a straight backed chair, or sit on the floor cross legged. With spine erect. Close your eyes lightly. Make sure you're comfortable. Take 3-4 deep breaths. This gets your system responding to you. Then start normal breathing. Watch your breath go in and out of you. You could start by observing the stomach going in and out with breathing. Don't force it. And then do a body scan top to bottom and bottom to top, loosening up any tight or tense areas. Come back to the breath going in and out. You could alternatively focus your attention on the breath at the tip of your nose. During this time you may find that your mind keeps on coming up with one thought after another. If it doesn't, you're my God ;) Ignore those thoughts and come back to the breath. Try this for sometime and then gradually increase the time. And then go for additional reading sources gradually. Apart from this, my advice would be not to get into any complicated concepts which is not yet in your experience. This is a pitfall. Because that will just send your mind into unnecessary spirals and get you nowhere. Metta and good luck with your practice. 

An enlightened Buddha or an arahant never experiences worries, fears, or cravings like ordinary humans even if they appear to. After enlightenment an individual can have wishes, wills, etc...but not in the same way that an ordinary person does. In regards to health, The Buddha did heal himself on occasions, and could stay alive for an entire world-period: 

I think it's a great analogy. It reminds me of a time when I was riding my bike one day and after I became very tired and exhausted I decided to stop by a river. The river looked clean and transparent so I jumped in and swam in the river, it was very relaxing and pleasing. 

We see that outsiders and disciples have come to replace Buddhism with new fundamentally different forms of Buddhism, so different how can they be Buddhism? These new type of Buddhists teach people to cling to views, become attached to ideas, and use incredulity rather than trying to observe the truth. Looks like Buddhism is almost already exterminated! If you achieve higher states your wrong views will naturally automatically disappear and you will see that it's really true that re-birth or re-existence really is true. The Buddha explained how many births there are: 

The Buddha came up with some theories, the basics of which are common sense to me. He cultivated a practice and figured some things out. There are stories and practices about how and what he found. Sure he may be the Blessed one. But then maybe I have missed out something here. I can't help but think he may not have gone through his thought process completely ? When he talks about the five aggregates and consequences and hindrances, that is all fine. But how do I truly know for myself? So I may have a different method to figure that out. What I am saying is that, the Buddha may have had "his experience". But a combination of many people translating and propounding some theories and giving explanations, they may have taken away some of the aspects of the beauty of the process for "our own individual experiences". The Buddha himself didn't make the "religion" as it is now. I hope this message is clear. Each individual needs to question for himself/herself, the procedure to achieve something or why they are here. Sure you may go by faith, but I am afraid that might be a hindrance to true experience. I'd like to add that I sense some amount of might creep in when we try to understand the Buddhist philosophy and actually practice that. 

In any moment, your access to awareness is recognizing that you are not aware. To listen to people better - notice how you don't listen. To meditate more effectively, notice what it is that pulls you from the present. To be more compassionate - notice where you're being a jerk. You have everything you need to work with wherever you are standing, because the only things there are to work with are what you bring with you. By becoming aware of what is already there, you allow for the disappearance of what is there. When what was in the way is no longer in the way, you can move freely. Mindfulness is not the 'mindfulness'. 'Mindfulness' is a word. Mindfulness is emptiness. Mindfulness is like a master gardner preparing soil for growth. 'Mindfulness' is like trying to plant in rocky, weed infested sand. 

Okay. The last one was spoken a bit tongue and cheek, and I'll say more about it, but #3 is where you will find peace. #1 Leaves you in a state of constant tension - embracing what is not so much a state of being open and aware as defensive posture designed to protect you from identification and subsequently loss. #2 Thrusts you fully into the realm of the Gods. Short lived and exciting, but devastating when lost, and difficult to escape from. This is like the ultimate context of attachment for people with worldly success. #3 Play the game fully. Why not? Holding back to protect yourself is every bit as egotistical and constraining as falling in love with yourself as a winner. All the time playing the game though, you are open and aware of your sense of identification. You can't stop it when it arises, but all there is to do, is to see it; to notice it; to bring the attachment into the light of consciousness and observe it. Whenever you truly give your whole self to something, you disappear. There is no you as the doer; no thing that's getting done. But if you find yourself indulging in identification, love yourself for it; laugh and let it be. There is nothing beyond this; no prize for dis-identifying completely. There is just seeing and letting go. 

So you see there can be many people perceived as good but undeveloped in many aspects (contemplating the body, virtue, mind, discernment, heart) so any trifling evil deed they did in the past many take them to hell (or cause them to have negative experiences). And there can be many people perceived as evil but developed in many aspects (contemplating the body, virtue, mind, discernment, heart) so many trifling evil deeds they did in the past still may not take them to hell (or cause them to have negative experiences). There have been many genocides in history besides the holocaust, the genocide of the Jews. There have been for instance the persecution and execution of Buddhist monks by many different groups in history. How this ties in is that there are many different variables involved in one's experiences...it does not necessarily mean that those who took birth into a region or time-period where they were persecuted and executed for no real reason are evil-doers or came from one of the three lower destinations (hell, the animal realm, realm of ghosts) although it does mean that they are exhausting their evil kamma that was caused for some reason or another (and also means that the one executing the violence is causing evil kamma). If mankind as a whole wants violence to end all around the world we have to cause good kammas (bodily, verbal, mental) such that only good beings can exist on Earth...if you look the global homicide rate and violence around the world that time hasn't come yet...but will certainly come sometime in the future if more and more people continue doing good deeds and practicing metta (loving-kindness).