You use a star chart that shows the lines of right ascension and declination. Based on the stars that the line passes by, you can estimate the line in the real sky. It is similar to looking at a map of the Earth and using latitude and longitude to locate a city. (By the way, 0 hours right ascension, 0 degrees declination is the location of the vernal equinox on the celestial sphere. The bright star at that location is the Sun at the moment of the vernal equinox ;-) Perhaps your question should be "How do I locate the young crescent Moon?". The answer to that question is that it would be better to calculate the azimuth of the Sun at sunset, and the altitude and azimuth of the Moon at 10 minute intervals afterwards. Based on knowing where the Sun was located on the horizon at sunset and the difference between the Moon and Sun, you can estimate where the Moon should be in the sky. There is no need to know where right ascension and declination are located among the stars (other than calculating the position of the Sun and Moon); the sky will be bright, so it is unlikely that there will be any stars visible that will help you locate the line of right ascension. 

I cannot find my original calculations at the moment. I assume that the Sky & Telescope article is copyrighted, but I found a PDF of it on the internet at $URL$ Here is a table from the article which shows the number of stars visible at various times of the night for an observer at 40 N latitude: 

You might want to look at noaa.gov ($URL$ in particular) and similar sites for weather for other countries. In other words, the satellites in geostationary orbits (GEO) that take images are mostly weather satellite. I do not have a breakdown by type, but I would guess that a vast majority of the satellites in GEO are communication satellites, and they have no reason to take images. I suspect that satellites in high earth orbit are there for astronomical purposes (to "get away" from the Earth, such as Chandra) or communication (such as the Russian Molniya satellites), so they are not imaging the Earth. 

My first thought is that you saw a flare from a satellite, meaning a favorable reflection off of a solar panel or something. I use the software "Heavensat", and it shows the satellite Nextsat (Norad number 30774) passed very close to Arcturus at 23:40 pm from your location (45.7288° N, 24.3784° E). Note that I am assuming that your time is 3 hours ahead of UT (Universal Time). 

I do not know if Nextsat typically flares, although reflections from satellites are common. Nextsat is in a low altitude orbit, so its motion would normally be detectible. Perhaps the duration of the brightening was shorter than you estimate (so that the motion was not detectible), or it was so unexpected that you did not notice the motion. My second thought would be a head on meteor like you suggested. 

That sounds like a high altitude nonfunctioning satellite to me. For example, a rocket body or upper stage that is tumbling. I have seen these types of satellites flash many times before. The pattern is irregular because of the spinning and changing angle to the Sun. 

Add a guide scope to the side of your scope, use an eyepiece with cross-hairs, and watch a star while you take a photo. When the scope drifts, you push buttons to move the scope to keep the star centered. Do the same thing with a guide scope but use a dedicated guide camera that provides the corrections to the tracking. There are also guide cameras that you can insert just in front of the camera. They use a small "pick-off" mirror to look at a star in the field (off axis guider). The guide camera provides the corrections to the tracking. 

Question 2: Doesn't the Sun take the longest arc across the sky on the day it passes through zenith? Answer: There are two effects. (In the remaining description, I will be referring to an observer in the northern latitude.) As the Sun moves northward from 0 degrees declination, the radius of the circle that it travels is smaller. In other words, the total length of the 20 degree declination circle is smaller than the 10 degree declination circle which is smaller than the 0 degree declination circle (the celestial equator). But at the same time, the fraction of the declination circle that is visible above the horizon is greater. At some combination of declination, these two effects result in the maximum length of the declination circle above the horizon. If the declination is north or south of that optimized solution, the length of the arc is smaller. Skipping the calculations for now and going right to the solution, here is a graph showing the length of the arc for various latitudes and declinations. This graph plots the results relative to the length of the arc along the celestial equator which is 180 degrees regardless of your latitude (ignoring refraction and the Sun's diameter). 

To the precision that you need, you can calculate the azimuth A and altitude h of the Sun from the following equations: $$ \tan(A) = \frac{\sin(H)}{\cos(H)\sin(\phi)-\tan(\delta)\cos(\phi)}\\ \sin(h)=\sin(\phi)\sin(\delta)+\cos(\phi)\cos(\delta)\cos(H) $$ where 

Sounds like you should get a new mount. :-) Being more serious, even expensive mounts have periodic tracking errors (due to manufacturing tolerance of gears and moving equipment) that need to be corrected. These are the basic ways to do the corrections: 

True, but it would be a very rough approximation at best. In order for it to be accurate, the bright limb of the Moon would need to face either due east or west on the celestial sphere. (In astronomy terminology, the position angle of the bright limb would need to be 90 or 270 degrees.) In reality, the bright limb of the Moon faces the Sun, which can be north or south of due east/west relative to the Moon. Therefore, the cusps are not north/south, so the cusps can point to the "left or right" of due south on the horizon. The second problem is using two points just 1/2 degree apart (the two cusps) and extending it to where it meets the horizon (along a great circle, too!). Depending on your location and the Moon's declination, that distance is most likely to be much larger than 1/2 degree. At 40 degrees N latitude, the moon can be approximately 27 to 73 degrees from the southern horizon. (These numbers are when the Moon is on the meridian.) The accuracy of extending such a short line over such a long distance of is going to be very low.