What is a Hangar? A hangar is an enclosed storage area for aircraft/spacecraft. The hangar is where most repair and maintenance occurs and depending on the particulars of the vehicles in question it may also be where a pilot actually enters/exits their aircraft. What is a Runway? On Earth, all heavier-than-air fixed-wing aircraft require a minimum amount of forward airspeed to generate the lift needed to fly. Runways provide a clear path for these vehicles to accelerate from a stopped state up to the speeds required for liftoff. They also provide a safe area for that same craft to perform a controlled deceleration when returning to a non-flying state. 

There are numerous ways that evolution can select for specific traits. Evolutionary biologists often describe these sorts of pressures as The Four F's: fighting, fleeing, feeding, and... reproducing. Others have already mentioned a number of situations describing these pressures in action. Camouflage is likely to be a defensive strategy (i.e. fleeing) though a well-hidden hunter might also find it useful (i.e. feeding). Meanwhile bright plumage might promote social status and/or attract mates (i.e. reproducing). If you have a desired color in mind, simply imagine a scenario where this coloration would help that creature survive and have offspring by improving it's chances according to one of the Four F's. 

Names may be translatable in some human and alien(?) cultures. "Beautiful Flower" or "Two (medium sized domesticated carnivores) running". The second further translates to "two dogs running" although they are not exactly dogs. The joke about "two man bucket"'s twin brother may translate Ok for these aliens Or less friendly examples, "Second of liars and spies" and presumably "Fifth of slave breeding and sacrifices". (Read Charles Stross's latest for this source). That aside you may as well give them names pronounceable in English. Analysis of dolphin noises suggests that they have sounds for referring to themselves. These sounds are inaccessible to unaided human ears, let alone vocal cords. If humans and aliens have any shared vocal abilities, pick names that are mutually speakable (probably using a restricted set of syllables). In passing: until we can work out how to communicate with dolphins and where they fit on the intelligence spectrum, I hope we do not meet any real aliens. An African Grey parrot named Alex learnt English, proved human-toddler-smart and ultimately broke our hearts. AFAIK no humans have learned parrot. 

Xenobiology Since this question is tagged with "Xenobiology" and "science-based" it is best to keep in mind that possible solutions don't equate with plausible solutions and that using real science terms to explain unplausible science-fiction doesn't really do anything to help with suspension of disbelief. (e.g. saying "the alien vision relies on entangled neutrinos" isn't much less hand-wavey than "the alien vision relies on flubulated tachyons".) Making aliens extremely unique in their biology in order to avoid inventing more fictional aliens that "look like us" is a good habit, as assuming that all aliens (especially the sentient ones) are humanoid bipeds is a laughably anthropocentric of us. However, it is possible to overshoot the mark and make aliens too weird to exist by all logical accounts of what we do thus far know about physics and biology. 

Photons: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. If you have life you have heat, and if you have heat you have photons. Therefore, if you have life you must have photons. There is no escaping this. Photons also interact with the building blocks of matter: the protons, neutrons, and electrons that compose all biological life. Because photons are so ubiquitous, it is very likely organisms develop some way(s) to interact with them. On Earth this is mostly evident in plants which are able to use the energy for photosynthesis, and most higher-level organisms which posess occular organs which are used to collect directionally-specific photo-sensory stimuli. While most higher-level organisms posses eyes which grant them varying degrees of occular prowess, the fact is that most such creatures detect only certain wavelength bands covering different sections of the visible photon spectrum. Some creatures are rather primitive only having one color-discriminitory sensor, whereas humans have three, and others like the mantis shrimp have as many as 16 types of photoreceptors. Yet other creatures have other forms of photon detection; pit vipers and many related reptiles have infrared-detecting abilities which effectively allow them to "see heat" in a useful way. The visible spectrum, as we call it, is actually a rather narrow section of the entire electromagnetic spectrum. Even if you include the infrared heat sensors of pit vipers and the UV sensors of the mantis shrimp, the range of perception for all Earth creatures is still quite limited. Creatures with visual acuity in wavelengths to either end of our chunk of the spectrum (either higher energy like hard-UV and X-ray, or lower energy like far-infrared and microwave) would likely see the world quite differently than us, and feel quite alien, while still possessing a type of directional vision very comparable to what we're used to encountering- and all without evoking any sort of exotic, non-interactive, or exceedingly rare particles. 

I'm surprised nobody has mentioned sensing the passage of time, although that's hardly alien. One odd manifestation here on earth are the various N-year cicada broods. If they do not count (which seems unlikely) they have either a number sense or a remarkably accurate longterm clock! The other thing is that a cetacean's sonar sense is almost certainly very much more than "enhanced hearing". It is a form of seeing, but very different in what can be perceived. At its simplest, most objects (food, people) are opaque to visible light. Ultrasound goes through them, reflecting in complex ways at boundaries. Interpretation will give a 3D map similar to a CT scan. So a dolphin can almost certainly see other dolphins' internals. Stomach and bowel contents. Pregnancy. Tumours. Heartrate and muscle tension. Also very probably their own internals. I wonder whether it is possible for a dolphin to lie? On top of that it may be possible to directly create sound signals having properties something like a low resolution hologram in another dolphins sonar view. This might be as close to telepathy as is physically possible. Far beyond speech as we know it. I say dolphin but we still do not know how smart our dolphins are. Too alien to understand? Or not quite as smart as we think or hope? If alien "cetaceans" have achieved technology despite the handicap imposed by an aqueous environment it is a fair bet they are considerably smarter than we are. 

Yes. In fact, it has (essentially) already done in actual history. Granted, the "parasite aircraft" experiments of the 1910-1930 were launched from "rigid airships" rather than floating platform cities, but the concept is the same. You will still have to work out a landing plan, however, as early "parasite aircraft" designs relied on a ground-based runway for the smaller planes to land, and later designs required the smaller plane to match speeds with the airship to latch back on. 

However, whatever colorations are favored, those colors will inherently depend on what pigments are present in the organism's skin. Technically, it could alternatively depend on other phenomena (like the irridescence of butterfly wings) but simply assuming pigment==color is probably the easiest way to go, conceptually. For humans (and lots of other creatures for that matter) the primary pigment is melanin (of which there are actually a few varieties). Biologically speaking, melanin is a pretty simple pigment made up of a few tyrosine molecules oxidised and strung together. These tend to absorb light from a variety of wavelengths, resulting in the mostly brown shades we associate with it for human hair and skin colors. Evolutionary, we all are starting from more or less the same melanin-producing ancestors, so even with a melanin mutation here and there over the eons that mostly just results in different shades of brown- maybe some more rust-colored here or blonde there, but generally from a similar color pallet. Melanin, as a pigment, isn't likely to mutate any blue or green hues anytime soon. On the other hand, another well-known pigment, chlorophyll is a structurally rather different molecule that does a very similar job (although plants take things a step further, utilizing sunlight rather than just blocking it). At the forefront of the chlorophyll molecule is the Chlorin ring which is like a cage around a single metal ion. In plants, Magnesium is typically found at the center of this ring and that helps to make chlorophyll green. Porphyrin rings are very similar: one natural example is hemoglobin, the red pigment in blood, which cages an iron ion; and a second example is Phthalocyanine which is a bright blue commercially-used pigment which cages a copper ion. The reactions that actually trap the metal ion in the "cage" are typically pretty well selective at putting iron in hemoglobin and magnesium in chlorophyll. Things like altered pH conditions and/or mineral deficiencies, however, can sometimes throw the occasional odd metal into some of these cages- thereby altering the color. It is not too far fetched to think that some alien species may have evolved from an ancestor that had porphyrin-based pigments rather than melanin-based pigments. Furthermore, just as melanin mutations can lead to various hair colors, mutations could lead to preferential uptake of different metal ions and leading to different colors. Aliens don't need to be plants to have chlorophyll-based pigments. (Bonus points: if pH and/or mineral intake can adjust color expression, then there's a high probability that well-to-do aliens might alter their diet to look more fashionable/appealing.) 

Someone somewhere perfects non-nuclear(?) EMP bombs and some megalomaniac uses them on a continental scale. They don't quite destroy the world but the collapse of a continent's information networks brings mass starvation and hundreds of millions of deaths. I think after this, survivors and inhabitants of other continents will take a very different view of microprocessors. However, entertainment devices will not be top of the list. Controllers in the power grids and in automobiles will be. Then computers doing finance and bookkeeping. Back to manual switches, relay logic, electromechanical fuel injection, pen, paper and mechanical calculators. "Never again". It doesn't stop there, though. The removal of all microprocessors becomes the basis of a new quasi-religious movement. Something not unlike the Butlerian jihad is under way. I appreciate this scenario is rather different to the questioner's, but if a scenario in which the premise might come to pass is required, I think this one works. 

Heat Pump the Whole Earth What you seem to be describing in your original post is a very brute-force way of dealing with the situation. Essentially, you're trying to invent a way to build a refrigerator that cools the Earth and dumps the excess heat into space. The problem is that not only would it be remarkably inefficient but it also means that the HeatIn>HeatOut problem of global warming is never truly solved; which means you're essentially creating a situation analogous to dumping buckets of water (heat) out of a sinking ship (hot Earth). That's not to say it's impossible, but it is remarkably silly. You'd have to have Earth-surface-to-outer-atmosphere transport be so darn cheap that you can bring warm material from Earth up to the edge of space, for fancy space refrigerators to cool the material as cold as scientifically possible, and then transport it back to cool the Earth's surface. Essentially you'd have to have space travel be so cheap that you can ship Earth water to space to make into scifi-ice-cubes and ship them down to cool the oceans. If space travel is that cheap, though, building a giant reflector (or a fleet of smaller reflectors) to reflect away a sufficient fraction of the sun's energy would be far simpler and would fix the HeatIn>HeatOut problem outright. 

Here's what goes wrong. The more honest "everyone" in a society is, the more they trust each other. The more they trust each other, the easier it is for someone who is not "everyone" (i.e. a dishonest person) to prosper. So an excessively honest society has no societal immune system against being taken over by liars and cheats, and is destroyed from within when such individuals or groups arise. At the other extreme you have a deeply corrupt and dishonest society where there is little trust, and a huge amount of time and money is spent protecting oneself from everyone else. Such a society will ultimately be out-competed by one with higher moral standards. Indeed, one effect of such a society is the weakening of large-scale society in favour of smaller sub-groups within which there is a greater degree of trust: families, tribes, secret societies. One of these eventually grows powerful enough to "sweep the stables" ... and the cycle starts again. Game theory suggests that there is no position of stable static equilibrium, but society manages itself to maintain a dynamic quasi-equilibrium. For example, I have read that credit-card companies balance the amount they are losing to crime against the amount that their precautions against crime are costing them. Spend less on precautions than the criminals are costing you, and not only are you losing, but you will attract more criminals and your losses will escalate. But spend many times more than you are losing, and it's profit foregone. So spend enough to prevent losses to crime from escalating, but not so much as to hand a financial advantage to your competitors. For further information Google "forgiving tit-for-tat". 

Different Male/Female Birthrates Biologically speaking, humans have roughly one child per gestation (twins, triples, etc. being relatively rare don't bump the average up by much) and the odds of male:female birth are basically 50:50. If the ratio were skewed such that female babies were much more common than males, then society as a whole would view females as much more expendable for war than we ever have in the past. (i.e. if only 1-in-100 children born were male, then "men and boys first" would make much more sense than "women and children first" in disaster/survival situations.) The societal roles, expectations, values, etc. could all change very little or quite significantly depending on the ratios involved and their causes/prevalence. Most of those changes can be plausibly tweaked for your fictional setting, however. You can assume a matriarchal society could be a perfect war-free utopia, or you could assume that the womenfolk would be the ones to take up arms. 

Use slightly weak encryption Liaise with that three-letter agency. Find a crypto algorithm which the government's resources can break by brute force in about a day. This means that most bad guys simply won't have access to the means, and rarely any profit motive to try. The exceptions would be the largest corporations who manufacture computer hardware, but in almost all cases the threat of criminal prosecution and huge fines will deter them. If IT hardware continues to advance roll our a software upgrade that slightly hardens the encryption so as to restore the agreed difficulty. There will be a problem in that the government will press for weaker crypto that is cheaper to break. You'll need to convince them of the economic harm to the nation that will follow from criminals gaining an economic incentive to break the crypto. Ultimately since the government makes the laws it holds the whip hand. If you lose this argument your business us doomed, but if the government just banned all but trivial crypto it's doomed faster. If a deal is done then it's nature could be informally leaked. Yes, the government can crack your phone if it really really wants to. It will cost tens of millions for your spouse, your enemies, your business rivals, criminals, journalists etc. to even try, so mostly they won't. 

Seven-to-twenty men jump out of their heavily-armored and armed-to-the-teeth spacefaring tank/battleship and hail "Come at me bro!" over the comms, what do you do? Mow them down with superior firepower; you're in a gorram battleship after all. Jumping out for a fistfight was their frelling dumb idea, and isn't a mistake you have to imitate. Engage the thrusters just enough to keep the sitting ducks from becoming a boarding party, and then simply fire at your leisure (using guns big enough to put holes in other battleships with real armor) at anything getting too close. 

Global Warming Doesn't Work Like That The problem with global warming isn't that carbon dioxide or methane in the atmosphere "warms up easily" but rather that it absorbs too much of the infrared energy that Earth emits back to space. Therefore, we have as much solar energy coming in as always, but now not enough of Earth's infrared emissions are escaping to space before being reabsorbed. That excess of reabsorbed infrared is why we're accumulating heat. To counteract the effect of greenhouse gasses like carbon dioxide you'd either have to either make the atmosphere reflect away more incoming solar energy, or have it emit more of the Earth's excess infrared. Neither of these involve the kind of cold-feeling heat-absorbing material you imagine.