A few days. Without supporting infrastructure, the city is immediately without electricity and -- more importantly -- water. Food will last for days, maybe even weeks. Being without electricity isn't a problem for survival, but being without water is. There aren't many sources of water in a city. Even if the city has a river, getting water to the households will be difficult. Compared to the number of inhabitants and the area a metropolis typically covers, having access to a big river does almost nothing. Having more, but smaller rivers would be more ebneficial. The ancient Rome had the river Tiber flowing through it. In modern standards, it wasn't a metropolis. But they still needed an intricte system of aqueducts (who got the water from the "nearby" mountains), springs and public beths to get water to everyone. It is considered one of the major achievements of the time. Modern systems all work with electricity. Without pumps running, the water pressure in the pipes will drop immediately. People will start riots immediately. Stores will be raided for supplies. Those won't last long. After a few days, people either start dying from lack of water or leave the city. Since there isn't anything left in the wilderness, there will be plenty of sources of fresh, uncontaminated water. So, a mass exodus paired with a lot of deaths will leave the city almost empty. There will be only a handfull of people who can gather enough water from roofs etc. left. But it will be a ghost town, nothing coming even close to 50%. Metroplis are the most densely populated areas on the world and at the same time the most hostile in terms of survival. Lots of concrete, and not much opportunities to get fresh water or grow food, except for filtering rainfall from rooftops and using public parks. 

Their society would have evolved drastically different then ours. Its highly likely that people would trade with these years. Religious cults practicing child sacrifices for the greater good of their great leaders. Maybe people would even straight out produce children to sell them. This is something hard to get rid of, because even if you make it illegal, a black market will emerge. People wanting to buy those years will get them, no matter what they need to do. Furthermore, it might be beneficial to have a regulated market where everyone can buy the years he wants. Getting the years of the killed means that you give murder a whole new - very attractive - incentive. Murder is no longer petty, it is good for your own health. Who wouldn't be tempted by the prospect of living forever if only he killed someone every now and then? Its basically the premise of every moral struggle in vampire stories, e.g. TVD et al.. That means a regulated market will be needed to keep murder rates down. If you can prolong your life at an affordable price, without much hassle, then its much better to do so instead of going on an unsanctioned killing-spree. The market will need to be affordable enough so that most people can buy the years they need or want. Maybe its even subsidized, so that even the financially weak aren't tempted by murder. Otherwise people will start to "steal" these years by simply killing random people. In such a society, the conviction of a murder is only a good to be sold. Maybe there is a tombola. Or an auction. Or a raflle, or any other kind of give-away. Someone has to produce all those years for the market anyways, so this is an excellent opportunity to boost numbers. Some people will inevitably be very, very old. 

Highly recommend the essay On Being the Right Size by J. B. S. Haldane. In short, no. In addition to things like the square cubed law for musculature, there's the simple matter that different shapes are more adaptive to different sizes and environments. While weaker gravity would probably allow creatures of the same shape with a larger size, simply increasing in size would not be the most adaptive form. That is, a 40m tall human, on a planetoid of weak enough gravity that it wouldn't collapse under its own weight, would still be incredibly slow, without natural weapons/defenses, and have extreme difficulty breathing (either the air would be too heavy for its lungs to pump at that size, or, more likely since weaker gravity means less atmosphere, too thin to provide adequate oxygen for its mass). This can be seen on Earth in reverse with pygmy animals. They are not the right size. Imagine a teacup pig trying to out compete a wild boar in the wild; it's not going to happen. Anyway, the more interesting question is not, "What environment could giant animals live in?" but, "I have this environment, what shape of animals would live in it?" 

It would basically be hyper puberty. You wake up feeling different and weird every day. Your body's changing in unexpected and confusing ways. Your hormones are going to go off the charts, shooting high into the air, then crashing down again. They'll be in constant pain as their body changes shape, down to their very bones. This person, no matter their start and end personalities, is going to be moody, overly-sensitive, and exhausted at all times during the transition period. They'll probably try and sleep at least 16 hours per day, and shovel food down the remaining eight hours. In all likelihood, this person is going to be extremely confused and embarrassed by what is happening, and try and hide it, shutting out friends and family. Violently, if necessary. If they don't live alone, they may flee into the wilderness while the change is happening. I mean, really, do you want to tell your husband that you grew a penis overnight? I didn't think so. 

How much carbon do you have? Gravity is a very weak force, when compared to other forces, and its influence rapidly diminishes with distance. What this means is that a single bar of carbon nanotube can be infinitely long without its own gravity having much effect on it. So, what if we fold that bar a few times so you have a rectangle? Say we now have a square that encompasses the galaxy. Branch a few times, now we have a cube that encompasses the galaxy. The local gravity on an individual 1 foot length of a carbon nanotube is still trivial, even though the full structure probably outmasses any star. Your structure can be any shape, assuming no exterior forces, as long as the density is low enough for the local gravity of any individual length of carbon remains low. Really, the problem's going to be the gravity of other celestial objects (aka, external forces). If you're building this within a galaxy, you'll have to worry about stars and planets mucking about your structure, especially since stars and planets have a habit of moving around. This means within a galaxy, you'll need a structure small enough that it can move within the galaxy without any solar systems crashing into it. Your other options are to have your structure encompass a galaxy (so that all the stars and black holes and whatnot move entirely within it, without threatening the structure) or outside any galaxies, where very few external forces would influence your structure and it can be basically as big as you like (until you run out of carbon). 

Why would we want to join their empire? We just met them. We don't know anything about them. We only know that they are technological advanced. We don't know if their morals/ethics are compatible with us. We don't know if they would even want us to join their empire, even if we were as far developed as they are. There is multiple ways this can go. They might be conquerors and simply might want to take our resources. Look at Independence day. Not necessarily the most interesting story to tell. Lets say they aren't outright hostile. But they aren't a charity, either. So make them interested in information. They probably want to study us, want to learn about us and the creatures living on our planet. After some negotiations, it is decided that they create an embassy on Earth, and that we keep an open communication channel with them. They send some scientists as well to study Earth. We will want to do the same with them. Maybe they won't hand us their technology, but information about their social structures, their home planet, their political landscape etc. are all very valuable. This process will also yield information about what we have and they want and vice-versa. The first thing that happens is trade. Art in particular. Life will have developed differently on different planets, so there will be plants, tress etc. They don't know about. Those can be used as material in art they might be interested in. Music and instruments are another thing we might have to offer that they might want to import. So at first, the relationship will be based on information interchange, then more and more trade. While art and entertainment always work, you could always make some resources restricted for them. They might live on a quite barren planet and consider large bodies of water to be quite are. Earth could become a place of interest for tourism for them. At that point we'd have a pretty good relationship with them. We interchange information and we trade. So we revisit the question I posed earlier: Why would we want to join their empire? On earth, nations trade and exchange information. Yet they rarely want to merge. Maybe trading could be made easier if we were part of their empire. This isn't a problem we could negotiate a free trading agreement with them (think TTIP). As long as there isn't an outside force / a threat, there would be no reason for us to want to join them in the first place. And even if there was another civilization that indeed was hostile, we still wouldn't necessarily want to join them. They could agree to protect us if they think relations are good, and might even try to ally with us (think NATO), because they might be interested in their enemy conquering a nearby star-system and would like the heads-up and warning. So much like NATO has less powerful members as buffer-zones, we could be a buffer zone for them and be under their protection. In order for us to want to join their empire, there has to be a sense of common shared identity. Which needs to evolve over time, possibly generations. Nations on Earth form because of a long history and a common shared identity, the sense of "belonging together". This sense isn't just there. So the question isn#t really what we can offer them in forms of trade/tech/knowledge, but the question is what can we experience together with them / what events might transpire to form a bond of trust, understanding and to create a shared identity so that we and them would want to merge into one empire. Its an interesting thing to explore. 

If you think of bacteria as "natural" nanobots, then this already happens. Within the womb, there's little-to-no bacteria because the placental blood barrier does a pretty good job of keeping things out, while allowing antibodies in so the baby can fight any infections that slip past. During birth, however, all that breaks down and the baby acquires the standard human gut bacteria from the mother on the way out the birth canal. C-section babies tend not to get this bacteria, which has led to a number of hypothesis regarding natural vs. c-section babies and immunities, allergies, and college GPAs, but that's a whole other thing. 

As always, please read On Being the Right Size by J. B. S. Haldane. Here's a cheetah. Here's a pronghorn, the third fastest land animal. Here's a springbok, the fourth fastest land animal, running from a cheetah. Also includes a spectacular skeletal view of the running cheetah. Number two is the ostirich, but we're talking about running on four limbs, not two. Examine all of their gaits. Despite the pronghorn and springbok being hooved with narrow legs and the cheetah being a large cat with thicker legs and powerful paws, they all have the same running gait: front legs move mostly together, back legs move mostly together. Stretch everything way out, pull the ground with the front legs while bringing the back legs forward, then push off with the back legs while stretching the front legs forward. The whole idea is to provide continuous running force so that they never slow down despite the incredible air resistance they experience. In the springbok-cheetah video, pay particular attention to how the cheetah's spine moves; it's not running with just its legs, it's running with the force of its entire body. Here's some grasshopper legs in glorious slow motion action. Swapping out the front legs for cat-like legs is certainly a move in the right direction, but only if the second move is to swap out those back legs as well. You can't run like a cheetah with jumping-designed back legs. The back legs would have these gigantic pushes which would make the front legs either: 

Sideshow entertainment with low stakes. Medical treatment (either low-grade anesthesia or mental rehabilitation). Both are, hypothetically, for the patient's own good, so even though it's high stakes the patient is typically willing. As for mental rehabilitation, hypnosis can be useful for reducing: phobias, anxieties, and addictions. Conversely, on the malicious side, hypnosis could increase: phobias, anxieties, and addictions (but you'd still have to convince the person to enter a hypnotic state willingly). Hypnosis can also implant false memories (still need a willing participant). 

The mines would be found in the mountains. Mineral deposits are found in bedrock, and mountains are basically bedrock extruded to the surface. That being said, salt is one of the most valuable commodities in the medieval world. The capital city would be located on the largest river at the most advantageous farming location. Great import/export, enough food to support itself.