The widely used (especially by laymen atheists in theology debates) term of "God of gaps" (the idea that theists explain unexplained scientific phenomenons by invoking God as the reason, filling that unexplained [or, yet-to-be-explained] gap in science) is quite known to be used in science/religion debates. What happens more than often in those (mostly laymen) debates is that this argument is being invoked against a metaphysical argument for God. What I'd like to ask (I assume the answer is obvious, but I'm not exactly sure, maybe there was a discussion around this subject) is whether or not it's "correct" (logically) to invoke the "God of gaps" argument in a metaphysical debate? 

I understand that lately the new concept coined by Pierre Teilhard de Chardin has gained some popularity, and it's definition (according to Wikipedia) is: 

While I'm more interested in the nihilism that's rooted in the second definition, I'd love to hears answers about them both. 

I've asked a question about how evolution would explain morality, which lead me to a more basic question - if an instinct would tell the group members to act altruistically, where would that instinct come from? Why would that instinct exist? The randomness answer doesn't seem fit here in my opinion, unless it says that the consciousness itself evolves randomly and creates random instinct.. 

Eduard von Hartmann's view of vitalizm follows a little twist of Schelling’s combination of vitalizm and mechanism. I like his approach for vitalizm view of evolution theory, and it's interesting to me if there's any contemporary philosopher/scientist that follows this line of thought? Is there maybe a school of thought based on it? 

Welcome to the site. I'll try to answer your questions and we'll hope somebody who's more expert about Kant comes along to improve my responses. 

I postulate some primitive vocabulary for this last common ancestor language, and then I postulate some rules that would let me systematically transform the primitive vocabulary of the last common ancestor language into the vocabulary of the descendent languages. 

And I think the answer to that question is "No, qualifying over cases doesn't change the semantics of the material conditional." However, you're bringing up cases involving the adverb "mostly" which make it look like Lewis must be wrong--it looks like "mostly, when i go to the gym, I'm wearing a suit and tie" should be false if I never go to the gym. I think this isn't a problem with vacuous conditions, though, but rather a problem with the semantics of "mostly". Let me start by saying why I don't think Lewis is changing the semantics of the conditional, then I'll come back to what I think is happening with "mostly." To see why I don't think Lewis is messing with the standard understanding of the conditional, look at Lewis's contrast between the semantic definitions of the standard "selective" first-order quantifiers defined in his (18) and (19) [page 9] and then his semantic definitions of the "non-selective" quantifiers in (20) and (21) that he thinks underly adverbial constructions like the ones under discussion. I think that Lewis's subsequent discussion of how conditionals introduce restrictions is just refining this basic idea of the truth conditions for these new quantifiers and NOT altering his understanding of the material conditional from its usual sense in first-order logic. Therefore, I think Lewis is going to say that vacuous sentences like "always, when I go to the gym, I'm naked" are true, even when there are no cases where I go to the gym. Now, however, notice that something different seems to be happening if instead of "always" I had said, "mostly, when I go to the gym, I'm naked." I think what's happening here is that "mostly" has the natural reading "in >50% of cases", which is more like an existential quantifier than a universal one. In other words, you can't say that I ate most of the cake, if there wasn't any cake served at all. Nor can I be said to have gone to the gym naked in most cases if there were no cases of my gym going at all. How's that sound? 

So my real question is this: is the pro choice movement hijacking this debate by arguing from adverse consequences, and by appealing to women to get enough votes to push the issue through without thinking about the only real issue on the table: life? (And my reason for mentioning transplant choices is so that someone can't come along and say that I'm arguing for never aborting, even in a medical emergency, or even after rape. This case - where life is inviolate, but we have to choose one life over another - is already well established in law and medicine, and from what I can tell doesn't require choice to enter the debate.) 

I actually didn't come to this from this point of view. My first thought was more about the pro choice movement, which makes the debate about women, instead of about life. Which is fine, except the more I think about it, the more the fundamental question has nothing to do with choice. To illustrate my thought graphically: 

Can the pro/anti-abortion debate ever be about choice? Is it, in fact, 100% about life? What I'm positing is: if a foetus counts as life, then the same rules apply as with any other life. If a foetus doesn't yet count as life, then no such rules apply. To expand on the first point, this doesn't mean that difficult decisions don't have to be made. Deciding who gets a liver transplant is a weighty decision that chooses one life over another; we don't say, "Let's classify the person who deserves it less as not life in order to make this simpler." What it does mean is that if it's life, then currently the choice of whether or not to end it is given to far less expert and disinterested people than in any other instance in society. 

The question popped up in the feed after 3 years, so I'd give my 2 cents. I'll posit a rather radical view. 

A. I have met the criticism that metaphysical theories doesn't/shouldn't care about (natural) science (=physics mostly, if not only), as in it doesn't really have a direct relation to it (such criticism was noted on several of my questions, and is pretty rational and probably true). But I must admit, I'm rather confused. I'll start with a quote from Chalmers' article "Idealism and the Mind-body Problem": 

Of course, for this question the physical itself needs to be defined; I'll define it simply as the popular use of it today in physics - either an actual, material substance, or a physical concept such as gravity, force, kinetic energy, planck size etc. Now non-physical entities/concepts may be (but not necessarily exclusive to) mental substances/concepts (I'm using it merely because it's the best [and perhaps the only] example for non-physicality). And for the question - can a physician talk, within the academic scope of physics, about those non-physical concepts and use it in relation to the physical concepts? Or is that in a different department? I'm asking both theoretically on the meaning of physics and practically in the published papers. If some physician did such thing (put non-physical in his research) I'd be happy to get a reference. 

In the history of philosophy it's a well-known fact that philosophy of nature has separated from philosophy and moved to science as "natural science" in the late 19th century. My question is, are there philosophers today (in the last 50 years at least) that still tries to make philosophy of nature claims? In other words - is philosophy of nature, as a philosophical discipline, dead? Are only scientists eligible to claim "natural" theories? 

But 3 is false. Proponents of essentialism would regard (3) as a paradigm case of a false sentence. They want to say that the fact that we have 8 planets in the solar system rather than 7, or whatever is just a contingent fact. What Kripke's semantics for modal logic gives us is the ability to make a distinction between: 3*. It is necessarily true that the number of planets is even. 3**. It is necessarily true of the number of planets, that that number is even. The difference being that 3*, but not 3** implies 3. Therefore, Quine's objection doesn't go through. This is all still controversial, but this is the guiding idea behind why Kripke is so important for contemporary metaphysics. 

To see that this is wrong, look in the pages of the best journals in philosophy today, like The Philosophical Review, The Journal of Philosophy, Noûs, Philosophy and Phenomenological Review, etc. Those are the places the hot new stuff is appearing. Getting an article published in one of these journals means that you've convinced several very, very good philosophers who are involved in the editorial process that your stuff is the absolute cutting edge of the discipline today. Those journals don't tend to publish much in the way of historical or exegetical material. (I counted only one such historical paper in Phil. Review in the last year or so out of ~ten) There are specialist journals in the history of philosophy that do publish such material, of course, but that's no evidence that the main direction the field is going is towards close textual analysis.