If you can't fit a solid axle, you could try a ratcheted quick release such as the DT Swiss RWS system and here's the main page with a variety of sizes. You ratchet it tight and they claim 50% more clamping force than common quick release. They're not cheap, but I have one on the front as I'm running disk brakes which generate a lot of downward force on the axle, so your clamp should be good. The rear I have a solid Alfine axle. I find they are worth the money though, they are a quality item, but maybe go for the metal handled ones if you want the most durability. 

I haven't bought one of these yet (but I will be) so check the reviews and specifications and make your own decisions of course. I may post a table of comparison specs here if I do my own comparison table. The come for a variety of budgets from about $100 for the Toshiba, up to $400 or more for the Panasonic. My interest is for problems with motorists but also recording interesting stuff while touring. It is not always possible to stop and take photos or video. Another application is for contributing to Open Cycle Map which is a whole other topic in itself, but is a brilliant project. Check it out! Next is, how to mount it to the bike? I found $URL$ which have some mounts that allow you to mount a standard digital compact to your bike using the tripod mount found on almost all compact digital cameras. They also have some general information about what to look for in a camera, how to edit video and remove shake etc. See the "Information" menu on that site. 

The question about getting wheels other than 2.0 is not clear because I think from what you said earlier the tires you have now are 2.0 inches wide, not the wheel or rim. But to answer, I don't think you need new wheels or rims if you are happy with them (apart from the tires). For the tires, your only stated criteria appears to be rolling resistance. However I'm guessing you're not racing your 29er on road. You're most likely commuting or something so puncture protection may be important, and with puncture protection weight can be a trade-off. If you state your needs better, it will be easier to answer. Still, for street commuting and general riding I have used Schwalbe tires on both 26" and 700c wheels, and I've stuck with them because they're so good. I've also done some gentle off-road riding with them, but again I don't know if that is a need for you. The Schwalbe website rates each of their tires for Speed, Grip, Puncture Protection and Durability $URL$ I have used the Marathon Plus for years and they are brilliant for puncture resistance, and I feel they are as fast as any MTB slick I've had. I've had one puncture in 30,000km, that was a screw that jacked up into the side-wall whilst cornering. They are however hard to get on and off (I found a good trick on Youtube to do this), and they are heavy. I recently used the Marathon Dureme on a tour which are a lot lighter than the Marathon Plus and they were fast too, although a bit harder to tell how fast whilst touring. A 35c width should be faster than a 45c in the same tire, but I switched to a 45c Marathon Plus on the back, from a 35c and I can't tell any difference in speed. The extra volume suits me as I run panniers and so the volume provides cushioning, not only to me but the wheel as well. Again, don't know if this applies to you. Concerning the fit which you seem concerned about, since you ask if you should get new wheels, I would recommend looking at the ETRTO which is much more standard than traditional measurements which are often mixed imperial and decimal. Schwalbe lists their tires in both measures. You'll see that their 29 x 2.0 inch tires are a 50-622 ETRTO. You probably have 50-622 tires now. The main thing then is that you get a 622 ETRTO tire and that it is not too skinny for the width of your rim. Your rim manufacturer should state a minimum width tire. Make sure you are looking at the same measurement. ETRTO is the most consistent. The 700 x 35c and 700 x 45c you are talking about would be 37-622 ETRTO and 47-622 ETRTO respectively. 

Your question doesn't clearly state your criteria in choosing a chain except that your competitors are using stainless steel and you use an alternative rust resistant chain, so I'll answer generally on the assumption that corrosion resistance is the main criteria. As far as I know there are no bicycle chains that are completely stainless steel. You will note on the Connex Wipperman stainless steel chains that only the inner links are stainless steel, so you won't get complete rust or corrosion resistance by using them. You will still need to lubricate and clean the chain to avoid corrosion and increase the chain's life. The stainless steel in those chains may give you longer wear, with a slight weight penalty as seen in this review. You will have noticed from the Connex page that I linked to before, that there are a number of other corrosion resistance mechanisms including nickel and brass coatings. Other manufacturers also have a variety of means of corrosion resistance. The main disadvantage of stainless steel would probably be the expense and possibly a slight weight penalty, although the review I linked to suggests the longer life will offset the expense for their purposes. Overall though, there is no zero maintenance bicycle chain that I know of that is completely rust proof and maintenance free. Only a belt-drive bicycle transmission will not require lubrication and will not rust and it is claimed they will not stretch. Yet there are other issues with belt-drives, which you can research separately to this question if you are interested. 

Gates claims their belts do not stretch over their life, so theoretically speaking you should not have to adjust the tension (which appears finicky). I'm interested in anyone with real world experience. Do you ever have to adjust the tension of the belt, apart from when you have to move the back wheel for another reason, such as to change a tyre? Gates, who make the belts have a FAQ. I can't get a direct link, but if you go to $URL$ under the question "What are the benefits to the Carbon Drive systems?" this is part of their answer. 

I watched your video, and have to confess to a bit of a laugh when you picked up the crank, in what looked like a WTH moment :-) Some cranks have only a very light cap holding the crank arm laterally, so if the pinch bolts loosen, the crank could fall off before you notice. Square taper and one-key release, or other cranks are a different story. Daniel is right though, that this period of looseness may damage the splines on the crank, requiring replacement. The 25-30 ft lbs torque you quote is for the external Bottom Bracket bearings, seen in the picture. You probably don't have to touch them. The torque setting you're looking for will be on the crank arm that fell off. I'm not sure the exact crank you have so it is hard to give specific instructions. Have a look at the Park Repair Help page for various cranksets. I'm guessing yours might be the GXP type. That page gives instructions similar to those in the The Big Blue Book of Cycle Repair, 2nd Edition (Calvin Jones). If you don't have a torque wrench you can tighten the bolts by having a feel for these things (takes experience and taking into consideration the bolt size, thread size, materials etc). You can also be guided by the specified torque settings by gauging how much more torque should be applied to one bolt relative to another. For the next few rides after re-attaching, take the required tool and check the crank regularly, and tighten it if it comes loose. If it doesn't stay after doing this a few times, you're not tightening it enough, or the crank or BB may be damaged. Worst case scenario for over-tightening is you will strip the threads on both bolt and crank or BB, and / or shear off or burr the bolt. This will obviously damage those parts requiring replacement and it may be difficult to remove the parts. This could involve drilling out the bolts and various other hacks and so cost a fair bit of labour and parts in a shop - much more than just tightening the crank arm for you which should be very cheap. Thus if you're not confident, $10 or so at the LBS to re-attach your crank is probably money well spent. Even if you take it to a shop who uses a torque wrench (not all do), and they tighten to the specified setting, your crank can still come loose. I have a great LBS and even using the correct torque settings, I once had the crank arm come loose. The LBS replaced the arm for me under warranty as they followed the manufacturers settings (Shimano). So even if taking it to a shop, I'd still carry a tool and check occasionally, at least for several rides afterward until you feel confident it won't loosen again. Your crank arm and / or bottom bracket spline could be damaged. You can check for signs of any burring on the splines of the crank and BB, or your LBS can check. Get them to point out any damage to you if they think it needs replacing. 

Does a belt on a belt-drive bicycle stretch under load and then elastically return? The only current manufacturer I know (Gates Carbon Drive) claims the belt does not stretch over its useful lifetime, but my question is does it stretch under load and then return? I have read some forum posts (can't find them now), that say they stretch under load, so are no good for power applications such as single-speed racing. This argument would not seem to hold up since Gates now have a single speed racing team and they've won some races. Does anyone have any factual information or practical experience that can answer whether the belt stretches under load and elastically returns? A related question is if there is some slight elasticity would that help prevent the damage that can be caused to internal hubs from changing gears under heavy load? 

Cateye seem to have quite a few mounting options for each light on their website, including an adapter bracket for a rear rack, which fit most Cateye lights at least. You can also buy just the mounts without having to buy a whole light, or light set. Or you could get a light designed to mount to a rack which many of the German ones do like Busch and Muller. Then you have the no bracket style lights like the ones from Knog that you should be able to mount to a rack. 

Basically you just have to get a feel for it, depending on your bike, the brakes, your weight, what you are carrying (eg rear panniers), and the road conditions (loose surface, wet, downhill etc). The two main things to beware of when front braking are: 1. Not going over the bars. 2. Not front braking through corners. You can get away with the second one when traction is good, but you only need a little gravel, a little oil (middle of lane at lights is full of oil) that can cause your front wheel to lose traction under front braking. So #2 still holds! Avoid it! You should brake before corners. When braking in a straight line you should use your front brake mostly, as it is your most effective brake, being wary of going over the bars of course. For slow manouvering, or one handed riding (sometimes you have to indicate whilst cornering), or if you have to brake whilst cornering, use the back brake smoothly. 

There is now an iPhone app to measure belt tension of a belt-drive. Here is Gates blog post about it, and here it is on iTunes Preview They say they are working on an Android app but this has to take into account the variety of microphones on Android phones. They will probably have to test and calibrate for each make and model of Android phone. 

I always go for interchangeable lenses. I use the clear ones (or yellow if you must), at night, and dark ones in really bright sun. Although mostly I just keep the clear ones in day and night. On every pair I've had the clear lens also gives full UV protection (although clear won't cut down glare of course). Make sure you try them on so that they are a good fit to your face. 

Sometimes it is necessary to indicate and brake whilst turning across traffic in a roundabout for instance. So if you're in the UK / Australia / NZ / Japan / India etc, this would be indicating right, with your right hand, to take the third exit of a roundabout. If your front brake was on the left, you'd be using your front brake with only your outside hand on the bars and brake, whilst leaning over to take the corner. In my experience and from what I've heard (motorcycle license course in Australia), the rear brake is easier and safer to use for most people in this situation (cornering, slow manoeuvring, indicating, turning across traffic). There is not such a problem indicating left, because you are not turning across traffic, so there is less need to brake, indicate and corner, all at the same time. Of course for the Americas, Europe and countries that drive on the right, replace "right" with "left" above :-) 

Park Tools are the biggest maker of bicycle specific tools I know and the repair section of their website is pretty good and covers a lot of what is in their Big Blue Book of Bicycle Repair. Surly themselves have some good info in their spews. One that may be relevant to you is Care and feeding of your steel frame. Sheldon Brown is another oft quoted resource, but it may not be that easy to find exactly what you're looking for there, or get a good overview. He can be good for some little niggly details though. I'd try the Park repair site first. It definitely pays to have the right tools, but tools can be expensive, particularly for a one-off job. Park aren't the only maker and can sometimes be more expensive, so shop around. One other option if you don't want to buy a whole shop full of tools is to look around for a bike co-op. Not sure where you are but there is a famous one in SF The Bike Kitchen, and in my home town there is The Nunnery. Usually you can borrow tools, get advice or help, there may be classes and so on. Try a search for Bicycle co-op [your home town]. Good luck! 

I've seen some expensive hydraulic hose cutting tools. I just want to cut the two new brake hoses I have now, so I don't want to buy an expensive tool. I want to do it myself, and I don't mind spending some money for a tool to do it, but not $100. I've read that cable cutters are not suitable (I have proper cable cutters). Also, I'm guessing what is critical is getting a nice clean square cut (ie exactly perpendicular to the hose length). What is my best option to do it myself, if I don't have the expensive tool? 

I've heard a few people say brand doesn't matter and they all come from the same factory / country. I've had bad experience with some tubes though (ok I'll mention them, BBB). They would bulge in places. I've typically had no problems with tubes from the major tyre manufacturers like Michelin, Continental and Schwalbe. Schwalbe marketing suggests their tubes hold pressure longer than other brands due to higher quality standards or possibly more butyl, and Michelin does too for their butyl tubes. Lightweight or Latex tubes will not hold pressure as long and need to be pumped up more often. I tend to think the large tire manufacturers know their rubber, they have better quality control and they care about their reputation. So I don't subscribe to the "they're all the same" philosophy. At my LBS there is little price difference, if any, between say a standard Michelin tube and a BBB. The price difference you're seeing may be for specialist features such as very lightweight, puncture resistant, latex etc.