Tire clearance is measured with respect to something(s) (by default, the frame in the rear and the fork in the front and the brakes if there are rim brakes; if anything between the frame/fork/brakes and the tire is there, such as fenders, this is included in the set of somethings). Note that this is a function of both the tire used and the somethings. We can define tire clearance as the minimum of the distance(s) from the tire to the object(s) its being measured with respect to. That is, for each item in the set of objects, measure the distance between the closest point on the tire and the object. Then, take the minimum of these distances over the set of objects. For example, if I wanted to measure the tire clearance in the front, I'd put the wheel in, and measure minimum distance from the tire to the brake caliper and to the fork and to the fender if I had one. The smallest of those distances would be my tire clearance. Example 1 (from here): 

I was looking into a similar thing today, and the Pitlock FAQ specifically states: "If you have horizontal dropouts on your bike's rear wheel (horizontal and open at the rear), we dissuade you from using the Pitlock system. Usually (almost) all rear wheels are assembled in vertical dropouts (opening diagonally towards the bottom). Here the assembly with PITLOCK works without problems. " Thus, the manufacturer states for track dropouts that you should not use Pitlock skewers. I suspect the same is true for other manufacturers, but I have not checked. As for allen keys, its slightly harder than a quick release, but its safe to assume an allen key or hex nut or similar standard non-security skewer is not much safer than a quick release -- any thief can/will have tools to remove it very quickly. 

You could do this for the front with a Mountain Tamer Quad (which is an adapter which turns a triple into a quad) and an appropriately chosen front derailleur. The chainline issues become more severe than they do with a triple. For the rear, you could use a 12 speed internal gear hub (Sachs Elan) or go up to 14 with a Rohloff Speedhub with a chain tensioner. The question is why would you want to do this (like all your questions)? With 3x9's or 2x11's there are more than enough gear combinations that its pointless for riders to have more. With more gears, things have to be machined more carefully and become less robust as well. You need a good gear combination, not the perfect combination (though Nuvinci makes a CVT for bicycles). Also, who in their right mind looks at the cassette when shifting? Nobody. On top of this, front derailleurs are crude and sloppy devices just by how they work -- with 4 chain rings, you can get one to work depending on the chainring spacing, but probably not well. So, while you could run a 4x12, it would be utterly useless for anyone who wants to ride. 

If you're going on road, a hybrid should be fine (like the Aero RS2) - the gearing and tire size and handling should be reasonable provided you don't go too high on the weight. I'd probably not load it too much though (for that you want something intended for touring). At 30 kg of stuff though, I think I'd look for something more touring bike-y than the Aero RS2 - its part of Giant's casual series and carrying 30 kg of stuff isn't really in the casual realm and you could likely do better for 900 euros in that realm. A more reasonable option overall would be to buy a bike that works well outside the week of mountain touring, and rent a bike for the week long mountain trip. 

John Allen has an article on some common reasons why chains drop, which I think is worth reading. Wrong chain size, bad derailleur adjustment, insufficient derailleur capacity, chainring damage, etc. are some reasons this could occur. There are clutch rear derailleurs (common in mountain biking) which try to keep the chain taut-er when going over rough ground, where a regular derailleur might move in a way to reduce chain tension and lead to dropped chains. But rough handling on any bike increases the likelihood of dropped chains or things switching up on you. Shimano calls their clutch rear derailleurs "Shadow" and SRAM calls them "Type 2". 

400 km on asphalt seems ridiculously low on any bicycle tire. Try some tough and very durable touring/commuter tires, like the Schwalbe Marathon line. On a bicycle, you should be getting well over 10k miles on those, though due to the smaller wheels on a trailer, you will likely get something less (a friend of mine who uses a recumbent trike gets approximately 2.5k miles on a set). Also, try to ride smoothly - if for example you're skidding the wheels, then you'll also wear the tires out unnecessarily. It would also be good if you posted how the tires were getting worn down. 

I'd guess probably not covered; things that happen in the course of riding (e.g. the chain breaking) aren't generally causes for warranty claims. Of course, warranty stuff does depend on country and everything else. I would take the bike to a Cannondale authorized shop for them to verify this (preferred; they can also arrange repairs to the bike if necessary/required/possible), and/or call Cannondale. 

Urbana/Champaign/(Parts of) Savoy, Illinois, USA The Champaign-Urbana Mass Transit District has almost all buses which can take 2 bikes in the front. The rules are here. 

Google maps tries to do this in biking mode to begin with: $URL$ Mapquest is also hill aware to some extent: $URL$ (I have tried this, but I don't think its particularly great. But I haven't tried it in SF). Specific to SF, but $URL$ exists. $URL$ is another SF specific one. $URL$ isn't directions, but gives you topographical information. 

Looks like it has a freehub and 7 speed shifters by default. So you just need a 7 speed Shimano cassette (note the difference between a cassette and freewheel), which you can find at your local bike shop pretty easily or online. The default is a Shimano-compatible (made by Shimano, SRAM, IRD, etc.) 7 speed 11-30t cassette. Your LBS probably has some laying around - according to Sheldon Brown's site, that exact cassette is no longer made, but there are several other close ones like this. You need some tools for replacing a cassette, so it might be cheaper (and it is like a 5 minute job) for your LBS to do it. 

You don't get bulk buying discounts for each part. You have to get retail packaging instead of bulk packaging. Certain parts are only made for OEM bikes. You have to put it together (and possibly get the frame prepped at the bike shop), which can add labor costs (since the work is not done in say, Taiwan). 

They are rack and fender mounts and you cannot install disc brakes with them. I.S. mounts are 51 mm apart, and post mounts are 74 mm apart (and look totally different). For more details on these mounts, see this answer. 

It will fit once its partially inflated. You need a 26 inch tube,with a range 26xa - b where a<= 1.95 and b>=1.95. Though, you could likely use a 26x2.00 tube just fine. 

There isn't always one size frame which fits a person well in a given model line of bikes (there may be 2 or more - probably 2 if someones on the border of sizes). In some cases, you can get multiple models to fit by swapping out stems and seatposts and saddle and handlebar adjustments or swaps. However, this is highly dependent on the particular model of the bike and the rider. The best solution for this sorta problem is to get a bike fit, which may show its not even possible. Otherwise, you have to just play with it on feel, which can get a bit expensive if you don't have all the parts on hand already. Pretty much all you can do though is put a longer stem, possibly raise and lower it, use wider handlebars and adjust the saddle angle+ position a bit further back (which may be easier with a different seat post). The biggest things you have to do are get the effective top tube right. Then you have seat height and angle and handlebar height and stuff. Its not exactly a science though so you have to play around with it. 

You probably just have to get used to the geometry of the endurance road bike (since most hybrids are closer to MTB hardtail geometry), which can be helped with bike fit, so the drop bar and saddle are positioned in a way where you can use all the hand positions of the bike (hoods, drops, middle of the bar, sides, etc.) efficiently and comfortably for the type of riding you're doing. Also, you should be more aware of road hazards, since most endurance road bikes have weaker wheels than a hybrid, to save weight - bunny hopping can be useful for this. Also, if you're using clipless pedals (or clipped pedals) on the road bike and not on the hybrid, make sure to practice clipping in and out before you hit the road (unless you like your face hitting the ground...) 

Assuming your derailleur isn't bent, you need to adjust the derailleur. If the derailleur is bent, you will need to unbend it. Your shifters may not be catching the last gear as well, but you'd probably feel that when you tried to shift it up. The frame has nothing to do with it. 

And then various adjustments (e.g. headset). Crankset+BB in some cases as well. Note that the crankset might not actually be damaged -- some teeth are designed to look worn out, but without a picture of the bike or something, we can't even begin to make some sort of assessment. Most of these require bike-specific special tools, so if you're not inclined to take up the maintenance on your own regularly, you're best off finding a shop to look it over. 

Goodwill takes bicycles in the US. They're all around the country. Note that the Goodwill shops are independently operated, so the quality and amount of community impact can be different in various parts of the country. 

It depends on how the fork is engineered for safety. While its plausible that the curved shape does add to some shock absorption, that is determined by the width and construction of the fork tubing. You could design a fork which was reliable and curved in aluminum or carbon or whatever, but the engineering wouldn't be the same as a steel fork. Whether the fork on that bike has been designed appropriately or not, is a different matter than if its possible. You usually see it only on steel now, but older aluminum bikes have had that style (even mountain bikes), especially from Cannondale: 

It will work fine provided you put an appropriate speed cassette on it -- they have the same hub spacing, both are 700c and both ship with Shimano compatible freehubs (so you can indeed put an appropriate cassette on both of them). 

They last pretty much forever provided they haven't been damaged (e.g. punctured or rusted or something), so go ahead and use them. If you really want to check them, you can buy a few new ones and weigh them on a scale (and compare the weights of the old cartridges to the new ones). If they're significantly lighter, they've leaked and throw them out. Else, go ahead and use them. But a few years (say less than a decade) is pretty much nothing in terms of having issues with the cartridges leaking. 

I suggest looking at this table from Park Tool for what each component needs for torque. For the seat rail binder (aka seat fixing bolt aka the bolts you've photographed), Park tool gives a range from 174 - 347 in-lbs as the Shimano value, with some others requiring as little as 44 or others as much as 300. If we convert 174 in-lbs to N-m, thats about 20 N-m (the rule is divide by 9-ish). So, its a reasonable value for the bolts under question. As noted in the table, the number doesn't really make sense for the seatpost binder (thing that holds the seatpost in the frame); you normally just go enough that it doesn't slip for that, which Campy suggests 4-6 N-m which is much lower. 

Shimano 9 and 10 speed mountain stuff have different cable pulls. So, if you want to use a Shimano 10 speed mountain derailleur in a Shimano 9 speed setup (i.e. 9 speed shifter + cassette) you either need to: 

The B-screw controls the body angle of the derailleur. It pulls the pulleys away from the sprockets, so you don't rub against them. If you set it in the largest rear cog (as you should), when you're adequately clear, you don't have rubbing. Its a somewhat insensitive adjustment once you clear the cogs, but the closer you are to the loosest screw value which works (i.e. the closest pulley to cog), the better your shifting will be. If you set it too close, note that a bicycle moves, so you need to allow some tolerance due to vibrations and what not. Set it too far and your shifting won't be as crisp as it should be: "Since a derailer shift is caused by forcing the chain to run at an angle, the greater the angle, the sooner it will shift. The closer the jockey pulley is to the cluster, the sharper the angle will be for a given amount of sideways motion of the derailer. Thus, the looser the angle adjuster screw is, the better the shifting will be." (from Sheldon) 

Generally, parts are somewhat standardized. For example, bottom brackets only come in a few types and different size. Given its a recent department store bike, you likely have a standard square taper bottom bracket with ISO threading. You can take the relevant measurements (spindle length, shell width, etc.), but the easiest way for bottom brackets is either read them off the existing bottom bracket (usually labeled) or take it to a bike shop so they can measure it quickly and give you a new one. As for other parts, you can usually identify them by what family of parts they belong to if they're in the drivetrain (# of speeds and manufacturer), or measure them for things like seatposts or handlebars (which are also standardized, e.g. road bikes use some sizes, mountain others). 

Based on the edit, put a new cable on. And while you're at it, you may as well replace the cable housing. 

Generally, you attach a bike computer or a power meter to a bicycle to collect statistics, and/or some sensors to yourself. A bike computer measures the revolutions per minute of a wheel, typically by attaching a magnet to a spoke of the wheel and using a detector attached to the frame which tells the computer every time the magnet passes the detector (so the number of times the magnet passes the detector per minute is the revolutions per minute; the circumference of the wheel gives distance). This gives you information like speed. These are cheap -- maybe 10-20 dollars on the low end, and various exercise apps can estimate calories burned based on the speed data (sometimes automatically from things like ride logs, and possibly with additional parameters you can estimate). A GPS can also take position and time measurements and do calorie estimates, albeit probably less accurately than a bike computer. A power meter is often built into a special crankset (or occasionally bottom bracket or hub or pedals). It uses strain gauges to measure your power output based on your pedaling. This gives you watts that are delivered through your drivetrain. These are often quite expensive -- on the order of 1000 USD, typically. Using data from this, you can approximate the power you're using (under some appropriate models), which would give you the rate of calories burned. You can also attach things like heart rate monitors and O2 sensors and other sensors to the person's body. From these, again, with appropriate models, you can estimate the calories burned. These are in the middle in price -- my bike computer came with a heart rate monitor strap, and bike computers that have this feature are available in the 100 dollar range (probably less; mine came with my trainer). Generally, this calculation will come up in terms of VO2 max (which you can estimate based on how quickly you can run), age, gender, weight and the heart rate. This can be supplemented with other sensors as well. I'd venture in terms of accuracy, combining a heart rate monitor (and maybe other sensors) and power meter would be most accurate. However, in terms of cost, just using a decent heart rate monitor (i.e. with a chest strap; not something like a FitBit) is probably the best for budget. The cheapest option would likely be using the bike computer and entering the speed data into some app, but this is likely the least accurate option.