Now properties are traditionally ascribed to something that exists, or an abstract notion of such, say substances; and on the face of it cannot be ascribed to Void. Is this affirmed by Aristotle? Tim Crane, argues: 

Going on the basis of this passage only; Foucault appears to be describing an ontology of power; which isn't flat ie of one form - only the large institutions of power, whose motions are commonly the subject of politics and history; or the counter-narrative pioneered by Marxism and Social Darwinism which reduces these situations to individuals - to the personal, the self and the body: ie 'each individual'. His micro-physics of power is situated between these two canonical ontologies of power; so it's in-between, more temporal and transient. 

In monadology, Liebniz describes monads as the true atoms, that which cannot be broken into parts, and enters into compounds. They are simple substances. Nor can they have shape, extension or divisibility. Now take spacetime itself; this obviously has extension & shape, so cannot be a monad: it must be a compound of them. (So, if I'm right, Liebniz is going much further than the greek atomists as his atoms build spacetime). 

Now, Marx is popularly viewed as turning Hegel on his head ie Hegel saying that mind dictates how matter moves, whereas Marx said it was the material conditions (economics) that dictates. Debord turns it around again; his point is that the spectacle has material force, it is the 'mind' of the productive forces; and this is confirmed in the preface when he states the Soviet Union crumbled due to the objective force of the Spectacle. But this simple 'upturning' of Marx isn't correct; as thesis 8 shows: 

Presumably one goes to the cinema in company; and afterwards one might discuss it. All this he ties to a certain notion of sociability, the 'chatter' of @Virmaiors answer; for he adds: 

Although admitting that there was a long-running debate on the origins of Philosophy, Diogenes Laertius asserts that Philosophy began with the Greeks. This can mean only that the debate centred around whether other near-ancient civilisations should get at least (partial) credit. Certainly there is an extensive pre-Socratic tradition of philosophy in the Hellenic diaspora, but notably none in mainland Greece. This is standardly seen as the (mythological) point where reason began to coalesce out of myth. But Plato appears to attribute this to the priesthood of Ancient Egypt in his dialogue The Timaeus: 

Not an answer but a comment: 'Properly basic' seems to have a family resemblance with Descartes 'clear and distinct perception'; and with the mathematical notion of an 'axiom'. 

That time is unreal has been an observation of objective physics since Newtons time, and more paramountly since Einstein; and its most outspoken partisan, now, is Julian Barbour. Its also been argued for by the philosopher McTaggart. There is another sense in which time is excluded; and this is in the Platonism, not as conceived by Plato, but by mathematicians in Mathematical Platonism; here time is necessarily excluded. One might argue that the unreality of time, in the theory of GR, is such, not because of physical phenomena objectively understood; but as physical phenomena understood mathematically; and therefore platonically. But to follow this line of reasoning one would first have to affirm that time is neccsarily excluded from the platonic realm; but this seems so, as Plato describe this realm of the ideal and pure concepts as unchanging, and unvarying; by definition it excludes time. Is this correct? As physics, and mathematics tends towards geometry (Spinozas extension) it seems neccesarily they will, too exclude time. Is this also correct? 

There is no natural distinction between left & right, in the same way we can distinguish top from bottom, which we do because of the presence of gravity. Your hands are arbitrarily named left & right. But once they're named they stay that way. And of course everyone else names their hands in the same way. So one can say the left & right distinction is socially constructed. 

It is agreed by everyone that liberty is a good thing; and one cannot have enough of a good thing; thus unlimited liberty must be one of the most perfect of goods. For in liberty unlimited one can express the fullness of being; being in its plenitude; but as Hegel noticed, pure being in this sense is hardly differentiated, though it is, from non-being. But what notion of liberty can we attach to non-being? Possibly non-liberty; obedience in short. Thus we consider obedience unlimited as the notion of liberty to attach to non-being. But given Hegels equivocation between pure Being and pure Non-Being; one ought to regard as pure or unlimited liberty as equivocal to pure or unlimited obedience. ie in a sense, pure liberty is a contradiction. And as Becoming is the sublation of Being and non-Being; one might posit freedom as the sublation of pure liberty and pure obedience; as a kind of Becoming; the discovery and self-discovery of potential and it's actualisation. Still, this is just freefall fancy footwork in a Rabbit-hole. Question: How does Hegel himself develop the notion of freedom in his system of philosophy; that is, if he does? 

Kants answer, in a sense, is that it is both dependent on sensory experience and also not. He claims that our intuition for space, through which we construct geometry, is a priori and thus independent of experience, but also synthetic, so that it is more than the rules of logic; he says that this is possible because our intuition for space is a neccessary condition to have any experience at all. Frege, agreed with this for mathematics considered solely as geometry, but disputed arithmetic fits into what he calls Kants psychologism, perhaps a term that he picked up from Hume. Frege is a key figure in the early 20 Century project to reduce arithmetic to logic; and it is this thought that bypasses Kant, or so one supposes, because this would mean that arithmetic being solely based on logic cannot be synthetic, but must be analytic. 

In Hegels phenomenology he starts with the thesis Nothing whose antithesis is Being, and whose synthesis is Becoming. In Saussure linguistics, elements of language are understood not in terms of themselves but of their differences. 

This is somewhat like Heideggers Dasein (There-Being) where being is a problem for Being. Here we can see the self-reference explicitly; except the two senses of being is different. It's also akin to an observation in the Plato, where he says order is essential for meaning to be possible. 

The original unstructured psyche (as the Id) has become structured as the Id-Ego-SuperEgo. Can this differentiation be viewed as a dialectic? The Ego arising as a synthesis between the Id & Reality. The SuperEgo as a synthesis between the Id & the Ego? It rewards & punishes both? That this dialectic is ongoing and creates a history for each part of the Id-Ego-SuperEgo? I've added a tag for Hegel, as I'm supposing that Hegel described history as a dialectic. I'm not asserting that Hegel had a direct influence on Freud. In passing, it was Chalybaus that characterised Hegels dialectic as Thesis-Antithesis-Synthesis formulation (he himself described his dialectic as Abstract-Negative-Concrete). Chalybaus's terminology is at least more immediately understandable.