If simplified Dhamma as teaching of Buddha. It's also interpreted as behavior or process of nature. E.g when you consider three characteristics(anatta,dukkha,anicca); those are exists in nature and can be observed with our wisdom. Simply Dhamma is how nature is operated or functioned with its fundamental laws and constants. 

what happen when person die during the coma or unconsciousness state? Is this similar to Nirvana? (as total detachment of world.) 

This what I read part of heart sutta states; So, in emptiness, there is no body, no feeling, no thought, no will, no consciousness. There are no eyes, no ears, no nose, no tongue, no body, no mind. There is no seeing, no hearing, no smelling, no tasting, no touching, no imagining. There is nothing seen, nor heard, nor smelled, nor tasted, nor touched, nor imagined. apparently it is about the death of being to me.Also this description perfectly match and experience in coma or unconsciousness state of an individual. can I get proper and profound explanation for above? 

Your thinking to get approach to practice Buddhism is remarkable and it's similar to the Buddha who left everything his son,wife,luxury etc.. This is very hard and difficult decision. My suggestion is you better to make them understanding about Buddhism and what is your intention of renunciation and if there is a possibility of arrange residence closer to monastery so you can easily visit them in difficulties. Make them involve with your practices and share it with them and that's good for your parents to gain their morality in late life. This is not against Buddhist teaching as treat and look after parents in their late life as they are weak and helpless. That's also good practice. Wish you all the courage to reach your best potential and wisdom and serve the world with your achievements. Thank you. metta. 

So let us examine the one of Dhamma; "ashta loka dhamma"(eight worldly conditions) as example out of 84000 thousand Dhamma Gain and non-gain, disrepute and fame, blame and praise, happy and sorrow: these conditions found among people are impermanent, transient, subject to change. so this is the behavior of nature.(or how it is operated or processed or any other better suggestions of the word) and it has wholesome and unwholesome aspects. it is obvious that we have to interact with above nature.Also prove that existence of wholesome and unwholesome. When some one say If you interpret natural as something that happens easily in nature, a robber wanting to steal is natural.Also stealing is not sustainable and harm the society and it can overcome by ethics. So Dhamma can't be explained as single isolated event it's a process and interconnected phenomena. the initial question has a discrepancy by saying "your Dhamma" and "my Dhamma" pretend individuals and nature are two different things. Dhamma must be seen as a whole thing. E.g. one's experiences,realizations,way of reactions to outer world and all phenomena include in Dhamma. In other way wholesome and unwholesome exists and unwholesome phenomena lack of sustainability and it can overcome by wholesome acts. This also a Dhamma. Purpose of Dhamma(As teaching of Buddha) is realizing things as it is and how to escape from suffering. If simplified thief in today has potential to be Arahath in future.Think that hungry person steal food and someone understand the motive behind stealing and offer some food with kind way and convince him not to steal- which is the process of Dhamma.Just stealing and kindness are not. In same way; murderer today has potential to become Arahath in future (E.g motive behind killing as a blind faith on his teacher in Angulimala story) with the exact realization of Dhamma. If we go further it obvious that existence of violence and non-violence and violence cease by non-violence. so that is the nature and Dhamma. so proper understanding of violence and non-violence (distinguish of two) is vital to get wholesome results. 

Search for a partner is nothing but about searching after sensuallity, maybe becoming, isn't it? Of course after a career even more... so just give it a deeper thought and maybe use you luck of independency you currently have for a more holly life to be. At the End it's maybe worthy to say, that also searching for a relation to be able to live the holly life is actually nessesary, so admirable friend(s) are always worthy to seach for and also to invest much in such a relationship, even of course it will outardly break, but once being part of the other kind, no and never alone and without support till standing firm alone. Mudita (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commerzial purpose or other worldily gains) 

Taking the precept of not "speaking of what is not true" coupled with "abstainging from entertainmaint shows" serious, next to the basic precept. Once one does not give attention to not benefical things every kind of hindrence dies. By abstaining from TV, radio, News papers, useless books, and from talks about it, its fast done. Like all it starts with good association. After some month one knows and normaly has no more desire in idly talk. Stay especially away from "Buddhists" either lay or monks, who are only a little involved in such, not to speak of active in such. Totally not aware, how much ever they talk and teach. If asking, my person would not even know who is president or was the last maybe 12 years in the country he was born, not to speak of others politicans near and far. If liking to know more and in detail, feel free in an non-political area. (Note: this is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for any commercial purpose or any other worldly gain.) 

One needs to chance his/her life and simply tries. To give certain advice that makes general sense for many in facing problems is not possible, and if wished to talk in personal, one may free to ask in way of talk, public or in areas where only practicing exchange personal things if wished, here given. It's how ever not a problem to keep parts or all eight precepts permanent for lay people. Note also that there have been not given any advices or rules in detail to lay person by the Buddha, since such a practice actually can only be explained who do and there have been many, not so today. So any commentaries are prepared from certain monk rules and do not really match the precept but are counteracts of problem in regard of tendencies in the Sangha at this time. You may also talk to Upasaka Akila about feedback, who did such merits for a week successful some weeks ago, in way of respectul talk. [Next time, you do good to generally approach Monks and Nuns proper] (Note: This is a Gift of Dhamma and not meant for any commercial purpose or other worldly gain.) 

I have noticed most of the time third precept is interpreted as sexual misconduct or adultery. But third precept emphasize all the misbehavior and misconduct using all six sensual spheres. "Kamesumichchara" in here kama means involvement of all six sensual spheres. E.g in this answer; One must abstain from committing adultery or sexual misconduct. Romantic relationships that are emotionally or spiritually damaging to others, due to existing commitments of the parties involved, are a cause for stress and suffering and based on perversion of the mind. My question is how fair or correct to narrow third precept to sexual misconduct or adultery? Does over-thinking violate third precept because its a misconduct of mind due to uncontrollable and misuse mind? 

Technically egg is a singular cell. it doesn't feel pain.So does break egg violate the first precept? Most often doctor prescribe fish oil(cod liver oil) as a medicine for rejuvenate brain cells as it contain omega -3? Doses it violate first precept? 

Absolute, true and mathematical time, of itself, and from its own nature flows equably without regard to anything external, and by another name is called duration: relative, apparent and common time, is some sensible and external (whether accurate or unequable) measure of duration by the means of motion, which is commonly used instead of true time ... According to Newton, absolute time exists independently of any perceiver and progresses at a consistent pace throughout the universe. Unlike relative time, Newton believed absolute time was imperceptible and could only be understood mathematically. According to Newton, humans are only capable of perceiving relative time, which is a measurement of perceivable objects in motion (like the Moon or Sun). From these movements, we infer the passage of time. After analyze above text by Isaac Newton and state; The "Absolute time" is just a concept rooted from "Anatta"(impermanence) the one of three characteristic of nature in Buddhist teaching. Anatta is everlasting process without end or start and is very helpful to eliminate the wrong view of "creation". So this is one vital explanation that Buddhism ahead of scientific theories. So if I say the fabricated absolute time concept not genuine and the declaration of "Anatta" is the fact and genuine invention,is it acceptable? 

As we know people who stay in coma or unconsciousness "experience" timeless,space-less, absolute emptiness and total detachment from physical world. Even though I used the word "experience" will not suitable to describe the situation in coma or unconsciousness state. It is a condition with no happiness or sorrow, no pain,no darkness or light,no noise or sound etc....and finally we can say "unconditional state of mind." and closer to description of "Nirvana" 

I thought to answer and hope you will find some useful trough my answer. I also have same conditions similar to yours. I would mention some characteristics about you and you can respond if I am wrong. you are thinking so fast and continuously about metaphysics like your life after death and so on....you possess some IQ more than average person. So my friend above will lead you more stressful conditions as thinking need more and more energy. I am not aware about your family conditions but be little relaxed,gentle,save some energy and maintain harmony with nature. Your intensive curiosity will make you sick. My suggestion to you is maintain your health well and leave the stress and avoid over-thinking. Don't cross your capacity without practice. Get help from others. If you have opportunity to practice "Zen" might help you. To your question "can Buddhism help to overcome physical pain?" Yes master the fundamentals of Buddhism and stick to basics. reach the path step by step. you can't skip the steps mean you waste energy and you will lack of it. Keep away thinking of your past karma aside.you can't do anything about it. Focus on present and control over thinking,get proper medicine, get gentle approach to life, stay healthy. Never forget "Health is the great noble gain in life (Arogyama parama laba) as Budda mentioned. This is the most practical solution for our lives. hope this will help you .Thanks and Metta!