The view that we refer to mental entities was actually quite common among past western philosophers, especially in the idealist period in the wake of Berkeley and Kant. Frege,  Husserl, and others rebelled against this tendency, toward to end of the 19th century, for various reasons. For one thing, the view that we refer to mental concepts commits us to subjectivism. Suppose e.g. that "Pinocchio does not exist" means "Pinocchio exists only as a mental concept". Now since my mind is distinct from yours, my mental concepts are distinct from your mental concepts. Therefore, my Pinocchio will be distinct from your Pinocchio. Therefore, there will be not one Pinocchio, but one Pinocchio per every Pinocchio-reader mind. Now subjectivism may be correct to some extent. But as on overarching doctrine it seems to be self-defeating. For one thing, if everything is subjective, why do we disagree, we do we argue (rationally)? Without an inter-subjective common ground, if everyone were locked-in with one's own mental concepts, there would be no point in rationally arguing among ourselves. The later philosophers (Frege et al) came up with alternatives which are less burdened with subjectivism, and also - ontologically speaking - simpler, less committal. There is no need to posit subjective, mental structures, if inter-subjective linguistic structures can do the job just as well, and even better. 

On the other hand, viewed from without, the Cogito argument is available for any being like Descartes, that is for any intelligent being possessing a mind. And as an author,  Descartes surely expected his readers to repeat his owm reasoning from their own first-person perspectives. 

Mathematical logic, and the associated notion of the existential quantifier, were invented only after Kant's time. Kant used other, more traditional concepts. The ontological proof (or at least the version that Kant criticized) is related to the idea that God exists by necessity, that existence is an essential property of God. When Kant asserted that "existence is not a real predicate", what he meant was that existence cannot be an essential property of anything (that it was an inherently accidental property), and therefore cannot be an essential property of God. Kant meant that existence was similar to, say, location. Joe can be today at New York and tomorrow at Washington. Joe's location would change, but Joe himself would not change. If Joe ceases to exist, in a way he himself would change.. but arguably his concept would not. That's why Kant went on to argue in terms of concepts and judgements, rather than in terms of entities and properties. He argued that predicating existence of a thing does not "enlarge" or "increase" that thing's concept. Relatedly, he argued that the judgement "x exists" is always synthetic rather than analytic (that is tautological, true by virtue of mere meaning). Kant's proof, that existence is inherently accidental, is roughly as follows: Suppose that the existence of some A enlarges A. In that case, A and (A + existence) were different concepts. And then the proposition "A exists" would be necessarily false. Because if A exists, then it is actually (A + existence) which exists, and (A + existence) is, we assumed, different from A. 

and by the general properties of a probability measure, in particular that it is a number between 0 and 1. 

The words "this apple" correspond to an actual physical apple, this apple. Next, I'm not sure about the word 'is'. Not all the words in a sentence need correspond to the world. There may also be some "intra-linguistic" words, those that play only an language-internal role, and do not correspond to the outside world. 'Is' may be one of those words. The word 'red', on the other hand, does not seem to be intra-linguistic. Surely it just corresponds to the vivid redness of the apple? And that's a reason, why we require words like "redness" - to distance ourselves from the internals of language, to mark that we refer to something, not in here, but out there. (The truth is out there) 

Which is absurd. To prevent such absurd conclusions, we need to disallow the extraction from context. So that, for example 

That is, that the actual universe must be strictly better than any other possible universe. There cannot be two equally good possible universes, because if there were, God would not be able to choose between them. 

Metaphysics has always been the grandest ambition of philosophers. To establish a rational deep view of the world, a view about which philosophers in particular will be the experts, rather than other scientists, professionals or scholars. Therefore it is only natural, for one who has come to believe in the possibility of grand-style metaphysics, to view all other philosophical endeavours as pale in comparison. Now since the late 19th century especially, metaphysics has come under severe criticism, mainly from within philosophy itself. It is a sad criticism, though, for without metaphysics, philosophy remains necessarily crippled. 

It would seem that Hume considered his own philosophical enquiries to fall squarely on the side of "experimental reasoning concerning matter of fact and existence". This is spelled out in the introduction to A Treatise of Human Nature. Hume situates his book within the new Science of Human Nature, i.e. psychology: 

In History of Western Philosophy (1946) Russell focused mainly on two problems that relate to Kant's view that perception links our minds with "things in themselves". It is those problems, according to Russell, that caused Kant's successors to stray from his theoretical philosophy. The first problem concerns the causal link that Kant posited between our perception and the "things in themselves". That is, Kant held that the "things in themselves" are those which cause our perceptions. However, this view starkly contradicts another basic view of Kant's: that causality is a subjective category, and as such does not pertain at all to "things in themselves". This is perhaps the most famous problem of Kant's theoretical philosophy, and all of Kant's successors responded to it. The second problem relates to Kant's view that the real causes of perception, the "things in themselves", are not in physical space. And that it is our mind, our subjectivity, which "orders" the perceptions in physical space. The problem is that Kant did not provide a plausible explanation, on what basis we "order" the perceptions in space, by ourselves. A similar problem pertains to the ordering of perceptual events in time. The second problem influenced the more realist- minded of Kant's successors, such as Schopenhauer. Russell summarized: 

Brandom holds that expression is basic, primitive, whereas representation is a relatively complex phenomenon, to be explained on top of expression. One might object that expression is just representation in reverse. Instead of looking outside (representation), one is looking inside (expression). Therefore Brandom works to distance the notion of expression from the metaphor of "looking inside". For one, it is all about doing, about making. When one is using language, according to Brandom, one is expressing, that is making explicit what has been already implicit (unconscious, as it were) within one's actions. 

For a finitary language, defining truth as a Schema T conjunction is possible, and it will be trivially materially adequate. But can it be formally adequate? Perhaps so, if one is (unlike Tarski himself) a minimalist regarding the concept of truth. We need not prejudge here whether the concept of satisfaction is a necessary part of the concept of truth. What we cannot avoid is this: if the (informal) concept of truth, for any language, contains anything of essence besides Schema T, then a definition of truth in terms of Schema T alone will not be formally adequate. 

There are many suggested solutions to the Liar paradoxes, mostly invoking complex logic, but there is no current concensus around any one of them. You can see a classification of solutions in the SEP article on the Liar. Two notable types of suggested solutions are (1) solutions that involve paracomplete logics, i.e. that hold that Liar statements, such as "I am lying now", belong to a special class of statements which are neither true nor false. And (2) solutions that involve paraconsistent logics, i.e. that hold that Liar statements, such as "I am lying now", belong to a special class of statements which are simultaneously both true and false. 

Descartes seems to invoke the following four arguments, when he aims, in The Principles of Philosophy part II, to justify the conservation of the "amount of motion" during collisions: 

The distinction between appearance and reality is extremely ancient, much before written history. Any myth, any form of religion and world-view, is inherently bound with a distinction between appearance and reality. Philosophy itself is often said to have been born out of ancient myth. The distinction between appearance and reality has been a constitutive part of philosophy, and right from the start. The earliest known philosopher in the West, Thales of Miletus (c. 600 BC) is reported to have theorized that "Water constituted (ὑπεστήσατο, 'stood under') the principle of all things". By that he is believed to have meant, that although there appear to be many unrelated things, and many unrelated events, in reality there is one principle, one ground, one explanation behind it all, and that one principle is identical with what we think of as water.