which are designed to pack down for flights and stuff (and folding bikes and what not). But, if you're insistent on taking your bike, pack it in bike bag and fly it. Hardshell (few hundred bucks) is toughest, but the most expensive. Softshell is cheaper and more padded (few hundred bucks). A cardboard box is an option (few bucks), but if the box gets wet or something, it could fail. This link has inside perspectives from a baggage handler who is a cyclist who suggests softshell since it will load better on a bike. A cheaper option in net may be to just buy and sell a bike in Japan or rent one there. 

Fairly straightforward question the answer to which I presume depends upon ride distance, terrain, bike type, and bag weight, but I'm hoping there's a rule of thumb that generally applies to all scenarios. This question dawned on me as I was mounting a Citi Bike last night: Should I keep my messenger bag (weighing about 15 lbs.) strapped to my back, or should I secure it in the "protective rack" attached to the handlebars? My thinking at the time: The bag would fit perfectly, but it would weigh down the front of the bike and make it more difficult to steer. I opted to keep the bag strapped to my back, but this decision was based on 100% conjecture. I have little to no experience riding with belongings in a handlebar basket. On the other hand, I very often ride with a heavy messenger bag. It's habit at this point, and maybe a bad one. The ride proved uneventful, though I can report that it isn't exactly easy riding the incline of the Williamsburg Bridge while wearing a full messenger bag on a 45 lbs Citi Bike. Would the ride have been any easier if I had put my bag in the handlebar basket? 

or in this thread which shows some more aero style fairings. If you want to go faster, get a more aggressive road bike rather than a hybrid and/or pedal faster. I doubt many riders could get a significant advantage from a fairing on an upright bicycle unless they were racing (and if they were racing, they wouldn't be on a hybrid anyway). For a velomobile or recumbent, the speeds you can reach are higher to begin with, and the locking problem is already big enough that it isn't too bad to add a fairing. You also have a less of a stability problem (say with crosswinds) than on an upright bike which makes the design somewhat simpler. 

I was talking to a bike messenger the other day, and he said something that surprised me: If you see a car door swing open in front of you and you can't avoid it, pull your hands off the handlebars and take the full impact. He said you won't lose any fingers this way. Is this true? Is there a safer way to collide with a door? 

I have never ridden a century ride before. This June, a friend and I plan to ride our first: The Montauk Century Ride. But I'm wondering, why should we commit to paying $100+ to ride this route in relatively heavy bike traffic, from a starting point not chosen by us, on a day that could be rainy for all we know? Why not ride the route on a day chosen by us? It seems to me riding on our own might provide a more convenient experience and more meaningful challenge. What am I missing here? 

You need to bend the chain. Look at this link (PDF) for the Connex Snap On which is the same idea. The PDF is reproduced below in case the thing goes down. 

Typically, a chain uses a grease lubricant which is applied hot to the chain into every crevase of the chain before the chain is assembled. Its generally the best lube you can get on a chain, but its impossible to apply at home in the same way (contrary to sheldon brown) [aside from the fact that that particular formula is likely not sold]. Some more details from Shimano are here. 

The gear system doesn't play into the rear tire sizing. Assuming your old tires are 26x2.0 (not 36x2.0), your rim is an ISO 559 rim and you can buy any tire marketed as 26 x some number in decimal. That being said, the size of the tire you can run in practice is determined by frame clearance (not a problem since you're going to a smaller tire) and the rim width. If the tire is too narrow for the rim, increased likelihood for rim damage from road hazards. If the tire is too wide, you may have reduced control. But the tire will physically go on a rim thats too wide/narrow if its of the right diameter (in this case, 26 x something in decimals or a tire thats marked as ISO 559). That being said, most likely you are fine with running a 26x1.75 on these rims. 

There are some good answers here, but none describes a pre-ride check that is both quick and covers the main problem points encountered with Citi Bikes. These cruisers are special. They are extremely heavy, they can only be ridden in short spurts, there is nearly always a dock within a 10-minute walk, and the bikes are used and abused by riders and passersby that don't give a snot about them. As I've come to discover, there's a special way to give these special bikes a once-over. 

I'm having trouble finding up-to-date information on the growth of cycling in the US and across the globe. How rapidly is the cycling industry growing? In what country is cycling growing fastest? Is the industry growing in lock-step with new cyclists or are established cyclists just purchasing more cycling goods? Where are the most new cyclists hopping on bicycles? Many questions, I know, and don't expect them all answered. More broadly: Where can I find, or can anyone provide, statistics that demonstrate the trajectory of bike use? 

You can easily inflate a completely flat tire (provided the tube is still good). Usually, when a tire is completely flat, you have to press the back of the tire so that the valve doesn't recess into the tire so your pump can be attached properly to it. With a presta valve, you can use your mouth for this (well, on a clean tube, since the valve stem isn't spring loaded), but with a schrader valve you have to use a pump. If it still won't inflate, check the tire and tube for damage and replace accordingly. 

Its up to personal preference at the end of the day, but a general recommendation is to replace at (or before) the 0.5% point for 11 speed and 0.75% for 10 speed or lower. You can also see if theres something in the chain manual or chain wear gauge's manual. The multiple indicators are there because some people will want to change at 0.5%, others at 0.75% and so on. For a more expensive drivetrain, it makes sense to change earlier given the insane costs associated with all the other parts (whereas with a cheap drivetrain, you can run longer). 

Choose the right seat position - Citi Bike is all about convenient, quick rides. Save time by choosing a bike that's pre-adjusted for you (you'll be able to eye the right seat height after just a couple rides). And don't pick a bike if its seat is twisted around backwards. That's a sign that a previous rider found the bike busted. Check tires for air - The official pre-ride check tells Citi Bike riders to spin wheels and check tires for cuts and bulges. No doubt a few rare riders will jump on bikes with noticeably misaligned wheels and burst tires, but that hasn't happened to me. And if one day it does, then I'll just drop off that broken, but still kind of ridable bike at the nearest station (twist the seat) and pick up a new one. The official guidelines are overkill. More important than the precise condition of the tires & wheels is that you choose a bike that's pumped up with sufficient air. A quick tire squeeze will do. This is without a doubt the most important thing you can do before undocking a Citi Bike. Check pedals for damage - I've come across a few Citi Bikes that have sustained torn pedal treads. Sometimes these treads flop of fly, causing a minor inconvenience. But if a pedal tread is damaged in just the right way, who knows, maybe it could get caught in your chain and ruin your week. Don't pick the bike with that perfect storm of a torn pedal tread -- or any Citi Bike with noticeably damaged pedals. Check handlebars & seat for scum - Citi Bikes are public bikes. This is New York City. Give your seat and handlebars a quick once-over before you go for a ride. 

Disc brakes are generally more effective in the rain than rim brakes, but using rim brakes properly in the rain has served people well for many years. You need to feather the brakes to remove the water+crud from the rims. Softer brake pad compounds can also help you brake more easily. Also, having good quality brakes that are well adjusted is always a good thing too. Remember that you also need to brake earilier in the rain, regardless of the type of brake, and be more careful than in the dry. If you have small hands, make sure also the small hand inserts are in for your brake levers (if it has them).