However, anthropodermic bibliopegy is the process of binding books in human skin and in fact, the Harvard Libraries have some of these books in their collection. 

While the validity of a single test is difficult to determine without more information on how the test was constructed, the approach itself is valid and has been used in other peer reviewed studies. Is There a "Language of the Eyes"? Evidence from Normal Adults, and Adults with Autism or Asperger Syndrome 

While not directly applicable to the question of it being safer for bicyclists roll through stop signs, it does present an interesting observation for those examining such laws. Paris has updated their laws to allow for cyclists to yield on stoplights as opposed to coming to a full stop so it is reasonable to speculate that more research may be coming in the near future at which point firmer conclusions may be drawn. 

The Congressional Budget Office defines the federal budget deficits (pdf) as when spending exceeds revenues for the fiscal year (October 1st through September 30th) so it is reasonable to assume that this what President Obama is referring to when he maid that claim. Additionally, since the deficit is defined solely on the basis of the receipts vs. outlays, programs such as the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) are included in the official figures. According to the Monthly Treasury Statement for September 2013 (pdf) there was a $680 billion deficit for Fiscal Year 2013 through September 30, 2013. According to the Office of Management and Budget Historical Tables, the following are the total receipts, outlays, and deficits for 2008 through 2012 (source, xls) in nominal dollars: 

In order to ensure that definitions do not play too much of a role, I'm going to assume that primary school when a child is approximately 10 years old, traditional team sports are sports that have organized rules that require multiple players per team (e.g. baseball, kickball, volleyball, etc.), and that competitive team sports are when fixed teams compete against each other in some sort of league play to prove they are better than all of the other teams. With these definitions in mind, to address the first point, that children are not ready for traditional team sports and that they have a negative impact on child development, the answer is an emphatic no. The reason for this is many fold: first, children naturally develop an interest in team sports around 5-6 years old and this is seen as a developmental milestone. Next, studies have been conducted that have show an positive correlation between team sport participation and physical and mental development which is also born out by studies into bone density development in children. Finally, participation in team sports has been shown to lead to positive self-esteem and that structured activities such as sports have a positive impact on mental development. With regards to the second point, that competitive team sports have a negative impact upon mental development, the answer is yes this does seem to be the case; however, a fair bit of point more towards burnout and injuries as the drawbacks as opposed to mental development. That said, right now it appears that the trending recommendation is that children are best kept from competitive team sports until around age 10, when they fully understand effort and ability as it relates to winning. This appears to be backed by studies that have shown that failure in competition backed activities can have a demotivating effect versus mastery based activities.1 Thus to summarize, sports play an important role in the development of children and while there is some evidence to show that competitive sports can have a negative impact on child development2 the consensus is almost universally in favor of encouraging children to participate in sports from a young age and then having them grow into more competitive league play as they get older. 

First off, when you say "better code" I'm going to assume that you mean that the general software quality of the project is better as opposed to any measure of the aesthetics of the code itself, although code that is easier to read generally results in better quality software. One of the big area's of study in software engineering research has been to see if there is a correlation between known requirements and defects, these studies shown that adding requirements or changing requirements of a system generally results in more defects. This tends to be bore out by other studies that show a link between changing requirements and schedule and cost overrun. The core reasoning for most of these finding boils down to knowing what is needed before hand allows for the system to be built to meet those needs and the system can be verified against those needs. This tends to work well in environments well the requirement be explicitly defined, tested, and failure is not an option. So for at least some segments of software development it can easily be established that specifications result in better code. However, what about environments where the needs can change on a regular basis based upon business needs? In these cases it is important to note that Agile methodologies tend to be used more for internet development than for real-time, control, or systems development. Thus, Agile methodologies tend to target a different development space and we can speculate address different needs. Advocates for Agile development generally call for simple designs and refactoring as a means of ensuring that the code base does not become too complex which has been tied to software defects. Overall, yes, foreknowledge of fixed requirements results in better code. However, when the requirements cannot be fixed due to changing business requirements, that advantage is largely irrelevant as you may not be able to fix the system requirements long enough to code a major system. 

Whether or not the store could be considered a business is debatable since they gave their product (i.e. the coffee) away for free and did not appear to be operating as other businesses, specifically, 

Along with some comments about how there is nothing magical about it, just that you don't understand it until you have trained yourself to understand it subconsciously in the same way that muscle memory works for anything else you continuously practice. Thus, when it comes to aikido, "chi" is less about a single poorly defined "energy" and more about the sum of your sense of balance coupled with a better awareness of your own momentum in your movement. Likewise, the redirection of your opponents "chi" is nothing more than taking that same understanding of momentum and coupling it with a mild understanding of the bodies pressure points 2 and basic mechanics of the human body. So with that in mind, is "chi" an energy flowing through the body, well, maybe if you are very liberal with your definitions; however, it does become less of a "magical" concept and more of one grounded in reality. Just with very vague language wrapped around it which does make it easier to explain things to students at times. 

The report does not indicate if the clearance are active or inactive so the figures doesn't necessarily imply that the given number of people are actively working with classified materials and these figures do not appear to include military personnel. The report also notes that there may be some duplicate data, although steps have been taken to control for it. 

This statement by Nintendo has been backed up by non-scientific testing1 which has shown that blowing on the cartridges can cause build up on the connections which could theoretically interfere with the connection. Now, with regards to the claims of blowing on the cartridge itself, I would first like to note that some searching around showed that most people don't recall hearing of anyone making this claim prior to the introduction of the original Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) nor does it seem to arise with later systems such as the Nintendo 64 which was also a cartridge based system.2 When industry experts are interviewed they tend to say that blowing on the cartridge would only really help in the case of dust on the cartridge and the rest of the time it was likely a "placebo effect"3, the following quote is quite telling: 

So as you can see, in may cases the correct identification as very close to random chance and the preference of one of the other as variable. This variability leads to the much more interesting point that there are practical reasons for canning vs. bottling and that is cans are better than bottles in protecting the beverage from UV light, also known "skunky beer." There are some reports that some people may be able to smell the metal of the can while drinking from it which may the beer to taste different due to the connection between smell and taste. This sense of smell is part of a Sam Adams marketing campaign for their canned beer, 

This answer is highly speculative since the NSA has not given any indication as to the capacity of the facility. Also, this is a very difficult question to digest because we have no indication of how much data they are seeking to actually store. To examine the first claim that they process up to five zettabytes of data, this seems to be plausible. We know that the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) is generating one petabyte data per second and storing twenty-five petabytes of data per year1. Using some simple math, 

This is actually a surprisingly difficult question to answer for a variety of reasons and it seems that the best answer is that yes there is a shortage of purified helium reserves, while at the same time it appears that maybe but likely no there is not a long term shortage of helium in any meaningful understanding of what a shortage is. First, some background is necessarily to see why this might be the case. Helium is recovered from natural gas and specialized equipment is sold this process. This equipment is advertized to generate about 99.999% pure gas with the quantity being dependent upon the particular field that it is being extracted from. This leads us to the modern problem; historically, helium was a waste gas from natural gas wells and was released into the atmosphere. However, in the United States helium was eventually considered a strategic resource that was worth stockpiling and conserving. This in turn lead to the National Helium Reserve which was built up due to the Cold War; however, has been in the process of being phased out due to the costs associated with maintaining and storing helium in the reserve. The purpose of the "Helium Privatization Act of 1996" appears to have been to transfer the ownership over to private industry, but nobody appears to really have stepped up to build up their own stockpile so it's been getting sold cheaply on the open market. This brings us to the crux of the issue, while there is a shortage of the cheap purified reserves that are being sold off by the United States Government via the National Helium Reserve, the actually proven worldwide reserves are difficult to determine. The Bureau of Land Management provides periodic reports about the current state of helium reserves in the United States and the most recent one (2009) indicated the following in the summary: 

The article also mentions that iMessage uses the CoreText API so it is also affected by the bug. MacLife also reported on the problem and mentions that this error also affects the system when Wi-Fi hotspot names are displayed as well. 

With regards to the first part of your question, yes, there is a strategy for the selection of the sites for Hindu Temples that involves vastu shatra (more information) which describes the theoretical flow of energy on the basis of vaastu purusha. Sites for temples themselves are selected on the the local geography and specifically "near water, in forests and gardens, on mountaintops and in valleys, and especially in caves" which are believed to be places where the gods play and are happy. With regards to the second part of the question, I couldn't find anything in peer reviewed journals as to the validity of the claims that there is any "energy" actually being manipulated. Doing a journal search I was able to find results on vastu shatra from the stand point of architecture, anthropological studies, or religion. There is a chance that there might be some research that has been published in a foreign language journal, but most likely the primary sources of discussion of the energies involved are going to be religious or spiritual texts or discussions about Hindu architecture. One thing to note on my read is that this appears to be fairly new from the Western society standpoint at large when compared other systems such as feng shui so there is a chance that there hasn't been enough interest in it to do a proper analysis as well in the same way that you can find research into the feng shui. 

Taste is extremely subjective and I couldn't find any rigorous tests scientific literature of blind taste tests. However, that said, unscientific tests such as one by the Huffington Post had the following results for blind bottled vs. canned taste test with 25 tasters: 

Which is an interesting thing to say if you are concerned about running out of something! The problem I've been running into though has been finding out exactly what the annual worldwide consumption is which is a good indicator for if you are running out or not. While fairly recently summaries of the production and reserves are fairly easy to find (January 2012), determining the exact worldwide consumption rates is harder. However, I have found quite a few articles discussing the matter citing the potential for a 300 year reserve but nothing really definitive and searching has found that new gas fields are being opened up and just now getting exported so the exact world reserves are still speculative. So to summarize, while there is a shortage of purified helium, largely due to the policies regarding the National Helium Reserve, there doesn't appear to be much evidence of a critical worldwide shortage that is cause for major concern. From what I have been reading one of the larger concerns is not so much how much helium is in the ground but rather the availability of it being inconstant if the major reserves are shutdown. 

In short, the paper explains the implementation of a means of doing adiabatic quantum computation. This paper was part of what ultimately lead some of D-Waves critics to back off their previous positions and look more favorably on the company. This in turn has lead to a general warming of the scientific communities options towards the company. This position that the D-Wave is in fact using quantum effects was further reinforced by the University of Southern California who in 2013 released an article validating the use of quantum effects in the processor,