Capitalism is predicated on desire, and on maintaining that desire. Buddhism turns away from desire. Has anyone written anything that takes Buddhism seriously enough to make it the centre of their economic philosophy? 

He affirms we cannot know time directly, nor can we say that the time on the moon flows at the same rate as here on the earth, or that the time when Rome fell, flowed at the same rate when Babur Khan invaded Sindh. 

Newton: This was first theorised as a force. But we cannot see a force; we are forced to the situation above. But it was then discovered by Poisson that it could be seen as a field. Thus it pervades the whole of space. One can now certainly imagine, by analogy to light, spectacles which worn will let you see the gravitational field. Einstein: Corrected Newton by showing that gravity was not a field but the curvature of spacetime. The nature of the thing that is observed has now changed. Can this be possible for something that is real. One point of view would be to say that to know something is real, is not to say we know all its nature; it may disclose further properties on probing. Verlinde: Theorised that gravity is a thermodynamical property; that is it is emergent. Again the nature of Gravity has changed. This is rather like saying that a cloud emerges from all the raindrops that make it. What is real - the cloud or the raindrops? This brings us to the philosophical problem of the ship of Theseus: is the whole real, or its parts, or both? 

Summary Faith doesn't mean the same thing to everyone. This goes not only for the definitions, but the implications of the definitions, and then the value of those implications. To many people, the unknown is a great opportunity and an unexplored land. However, an opportunity is not an opportunity if you decide outright you will never take it. An unexplored land is worthless if it is never on your agenda to explore it. While not everyone agrees on what faith is, to a lot of people, faith implicates closing your eyes, shutting your ears, clinging to the known, and letting others decide your life. To these people, faith is the opposite of an opportunity and spirit of exploration. People with this perception of faith will naturally see faith as a sign of weakness (or inferiority if they have an arrogant streak) when another person espouses faith with pride. 

The sociologist Robert Bellah considered The United States to have a civic religion centred around national figures (Lincoln etc) and documents (The Declaration of Independence). Its worth noting that the personality cults of the former Soviet Union and communist China could be presented as interpreting figures such as Marx, Lenin & Mao as prophets; though this should be really restricted to the former Soviet Union as the iconography of the existing but repressed Orthodox Christian religion could be remade in a new image; whereas in Maos China this iconography simply wasn't available - Christianity had made little headway in China - and it may have been the divinity of the emperor that was remade here. In Western Europe, or rather the countries of Western Europe are there forms of civic religion? (This could be Christianity in its civic form). 

2. Faith as unquestioning trust or confidence in someone This is where a lot of people have sentiments that drive them to contrast faith with science. This is also closely related (if not synonymous) with complete trust. Just emphasizing unquestioning here. Science of course is known for being wrong. It makes no 'absolute conclusions' and holds no 'sacred truths'. Or barely any, if you want to nitpick the philosophical underpinnings. The physical theories themselves are not sacred. Every conclusion is a so-called 'tentative' conclusion, rather than absolute. Each conclusion has a level of precision presented up front - the margin of error. There are no sacred truths, only our best current models that indeed we hope to disprove someday. In science, you are allowed to question every conclusion others have made up to this point. Nobody is forcing anyone to believe the speed of light is constant - you can go out and do the measurement yourself. You really can. In this way, the scientific body of knowledge is imperfect, but pretty much trustless. At least when done thoroughly (especially regarding independent experiment reproduction). Note that word - trustless. This is in complete contrast with anything that asks for (or even demands) 'complete trust' or 'unquestioning belief'. It's like saying "take my word for it" for very bold claims. What science tells us is that true propositions don't don't care whether you put your complete trust in them or not. True propositions dont need, and especially dont demand your unquestioning belief. Truth can stand on its own two feet. Take Proposal X. If it is true, what does it have to fear from questioning? Go ahead and question it, if you are seeking truth, you will arrive at the conclusion it is true. If X is false, then it DOES have to fear from questioning. If false proposals tend to be culled very easily by questioning, then the false proposals that survive will be the ones that implicate virtues of unquestioning belief. In other words, unquestioning belief is only a virtue to the gullible, and only promoted by liars and scam artists with something to hide, or something to hide from. If Alice sees Bob as gullible, that will scar Alice's impression of Bob's intelligence, and she will very likely lose a bit of respect for him. 

Having multiple perspectives one something is important and valid; one might say, if one perspective was contiguous with another, then is some sense they are the same, and hence add nothing new; thus having multiple, contrasting views are important; but not any view, merely by being a view, is important; they must be well-grounded. Thus to see a leaf as green is important; its attested to by your senses; and in a larger sense, might be profitably called Heideggerean,ie phenomenology; the view that taking phenomena as a reality for itself, rather than as some illusion under which one finds reality; appearances have their own value. But also to understand light as some other thing also has value; its attested to by physics, and then the technology made possible by the understanding of the mechanisms, better the principles, underlying or making possible the phenomena; ontology has its own value. Another example, is the so-called foundational crisis in mathematics in the early 20C; which from this distance merely looks as though they found themselves with a question that had not been asked before, or more likely, as these things often are, not been taken up; and what was expected or wished for, logicism turned out better to be seen as logical pluralism. The question of being, according to Heidegger, and adopted from Aristotle, is that there is no such genus: there is not one category called being that encompasses, in a proper, organic and intrinsic way all the categories and modalities of being. 

What I don't understand is how this definition informs us about the magnitude of the reality of a being thing. How does Spinoza's definition of an attribute render proposition ix a trivial consequence (as the mere citation as opposed to explicit proof seems to indicate)? 

I was reading An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding by David Hume, specifically the section titled On Liberty and Necessity (both parts). Hume reconciles liberty with metaphysical necessity by an ingenious argument, which I think is called the compatibilist position in the debate between determinism and free will. Essentially, Hume declares that the conflict between liberty and necessity is a verbal argument, and argues that everyone actually agrees with both the doctrine of necessity and of liberty when both are properly defined. While I usually greatly enjoy and generally agree upon Hume's philosophical expositions, I felt in this section that Hume was engaging in a kind of word jugglery, evading the actual metaphysical question. I was wondering whether any other philosophers hold this sentiment and went further to formulate serious objections towards the compatibilist doctrine. 

Sunyata is usually translated as nothingness, and is a key part of the Mahayana Buddhism, and was theorised by Nagurjuna. It has got very little to do with 'Nothing' as understood in Western Metaphysics - ie the Void of Parmenides. In fact, nothing at all. What it is doing, is denying the Being of Being; or of Being qua Being. This pretty much axiomatic in Western Metaphysics since Aristotles time. And was further picked up by Hegel, Heidegger & Whitehead in different Philosophies about change, that is impermanance or transience; Hegel named it the Dialectic, Heidegger Being-in-the-World and Whitehead Process. (One might align it with the Heraclitean philosophy of change in Hellenic Antiquity; but it also seems that a secret influence was Buddhism itself through Hume & Leibniz; and one might suppose the secret essence of the revival of Hericleitan over the Parmenidian philosophy. The opening of one of Hegels books is for example reminiscent of the opening of the Tao). The thrust & point of Sunyata is not Nothingness as such, but interdepedence. This is what is roughly meant by dependent arising. There is no fixed Archimedean point, no static Form in a Platonic Heaven; everything, everywhere is changing, and arising, and ceasing - ceaselessly. One should think of the eternal flux, the flowing of a river, Pollacks late paintings of Spring & November; and a never-ending fugue by Bach in polyphonic, multiphonic & variphonic voices. 

4. Faith as spiritual apprehension, spiritual perception Perhaps some Christians feel personally touched by the God. This witness of the Holy Spirit is evidence of God to them. Whether or not this constitutes 'valid evidence' for Christianity (or any religion with similar experiences) depends on your epistemology. This is one of those fronts where people argue past one another forever and ever because they never take the time to agree upon (or even find out) their premises. If two people don't narrow down where they agree and disagree with epistemology first, they will never be able to resolve a disagreement over 'evidence' of this nature, or indeed what constitutes 'valid evidence' in the first place. Sadly, most debates or discussions where disagreement raises over validity of spiritual apprehension never settle the agreed epistemic foundations in advance. Most people just have their way own way of thinking, and that's just how it is. Then if Alice reveals reason X for belief Y, but X doesn't make any sense on top of the epistemic foundations Bob has, then Bob will think reason X is rather silly. Bob thinks Alice believes Y for very a nonsensical reason. Example: 

Al Ghazali about a century earlier had written a text called The Incoherence of the Philosophers, a critique on metaphysics (or, more bluntly, an attack on the philosophers). By philosophers he means primarily those scholars whose metaphysics is based on Aristotle and Plato, but his attacks really were focused on Avicenna, the intellectual predecessor of Averroes. Wikipedia summarizes the contents of his work as follows: 

Here, no proof is given (most of Spinoza's propositions are proven, but for simple ones at the beginning Spinoza merely cites the appropriate definitions and axioms). Hence, it appears that this proposition should follow from definition iv. Now, definition iv states 

Don't worry if you don't understand the mathematics; all that is important is this symbol, ƛ, which looks like an upside down v. This symbol, called the cosmological constant, basically functions as the intrinsic energy density of the vaccuum. And there is one interesting feature about this constant; when this constant is positive, there exists a repulsive force expanding space-time. Hence, gravitation includes both repulsive and attractive forces. In a sense, gravity contains dual forces, and is an over-arching concept.