This may be a little bit late, as you already have started with the new role, but those are my two cents: 

I think you may tackle your situation wrong. It is understandable that you want to go back to programming (it is fun) but maybe you should more focus on skills you need right now for your current position. The tech skills of every manager will become outdated after a while. If you stop programming and focus more on leadership and managing this is a natural course of events. The question is: Is this a problem?? If you ask me: No. On your way up the corporate ladder you will leave behind some tasks you did and you will learn new ones. You can not do everything. The better approach on that topic would be delegation. If you are not sure if a certain framework will fit to a task at hand, ask the ones that do programming for a living: your developers. If you feel that there is no one you can ask, you may make yourself smarter by reading articles. this is a very theoretical approach and you will have to ask your peers if the impression conveyed in the articles is right, but this will enable you to point your team in the right direction. It may be hard for you, but your time as a manager should be spent with managing. Others do the programming for you now. You are the capitain, you have to steer, not to row. 

There are very good answers in the comments. I would try to negotiate with the sound designer. You are no amateur (as I have understood), so your time is valuable. It's no nice hobby for your spare time, it's business. Try to be as professional as possible when you speak to him. Tell him something along the lines of "I would really like to work with you, as I am an admirer of your work. But because I am also an professional, I need some perspective." If you are not dependent on the money, you may can get something else out of that project (some reference, or a new customer, I am not familiar with your field of business, so I don't know). In general my advice would be that you shouldn't sell yourself below value. This can fire back at you. 

In addition to the strict employee protection laws in Germany (officially you are not allowed to work more than 10 hours a day) there are logistic reasons. If you work longer than your colleagues, no one can check on you. That is especially important as you are new and no one knows if you can be trusted. Also, working overtime without a strong need may be a problem later. Imagine you get your first project and it gets stressing. Now you need to work extra hours. But if you already have many hours, you may not allowed by the company policy. Policies regarding overtime are varying strongly between companies and departments. A good thing for you as the "new one" is to listen to your boss and copy the behavior of your colleagues. 

What I found really helpful for communicating negative feedback is the "I-Message" (thanks to @sleske for looking that up). Basically you change the operator of your sentences. Instead of "You", use "I". Instead of 

I would rather see it not as strict as Matiss. Yes, formally your colleague has no right to bring someone to the workplace. But I would only talk to my supervisor if he brings other people regularly or those others have done something wrong. Actually, I do not understand your worrying about your stuff. This foreign person was all the time with your colleague, so that he is taking something from your stuff would be very unlikely. My advise is: Don't make too much fuzz. Maybe asking your colleague about his intentions will clear some concerns. Most likely this was a one time thing and shouldn't be taken too hard. 

Yes, I really ask you why you do not fire them. :) Try to find a replacement for them immediately. If it is possible, limit their interaction with new workers to the minimum and assist your new ones as good as you can. They have to feel welcome, even if your anarchos want to push them out. In the meantime, find out WHY they act that way. Did they have problems with the new colleagues? Are they feeling untouchable? Maybe you can help them with their problems, and everything works out fine for all of you. If not, make it crystal clear to them that their behavior is not tolerated. Write an performance improvement plan and let them sign it. If they do not change, you will have no other choice than fire them. 

In your clarification-Answer you state that you are not worried about lies concerning costs, but about the canidates lying about their qualifications. In that case, quite frankly, you can do nothing. You cannot charge them expenses that you promised them to make only because they didn't fit as good as you thought they would be. As you did not specify what lies especially you are assuming, I will try to give an overview. Many of the below points may be totally exaggerated and not fitting at all, but you get what you specify ;). First of all, it may be beneficial to improve the background check that you conduct on your canidates. 

Me in your place would start to document security issues and bring it up IN WRITING to the colleague, your and his boss. Make it clear that you think that this is a very big problem and you will not take any responsibility if some student gets his data stolen and drags you to court. Also document downtime because of the bad "on the fly" working technique and raise awareness of that within your superiors. If they still insist that everything is OK, do your job as good as you can and find another one as soon as possible. Do not tell your boss about your suspicions about your coworker as long you don't have strong proof. Your word is weaker than his. 

Your best bet to find out would be asking. We only can speculate. At some Companys the drug test is not only at start date, but quite regularly. I would suspect that a different part of HR is responsible for the test. The ones hire you, the others manage you after you are in. This may just boil down to company processes and bad synchronization between departments. For example at my previous company they stated in the job description "Driving license required". No one asked me about the license during interview. The interviewers have too much else in mind to care about such trivialities. I worked for one month in the company as they first approached me about my divers license. I had been driving the company cars before. I would expect something similar with the drug test. If I hire a engineer or someone else with high education, I do not expect to find out later that he is a drug addict. The processes may still require me to check, but I would not see that as important (and therefore leave it for later). 

I would pull in a manager and tell him that the constant arguments are impairing efficiency. This is something he has to sort out. If it were me I would try to split the project. Trying to find a interface and give each one his own part to manage. Maybe you can suggest that. 

You can do that with all your communication. Try to send your feedback as "My opinion". This carries the point across, but it is not as hard to digest. some examples: 

Querying public accessible data from websites is most probably no big deal from a legal perspective (but don't nail me on that, I am no lawyer nor do I work in the internet business). More general advise would be to document the task description he gave you. As I understood it is already in writing. If the queried companies start legal actions against your employer you can point at the task description and say "hey, I only followed orders!". But as stated in the comments, liability may vary between countries. You are of course not protected if you act in gross negligence or deliberately break the law. But I don't see that this would apply here. I suspect you are overthinking this. Of course you can act brave and refuse to do the task. But this could result in them firing you. All boils down to a personal decision. If you feel strong enough about the whole topic. The best course of action would be to talk to your boss about it (you already did, that's good). If he insists, you also can talk to your legal department if you have one (I suspect not). 

Depending how good the culture in your company is it may be a good idea to schedule a meeting with your boss, Sam and yourself. All negative stuff that happened to all of you is the product of poor communication between all of you. Time to sort this out. Do a "lessons learned" type of meeting. Try to locate the point in time when all that started, and what could be done in the future to avoid all that hassle. This would normally be the job of your boss, but if he does not do it, you may have to assist. 

I would not consider 3 to 4 days (even a week) as overly unprofessional. After all you are searching for a new job in your spare time. And you have to distribute that time over many other tasks as well. If it takes longer than you want you could start your delayed reply with a small apology about being busy, but this is really not neccessary. After all the relationship to your recruiter is bidirectional: You want a job from them, but they also want you to get one (provision and head bonus and stuff). It may help if you think about what you want beforehand. Be sure about what you want to acheive with your next career step. The next thing to consider is that you don't sign a contract just by replying to your recruiter if you are interested or not. You can look at the job after you expressed interest and step back later if you think it does not suit you. 

Most probably you are overreacting. If he said it in a joking tone, others may wonder how he gets to that idea, but no one will think less of you. Your colleagues said nothing about the incident because they didn't find it important enough to make a fuss about it. If this guy continues to have a loose tongue around other people, don't say anything what could be interpreted as problematic when he is around. Aside from that: Even if you have a good relationship with your colleagues and joke around a lot, it is still a workplace! Try to keep the topics casual. No sexist/racist/whatever jokes (even if they are clearly jokes and everyone finds them funny). This can fire back at you. If you AND your peers (do not do that alone!) feel that the loose tongue of you colleague is a problem, you may choose to have a small friendly talk with him. Tell him that you are concerned if he spreads your jokes around to managers or people outside your team. This however could come across as belittlement to him, so I would not recommend it. The better solution clearly is watch what you say in the workplace. 

Explain yourself. You are right, in a CV table it may look bad if you have listed many short jobs. But what really matters is if you can convince the recruiter that there is no harm in your past career. Adress the issue in the cover letter and try to market your many jobs as an advance over other canidates.