But, since it takes normal people about 18yrs to grow up, extending their natural growth could take an extra 18 or 36 more years too, unless it's specifically accelerated growth. Or it could result in a condition where growth just doesn't stop, like Acromegaly like Andre the Giant had He was definitely a big guy, and I think he was of average intelligence. So once again, I think you'll just have average "big people. Actually, that's probably a relatively easy way to make "big people": 

Not using a growing/shrinking ray or anything exotic I don't think you have to worry about cells being too big to function, so I think this would result in big people with normal sized cells (FYI, all animals have similar sized cells). So they'd just have more brain cells, so they'd at least have the potential to be smarter or remember more, but I suspect they'd be relatively normal, but big people. Looking at real animals that are different sizes, like horses that can range from Miniature to Clydesdales (about double height & maybe 4x mass) 

If the "pill" contained an already fertilized egg (zygote), then all it would have to do is get the egg to the right spot (nano-bots, or it's not a pill that's swallowed) and maybe have a few hormones to set the environment. Intercourse isn't even required. As to who the egg's parents are...? 

So I'm looking to make an insect-like organism for my book, and I was wondering what I need to think about to make it feasable, given these conditions: -These insectoids are approximately 2 meters in height -They have a standing stature -They have lungs or similar breathing organs so oxygen is not an issue -To accomodate for lungs, the armor is split into small plates that don't flex when the lungs expand -Otherwise the insectoids have a covering exoskeleton just like insects do Now I have a number of questions regarding this creature -Would this be possible, and what other accomodations would I need to make to make it more efficient? -How fast would it move, and what animals could it reasonably hunt given its speed? Edit: Internal organs can all be modified as its only the look of an insect I'm really looking for 

Say we have an organism with the beak of a raptor (the bird type, not the dinosaur), but instead of a full beak, it only has a mandible on the upper jaw, while the lower jaw just has a jaw bone like that of a dog or human, would this be possible from an evolutionary sense or would the lack of a lower mandible make the beak useless. If so, how would one make it work? Would it need teeth on it's lower jaw to compensate, or even teeth on the upper and lower jaw? There's a rough illustration below to show how I imagine it in its basest form. 

If you're talking about levelling just the technological playing field, the obvious answer would be trade. A second answer would be the limits of physics. Trade Assuming natural resources are ultra-plentiful on non-intelligent-life and non-inhabited planets & things (suns, comets, asteroids) there shouldn't be a reason to fight with your neighbours over them. And once you can build a few robots there should't be any sane reason for slaves. The only reason you would even want to talk to any other aliens is to trade information or things that they've made. Maybe your culture is growing old & bored, and thrives on new stories even. It would be easiest to trade basic technical info to obtain their "stuff," you don't have to make & deliver anything, while just showing them how to build faster & bigger ships so you can get more stuff delivered to you faster. Basic enough info that it still works, but not so advanced that they could fly over and blow up your planet at the slightest whim. If some species think that's a bad idea and don't want to give technical info to "lesser" species that could threaten them sometime in the future, that's fine, they won't. But all it takes is one species willing to trade, or even just one ship from one species and Pandora's box is open. Physical Limits Second, maybe the best technology & weapons have physical limits that just can't be surpassed. A musket from 400 years ago and a modern assault rifle are worlds apart, but both use similar physics & are both still dangerous. I'm not a (theoretical) physicist, but maybe nuclear reactions can only get so big (like a sun), or "ray-guns" have a maximum theoretical power, and once you can build a reactor or a bomb or ray-gun, then another thousand years of tweaking the details won't result in much more "bang for your buck." Going from a 20% efficient ray-gun to a 90% efficient one would be a big jump, but they're both still effective enough. In that case, someone with a basic entry-level weapon could still fight against the thousand year old species, but the minor tweaking details would still give the old species the advantage, most of the time, making for a not-completely-one-sided conflict. The first season (or two?) of Star Trek's Enterprise show often focused on technology. For example their weapons start off basically working, after some "tweaks" they're up to a level similar enough to fight with the much older Klingons. It also showed technology traded to others. Cloaking devices eventually going from Romulans (and the future?) to Klingons, and "holodecks" from a Xyrillian ship to a Klingon ship, and in "future" series' the Federation. 

The concept of Fantasy Gun Control is a pretty familiar one: for various reasons, stories set in a typical medieval fantasy setting generally don't have guns or people fighting with guns. But if your fantasy world isn't going to stay at a medieval level forever, eventually technological progress will occur. The Gods of Mundus don't really have anything against technology, but they have a serious problem with using it to make it easy to kill lots of people very quickly. Therefore, they've issued "Thou Shalt Not"-level prohibitions against the development of gunpowder and other dangerously explosive substances, and they really mean it: try to build stuff like that and you're likely to get yourself and your (highly explosive) research struck by lightning or other expressions of divine wrath. (It goes without saying that nukes are right out!) As time goes on, how much is this prohibition going to hold things back? Obviously with no knowledge of explosives you can't build rockets and visit the moons or launch satellites, but it seems to me that it would be perfectly possible to build most of modern technology, including satellites, long-distance communication including both broadcasting and networks, skyscrapers, and electronics, vaccines, pharmaceuticals and antibiotics, all without any knowledge of gunpowder or explosives. But I could be missing something. What non-obvious developments in technology would be cut off by a strongly-enforced blanket ban on explosives? 

I have a rocky world where land-based vegetation like grass or trees are either very rare and restricted to small and rare areas or non-existent. Rather, vegetation has stayed in the oceans and developed there. So the question is that in the title, what natural cause could there be for the landmasses of a planet having few or no plants while the seas have plenty? Edit: Note that animals still spread onto land, maybe feeding off photosynthetic animals rather than plants, or by feeding in lakes with plants 

Due to a thick cloud layer(at approx the same heigh as Earth's) surrounding this planet, it's plants have evolved to stay above the clouds so that they can absorb sunlight from their nearby star. Is this possible and how would it in that case manifest? A few ideas I have are plants that can float above the clouds somehow, absorbing water from the clouds, and simply very tall trees sticking out of the ground, do these have any merit? 

Why would a cyclops, that is to say, a sizeable(bear-elephant sized), land vertebrate creature with only one eye, evolve as opposed to the same creature with two eyes? That is to say, is there any reason why this organism would either be better off with only one eye or why two eyes wouldn't benefit it? Is there some other reason why an organism like this would evolve rather than one with binocular vision and depth perception?