You could, if you wanted, even include details about any minor subjects you're studying, if you feel they might be relevant, and maybe your current GPA or any other relevant academic performance metrics. The important questions to ask yourself, with regard to any extra pieces of information are: 

Because a CV is supposed to be a factual and impersonal description about you, not by you. Yes, usually, you do actually write your own CV, but that's not something you're supposed to emphasize. Basically, write your CV as if you were someone else describing yourself in third person. Ps. Caveat: Rules are meant to be broken. Sometimes, writing your CV in an unconventional style might make it stand out and cause a prospective employer to pay more attention to it. Of course, sometimes it might also just get it sorted into the circular file that much quicker. It's up to you whether you feel that's a risk worth taking. 

*) Placeholders for unknown major / institute / town / year / etc. **) Or maybe a B.Sc. or a Ph.D. or some other degree. 

Whatever else you do, apply for the position anyway. Make it clear in your application that, while your physical disability prevents you from performing offsite tasks, you have already demonstrated competence in the other parts of the job while in your current contract position. What you need to keep in mind is that a job posting is essentially an advertisement, and everything in it can be subject to negotiation. Yes, the employer is saying they're looking for two full-time programmers who also do some offsite support — but they may be perfectly willing to settle for one full-time programmer who cannot do offsite work, and one who will do a little more, especially if the first programmer is already known to them and familiar with the job. Sure, if they really just don't want to re-hire you for some reason, and have worded the new positions deliberately to exclude you, then doing this won't help. (In that case, you might also indeed have cause to sue; but you'd need to talk to a local lawyer about that.) However, if that's not the case — and the fact that they extended your contract suggests it may be so — then they may well be glad to have you apply, even if you don't technically satisfy all the stated requirements. Approaching the person who'll actually be doing the hiring (that is to say, not the HR person who posted the ad, but whoever you'd actually be working for if you got the job), as littlekellilee suggests, may also be a good idea. Make sure not to come across in any way demanding or confrontational, but just mention that you heard about the new positions, and that you'd like to know more about the offsite work aspects so that you can decide if you should apply. At least, this will let them know that you're interested in a permanent position, which could be useful even if you don't end up getting this particular job (e.g. because they really do specifically need more offsite support staff). 

The short answer is 'yes', it is professional. In fact, it's not just professional but desirable. And I base that answer not on opinion but on reviewing the research on the topic. Let me explain. I read this post a few weeks ago, and was intrigued not just by the number of answers but by the lack of consensus. Like others here, I'd assumed this question was now redundant, given how we've all long gotten over the whole 'look at me with a new iPhone' thing. But I'd begun wondering about it again after the default signature reappeared on my iPhone after a software update. I'd hesitated to just change it. (OK, I procrastinated, as I was irritated that I had to do it again, having carefully set up my mobile signature a couple of years back.) Then I wondered if I was actually better off leaving it as it was. Which is why this thread caught my eye. Rather than just add my two cents', I decided to see if there had been any research on the topic. It turns out that there has. A few years ago, two social scientists at the University of Oklahoma tested emails with and without 'Sent from my iPhone' on over a hundred volunteers, to see how each affected perception of the sender. In particular, they wanted to test whether the line reduced the damaging effect of grammar errors and typos. What they found was that, while such mistakes did indeed have a negative effect on perception, 'Sent from my iPhone' significantly reduced that effect. The reason is that we're all programmed to look for cues that help us judge the people we're communicating with. In a nutshell, we want to know whether we can trust and believe them – a concept covered by an idea called Uncertainty Reduction Theory (first put forward in 1975). Mistakes in an email increase uncertainty about the sender, but other cues called 'high-warrant' cues can reduce it. 'Sent from my iPhone' is the second type of cue. So those people here who've suggested it buys you leeway are spot-on: it repairs some of the damage that typos (or hurried, terse replies) do to your credibility. The original Oklahoma study research paper is here. I've also written up the research findings in more detail on my blog here. I may have geeked out a little, but it strikes me as a fascinating area – not least because I've never come across these ideas in any business books (despite working in communication for about 25 years). If the people we email (etc.) are all driven by the desire to reduce uncertainty, then tweaking what we write to help them with that (by including these cues) can only improve our work relationships. Adding something like 'Sent from my mobile – apologies for any typos or strange predictive text' seems like one easy, simple way to do just that. 

I'd say you absolutely need to talk about this with your line manager. It sounds like the fundamental problem is that both you and your line manager are (or are perceived to be) responsible for allocating resources to different projects, but, despite your mutual discussions, you end up disagreeing with each other in front of higher management and failing to present a consistent position. If so, you really need to sit down with your line manager to figure out why this happens and to come up with workable strategies for preventing it in the future. In particular, you really should ask your line manager for their viewpoint on the matter; they may well be equally annoyed with you for, say, failing to be properly accommodating towards upper management requests. For the future, once you've both raised your concerns and agreed that there's a problem, you should try to come up with some way to present a consistent front. There are many possible ways you could do that, from planning in advance your mutual responses to any likely upper management requests, to agreeing on definitive, non-overlapping areas of authority, so that you can simply pass any requests not in your designated area of authority to your line manager (and vice versa). 

However, if you're looking for work in a field related to your studies, it's quite plausible that your prospective employers might be interesting in knowing a bit more about your studies than just the fact that you'll hopefully have a diploma some day. As such, you could also consider fleshing out the entry to something like, say: 

The alternative, if you try that and still find yourself and your line manager contradicting each other in front of other bosses, is for you to unilaterally stop trying to speak for your line manager, and instead to always ask for them to make any objections they may have directly to the other bosses. Basically, in the scenario your describe, that would mean not saying "No, we can't do that" (since you knew your line manager had said you couldn't), but instead just passing the buck by saying e.g. "I believe <line manager> had raised some valid issues / might have some useful input / would be better placed to comment about that." However, while that's definitely one way to ensure that you don't take the blame for arguing your line manager's position, it's far from ideal, since it may end up looking pretty awkward to the other bosses. In particular, if you do this, do try to phrase your buck-passing reply in such a way as to leave your manager the freedom to choose any response without appearing to lose face. Specifically, don't say e.g. "I believe <line manager> had some objections," since that will inevitably leave either you or your line manager (or both) looking bad if they respond with "No, no, I had no objections at all!" Just suggest in a neutral manner that your line manager might want to take this question, and leave it at that. 

very recently, I have just emailed my new company that I will be purchasing my own flight ticket and they gave me the go sign and the amount that I can claim for it which is about $1300, any extra cost will be topped up by me.. I have a question though, and not wanting to sound stupid/ country-bumpkin sort by re-emailing back to the HR (it is my first time working overseas too..). In my contract it is stated as Pertaining to that sentence - , does that means only one-way ticket? The reason I am asking this is because, I have found out that 'one-way' ticket are generally more expensive, eg. 1.5k and if I am using 'return' ticket, eg. from Singapore to Japan (maybe stay in Japan for 3-4 days), the depart from Japan to Vancouver, it will cost me about the same amount but I am not sure if I will be reimburse on that.. Any ideas? Or should I simply ask the HR? 

Initially my current company in my home country got closed and I was given the opportunity to work in another location. I was given a permanent staff contract, 3 years worth of work permit. Though I seem to get such 'good' offer, the thing is I am not very happy with the current role I am in, still the same role back before the company closes down in my home country. And while during my probation, I talked to my reporting boss (he is my dept. head boss) that I am interested in moving on, he did mentioned something - 'will consider moving me after 1 year or, see how/where to proceed on'. Of course, no promises are made. Currently I am soon approaching my first annual review in this new location, however my company has the habit of delaying reviews between 2-4 months. And because of that, currently I am living in an apartment that deals with yearly rental leasing and I have yet to inform my landlord if I will be renewing. If I am, that means I will need to sign on for another rental year provided nothing does happens in my current contract, otherwise, I will need to find a place and move my stuff (which costs money) due to me dealing with the review delays. And so, is it a good idea for me to ask for an early annual review, while using my rental lease as part of the reasoning? Will this gives off as a very bad impression? (Perm. staff or not, there is always the fear that I will be let go as I am an expatriate.) Any advices?