Nirvana isn't an experience, or a state. Nirvana is just stopping. Can you see, directly, now, that everything stops? That everything is always stopping? When you do see that directly, that is, when your mindstream turns for one moment towards the stopping that's always happening, and you get a glimpse of Nirvana, "you" won't be there. But there will be an aftershock in your body. That aftershock may be pleasant, and feel like wisdom- it may even feel like being a "supreme seer". But it's an experience in your body, in time, and is not itself "being in Nirvana". Nirvana is in you because your mindstream, your experience, is always stopping. It's always going over the edge of a waterfall. All of that might not make much sense :) 

I'm not qualified to say for sure what is happening. But some of what you describe sounds like "the knowledge of arising and passing away", which occurs when your mind clearly perceives the rise and fall of every experience. It may result in blissful, ecstatic feelings, lights, and a powerful religious conviction. Try to remain aware that these are temporary, conditioned phenomena and not "The Truth", although it may feel like it. It is a very important discovery, but it is not the last discovery, and you may soon also experience painful and fearful feelings, too. Be careful of feelings of extreme joy or extreme fear or despair, and be aware that both extremes will pass. 

Thanissaro Bhikkhu's "Wings to Awakening" ($URL$ is a good interpretive guide to the suttas for practitioners. Also see the "Beginnings" material at this same site ($URL$ 

"The four immeasurables": Metta - friendship to all beings Karuna - compassion to all beings Mudita - taking joy in the well-being of others Upekkha - equanimity toward all beings ... from this point of view, you're already part of an ongoing "team effort" to create the conditions for a safer and happier environment, wherever you go. I really relate to that compulsive need to go do things myself. I often remind myself: "sometimes people really need to help you, and to refuse them the chance to help can be unkind." I also often "check in" with myself to see whether what I'm doing right now helps to create conditions for myself and others to be safer and happier. Not to "make" myself or others safe and happy- that's out of our control- but to set up the conditions that support that. Even though the idea of the "immeasurables" is to reduce selfishness, I think it's also a great definition of leadership. You can take that energy that makes you want to step out on your own, and use it to create a better atmosphere for collaboration. There's no situation where you can't find something to do that will lighten the load, either for yourself, or for someone else. 

Joy and bliss arise when the five hindrances (desire, ill-will, sloth-and-torpor, restlessness-and-worry, and doubt) subside. The desire for joy and bliss falls under the first hindrance. So whatever is the fastest technique to make you forget that you're seeking bliss... that's the fastest technique for seeking bliss :) Subduing the five hindrances is the "first stop" for all meditation techniques, whether it is breath-counting, breath-following, metta, noting, or devotional practices. Different people respond in different ways to each of these. So try them all out and see which one motivates you to stick with it- that will be the best. Two warnings: (1) Joy and bliss are conditioned states, so they can disappear as quickly as they arise, especially early in your practice (and "early" may mean years). If joy / bliss fades, or doesn't last past the sitting time, it isn't a failure. It's the natural passing away of all conditioned states. (2) Not everybody experiences joy and bliss when the hindrances subside. Some people, particularly those with a trauma history (though nobody knows for certain why), may experience disturbing imagery or emotions. If this happens, be careful about pushing your technique too hard. Some Buddhists will insist that it is a sign that you are not meditating hard enough. Be wary of this kind of advice. Not all problems are solved by meditation, and other kinds of work may be necessary too. 

I haven't had the "throat" experience, but it's not uncommon to have long or recurring periods of some kind of weird painful or uncomfortable physical/somatic sensation. Teachers that I know of link it to the "knowledge of the three characteristics" phase of the Theravada "progress of insight". It's a sign of maturing insight into the non-self nature of your physical and mental sensations. It's not a reflection on you or the state of your practice- in fact, it may be a sign that your practice is healthy and getting results. However, if it starts to be accompanied by disturbing imagery or strong negative emotions, especially if it seems linked to memories of past potentially-traumatizing experiences, then reduce your meditation periods and look for professional psychological support before continuing intensive vipassana practice. However, if it stays purely physical/somatic, then it's not that unusual. You just won't feel equanimous about it in the short term, but your non-equanimous feelings about it can be part of your vipassana practice. Examine the sensations in terms of "vedana" - the quick arising and disappearance of pleasant, neutral, and unpleasant feelings. 

"Interconnectedness" in Buddhism arises from the principle of "dependent origination". Dependent origination is an alternate way of viewing cause-and-effect relationships. Rather than saying "A causes B", (that is, one fixed object or idea leads to another fixed object or idea), it says instead: "B arises and is supported in dependence on A, so that if A passes away, B also passes away". That then extends to the fact that A also depends on supporting conditions, and those supporting conditions also depend on other supporting conditions, and so on and so on ad infinitum. Nothing exists independent of supporting conditions that allow it to continue existing. So your "being" exists dependent not only on other beings, but on a whole mess of other conditions (such as the composition of your body, the environment...) and all those things also have infinitely long chains of dependence. As a result, everything is in flux and nothing has a completely self-referential, independent existence. (This, by the way, is the source of a common misconception that Buddhism teaches that "nothing exists" or "nothing is real". It does teach that nothing exists absolutely, but things most definitely do exist in relation to their supporting conditions, which is why you should still look both ways before crossing the street :) ) You can take this on a very empirical and non-mystical level. But through practices like vipassana where you start to get a felt sense of the constant flux, the constant creation/destruction of your own experience rooted in ever-changing conditions, welllll... you could start to feel that there's something mystical (or at least, indescribably big!) about it. Editing to add something more to the point of your question: Practice also brings ever-widening insights into the way that you impact others and the way they impact you, which aren't necessarily "mystical", but they are subtle, and call into question the boundaries of your personality. It's more mundane than "I am one with the universe"; but it's richer than "stuff happens". Somewhere between the two :) 

If you feel alert, and not sleepy or distracted while it happens, it may be one of the things that naturally occurs as you start to get deeper concentration. A number of vaguely unpleasant experiences can spring up- aches, itching, etc.; they come with the territory, and aren't problems in and of themselves, although they may feel frustrating when you're starting to enjoy the sense of concentration. Take note that it happens, and take note of the feelings of frustration or distraction as they emerge. If you have time, see if you can sit until you get to the other side of it; but don't worry too much if you can't, right away. It's likely a sign that you're doing well, believe it or not. 

Anatta isn't something which continues- it just refers to the lack of an inherent (non-dependent) self nature, which is true of everything, everywhere and always. Contemplating dependent origination shows why anatta is true- since everything arises in dependence on something else, and extinguishes when that condition disappears, nothing can have an inherent self nature. Nibbana is the disappearance of the conditions that cause something to arise, and so, because of dependent origination, it's also the disappearance of the thing itself. 

The first four will subside (at least a bit) as you sit. But the fifth is hard because you will feel a lot of self-consciousness about sitting and a lot of worry about if your method is correct. So take note when those doubts arise- don't try to suppress them, just take note- and forgive yourself. An attitude of kindness and forgiveness toward yourself is the key to overcoming doubt. The fastest way to overcome doubt is to find a teacher who inspires you. It's hard to meet the right one in person, but in the meantime, there are many good teachers who have resources on the web. There are many excellent videos from Ayya Khema on YouTube. Leigh Brasington is very good. Ajahn Brahm is very inspiring but he has an extremely dogmatic and difficult-to-attain definition of jhana that many practicioners don't agree with. Take inspiration from his instructions on how to practice, but tune out his lectures about what is and isn't really jhana - you can decide that sort of thing for yourself later. 

Delusion can manifest as mental vagueness, blankness, the appearance that time is going by and nothing's changing, boredom. It's like a gauzy veil drawn over the reality of constant change, allowing you to believe that "nothing's happening" (which is never true). 

My personal 2 cents: no, Buddhism isn't humanist, because it doesn't place human agency or fulfillment at the center of its teaching. It describes a universe governed by an inexorable law of dependent origination, which embraces humans, animals, and gods, and renders them equal and interchangeable. That said, it holds out the promise of a certain kind of fulfillment that humans are especially well-equipped to reach. So it's compatible (at least at first!) with a humanist outlook. But if you approach Buddhism as a humanist, I believe that it will eventually force you to shed either some of your humanism (in a philosophical sense), or some of Buddhism.