Work on remembering the people you meet.Take notes. Put some description of them on the back of their business card (you did ask for a business card didn't you?). Just don't take their picture, too creepy. Sincerely find out about the problems they're facing. This occurs after you get to know people after some conversation and discovery of common ground and like interests. It's not the result of just asking, "What are your problems?" They came to a conference and not a therapist's office. Keep asking around for the best bars if you're into that. Do something for them. Follow up with a thank you email. Send a link to an article that made you think of their situation. It will take time before you find people that respond to this, so don't keep score. Get more involved with local groups. This will give you some more time. Offer to help. Try and find a guest speaker, alternate places to meet, companies to donate SWAG. If it's a job you want, I think people in your area are going to be a much better resource. Some groups; they're made up of a bunch of people looking for a job and may not be in a position to offer any help, but you never know. 

What does she expect to get out of this internship? Hopefully a recommendation of some sort. She needs to be told that there is no way you could ever recommend her for a job at this point. I doubt this person is going to see the "big picture" and change immediately, so you'll have to do it incrementally. Set very specific goals and ask her what the consequences should be if they are not met. Often, people come up with more sever punishments than you will. She needs to know if this doesn't change, she will be sent home. I don't know if you have any control over wages, so you may have to involve your supervisor or HR. She may act like a child, but treat her like a professional. Failure to comply won't get you scolded, it will get you fired. 

Many of these concerns have shown-up as question on this site and one piece of advice is to address them in a cover letter. 

Remember, you both have an obligation for you to learn about the new position from Bob. Be friendly as possible, but don't forget what the goal is. Take good notes. Document what was covered and give Bob a chance to review. You may have missed something. Your boss should be aware of the progress and know immediately if something is getting int he way. Again, this is part of Bob's new job, so he should do his part. Keep everyone in the loop. You don't want to be having a conversations with your boss 6 months from now when you've failed on a project and he mentions the negative feedback he got from Bob. 

Let it be known you've worked with the person before in the same role and you're wiling to give feedback. If they don't want it, I wouldn't volunteer any information. If you have a discussion, first find out why they like this person for this job. Many people want to do things the right way, but are often put into situations where they're not allowed. They are leaving the past job after-all, so something is wrong. Determine if the structure of this company will allow this manager to address these problems. My guess is, this current company isn't asking for your input which could be more of a problem for your team than this new manager. You may want a manager to push-back and fight for the team, but the company does not and will make the manger's life very difficult if he tries. Sure we'd all like the manager to do it anyway, but may not have a choice. 

Is this information solicited or unsolicited? For a detailed project, there are people who need to be informed about the status of tasks/subtasks. If a subtask is assigned to someone and it isn't done on time, that's just stating fact. If you're suppose to tell someone about it, you should do it. If you just go running to different people stating someone did finish their work on time, you appear to be a tattle-telling gossip. It's up to the person in charge on how the late task is treated and will either find out of themselves or ask you to find out what is happening. If there are other priorities, there's nothing you can do about it. There are some people that will ask you to "cover" for them and not tell anyone the task is behind. You have to decide how to handle this. In some situations, this is riskier than others. 

The company is contacting you, it is up to them determine if you're "job hopping" or not. If the job seems interesting and especially if it is in the new location, send them your CV. If you don't respond, you're guaranteed not to get the job. Make sure you can clearly articulate your reason(s) for relocating. You're going to be asked why you want to leave your current job. so have a well thought-out answer. If a company needs someone with your skills, they won' be too quick to judge your job experience as excessively short. Having a strong reference from your first job can alleviate any concerns that the reason you left was because you couldn't do the job. No one should fault you for making career moves. 

A boss should be pleased that there is any aspect of your job that you would want to do in your free time. Only a fool would discourage you from doing it. Obviously, he may give the other tasks more priority and want those completed first, but when people do things they like, they feel better. It should only help this project in the long-term. An exception could be if this task is so far down the line in priority that it may get removed from the project. Your boss should let you know that. If it is going to upset you that this could be removed, he may suggest you don't do it. Even though you're doing it on free time, it will still need to possibly be integrated in to the project and continuously supported in the future. There may not be enough resources to maintain it. 

It seems like the real goal is to secure this site by limiting where it can be accessed. It's the company's information, so they can do with it what they want. Your boss isn't technically savvy, so why don't you make sure you understand what he wants to accomplish and ask if you can try another solution? If not, I don't see what the problem is if you implement the poor technical solution and then show it doesn't work. If you foresee a lot of problems undoing this solution and implementing something else, you need to make sure the boss understands that up front. Like most people have indicated: you make suggestions, the boss makes decisions and no one is perfect.