Here are some references that should be of use. (i) H. Abels and S. Holz, Higher generation by subgroups , J. Alg, 160, (1993), 311– 341. (ii) S. Holz, 1985, Endliche Identifizier zwishen Relationen , Ph.D. thesis, Univerist\"{a}t Bielefeld. (iii) A. Bak, R. Brown, G. Minian and T.Porter, Global Actions, Groupoid Atlases and Applications, Journal of Homotopy and Related Structures, 1(1), 2006, pp.101 - 167. Abels and Holz consisder a slightly different construction. They take the nerve of the covering given by all the cosets but discuss some of the other equivalent notions including yours. Several of the things you find, they prove in that paper (and some were in Holz's thesis.) They discuss some of the Artin group examples and give references to Soulé and others (I won't list their references here.) The paper on global actions includes some pretty (I think!) examples of the interpretation of these nerves in very elementary examples. (e.g. $S_4$, with its usual presentation by transpositions, with subgroups generated by pairs of those. The nerve, if I remember rightly, has realisation $S^2$, the 2-sphere.) Abels and Holz's paper is very neat indeed and deserves to be more widely known. Hope this helps. 

There is no real division. It is for convenience. An example in which you can test out ideas on this is with the theory of finite topological spaces. (NB every thing is finite so the answer to your last part is clear in this context.) Finite topological spaces when discrete are finite sets (full stop nothing more can be said) when $T_0$ then they begin to resemble preordered sets. There is a beautiful homotopy theory of finite topological spaces and it is (almost) as rich as ordinary homotopy theory. Check it out and the division discrete non-discrete is almost quantifiable here, yet it is also very close to not existing as partially ordered sets... that is clear that is part of discrete mathematics, whilst think of them as topological spaces and they are not discrete at all. 

I wrote that part of the nLab entry so can confirm that it is the Edwards and Hastings extension of Chapman's result that was referred to, but my feeling in this is that that result is the geometric form of a lot of the classical cohomological duality results and that there should be more to be said about this ... but I don't know what! Perhaps looking at the Chapman result in the light of modern homotopy theory (say using Lurie's notion of shape) may give an $(\infty,1)$-categorical result. (Note that Batanin did work on strong shape theory and produced an $A_\infty$-structure, which must relate to this. Now I like that set of ideas. Good luck if you try it!) (You may spur me on to write more on that entry as it has got stalled... Alternatively anyone else is welcome to write more on strong shape, of course.... and to correct any miswording, typos that they find. :-)) 

A good place to start is in low dimensions and there a good introduction can be found in J. Kock, 2003, Frobenius Algebras and 2-D Topological Quantum Field Theories, number 59 in London Mathematical Society Student Texts, Cambridge U.P., Cambridge. There are also old notes of Quinn that take a very neat homotopy theoretic approach to some of the problems: F. Quinn, 1995, Lectures on axiomatic topological quantum field theory, in D. Freed and K. Uhlenbeck, eds., Geometry and Quantum Field Theory, volume 1 of IAS/Park City Math- ematics Series, AMS/IAS,. These do not really get near the physics but you seem to indicate that that is not the direction you want to go in. I like the links with higher category theory. I realise that this is not everyone's `cup of tea' but it does have some useful insights. I wrote a set of notes for a workshop in Lisbon in 2011 which contain a lot that might be useful (or might not!). They are available at $URL$ My advice would be to raid the net getting this sort of resource (storing it on your hard disc rather than printing it all out!), then as you start working your way through some of the stuff you have found there will be explanations available ready at hand. Start with the main ideas and `back fill', i.e. don't try to learn everything you might need before you start. If when reading some source material an idea that you are not happy with comes up, search it out then, just enough to make progress beyond that point easy. (Of course this is how one progresses through lots of areas of maths so ....) (Those notes of mine exist in several different forms and lengths, so in a longer version some idea may be more developed.... so ask!) .... and don't forget the summaries in the n-Lab can be a very useful place to start a search. (I had at the back of my mind just now a reference to a seminar that I had some notes on .... but no idea of the source. A little search found me: $URL$ ... One other thing, there are lectures by Lurie on this stuff on YouTube: $URL$ that are well worth watching.) 

I think the answer is no, but cannot give a counterexample off hand. What is true is that there will be an equivalent monoidal category such that the corresponding functor $b$, does have the property. Any 2-group is equivalent to a strict 2-group (which can be assumed to come from a crossed module). What would be an interesting subsidiary question would be can the structure be `deformed' to one which is strict. (Deformed in the sense of a deformation theory.) 

I think what you are asking is for the standard description in terms of n-term exact sequences starting with A and ending with B (or the other way around). One usual reference is MacLane Chapter III section 5, p.82 in my copy. It is known as the Yoneda description. It is also in $URL$ 

This will not answer your question but is to mention that we only defined (and studied in depth) the functors $\underline{F}$ and $\overline{F}$ where the codomain $\mathbf{B}$ of the functor was a 'locally Kan' simplicially enriched category and thus fibrant in the usual model category structure on $\mathcal{S}$-cat. (This eliminates the awkwardness of the example that Dimitri mentions.) This means that the unit and counit maps $\eta_F$ etc, are levelwise homotopy equivalences not just weak equivalences. (N.B. Our philosophy was to show such things as directly as possible so there is no use of spectral sequences (at least explicitly in our contribution), for instance, by showing some map is a weak equivalence, followed by invocation of the Kan-ness of the objects involved so get it is a 'real' homotopy equivalence. This makes some of the arguments more constructive' but at the cost of being heavier on explicit, almost combinatorial or geometric, computation with induction up skeleta etc. as a tool.) I suspect that some of the ideas explored in the article: P. J. Ehlers and T. Porter, Ordinal subdivision and special pasting in quasicategories, Advances in Mathematics, 217 (2007), No 2. 489 - 518 may be useful, but do not, at the moment, see how to prove what you suggest to be the case. It is worth noting that Dan Dugger's construction, mentioned by Dimitri, is very similar to that given by `$F$ goes to $\overline{F}$', so adapting his proof may give the result. 

This will not answer the question but is more than a comment in addition it may be very naive! (This is a hard question not a soft question!!!) I wonder if given the Galois group <-> étale fundamental group link works for dimension 1, should there not be a link '2-Galois thingie'<->étale 2-type, and hence a link with Grothendieck's Pursuing Stacks and his letters to Breen in 1975. The sought after model might be a profinite (?) crossed module. These are able to be seen as automorphism 2-groups of groupoids, so although they are automorphism things, there is a gap to bridge before the link would work well. I have also met a similar idea when working with orbifolds, and related ideas but have not any definite reply to the particular question, rather more an addition to the question! (I hope this helps... or inspires someone to think 'outside the box'.) There would be then a similar idea for polynomials in n-variable and models for n-types??? (This may be all rubbish but it is nice to dream sometimes!) 

My point of view is that there is no inherent problem in using either construction. If you adopt a modicum of categorical language, then you can define the set of ordered pairs in either way, then define the same'?) The categorical point is then that 'product' is defined by a universal property and so is determined up to isomorphism (bijection) only, hence having two different models with the same property is no big deal. You may not want to introduce categorical language, but realising there is no problem and that set theoretic ideas cannot tell the difference between two `different' but bijective sets seems to be a step towards a solution to your conundrum. 

You might look at $URL$ Moerdijk defines morphisms of orbifolds on page 8. The key is to link the map on the underlying spaces, with a morphism of the corresponding orfold groupoids. (i leave you to check a few pages earlier for the definition of them.) Notice that the orbifolds are also stacks, and there is an extensive literature on them! :-) 

Qu 1: At about the time of Freyd's book there were two approaches to defining categories. One came from algebraic topology and homological algebra, thus from Eilenberg and MacLane and used the objects and arrows definition, the other was motivated by differential geometry and used the arrows only formalism. This second one is perhaps better suited to those areas where the arrows are what is seen first. For instance, when introducing the concept of the fundamental groupoid of a space then you can think of the idea as a set with a partially defined composition satisfying certain rules and that has distinct advantages for that setting. Ehresmann wrote his book on categories from this viewpoint, but some of the basic ideas do end up being less clear from that viewpoint, others are perhaps clearer. That approach is also linked to more algebraic ideas such as inverse semigroups. The first 'objects plus arrows' approach is thought to be more accessible to researchers with a `standard' mathematical background e.g. from algebra or algebraic topology. There the objects are usually thought of as being what is being studied and the morphisms are a tool for that study. The recent use of categorification, quasicategories, internal categories, enriched categories and other similar ideas, tends to show that both viewpoints are best kept in balance, meeting in that higher categorical area. Put simply I thing the answer to your question is: historically the comparison of objects using arrows was the more pressing application to start with. It came to dominate. More researchers came to use it. Now the question arises `which to use with a given audience? and that is a hard one to answer. 

It may help to look at Phil Ehlers thesis ``Algebraic Homotopy in simplicially Enriched groupoids'' Bangor 1993. He used some ideas from Duskin and van Osdol and write down the details of the right adjoint.(It can be found on the n-Lab at $URL$ ) I do not know if that will answer your question, since it is quite a long time since I read it, but he did describe the adjunction explicitly (see his chapter 3). The restriction placed in the answer to your earlier MO question (namely that $X(-1) = *$). The right adjoint is given by $[Y,Z]_{n-1} = Set_{\Delta_a}(Y,Dec^nZ)$. The derivation is just jiggling about using the end calculus. 

As this may be of use to others as well, I will try to provide some general points on journal selection for an `average' paper. One obvious general approach to take is (i) to look where the references of your paper were published (and I note that there are lots still unpublished so here that may raise a problem... so check on whether they have now been published). (ii) Look at, or estimate, the publication backlogs where available and make your decision on those grounds. (You have a delicate balancing act ahead as your idea of a two month acceptance is really hard to achieve and may need revising!) (iii) Look at other journals similar to those found by (i), e.g. by iterating (i) on the recent papers in your reference list. Electronic journals tend to be quicker to publication, and probably also to acceptance, than traditional ones, of course, so (ii) will be biased in that direction to some extent. (iv) Finally I have not read the introduction to your paper but often introductions are crucial in 'selling' a paper to the referee. If you say what the paper sets out to do, clearly and concisely, then your chances of getting a referee's report more quickly, and one which will be positive, will increase. (v) The paper was submitted to Arxiv last November. That means you have a certain distance from it. Do a critical health check on it from the point of view of wording, sentence structure, spelling, etc., before sending it to any journal. Get a friend or colleague to do a quick read of intros etc. so as to get a second opinion on wording. Think of the poor referee, make their job easier. They need to be able to evaluate the paper fairly quickly. Check, yourself, for typos (and, of course, don't trust spell checking programs on this). My reaction to writing a report when there are clearly lots of typos is to put it off for a few weeks... therefore longer turn around time. Finally I feel that your should have put the question in a different form. Specific journal suggestions are hardly the responsibility of MO but your general point on how to select journals for such a paper is a valid one .