There is abundant evidence that Obama takes less vacation than past presidents. George W Bush was notorious for taking a lot of time away from the Whitehouse, most of it at his ranch. Here are some articles and quotes: 

This story is reported by multiple reputable news stories, and we have no reason to doubt it. Reputable sources that report the story include The Independent, CNN, NBC and Time. All the stories carry similar information. Some things to note about this story: 

The Cruz story is factually correct, but any implications that the return of the bust was some kind of snub are not. The Johnson claim that 'something mysterious happened' and 'no one could quite explain why' is false. 

This link is not in itself a reliable source, but it cites reliable sources. And quotes the photographer. The only evidence on the other side is a bunch of people saying "it doesn't look like him". Eyewitnesses are notoriously bad at identifying people in the present, let alone people from forty years ago - even if that person is an ex-husband. The University of Chicago, which initially changed the caption to Rappaport, has now changed it back to Sanders in response to Lyon's evidence. Even if by some bizarre chance it turns out that the photo is of someone else, it is irrelevant - a fact that is made clear even by the people who believe the photo is of Rappaport. We know from multiple testimonies that Sanders was at the same place, at the same time, doing the same thing (i.e. fighting for civil rights) that the photo depicts. 

The US is the data point at the top centre of the chart. Now it appears that high gun ownership is not correlated with high levels of assault. But that wasn't the claim. The claim was that high gun ownership reduced levels of violent crime. This graph certainly indicates there is no inverse correlation between gun ownership and assaults. 

Your question links to an article that quotes the relevant law. The law makes it pretty clear that, to answer the question in the title: yes you can be put in jail for refusing to provide a decryption key for encrypted data. This is a significant reversal of the presumption of guilt. To quote: 

The Texas constitution gives protection against religious discrimintation for public office, but that protection does not extend to atheists. However that is long way from saying that atheists can't hold office. It means that under the Texas constitution someone 'could' choose to exclude atheists: but in fact that does not happen. One of the reasons that it does not happen is that it would be illegal under the US constitution. [From article VI of the US constitution][2]: 

This claim is utterly false. Just like the similar claims for the US and Canada, there is no justfication for what is said in these emails. In fact the figures are based on the Canadian emails that Snopes debunked. So says the Hoax Slayer website. 

So there were about three calls a day, and about one in nine resulted in an arrest (probably more if we assume there was more than one call about some cases). Here is another result for Shropshire, UK, with figures not too far away from that. 

The general consensus is that anyone who can afford to now buys astroturfing teams much as they would buy other kinds of advertizing. You can even buy "persona management software" that allows to you set up and manage the necessary online accounts, and provide them with fake details needed to be plausible. 

The study notes that free uniforms are sometimes provided, but that there are families that fall between the cracks. The claim is made by many, many charities involved with education in Thailand. See here here here and here as examples. Technically all these charities might benefit from this claim, but it's very unlikely that they would all choose to make up the same lie when they could also ask for donations for other things like fees, meals or equipment. They also list school uniforms as only one of the inhibiting factors: other include transport and school equipment, which also agrees with the Katholike Universiteit Leuven study. Blogs from people in the Thai education sector (here and here) also back up the claim. Here is an extract from parliamentary records that says the same thing for Kenya. Some of the sites state that sometimes the reason for non-attendance is that Thai parents are ashamed to send their kids to school without the uniform. You could argue that they aren't technically prevented from going, but in the end the result is the same - the kids aren't in school because of uniform issues. Summary: Yes, kids in Thailand and elsewhere sometimes don't attend school because they can't afford uniforms. The relation to human trafficking deserves a separate question. 

The biological limitation on men having repeated sex is called the Refractory Period. During this period, after orgasm, a man is generally unable to maintain an erection or achieve orgasm, and may be psychologically uninterested in sex. The refractory period varies between men and increases with age. For younger men the period can be a matter of minutes. For older men it can be 12-24 hours. In some cases it can be days. There is also a refractory period for women, but it is more complex and in any case does not prevent a women physically from having sex. Without an experiment there is no way we can be certain it is possible, but we know of nothing biological preventing some (probably most) men from having sex every day. 

This seems to be a genuine product. The Hindustan Times report above, which seems to be the origin of most of the non-Indian reports, gives considerable detail on the name of the manufacturing company and the name of the owner, which it would be unlikely for even a semi-reputable newspaper to do without fact-checking. It also gives details about the decisions behind the name: 

No this allegation is not true. Charities are subject to strict auditing requirements, and UNICEF is no different. i'm going to point you at the report of Canadian UNICEF because I'm more familiar with it it. It says: 

@Tor-EinarJumbo gives what I think is the correct answer, but I would like to add another that addresses @SebastianRedl's comments. Here is the complete data from the poll. The question about Agrabah had only three responses: 'support bombing', 'oppose bombing' or 'not sure'. Presumably a response of 'I've never heard of that country.' was filed under 'not sure' (though it's also reasonable to believe that people might oppose bombing of countries they had never heard of, or even countries they knew to be fictional). The 41% figure given for Trump supporters is of all responses. So the full response list is: