A plot point might be that the rebels use "rebel local time" just to make a point how ridiculous the Empire is. 

Regarding point 1, of course - obviously - you might need staggeringly big rockets and other astounding engineering difficulties. (You may well need fusion! or anti-matter! engines to make huge amounts of electricity - whatever. You would surely need some sort of astounding laser technology to blast out of the way any micro-particles in front of you - etc etc.) Once again, thanks Einstein - any speed at all, whatsoever, is identical to no speed at all. There is absolutely no difference between speed and no speed. (Note that indeed our planet (indeed, our galactic group) is whipping along at an astounding speed; when we take off to the moon we just "add speed" - the "original" (staggering) speed of the planet means absolutely nothing.) Speed and no-speed are the same. In contrast - point 2 - traveling at light speed (or higher) is utterly and totally different, requiring utterly new base mathematical concepts, totally and completely unknown to us. 

The only thing that would matter is the moment of inertia tensor. (Which physicists and engineers often just call the "moment" usually.) $URL$ There's no other consideration, at all: since there is no air resistance. (It's surprising nobody else has pointed this out.) Note the excellent example animated-gif of four rolling objects on that wikipedia page. Depending on your desired strategic approach, your engineers would create objects with different moments of inertia. (Each would have different advantages - consider an ice skater pulling in her arms during a spin.) In space nobody can hear you scream, there is no surface effect physics, no viscosity physics (aerodynamics, etc) - but there is your moment tensor. Which changes everything and is the "whole" design. 

This is a thought provoker! But, since we're talking about stories, my mind immediately jumped to the 'gotchas' that would make forming a society difficult. Would people still work? If each day was a repeat, would there be a compelling reason to clock in each morning at McDonalds to cook for people? Would a bus driver bother getting the bus going? Why plow the snow if tomorrow is the same? Would basic infrastructure be working? Would anyone bother to reboot the web server for the day? Change that lightbulb? Or, perhaps the bigger issue...would anyone that works for the power company bother to go into work to actually provide power for the day? I'm thinking that would all fall apart pretty quickly. The next question would be...would it return? If everyone remembers each same day from day to day, perhaps verbal agreements could be made. Joe, you come in 'tomorrow' and fire up the generators. Bob will come in the 'day after' that. Then Sam. So, initially, people may go the free-for-all route. But that can get old. And at some point, humanity may wish for a semblance of routine and return to the routine and start going back to work to bring back a bit of order. The success/failure of that may be varied from locale to locale but, over time, if enough regions leave the power on, and the cable on, word can spread. If all of that succeeds, one scenario is a form of Utopia. No one gets older. Everyone works minimally (only infrastructure and service jobs are really needed). And there's plenty of time for leisure. Everything is free (as why bother with money for a day?) There is a catch, though, and that, of course, is that society somewhat stagnates as there's no way to record information for the next day. It all has to be stored and shared verbally. Day by day. That might slow down the progress of human knowledge significantly. On the other hand, with each day a repeat, and all that leisure time, perhaps word of mouth is ideal and we all slowly learn all of the things we never had time to before. There would be casualties, though. As others have pointed out, for most people, this would be a nice way to spend each day. But for anyone that is suffering at any level, this could be a nightmare. If you in your last days of a painful disease, or are injured every day in the first 10 seconds. Or simply depressed. Having to spend every day in agony over and over will surely create despair. Or those that are alone somewhere without an easy way back to civilization within 24 hours. Being alone for the rest of your life could drive someone insane. 

Say you're paying 10 million a year tax. All you have to do, is have four children ............... and you now pay basically no tax!! (You only pay the modest baseline $1m a year.) For the profoundly rich who pay 100s of millions a year in tax, it would be insane to not have four children: every single truly rich person would have four children: it would be absolutely ridiculous to not do so. As mentioned above - especially - death taxes are the truly hated thing amongst the rich. Consider tycoons with a wealth measured in the billions. When they die, basically the government takes most of it. By simply having four children, they get to keep ALL of their money (ie, the inheritors get it all, the government gets nothing). The above system would certainly and absolutely ensure that everyone who pays more than, say, about $2m a year in tax, would, almost certainly have four children - it would be crazy not to. 

In that case the only answer to your question here is: A whacky "one time zone" world would would signal to the reader a very strong, overbearing, somewhat ridiculous centralized government... (Note that, simply, China currently does this: it's an overbearing, "centralized government" move - a holdover from their overbearing, "centralized government" days!) So for example, in the movie Brazil, or perhaps the classic book 1984, it would be a plot point if the nutcase world government in question, established "one time zone worldwide!" (for "planetary unity and order!") 

Here's an example. It is silly, exaggerated, and would probably never be a real scenario, but I think it makes the point: Suppose you are preparing a presentation for your boss, and you need some statistics for it. You need to know the average age of every house within a particular zip code. You say to your magic automated-programming-AI-box. You: "Okay Box™, Run a program which calculates the average age of all houses in zip code 96818" Box™: "Done" You: "Well?" Box™: "Well what?" You: "What is the answer to the program you just ran?" Box™: "Oh, I didn't know you wanted me to save the result." You: "Oh okay, I would have thought that would be obvious, but understandable. Okay Box™, run a program which calculates the average age of all houses in zip code 96818, and GIVE ME THE ANSWER." Box™: "Done" You: "Well?" Box™: "Well what?" You: "What is the ANSWER?!" Box™: "The answer is in your email box - that's usually how I give you answers, so I figured--" You: "Look, I really REALLY need to get this done quickly, and I don't have access to my email terminal right now. Okay Box™, can you please run a program which calculates the average age of all houses in zip code 96818, and speak the answer aloud to me, right now?" Box™: "Sure. Processing. Done. The answer is five thousand, six hundred and eighty two years old." You: "Whaaat? That's ridiculous! There can't even be ONE that old, let alone nearly HALF! How did you come up with that answer??" Box™: "I calculated this area's average population over the course of human history, which mostly entailed wandering tribes up until humans started building permanent residences approximately 200,000 years ago. Those first houses were VERY old, but there were very few of them. Modern humans have built VERY MANY quite young houses in recent years, so with my best estimates, the average house is ~5,000 years old." You: "Wait what? You're counting houses up to 200,000 years ago?! Those can't possibly even be standing anymore!" Box™: "You are correct - the vast majority of these structures have ceased standing long ago. I took averages of archaelogic discoveries in this area for the past several decades, and calculated how many ancient structures must exist buried underground, or on the surface, but collapsed." You: "WHY WOULD I CARE ABOUT ANCIENT HOUSES UNDERGROUND AND PILES OF RUBBLE?! Okay Box™, can you please run a program which calculates the average age of all houses in zip code 96818, counting only structures erected after 1800 A.D., and only including structures which remain currently at least 90% standing, and speak the answer aloud to me, right now?" Your boss: sticking his head in your doorway "Johnson, got that report ready? I need it by 2:00!" 

Neither option is 'better'. But evolution, in general, is extremely slow. As such, we've mainly used technology to better adapt to this world. This has been fairly true since the beginning and is perhaps one of the defining aspects that makes us human. In fact, when technology enables us to do things, it eliminates the need to evolve to to do it directly. We figured out how planes work, so no need for us to evolve wings any time soon, for example. 

Plenty of species already evolve with us in urban environments (at least 'evolve' in the sense that they thrive and benefit from the urban environment). 

One thing the other answers miss is: pride. Building large, tall skyscrapers is very much about bragging. The pyramids weren't built for practical purposes. They were built as status symbols...as are most of the worlds 'tallest' buildings. Tall buildings are used as personal symbols (Rockefeller center), business symbols (Transamerica Building--later a symbol used by the city), and City symbols (1 World Trade Center). 

Russia might be an interesting real-world example to look at. Many cities in Russia are incredibly remote, yet have transportation to them and infrastructure within. This is usually to accommodate industry (that is perhaps near water, or purposefully isolated) or access to remote natural resources. Modern day Canada would also be an example in regards to natural resources. The Alberta Tar Sands and the Northern Territory Diamond mines being good examples. Perhaps other economic and non-economic motivations could include: 

It's trivial: our observable universe, in fact contains only a few very large structures, which are easily identifiable. You'd just look for and identify the sloan great wall, the Bootës void, and the 3 or 4 biggest superclusters. (Obviously, this would take incredible telescopes and a few years.) {Note that we already have "incredible telescopes". Read up on Europe's GAIA space scope, which is pure "sci-fi".} Vashu has already included in his answer and overall map of our observable universe, which shows how obvious it is. 

To make the rich do something is very difficult. The simple answer is this: For tax paid over one million per year, each child you have eliminates one quarter of your taxes. (Note too that, especially, the system includes death taxes) They'd call it the "25% kid" rule... So to be clear - 

Note that one huge social effect would be: women who want to have many children would be in incredible demand amongst the super-rich. (Indeed, it would apply to men too: imagine a super-wealthy family and consider one of the females in that family. It would be totally ridiculous if she married a man who "only wanted one or two kids" - you'd be literally throwing away billions.) Almost certainly women (and men) would start having children very, very young (why risk billions of dollars on an older partner - fertility declines with age, there is chance of not being able to have the four children, when one starts older). One plot point could be .... perhaps women would tend to have one "demonstrator" child at a young age, I mean to say as a single mother, at say 16. They would then be really "proven" (i.e. to the world's rich) that they can easily bear healthy children. Conversely older men with lower fertility, would be summarily discarded by the world's female rich: there'd be no room for niceties in the need to quickly reach four children. Don't forget, for the truly rich you'd be throwing away 100s of millions a year, until you got to the "four quarters"; every year you waited until getting the four children would be more zillions down the drain; it's possible very young marriages would become the norm again (as for all of history before about 100 years ago). 

For starters, 'on par'--in the real world--is a misleading concept when comparing the societies. The America's had elaborate advanced societies as well. They were just different. The other big thing to note is that 1600's Europe was a society that formed from a long history of interacting with many other very diverse societies. So had Europe been left to their own devices, they never would have achieved the 1600's Europe that came to be. As such, hypothetically, it's doubtful that more isolated societies would advance the same way as societies with a lot of interaction with other societies. Even if both societies had access to the same types of diverse other societies, advancements would likely not mirror each other due to pure randomness. The reason we have different cultures is because of that. 

Species that are adept at changing environments and opportunistic in terms of leveraging human environments will thrive. Others will not. While not urban-centric, the PBS documentary on Dogs talks about one particular species that has thrived with humans: $URL$ 

I'd look at all sorts of coastal islands. Sea stacks, for example. There are plenty of naturally occurring islands out there that are inaccessible by boat. Typically due to: cliffs, reefs, and the sea itself (rough seas). Cliffs make it impractical to build infrastructure for shipping, but you are correct in that people could always build trails. So I don't think it's the cliff that are necessarily the key element. Just one of the barriers. The bigger barriers would be shallow sands (possibly fixed via dredging), rocks and reefs (possibly fixed via demolition), rough seas (possible fixed by building sea walls). All surmountable, of course, but typically highly impractical. If you look at the west coast of North America, you'll find a lot of of the coast is not easily accessible by large ships. Most ports are in fact inland (up river or within large bays). 

Say you are going any speed, whatsoever. Any speed. To go faster, you simply attach a rocket at the back and light a match. Once again, no matter what speed you are going, to go faster you just fire a rocket. There is utterly no difference whatsoever, at all, in the fundamentals. Regarding travel at light speed, like a photon (or faster than light speed). This is simply utterly impossible, based on our current deepest understanding of mathematics. 

It's clear that you need a magical script copyright agency ! in the real world, copyright is enforced entirely and totally by the action of legal bodies, civil actions, and industry-national pressure groups. (A great example is the "DOC" system in France - the notion that nobody worldwide is "allowed' to call anything other than Champagne, Champagne: surprisingly this actually happens.) So, much in the tradition of Time Lords, etc, you need a magical enforcement agency, for magical copyrights. Technology is of zero help in enforcing copyrights, in the real world and the magical. 

Note. OP's question was not clear if the travelers were "instantly" transported in an FTL sense. If the travelers are instantly transported, then as I explain it's trivial. If OP means moving billions of years in time, the question is meaningless. (There's no way whatsoever to predict where everything was/will be over huge time periods.)