We start by pointing NASA's Deep Space Network at the appropriate point in our solar system. We move them if necessary. I don't know how long this will take. Now we can measure any gravitational-signal responses send back by the aliens. Then we come to the harder part. Generating the signal. So, gravity produces gravitational waves, as we have recently proved using two interacting black holes. Now I'm not going to suggest we create two black holes in our solar system (disclaimer: OK, I was going to suggest that we did that using our wormhole-generating technology until I read the question saying that we need to stick with current tech levels). However, those black holes were far away which is why they needed to be big to detect them. Can we get a similar effect by using smaller objects nearby? I have no idea, but since I haven't been paid yet as the lead scientist on this project, I'm going to say "Yes, with absolute certainty"! We make two Space JCBs. They are load-carrying spaceships. Then we fill up their load bins with heavy things (rocks, or lead, or uranium, or asteroids, or whatever is most fun). Now, the fun part. We send these Space JCBs to the point where we detected our aliens, and get them to play Space Chicken. We get these Space JCBs to fly towards each other, leaving only the tiniest of margins where they don't crash into each other. Their masses interacting will produce a gravitational wave, which since it's so close (or possibly inside) the alien spaceships, should be Super Easy to Detect™. However, for all these aliens know, that was just an asteroid crashing into another one, or however they explain common things occurring on the Light Side. So let's do it again. And again. And again. And again. But let's set up a specific pattern: a coding, if you will. Let's do one pass. Then wait. Then two passes. Then wait. Then three, and wait. Five, wait. Eight, wait. Thirteen, wait. Twenty-one, wait. I think you know what's next. That's right, back to one. This Fibonacci sequence was getting too long, so we'll stick to repeating this sequence up to twenty-one passes. Let's do this for an unreasonably long amount of time, or until the aliens notice, and our detector picks up some sort of coded activity in the wait periods - my hope is that our alien friends will start to pre-empt our numbers by filling in the wait periods, showing us that they are receiving our signals, understanding the sequence, and able to communicate back at us. ? Profit. 

So you want be electric, son? I gotta tell ya, it'll be a whole evening of cocktails, in a very shady bar. Here, put your finger here. It's gonna pinch just a bit. We need this blood drop to craft the brews, so they'll pass by your antibodies with ease. 

I've spent a good deal of time thinking about this and related problems. The puzzle caused by the multidimensional linkages between growth and technological progress has been a difficult one to crack. You can look up the giants in the field of growth, such as Solow, Ramsey, Simon, Harrod, as well as the New Growth Theory. Production Possibilities Frontier I have come to think that the best framework to start thinking about this issue is through the use of an expanding production possibilities frontier (also PPC). 

Ah, but the question is now a bit broad. Let there be constraints. So, constraints. Humans need (for each of the following, you may assume that a technical infrastructure to support them is needed, with --and I am probably guessing wrong-- a 90%:10% mass ratio between infrastructure and the thing being supported): 

Well the way that we know about dark matter is by the gravitational effects it has. This is then a place to start generating our communication system. We are using our current levels of technology. OK, great. We can currently send things into space. We can also currently detect local levels of gravitation - . Taking these two facts, and using some our own dontaskium (similar to alien's handwavium but light instead of dark) to generate the appropriate governmental and public support and funding for our venture, we do this: 

NO What is the appeal of your MMORPG - do you know this or can you find out e.g. do XY testing on popularity of limiting this behaviour? Are people drawn to the realism, and does this include the capacity for cruelty and genuine response? If so, then from the business perspective you can't do this: granting AIs human rights makes such behaviour illegal, which your MMORPG can't support. You also can't remove the behaviour, as people will not want to play. The question comes down to a matter of public perspective: "consciousness" is not as hardly delineated as we like to believe - but we do like to believe it is. If you release public statements saying that you understand people's concerns, but that these NPCs are art not people: much like a painting or statue that may inspire high emotion in people, they are designed as conduits for our own internal feelings, but not actually alive. More philosophical thoughts on "human rights" in virtual contexts (you can use this in your press release if you want) - humans are not simply a sentient mind, they are a physical body whose form, abilities and weaknesses shapes our physical minds in every single thing we do. We cannot simply be copied, backed up, reverted to a previous version, have memories deleted, etc - our physical form is integral to making our personalities, desires, phobias, mind-states, rationalities and irrationalities what they are. Being "human" is not only self-awareness (or the appearance there-of) - it is the unique interaction between our bodies and brain and the environment and evolutionary history that has lead us to our survival. Virtual minds, sentient or otherwise, could be simulated to have these feelings - but in the same way that I cannot eat the picture of food on my PC screen (still lamenting this after 20 years of internet), simulation is an inherently different process than "human experience". Note that I am not saying better, worse or other value judgements - just different, and that "human rights" are not applicable. 

The summary is in bold. My Scenario takes place around 1700 and is linked to do with the succession of Charles II of Spain. So by 1698, the Nine Years War was over and Charles II of Spain was getting old. At this time Spain was in decline but still an important power that controlled most of the Americas, the Philippines, about half of Italy and modern day Belgium (Then known as the Spanish Netherlands) so the succession was a big deal. Since Charles II never had any kids, it was unclear to whom all the different bits of Europe he owned would go. The main contenders were: 

In Medieval times defensive structures were very common, and while not everyone had a stone castle there were Motte and Baileys that people could go into when someone was attacking. They had a bailey (farm bit) a motte (a hill) and a keep which was the wooden castle on top of a motte.The whole thing had a palisade fence around it and a moat around that so if it wasn't airborne communities of lords and peasants could continue to survive in these fenced-off areas. Unfortunately Motte and Baileys only took off in England after William the Conquerer came to power and had a castle building-spree. So if you hold onto those zombies for another twenty years, society has a better chance of surviving. Besides the Mottes and Baileys, I think people would manage the zombies fine. After the vikings, slow, weaponless people probably wouldn't be that scary. $URL$ In the case that England does collapse CYMRU AM BYTH! Cymru Gruffydd ap Llywelyn!! 

Let's go by a basic sound principle: higher-frequency sounds are absorbed quicker than low frequency sounds. For stealthy purposes, this means that someone in the next room is less likely to hear a squeak as opposed to a burp, volumes being equal. This is also beneficial for our spy as it means that the echoes from their high-pitched emission are more localised to close-by objects - they don't get as much cross-talk from further objects. Bats use ultrasound for echo location; I believe recorded cases of human echo location also uses high-pitched clicks. Now, is a high-pitched click appropriate for a spy? Probably not. But what were common in the middle ages? Rats. Lots of rats. And rats use high-pitched sounds themselves. A spy sneaking around and making squeaking rat sounds would probably be safely ignored - unless they had broken into the kitchen! 

What about putting an edge and a hilt on one of these babies: Folding bike locks are designed to not break, so you are looking at something less flimsy than hollow telescoping swords. You could put in stoppers at each of the joints (I don't know what they're called, the ones where it locks into places and you push a button to release it) to lock each section at 180°. If this was well-oiled, a quick flick would fold each section out until it locked, leaving you with a nice sword that isn't hollow - the weak points are the joints/stoppers, so over-engineering them would be a good plan. Edit: forgot to say: Yes it's going to be at an angle. Yes you have to deal with it. If your segments are thin, it shouldn't be too big a deal. 

Fire. During his trips abroad, Brin is often faced with the irritating danger of being burned at the stake as people misidentify his an "an agent of the Great Satan" or other such nonsense. Thankfully, Brin has a twofold solution. The first line of defense is a deployable laser array using Sisyphus Cooling technology can create a thin layer of oxygen and nitrogen atoms at nero-zero Kelvin some distance away from Brin. This allows him to casually walk through campfires, and stroll around Californian forest fires. Now in case Brin decides to walk on lava or grab really really hot things (potatoes out of the fire, turkey out of the oven, or forge iron bare-handed, a flexible aerogel casing can deploy (for instance, gloves) to make sure that Brin's delicate fingers are not affected. Suffocation. Any high-powered executive will occasionally find himself in a suffocating environment. Whether it's overly long board meetings with Eric Schmidt, or a chlorine traproom, it always pays to be prepared. Thankfully, Brin's trademark turtleneck contains a rebreather mask, that is capable of creating a vacuum seal or of perfoming atomic filtering. In Brin's lungs are implanted nanofactories that can be turned on that use up water and CO2 to create oxygen and a few carbohydrate compounds that can be turned into sugars to help nourish Brin. This process can continue for as long as the microfusion reactor in Brin's chest can send radio-power to these nanites. Brin has once held his breath for for the entire duration of an executive retreat, and said it was "sweet". Starvation\thirst. As discussed before, nanites in Brin's lungs can generate carbohydrates and other complex molecules out of water and CO2. Brin does not like to talk about this at length, but his underwear is capable of very effective reconversion, turning upwards of 99.93% of waste material back into a usable form. This has never been tested of course but given air with regular humidity, it is estimated Brin can survive without food or regular water for up to a year. Not that he ever would do that, of course. Caviar and shark-fin are some of the little pleasures of life. Crushing. Similar in construction to the Aerogel, a high-strength deployable array can increase the effective surface to be crushed by a tremendous amount. Imagine an air-bag that almost instantly fills out the whole room, making even the hardest blow feel like a light feather, or temporarily stopping walls from closing in and allowing Brin time to escape. Cold. Not exactly a problem when you have a microfusion array in your chest and a warming diamond weave in your clothes. In fact, Brin regularly takes morning walks at the South Pole (next to Google's secret Android Army Factory). He claims these are quite invigorating. Electricity. The Diamond meshing in Brin's clothing acts as a Faraday cage (protecting him from EMP blasts), and instantly extruded superconducting nanowires can sprout from his soles and burrow into virtually any material in nanoseconds, creating a disposable root system that is uniquely effective at dispersing electricity. This allows Brin to climb on tall mountains during severe thunderstorms and laugh at the gods. 

If someone successfully located and mined all the remaining unmined gold on Earth and released it into the global economy within one day how bad would the inflation be? If the inflation isn't much would it still be able to damage the economies of individual countries? 

Louis the Grand Dauphin, son of the King of France and Nephew of Charles II. Prince Charles, younger son of the Holy Roman Emperor and Charles II's cousin. The Prince of Bavaria, who was Charles II's closest living relative. Philip Anjou, who was also Charles II cousin and was Louis the Dauphin's son. He was the person Spain was actually left to in Charles II's will. 

If the Spanish throne went to Anjou, the Dauphin or Prince Charles it would be a huge advantage for those countries, so England and France signed up a treaty in the Hague that partitioned the Spanish Territories so that Naples, Sicily and Tuscany went to the Dauphin of France, the Spanish Netherlands and Milan would go to Prince Charles and actual Spain, Sardinia and the Spanish colonies would go to the Prince of Bavaria, who was the closest living relative to Charles II. Until he died. The next year. While Charles II was still alive. This completely threw of the treaty and so another one had to be drawn up, which the Holy Roman Emperor didn't like and ended up causing a war that lasted 13 years. And that is how the war of the Spanish Succession started. But that's irrelevant and the thing to look at that could end up with a French Munich is the treaty after the prince of Bavaria died (at the age of 6) that the Holy Roman Emperor didn't like. So it's 1699, the prince of Bavaria has just died and so the European powers gather again to give bits on a map to each other. This was the 2nd Partition Treaty, and it said that Spain, it's colonies, Sardinia and the Spanish Netherlands would go to Prince Charles, the Holy Roman Emperor's younger son, the other bits in Italy including Milan would go to the Dauphin. The reason Leopold I, Holy Roman emperor didn't like this is because he believed Milan was essential for the defence of Austria, as he was also the Archduke of Austria. So maybe in this Alternate timeline the European powers manage to pull together a treaty that everyone agrees with or Charles II lives a little longer. Maybe Bavaria would go to France in return for letting Austria have Milan and all the other bits in Italy. Also, due to no War of the Spanish Succession, France won't be as economically weakened as it was in our timeline. This is actually very unlikely though, as if Leopold I was concerned about France getting Milan, he definitely wouldn't let Bavaria be French as it is right on his doorstep. So let me propose another alternate scenario: Louis XIV (the King of France) accepts Eugene of Savoy into the French Military.(Around the 1670s) Eugene of Savoy was responsible for about six French defeats in the Nine Years war and the War of the Spanish Succession, including the battle of Blenheim in which he virtually won the war against France (along with help from the Duke of Malborough). 

As a Transylvanian native with a strong affinity to dark offices, I believe I can shed some light on your question. Since I'm typing this on a computer, it should be obvious that at least some of us are up to date in technology, so have kept up with the times. If I were to engage in introspection, I'd say that my memories of the distant past recede as a function of the distance in time and the emotional importance I attach to them. So participating in my nephew Vlad's games with the delicious Turkish forces in the 1450s was so much fun that I rememeber it all as if it were yesterday, but much of the 16th century is a blur (partially due to a recurring bout of madness that century, probably triggered by something I ate.) Now in modern times, you'd be surprised by how many of us have servitors working for the Red Cross and other blood-banks, looking out for good rare vintages. It's all very civilized, aside from some reckless youngsters messing about in the more troubled regions of the world. Now due to our telomere relengthening (dis?)order our bodies are essentially stuck around the biological age of 5-35 (it is a long-known fact among us that most bites over 35 don't 'take' very well, for some reason, probably too much gunk in the genecode, while the few attempts to turn people under 5 also seem to universally fail, probably due to the weak immune systems) So most of us have the brain plasticity and energy levels of a young adult, with our superior, uh, persuasion abilities, and centuries of refining learning techniques, building memory palaces and mnemonic systems to boot. Why, if you looked at Fortune 500 companies and hedge funds, you couldn't swing a garlic wreath without ... uh, perhaps I should not talk too much about that. 

What would happen if a zombie appeared in 18th century Italy? More specifically, a walking Dead style zombie "spawning" in Turin, The Duchy of Savoy on noon, 3 of May, 1715.Turin is far upriver in the Po. I know the science isn't definite in walking dead zombies but would one of the walkers falling in the river affect all the towns downstream? Also, would the average farmer be better off? Their Snaphance or Flintlock guns would probably take too long to reload but would a scythe or other farming implement be able to beat away a zombie? And are mountains effective zombie barriers? P.S. On Wikipedia it said that Turin's population after the War of the Spanish Succession was 90,000 people. Here's a map I also found on wikipedia.($URL$ P.P.S. The reason I started it in Turin, Italy is I though this question should be specific but if you happen to know a lot about, say, Polish history, you can what would happen if it started in Warsaw of Krakow or some other place that you know more about.