I do not read the sentence in question as a comment on the previous description, but rather as a continuation of it: apart from the other characteristics just described, Mr Cowan looked like he should have been named Mr Cowen. The most common stereotype about Jewish looks is probably that of the large, aquiline nose. My guess is that is what is intended by the sentence. 

There is indeed a resonance with Norse mythology. In Völuspá, stanza 39 according to Codex Regius, or 24 according to Hauksbók (there are otherwise only variations of tense between them in this stanza), we are told of a giantess in an eastern forest, giving birth to a brood of wolves: 

(All vowels alliterate with each other.) It should be noted that while kennings are sometimes used in both forms, they are less common than in scaldic poetry, and when used, less complex. Old English verse Tolkien takes Beowulf as his prime example of Old English poetry, which is good for me as it is the work I know best. The verse in Beowulf has a metre that as far as I can tell is very close to Fornyrðislag, except: 

Comparison So, the metre is very similar, but Norse poetry try to condense everything more: where Beowulf have no strophes, Norse poetry have very short strophes which are all usually dealing with one specific topic. There is also another difference on a larger scale: Beowulf is one continuous poem, with no subdivisions. The closest we can come to something on the same scale in the Poetic Edda is the second part, dealing with the matter of Sigurd. While much shorter in total, and using Fornyrðislag and its strophes, it is also divided on several different distinct poems, each dealing with some distinct story (i.e. The short lay of Sigurd starts when he has already killed Fafnir). Thus, Norse poetry is, as Tolkien suggested, much more concentrated, both in subject matter and language. It does try harder to make a direct impact, whereas Old English poetry is comparably more sedate, trying to spin a longer story, where the tension is built slower. Sources 

Banns. This meant that you had to have the upcoming wedding announced three Sundays in a row from the parish pulpet. Unless someone spoke out against the marriage, you then had a three-month window open to legally marry. However, this was seen as something for those too poor to afford anything else. Ordinary licence. Could be gotten from the local clergyman or the Doctors' Commons in London, and let you get married in a parish where one of the parties had lived for at least fourteen days. This was the most common way, even if it cost a few pounds. Special license. You applied to the Archbishop of Canterbury, who at his discretion could then grant you this, which allowed you to marry anywhere, at any time. A special licence was expensive, and thus a sign of high social class. Civil license. After 1836, this could be obtained from the superintendent-registrar, and was for people who wanted to get married outside the Church of England (e.g. Jews or Catholics). 

Thus, the original Norse myths does not really make any connection between the trees and the characteristics of the genders. Furthermore, it should be noted that while the original "Ask" is the same name as for the ash tree, the etymology of "Embla" is not clear, and the connection to elm, coming from Snorri, is not universally accepted. Now, as for what the passages tells us of Norse mythology and the Norse worldview, this is even more difficult. For start, it is not even sure that the names are originally Norse, as some scholars have wanted to connect the names with Adam and Eve. If you want to see how the Norse thought about men and women, at least in terms of what work they did, Rígsþula is probably the most explicit (it tells of how the three hereditary groups of thralls, yeoman farmers, and aristocrats were formed). If we look at the names of the children of the yeoman farmers, we see the boys being given names with meanings like "The Strong", "The Holder of Land", "Craftsman" or "The Broad-Shouldered", while their sisters had names such as "Bride", "The Slender", "The Proud", "The Fair", and "The Graceful." (it is possible that these should be the names of the daughters of the aristocrats; the sons in that family all have meaning denoting kinship and inheritance, so they are not useful for this analysis). So, Gaiman's explanation seem to line up decently with what can be found in other sources. Note that the question about how highly women were valued in the Viking age is a contentious topic, where you can find views influenced by the politics of today, or views on Christianity, or other issues. 

The crater Avernus, outside Cumae, was thought by the Romans to be an entrance to the underworld where souls spent the afterlife. Aeneas visits it in Virgil's The Aeneid: 

Each consonant sound alliterate with itself, and only itself. All vowel sounds alliterate with eachother. 

Thus, "descent of Avernus" means a descent into the afterlife. In later, Christian contexts, the Roman afterlife was thought of as a version of Hell (not that strange; the word "hell" is the same as one of the places the Norse dead dwelt. Remember also that Virgil is Dante's guide through Hell in Divina Commedia). So, "descent of Avernus" is here equivalent to "road to Hell". 

These are, of course, Watsonian explanations. A Doylist explanation is that the story would not be as effective if the payments stopped at any other point. 

All the awards are granted by academies based in Stockholm, except for the peace prize, which is awarded by a five-member committee chosen by the Parliament of Norway. The Academy has then elected to organize the work in the following manner: 

I took a look in Leslie S. Klinger's The new annotated Sherlock Holmes. This does indeed appear to be a problem that has puzzled commentators. Three suggestions are mentioned: 

First, I'd like to note that my knowledge on English verse is not as good as of Norse. Thus I will start with a description of Norse verse, and then try to compare with what I know of English verse. Norse verse Since Tolkien is obviously talking about the verse found in eddic poetry (as opposed to the kind of scaldic poetry that where aimed at Kings and trying to flatter them), I will limit myself to that. The two main verse types in the Poetic Edda are Fornyrðislag ('past-words-form') and Ljóðaháttr ('song metre'). Fornyrðislag Fornyrðislag is the older form, used in the Edda for epic poetry (such as Völuspá). It is divided into strophes of usually eight lines, with two stressed syllables in each line, and a number of unstressed syllables, which can vary more freely. Alliteration is used to bind two lines together. Ljóðaháttr Ljóðaháttr is used for dialogue and poetry meant to divulge wisdom. Every strophe consists of two pairs of three lines, where the first and second usually contain two stressed syllables each and are connected by alliteration. The third line contains an alliteration and three stressed syllables. Again, the number of unstressed syllables is freer, and they can be reduced so that they are almost non-existent. Let's take what is probably the most famous strophe in Hávamál as an example, where I have marked the alliterations: 

There are more rules for where the words with alliterations should be placed; Snorri's Edda has an entire part dedicated to the different verse forms. Sources Lars Lönnroth's Den poetiska Eddan has a useful foreword on eddic poetry, which the above is mostly based on. For scaldic poetry, I would suggest a good edition of Snorri's Edda. 

From context, I'd take this to be the celestial spheres, an old cosmological idea that originated in antiquity. Briefly, each planet, including the sun and moon, where thought to inhabit their own sphere, while all stars were fixed in the outmost sphere (and God's heaven being placed beyond the stars). The spheres were invisible, but at least in the some schools of thought, they were thought to make a sort of music. They were a commonplace in medieval cosmological thought, and are a part of the cosmological vision in Dante's Paradisio. They are thus a concept both related to a Christian view of the Heavens, and the actual celestial objects, which fits nicely with the rest of Whitman's poem. Both the spheres themselves, and the "music of the spheres" survived in mainly poetical contexts after they had been dismissed by science, and you can still find occasional references to them.