We don't know for sure, but he may have known the river. Blair originally submitted a list of four possible pseudonyms to his agent, Leonard Moore, telling Moore that he could make pick of the four1: 

I accepted my answer to the question because I'm relatively satisfied with the interpretation and nobody else has put forth an answer, but I don't think the question is fully complete. I tried following up on the possible connection between these lines and The Book of Revelation, but Tennyson's religious life and beliefs are extremely complicated, and I only wound up with dead ends. 

TL;DR: Begin your Holmesian adventure with short stories from The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes and The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes. Continue with the early novels before moving on to the later short stories. End with The Valley of Fear and then The Hound of the Baskervilles, to see Holmes (and Doyle) at his finest. The order is, for the most part, chronological. 

I recently finished writing a paper on Robinson Crusoe for my English class on the rise of the novel. We had read the novel concurrently with excerpts from Ian Watt's The Rise of the Novel, in which he argued that the works of Defoe, Richardson (we then read Pamela) and Fielding - which Watt categorized as the early novels - used what he called "formal realism". Moreover, he stated that these were some of the first - if not the first - significant pieces of literature to do so. Robinson Crusoe bears many hallmarks of formal realism (as I understand them): 

In plain English the line is saying "The boy's mite was like the widow's mite". This is most likely a reference to the story from the Christian Bible, specifically in the book of Mark, Chapter 12, Verse 41-44. 

Beyond that the Bantam edition shows a preview with some of the illustrations, while the Harper edition preview reverts back to a standard preview. As mentioned in the comments, the blurb on the German Amazon site for the Harper edition and on American Amazon for the Bantam are almost an exact match 

In A Dance with Dragons Tyrion spend a bit of time with Illyrio and never is Bronn brought up his thoughts. A few people do remind Tyrion of Bronn, namely Griff. 

to give us the an interpretation of: I admit I am unable to believe in my confidence which is of no help to you or him. 

All this talking and complimenting is not something Ygritte is used to. In he above passage it confirms that they have laid together many times, but never been fully nude together. So, her asking if this was common in the South is her way of determining if Jon was treating her as he would "a Lady". If he answers yes, she is special because Jon thinks of her in the same way he does a Lady. If not, she might be even more special as Jon has done something he isn't used to doing and it was very pleasurable to her. Either way Ygritte has learned something about Jon and the way he feels about her. In the end she ends up learning more than she expected... 

A review by William O'Donnell says that Frost is "unequalled" by any British or American poets in the 19th century in his use of blank verse. In the early 20th century, such a structure was rejected by Ezra Pound and T. S. Eliot, although Frost continued writing the same way. Iambic pentameter, of course, permeates Frost's work. However, it is an odd, even informal variant. A contemporary analysis of Frost notes that "The Runaway", while using the meter, is irregular even in the first few lines: 

You don't need to read them in any order. Overall advice The interesting thing about The Hardy Boys is that the writing style has changed over time. I don't know just how many ghostwriters have been used since their beginning in 1927, but it's got to be quite a few (Wikipedia suggests it's more than a dozen, often collaborating). Combine that with the fact that America itself has changed, and you see that the overall dynamics of the pair and of the plots are far from regular. Nowadays, some of their books have them fighting terrorists. That would not have been happening 60 years ago. There have been several subdivisions of all the books that have been written. My argument is that most divisions, from a pure reading point of view, are superficial compared with the overall trends. You don't have to worry about reading, say, the entirety of Undercover Brothers to move on to the next period. My advice: 

But with such an extensive list where "there are too many to readily list" and over 1,700 fan found references to other works, I would say nothing is out of the realm of possibility! 

Ygritte wants to know how special she is. Jon had just gone on and on about how much he loved her and what he loved. 

Possibly some inspiration came from the Order of the Garter. During a general interview regarding question on the Kingsguard he mentioned the Knights of the Garter. 

The most direct comparison I can see is that the Order was formed to help Edward III pursue his claim on the French throne. The Kingsguard helped Aegon I keep his throne... 

You will notice that the Harper cover is shown second even though it is an exact title match while the Bantam "original" edition is listed shown first. Digging a bit deeper the Harper edition is listed as one of seventy-one other formats for A Game of Thrones, while the Bantam is listed as its own work. 

If Martin had wanted us to draw some parallel between Bronn and Illyrio he would have had the perfect opportunity during Tyrion's conversations. Beyond that I have never run across any mentions of similarities between the two in any of of Martin's interviews. 

In Chapter X, Bumstein's first arrival to the prison actually involves moneylending, as he is intimidated into letting a convict pawn his (worthless) raggedy clothing. It would be wrong to characterize Dostoevsky's treatment of the main as wholly repugnant, but it falls squarely into the category of "clear evidence". As the essay points out, we also see some anti-Semitic tones in The Brothers Karamazov. While there are some minor side references to Jews in the moneylending business (again, a negative stereotype), there is one passage where a character suggests that some believe that Jews kill and eat children. While there is no clear indication that anyone treats this claims as anything but ridiculous, there is certainly no clear rejection of the general tone. Yes, you see the moneylending stereotype perpetuated on several of Dostoevsky's works. But there are additional negative characterizations - the overt characterization of Bumstein as a fool and the references to savage Jewish rituals - that seem to at least waggle some eyebrows at the phrase "anti-Semitism", if not point to it directly. 

Looking at the text, the similarities between the two works does appear, in rhythm if not wording. There were certain other - though less substantial - cases where Poe may have been inspired by another work. Thomas Holley Chivers, in 1850, claimed that Poe stole the meter from To Allegra Florence in Heaven, written for his young (dead) daughter. Here is an excerpt from To Allegra: 

The third scenario does describe an apparent gambling problem and some may interpret this literally as the table game "blackjack". That really does not appear to be the case. I have heard this song several times and I have never heard "blackjack". I have always heard "back Jack" as the lyrics were intended. However, everyone hears lyrics differently. I still sing the incorrect lyrics even when I know that they are incorrect. It's a force of habit with some songs. 

The majority of the characters in the "Little House" books were real people. The majority of the places described in these books were real places. There was, however, artistic license (for lack of better term) used for the storytelling in these books. I would like to state that I was fortunate enough to attend a guided tour of The Laura Ingalls Wilder Historical Society in De Smet, South Dakota approximately 10 years ago. The tour guide explained to the group that some of the places that we were being shown and the people that we were learning about were actual people and places that were depicted in her books. However, due to the harsh reality of homesteading life, the majority of the storytelling in her books was fictionalized. (as described by my tour guide) Laura Ingalls Wilder began writing her memoir (that would later be an autobiography titled Pioneer Girl) in 1930 at the encouragement of her daughter due to financial difficulties the family was facing because of the stock market crash of 1929. The memoirs were originally intended for a novel targeting an adult audience, but were edited and revised and essentially marketed as fictional children's books. An article published in 2014 by The Guardian quotes Wilder biographer and publishing director: 

Tyrion in well aware of what is going on even takes a small verbal jab at Robb to which Robb jabs right back. 

Notice how the curves (the fluting) serves to hide the joint in way the flows into the circular structure. Without the fluting those joint are more visible. With a solid piece of marble this is not needed as one can carve and shape the stone in anyway they like without having joints at all. However, I don't think Roark's primary argument is "historical" at all really... it boils down to "First vs Best". A Roark says - "Your Greeks took marble and they made copies of their wooden structures out of it, because others had done it that way." - and that is an argument as old as time and will be made when comparing older works of art to newer ones. Who should we admire more William Shakespeare or Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams? Who should we admire more George Herman "Babe" Ruth or Derek Jeter? Who should we admire more Michelangelo or Salvador Dali? These of course are all subjective questions that whole novels could be written on. Just because you were first doesn't make you the best, but just because you were the best doesn't mean you be recognized as such. Even still Roark's argument was that the Greeks were not even creative, they merely copied what was already done, just with a new material. It would be more like if Dali was famous for painting the Mona Lisa but he used watercolors. In the end, art is almost a wholly subjective field for critique. Roark simply has this view on Greek architecture, regardless of what the masses or experts tell him. He just uses the historical claim to show he has at least applied some level of critical thinking to the issue. 

There are several reasons why Patrick Bateman spends an excessive amount of time describing these specific musical artists: 

While Laura Ingalls Wilder and her daughter had their conflicts, they were both concerned with making money on the books. This is what caused the stories to be "embellished" or "dramatized" to appeal to a younger audience. 

There is no proof that the lyrics were supposed to sound like "blackjack". Donald Fagan and Walter Becker of Steely Dan wrote the lyrics to this song. I have not found any first hand source from them or any other members of Steely Dan that the line was supposed to sound like "blackjack". The general belief is that the lyrics represent a man's failure to learn from his mistakes. Hence, the "Go back Jack do it again" line. There's a piece written about the lyrics of the song on musicbanter. 

The majority of the characters in her books are real. Her mother, father, sisters, Reverend Alden and Mr. Edwards. However, their character is usually beyond reproach in her books. The memoirs of Ms. Wilder seem to depict certain characters differently. 

The novel is intended to be somewhat of a dark comedy with levels of illogical reasoning. It is a satire on the yuppie culture of the mid 1980's. The "take away" that I got from the novel is the absurdity of consumerism and how it can not only shape someone's identity, but entirely consume it. 

Beyond that I see no reason why a book by the same author, same foreword, same maps, same illustrator, and same number of pages would differ between publishers beyond the cover. 

I am inclined to say that they are the same book, just produced under different publishers. When searching on Amazon (in the United States) for "A Game of Thrones: 20th Anniversary Illustrated Edition". I am presented with the two different covers that your searches also provided. 

George also a series of short stories set in what is known as the "Thousand Worlds". So while he says the two works are not the same world, they still might be connected... Alas, he has shot down this theory too... 

The two other answers have shown the directly George denies the connection, but ice dragons do (might) exist in Planetos... 

So the story is of how a poor widow gave all she had to the church and therefore was view as giving the most of all those that had donated. Without further context, I am guessing the boy in Don Juan made a similar gesture of giving all he had to something or someone.