Radiation Some materials will stay hot for hundreds to thousands of years. It may be possible for cleaners to identify and haul away all radioactive debris near the settlement, but you can't control the amount of hazardous material in the wilderness. In regard to radiation, women have a 20% lower exposure limit for a 3% higher cancer risk. Women also require only 400 rem across 2 or 3 exposures to suffer permanent sterility. In this respect, men may be more disposable. Or, men already sterilized by radiation may be most disposable. Particularly, metals can become contaminated by radioactive materials, so following a nuclear apocalypse - especially one that has killed so many - there may be value in keeping women away from the outsiders and anything they have touched until it can be properly examined. 

Here are a few alternatives from other fiction: Halo (Minority Report) In Minority Report, criminals could be fitted with a small device around the head that numbed the brain, stunning (or at least making compliant) the sentient fitted with the device. Application of Halo from Minority Report Explosive Collar (Wedlock) A collar with a small range receiver and a bit of explosive. Paired to another receiver on a control officer, or another prisoner. When out of range, or on command, the collar will detonate. Collar exploding from Wedlock Shock Collar (Thor: Ragnorok) A similar fitted restraint that can provide shocks ranging from warning to stun to lethal Shock Collar from Thor: Ragnorok Quick Freeze (Demolition Man) Although it seems to have limited or limitless effect in Demolition Man, as required by the scene, the concept is a portable device that flash freezes the prisoner. Quick Freeze Sphere in Use from Demolition Man Gravity Guns (Schlock Mercenary) An extremely-low power gravity gun can be employed as a restraint. Generally controlled by an artificial intelligence, which has sufficient quick thinking to keep the beam tuned as required. Goober Gun (also from Schlock Mercenary) A lower tech restraint, firing balls of material that very quickly increase their viscosity from almost nothing (so that it can flow around the target) to very high (keeping the target in place). This viscosity must be layered somehow, allowing a lower viscosity inside so that targets are ripped apart or smothered. Zero-Point Energy Ray (Incredibles) A force field that very precisely cancels out velocity and movement. Zero-point energy ray in use from Incredibles Alternate Dimension (The New Legends of Monkey, Pokemon, Tron, Superman) Another option is a portable device that places the suspect/prisoner in a pocket dimension until required for release. Time Loop (Dr. Strange) Doctor Strange captures a deity in a small fragment of looped time that would continue looping back on itself until the Doctor negotiated a deal with the timeless deity, after which he released them both. Frozen Time (Starcraft) Although later treated as big solid crystals, Protoss prisons were early described as frozen time, given the space and time bending capabilities of that species. Carbonite (Star Wars) Not very portable (a facility was required in Empire Strikes Back) and potentially lethal (Darth Vadar asked Boba Fett for assurance that the process wouldn't kill his son in the form of trying it out first on Han Solo), but you could imagine a perfected and miniaturized implementation. The process flash freezes the subject and covers them in a protective coating until intentionally thawed. Carbonite Freezing, from Star Wars: the Empire Strikes Back Carbonite Thawing, from Star Wars: Return of the Jedi Amber (Fringe) In Fringe, one of the government agencies developed and deployed a mist that solidified after a certain number of seconds. It was used to seal dimensional rifts, or imprison monsters. Amber removed and deployed from Fringe Neuralizer (Men in Black) Neuralizers come in many forms and sizes. In addition to temporarily stunning the suspect, it also renders them open to a certain amount of persuasion and provides for a controllable amount of memory erasure. Bag For completeness. The suspect is wrapped in cloth that eliminates mobility without suffocating the being inside. Optionally can be secured with straps or zippers. 

If you take a look at the history San Francisco, you might get a good perspective of how such a colony once worked. Yes, miners are valuable. But equally, maybe even more, valuable are the merchants that swarm to service them. You can sell a good home-cooked meal at a premium to the well paid miners, who will pay for it. You can sell entertainment: both legitimate and illegitimate. You can also make a lot of money selling mining supplies at a premium. As to the role of women, it would depend on whether your culture is sufficiently high tech that the heavy labor is being done by machine, or not. If the mining demographic does favor one gender, the entertainment demographic will adjust. But as to whether the highest authorities are successful businessmen or successful busineswomen is a toss up. It goes to the most astute. As to stratification - the first and maybe second generation leaders will work tirelessly to be seen as just another one of the people. Either also picking up a pick and doing a shift, or tending the bar, and so on. Being perceived as an elite alienates customers, and owning a mine or business is one irritated (or bribed) magistarate away from change. In short - such an attitude is bad for business. Its much later generations (see "shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves") that don't get it and have enough momentum behind them to take a long time coming back down. Also militarization is less a problem than security. Most claim owners, and most businesses will want the ability to protect their property right now. Safes, gun free zones, red light districts (and personal weapons in the same), and private security all work. If piracy is bad for everyone, and not being propped up by fueding governments or chaos, the pirates have no place to call home. 

You could stop there. I'm not certain how often that has worked. It might cause the rebels to reconsider, but it may just harden them. I'd like to see statistics on how often cutting the power alone leads to a peaceful surrender. You could follow up with a blockade ring around one or both colonies to keep foreign supplies out. Or you could follow up immediately with Marines at multiple airlocks in a shock & awe style attack coordinated to begin when the lights go out to take maximum advantage of the gap before backup generators are on-line. 

You don't need advanced genetics to accomplish this. Your smart phone, iPad, or other touch screen device are triggered off capacitance - an electrical change created by interaction with your touch. I don't see them as often, but I recall lamps and switches that you could touch anywhere on the surface to similarly turn them on or off. If you do want your people to actually power the devices, instead of merely kick them on or off, keep in mind power and energy. Power is voltage multiplied by current, so a 20 volt / 5 amp power drill uses 100 watts of power. By comparison, the average human consumes 2000 calories (4200 joules) per day, averaging about 97 watts of power spent on just running the metabolism and moving around. You'll maybe want some external source of power, since running some heavier devices will be impossible to do alone. Think this link will help - $URL$ 

You could use a mesh network. The most radial nodes passing their information inward. It would require less power and be more fault tolerant. 

You might want to reconsider jealousy and rage. Anything that can make plans can have those plans frustrated. The more invested (emotionally or in time/wealth) the more frustrating a disturbed plan can be, up to the point of rage. Likewise, if they are social at all, they are exposed to the possibility that their feeling go unrequited - so they can have the creature or thing they admire, want to learn from, makes them laugh, thing prefer to spend it's time with someone else. Maybe someone less deserving. They may be heirarchial and vying for dominance within their group (see Doctor Who and the Time Lords, think about how much effort Rassilon and his bunch put into staying always on top). Some of them may be insular, seeing only other immortals as worth their time. These insular immortals may consider the more broadly social ones to be eccentric, maybe even mad (listen to the Master/Missy complaining about the Doctors human companions, likening the Doctor's relationship to a former president of the species living in a beat up old car with a bunch of stray animals). Similarly, still relating to Doctor Who some members of the race (the Doctor) may consider their own species callousness towards life decadent and repulsive, and do their best to stay away from their own kind - while nevertheless missing home, and maybe some of the nicer things it had. Still borrowing, then I'll leave it, our immortals who just keep a farm or home, living in a happy community of their own kind with tiny community problems "look at Mrs. Knickers latest quilt!" and adventures "oh. Mrs. Rodgers son is home for a visit!". Your people could be a mix of all of these, instead of a singular personality. Alternatively, they might be excellent, even aggressive information sharers within their peer group. 

And if the people are not scary enough, give them a deity that's pretty frightening to anyone digging beyond skin deep. Maybe a deity that has demanded everyone in the region die to make room for his/her people. Maybe a deity that supposedly knocked down the walls of a fortified city with music - just last week. Or, for further backstory - a deity that demolished one of the two regional superpowers. And if you don't want to take the invaders word for it - no problem - these ragtag rebels were killed a generation ago according to the official government line. Also give the enemy no central government