Before asking such questions, you should provide as much information about the physiology of your species as possible. Even tiny differences can be very important. Obligate carnivores include species as diverse as tarsiers and lions! That being said, I will offer some guesses. Settlement Your people have no direct incentive to discover agriculture. Though it has recently been disputed, it has long been assumed that settlement was mainly driven by the discovery of agriculture. If we subscribe to this theory, your people may never form an urban culture. They might favour smaller social groups, even very small ones. Other cultural aspects intimately tied to settlement will also be impacted. I am especially thinking about stone architecture and sophisticated professional specialisation. If your typical community never exceeded a certain size, every one will be an allrounder. Technical skills might advance much slower than in our history. That of course only applies on average. Such a society should experience industrialisation much later than ours. Due to the lesser degree of specialisation, it might also feature less trade, but that effect might be balanced by a migratory life style, i.e. going from place to place one always finds some good that is rare elsewhere. If you reduce industry and possibly trade your interest in financial services should be minimal. Even money might come up late, not to speak of banks. Of course, your people might discover agriculture as a way to feed domestic animals. Yet I think it's bound to happen much later than in our society. Unless you introduce special dependencies upon a herbivore (extreme example: symbiosis)! Alternatively, settlement might arise from the need for defensibility. Either against other predators, or hostile groups from the same species (see last point). If you make your species weaker you give it incentive to form groups, settlements or alliances with other species, thus softening many aspects of the above description. Weakness is clearly relative! Think of the Krogan on their dangerous home world. Hunter Priorities Given number one, and assuming a difference in phenotypes similar to humans, where one gender makes better hunters, the other gender is expected to occupy a significantly lower position and be strongly dependent upon the first. Harems are thus likely. Of course gender might not affect hunting prowess. Lionesses are fabulous hunters. You have given us too little information. Energy efficiency It is inefficient to convert plants to meat and then eat them. Assuming roughly human physiology, your people will need more land per capita. This, like the first point, suggests smaller groups. Social behaviour If your people are dependent upon nobody but their hunting partners, they might well be indifferent towards random members of the species and hostilities might be especially pronounced. Even the likelihood of cannibalism might be higher. If the social development happens to take this path, warrior archetypes will gain prestige along with hunters. Religions will, when they form, reflect those preferences. We should not expect to see harvest gods and gods of fertility will also be of secondary importance. I haven't been able to find quantitative information on this one, but it seems to me like pack hunters have especially pronounced hierarchical structures. If the environment on your planet forces your species to hunt in packs for most of its history, later social structure will be influenced by that and remain strongly hierarchical. Fights within packs for the alpha position are likely. In advanced societies they may take the form of competitions. 

There have been excellent answers on the technical aspects. Let me highlight: Non technical reasons If we ignore whether or not colonisation will ever become possible, which has been well discussed, it is conceivable, that humans initially don't want to leave their habitat earth until well after interstellar colonisation becomes possible. That is, they stay on earth and just explore space without colonising it. Then social or medical reasons force them to colonise and choose as remote a location as possible. Assuming people don't die naturally, but can still be killed, such social reasons might be: External Adversaries If they are not the only the only space faring race, conflicts may arise. It may be prudent not to put all the eggs in one basket. At present the capabilities for both space travel and terraforming are absent, but the bombs needed to render earth a very ugly place are makeable! Internal Conflicts If population grows drastically, groups that want to pursue radically different lifestyles might grow in size. In order to isolate themselves from "the others" they might opt to go more than just a "galactic stroll" away. By galactic stroll I mean what is easily within reach of those days. Infections If the reason for the first big migration is an infection, you want to go well beyond the current reach of "every day space travel". Legal issues These first settlers are not Earth's best and brightest, but rather a group of hideous criminals, who would do well to settle outside all patrols of the earthlings of that age! 

I was reading this question about a soft bullet thereby getting inspired to think of how to deliver a fake insect sting. I want it to leave as little bruises as possible, to resemble a sting and nothing to remain in the wound. Ideally, it would look like someone was stung by an insect. That would be the advantage to just shooting a needle. When I drive in a car and the car decelerates, I continue flying forward, unless I wear my seatbelt. Suppose I have a very soft bullet filled with one or several needles facing in (exactly or nearly) forward direction, loosely tied to the back of the bullet. Could the needles upon impact continue moving in the direction of motion, slightly come out of the squeezed bullet and deliver a fake insect sting? The idea is that after the sting the soft bullet falls off, pulling the much lighter needle out of the wound. Probably the terrible aerodynamics of a soft projectile would not permit long ranges. But perhaps it's enough if the tip is soft. How thin a needle would be theoretically possible, if I had very hard materials available? Obviously only very thin needles can leave stings delicate enough to be mistaken for the doing of insects. To provide for more inertia, the tip of the needle could be very fine, while the body could be somewhat thicker. It would still have to be light compared to the bullet. Furthermore, I suspect it would have to be fine tuned to a very narrow distance range. EDIT: Let's first not focus on tricking experts! Whether it works is the main question. Imagine a world where poisonous insects sometimes occur. A man is killed using the correct venom. At worst it will take time before anyone looks at the sting with great detail. 

I am writing a short story set in a world inhabited by modern humans (Homo sapiens), bulky humans (inspired by Homo Neanderthalensis) and tiny humans (inspired by Homo Floresiensis). In response to comments, the height of H.F. was roughly 1m. I might make mine smaller for effect, but not below 0.75m I will not attempt to make it hard science fiction and freely include various kinds of extinct species (such as dire wolf), only broadly minding their actual habitats and possibilities of coexistence. I will also drastically alter the continents (i.e. build a different planet). Right at the start of the story, where I will only use Tiny Humans for quite some time, I want to make the reader notice their size. I don't want to place them alongside a homo sapiens. One option would be to compare to extant familiar animals, but I am afraid the presence of many exotic animals will simply make the reader suppose all animals are a different size. I absolutely don't want to use any of our units, because I always find such things utterly immersion breaking. What would be some good formations/objects in nature to compare against (without presupposing deep scientific knowledge)? Please excuse if my concept is still fledgling. It is only 1 month old. EDIT: Many answers here have added invaluable information. They also made me realise, how devilishly complex this might be. Like myself, I expect many readers to have grown up with dino books. I will not introduce dinosaurs, but insects from their time. The reader might assume the atmospheric conditions that existed long before humans and led to huge animals and plants! On the other hand, he might be guided by the recent history of some actual plants to assume them much smaller (f.e. earliest watermelons are thought to have measured about 2 inches in diameter). Finally under these atmospheric conditions, even inanimate things like fires may behave differently (Naively I assume more oxygen implied higher flames). In the beginning I thought the size of the full moon in the sky might help, but as you can't put anything at same distance, I see no easy way. EDIT: Because the question of images received so much attention in the comments, I want to make clear that I see no difference between description and images. The painter, just like the narrator, needs to know what to put in the picture to convey scale. In the beginning I even thought some rare inanimate structure might be needed, which I would have to fit into my world! 

Cheapest window glass. There was window glass, but it was not affordable. Shaped glass objects, like a teapot. Glass was blown and thus valuable. If in a Christian country: tiny printed pictures of saints. The Greek Orthodox Church gifts them to people. They are colourful and saintly and would surely impress them. Edit: I see that pocket knives and lighters are excluded by the evidence-clause.