Yes, no, maybe, not really. If the agreement doesn’t clearly spell out penalties, there should be none. The first company might not be happy, but depending on your field of career path that might not mean anything. If you are concerned, contact the first company directly & lay it out there: An offer that fits in more with your goals has come along & you would like to decline the offer you just accepted. And when I say, “Yes, no, maybe, not really.” what I mean us this: Do you really think that company—or any company—will spend their resources to be punitive towards a potential employee who has not worked for them & does not want to work with them? Chances of legal fallback are zilch. That aspect is really one of the least talked about realities of employment agreements: They are really designed to create the impression that you have no choice once the paper is signed. The reality is no company would ever punish each prospective employee who decides to just walk away. It wastes their time, money & resources as well as create the impression that the company is a harsh place to work in. Just take the better offer, rescind the previous offer gracefully & professionally. Don't think twice about it. 

I don’t think you did the wrong thing, but it’s never clear how to handle something like this since—with the boss away—anything could happen. In my experience, when stuff like this happens when supervision is happening, some kind of small power-play or “testing” of co-workers happens. Option 1: Walk away from the fracas and be vocal about you leaving. I don’t know where you work or what your constraints are, but if I were in the middle of something like this I would basically stand up and say, “I can’t work like this…” and walk out of the office. Not for the rest of the ay or the full day, but just a short break. Like maybe a walk around the block or a bathroom break. Depending on how well you know your co-workers—and the history of this behavior goes—I might even say, “I can’t work like this. I need to grab some coffee (or food). Anyone want to come with me?” The outcome of this is never clear, but the message needs to be clear: Your behavior is standing in the way of my ability to do work. Option 2: Make note of the details to share with your boss when they come back to the office. Also, when your boss comes back it might be worth it to tell them what happened. Again this is all based on internal politics and such, but you generally should not let something this disruptive go unnoticed. Option 3: Ignore it but still make note of the incident for future conversations with your boss. That said, at the end of the day you utterly want to put proverbial blinders (and maybe actual headphones) on and ignore it, that is an option to. But I would still make a note of the incident for future reference. Like if you meet with your boss sometime in the future and they want you to work with one of the folks embroiled in this argument. You can say, “You know, I didn’t want to make a big deal about this when it happened. But the person you want me to work with really caused a scene a while back and I don’t feel comfortable working with them.” Not Optional: Completely ignoring this ever happened. At the end of the day, whatever you choose to do remember one thing: Forgetting something like this happened won’t help anyone out there. You ultimately work at a job and need to work in an environment you feel comfortable it. If you cannot work in such an environment, it affects your productivity and the productivity of others. Don’t ignore it. 

While others have answered—and you have selected an answer already, this one line in your question stood out to me: 

I don’t drink anymore & if I got a bottle of any booze it would seem someone was reading a copy of some managerial book from the 1970s. If you are positive you know the manager would genuinely like a bottle of wine, go for it. 

The legality is anyone can do anything to you based on contract or policy if they wish. So if you want to live in fear, you can work to rule. The reality? Most companies will not want to take legal action against you since there is a risk of that going public. Meaning they would most likely win a case against you but their reputation as being punitive against their employees will taint their reputation. Thus putting them at risk of being considered a toxic workplace where someone would never want to work. The geographic aspect of this can work in your favor if they do not have a strong presence outside of Canada let alone in the U.S. Meaning, while they have the legal right to go after you, would they actually expend the time, energy & effort to reach beyond borders to stymie your career? I doubt that. It’s not only a costly & complex effort to do something like that, how does it then make them look in the global marketplace. My advice? Just leave when you leave. You have no legal obligation to tell them where you will go to. Heck, you could just say you are going on a sabbatical to unwind after you leave them. Then just work wherever you wish. The reality is most employment agreements are scary, but that is the point: To instill fear in you acting against the agreement. Nothing more or less. It’s a legal tool that is there to be potentially be used, but rarely be used. Live your life & don’t work a job you don’t like. And… In a worst case scenario where they do come after you after the fact, you might be able to negotiate some kind of, “Well, I am here now. What do you want to do?” Basically an exit negotiation which is basically—perhaps—them asking you to do work or a task of some sort in the future. But I doubt that would happen as well. 

If the other offer is better & it fits your needs better, take it. You are not legally bound by the first offer you take. But be sure to be professional and say something like, “Thanks for offering me the position. I really would have liked to work for your company, but I have received another offer that I believe is a better fit for me right now.” The reality is the fact you “stood up” a job will most likely never come back to harm you in any way. But be professional about it. And if the company is professional as well they then will keep the door open & say, “Okay, that’s fine. We’ll find someone else.” When I say “keep the door open” if they are polite to you during that response, chances are you can contact them again in the future if you somehow want to work for them & see if they will hire you then. 

This sounds reasonable & good. They gave you a chance based on your honesty as well as clarity. Now you say this; emphasis mine: 

You need to face facts: In the scope of the workplace, your regular life family is not a part of that “team.” Now you say this: 

In general, a reference should be an employment reference. I work in tech, have held full-time and freelance positions and have a fairly deep history. So my resume is focused on solid professional experience, but my reference list is a mix of full-time co-workers, managers and even freelance clients. I mention years of work experience because you might have a natural/implied reference handicap that works for you if you are a recent graduate; high school, undergrad and graduate. In general, a sane/reasonable employer will see someone who is an high school or undergrad as someone who will naturally have limited professional references, so you might be able to pass on a “character reference” such as a pastor or a friend. But that said, a professional reference will always hold more weight. If unsure, you might want to say something like: