It is generally understood that interaction with beneficial germs is good for you. However, normal cleaning will not destroy these germs since they reside within you (unless his germaphobia induces him to take antibiotics). The human immune response doesn't particularly work that way. 

Keep in mind, this is only a synthetic genome, not a truly unique organism created from scratch. Although I am confident that the technology will become available in the future. As has been pointed out, the entire genome wasn't built de novo, but rather most of it was copied from a baseline which was built up from the base chemicals with no biological processes, and then the watermarks were added (still damn impressive since they took inorganic matter and made a living cell function with it). But they are working at building a totally unique genome from scratch (PDF). This is actually quite an emerging field, so much so that the MIT press has set up an entire series of journals for this. As far as to the purpose of these artificial organisms, most research funded by companies are meant to be for specific purposes that biology hasn't solved yet (such as a bacteria that eats a toxic waste or something). Although, a lot of people are concerned about scientists venturing into the domain of theology. In terms of abiogenesis, there are many resources to learn more about this. Here is a list of 88 papers that discuss the natural mechanisms of abiogenesis (this list is a little old, so I am sure that there are many, many more papers at this time). I also found this list of links and resources for artificial life. I cannot verify the usefulness of this since the field is a bit outside my area of expertise. However, it does seem quite extensive. EDIT TO ADD: Now we have "XNA" (a totally synthetic genome) on the way. 

Yes they do (in a way). Polling methodology is a very well researched field. Mostly because of the spectacular failure of the 1936 Literary Digest presidential poll. Even if a poll is set up to take into account exaggeration, dishonesty, confusion, or the many other variables involved in these polls, there is still a lot of room for biased and flawed polls to get out there. The main counter that polls have is sample size (you can get an idea on the sample size from the degree of confidence in the poll, i.e. the +- error bar). The larger (and more "controlled" random (1) ) the sample size, the more likely you are to get a good result. There are many, many books that go over the methodology, and why it works. Here is a small list of Scholarly books: 

Keep in mind that climate change and global modeling was very new. Computers of the time were not equipped to handle this sort of calculation. Even so the 1975 US National Academy of Sciences/National Research Council Report, the most comprehensive study on climate change, and closest to scientific consensus, issued a report. Their basic conclusion was "…we do not have a good quantitative understanding of our climate machine and what determines its course. Without the fundamental understanding, it does not seem possible to predict climate…" This is in strong contrast with the current position of the US National Academy of Sciences: "...there is now strong evidence that significant global warming is occurring... It is likely that most of the warming in recent decades can be attributed to human activities... The scientific understanding of climate change is now sufficiently clear to justify nations taking prompt action." Now looking at the image Fabian has given us, it only shows a little over 100 years, and one may not appreciate the severity of temperature changes. While there are small dips and some areas with a downward trend, this does in no way cover geologic time. 

Do you know what airplanes do? They FLY. That this is even a claim is absolutely ludicrous and seems to be grasping at straws... Mike J. Wilson does a nice reconstruction of the crash that shows this gravity defying feat quite clearly. Not only that, it has actual photographs and video from the Pentagon that not only show the effects, but even show airplane debris. In case 9/11 truthers are attempting to draw a comparison between a crash into a structure at high speed and these "examples" of crashes, they are being deliberately deceptive. The "crashes" they are using as examples happened under much, much different conditions than the 9/11 crash. I would suggest maybe the Payne Stewart crash site would be more indicative of a crash at high speed. 

And continues with numerous links to even more articles. As to the assertion that it was impossible to do many of the things that the builders of the pyramids did, that is a common misconception people seem to have. Most people don't consider ancient humans to have been as intelligent as we are, when in fact they possessed the exact same intellect as we do today, just not the technology. And since we rely so much on advanced technology, many people make an argument of incredulity because we just don't do things the old fashioned way. Some people have started to collect reconstructions of those methods on the web. The same argument regarding the mathematical precision could be made. Also, in ancient times, without our calendars and clocks, astronomical observations played a much more important role than today (i.e. when to plant, when to expect rains, etc.). Again, ancient humans were not stupid. 

As seems to be the case with complicated issues, any side of a debate will attempt to over simplify the issues involved. If it wasn't for embryonic stem cell research, there never would have been any adult stem cell advancements. We didn't know how to manipulate adult stem cells until we figured out more about them, specifically using embryonic stem cells. For instance, these papers are what started our understanding: Establishment of a germ-line competent C57BL/6 embryonic stem cell line Embryonic Stem Cell Lines Derived from Human Blastocysts Also, there is a great deal of argument about the full efficacy of the adult stem cells. 

The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration goes on to say this particular item (emphasis mine): 

The previous articles addressed this. Basically there are compounds that are not digestible, but they just pass through your system much like any other material one can't digest. There is always the classic story of some toddler or animal eating an expensive piece of jewelry, and everyone examining feces for a few days until it's recovered. 

This would indicate that the credited director is indeed making every effort to ensure that he makes some money off the deal. Does this mean that Guetta is fabricated? Probably not. Again, documentation exists back to his birth in 1966, as well as supporting his lifestyle as an artist, and even his compulsive video taping of things starting in the late 1990s. Then there is the outside of Bansky's influence Glen Friedman (a famous photographer in his own right) and Guetta dramatics is covered in an article by the Guardian, which also suggest that this is for the most part "real". So, as the comment by Lennart, it's a mixture of both elements, although a preponderance of evidence points to this guy and his story being for the most part real.. Think of it as a promotional activity that has taken on a life larger than the individual originally portrayed. 

I also recall watching a television program a while back where Mark Vidal of the Faber Institute distributed packages all over the world with instructions on how to get the package back to him by only sending it to people you knew (basically a repeat of the Milgram study). I do recall that he did get his packages back, and often in less than six steps. Although that may have been assisted for the TV show's production values. I also found this paper from Cornell (The Small-World Phenomenon: An Algorithmic Perspective) that starts out as: 

DARPA has a lot of very secret research. The F-117, and stealth technology, was developed in secrecy for recent history. Generally, a lot of military technology is developed in secrecy due to the nature of the "arms races" we may be involved in. 

As for the claim that police use Coca-Cola, I think that is just an extension of the "Coke is Bad" myth that Snopes took on. Keep in mind that it's not the job of police to clean up accident scenes. Instead, they investigate the scene, and it is left to other professionals to do the clean up (such as medical personnel, since in many cases blood could be used for either evidence in a criminal investigation, or that it is a biohazard) 

Well, your data (and the website you quote) is a bit out of date, we can do much more now. In 2010, Dr. Craig Venter actually used a bacterial shell and wrote DNA for it. Thus we have gone beyond the viruses mentioned in the 2002 paper. 

And when there are a lot of public documents and records showing that people have taken out sums of money that need to be repaid, there is certainly a motivation to hype and promote something. 

While there is something hard to pin down going on, the "cold fusion" mechanisms proposed are not it. They were at least viable theories, in that they were falsifiable. Also, this isn't cold fusion, but rather colder than the sun fusion, but still plasma (emphasis mine). 

This is a particularly insidious canard by creationists, because it has the sound of plausibility to a layperson. I have my Facts Not Fantasy page set up where this canard is addressed head on as far as "information" and how it applies to genetics. As item 22 on this page says: Now this is a particularly insidious brand of canard, because it relies upon the fact that the topic of information, and its rigorous analysis, is replete with misunderstanding. However, instead of seeking to clarify the misconceptions, creationist canards about information perpetuate those misconceptions for duplicitous apologetic purposes. A classic one being the misuse of the extant rigorous treatments of information, and the misapplication of different information treatments to different situations, either through ignorance, or wilful mendacity. For example, Claude Shannon provided a rigorous treatment of information, but a treatment that was strictly applicable to information transmission, and NOT applicable to information storage. Therefore, application of Shannon information to information storage in the genome is a misuse of Shannon's work. The correct information analysis to apply to storage is Kolmogorov's analysis, which erects an entirely different measure of information content that is intended strictly to be applicable to storage. Mixing and matching the two is a familiar bait-and-switch operation that propagandists for creationist doctrine are fond of. However, the ultimate reason why creationist canards about information are canards, is simply this. Information is NOT a magic entity. It doesn't require magic to produce it. Ultimately, "information" is nothing more than the observational data that is extant about the current state of a system. That is IT. No magic needed. All that happens, in real world physical systems, is that different system states lead to different outcomes when the interactions within the system take place. Turing alighted upon this notion when he wrote his landmark paper on computable numbers, and used the resulting theory to establish that Hilbert's conjecture upon decidability in formal axiomatic systems was false. Of course, it's far easier to visualise the process at work, when one has an entity such as a Turing machine to analyse this - a Turing machine has precise, well-defined states, and precise, well-defined interactions that take place when the machine occupies a given state. But this is precisely what we have with DNA - a system that can exist in a number of well-defined states, whose states determine the nature of the interactions that occur during translation, and which result in different outcomes for different states. indeed, the DNA molecule plays a passive role in this: its function is simply to store the sequence of states that will result, ultimately, in the synthesis of a given protein, and is akin to the tape running through a Turing machine. The real hard work is actually performed by the ribosomes, which take that state data and use it to bolt together amino acids into chains to form proteins, which can be thought of as individual biological 'Turing machines' whose job is to perform, mechanically and mindlessly in accordance with the electrostatic and chemical interactions permitting this, the construction of a protein using the information arising from DNA as the template. Anyone who thinks magic is needed in all of this, once again, is in need of an education. As for the canard that "mutations cannot produce new information", this is manifestly false. Not only does the above analysis explicitly permit this, the production of new information (in the form of new states occupied by DNA molecules) has been observed taking place in the real world and documented in the relevant scientific literature. If you can't be bothered reading any of this voluminous array of scientific papers, and understanding the contents thereof, before erecting this particularly moronic canard, then don't bother erecting the canard in the first place, because it will simply demonstrate that you are scientifically ignorant. Indeed, the extant literature not only covers scientific papers explicitly dealing with information content in the genome, such as Thomas D. Schneider's paper handily entitled Evolution And Biological Information to make your life that bit easier, but also papers on de novo gene origination, of which there are a good number, several of which I have presented here in the past in previous threads. The mere existence of these scientific papers, and the data that they document, blows tiresome canards about "information" out of the water with a nuclear depth charge. Post information canards at your peril after reading this. Whilst dwelling on information, another creationist canard also needs to be dealt with here, namely the false conflation of information with ascribed meaning. Which can be demonstrated to be entirely false by reference to the following sequence of hexadecimal bytes in a computer's memory: 81 16 00 2A FF 00 To a computer with an 8086 processor, those bytes correspond to the following single machine language instruction: ADC [2A00H], 00FFH To a computer with a 6502 processor, those bytes correspond to the following machine language instruction sequence: CLC ASL ($00,X) LDX #$FF BRK To a computer with a 6809 processor, those bytes correspond to the following machine language instruction sequence: CMPA #$16 NEG $2AFF NEG ?? the ?? denoting the fact that for this processor, the byte sequence is incomplete, and two more bytes are needed to supply the address operand for the NEG instruction. Now, we have three different ascribed meanings to one stream of bytes. Yet, none of these ascribed meanings influences either the Shannon information content, when that stream is transmitted from one computer to another, or the Kolmogorov information content when those bytes are stored in memory. Ascribed meaning is irrelevant to both rigorous information measures. As is to be expected, when one regards information content simply as observational data about the state of the system (in this case, the values of the stored bytes in memory). Indeed, it is entirely possible to regard ascribed meaning as nothing other than the particular interactions driven by the underlying data, once that data is being processed, which of course will differ from processor to processor. Which means that under such an analysis, even ascribed meaning, which creationists fallaciously conflate with information content, also requires no magical input. All that is required is the existence of a set of interactions that will produce different outcomes from the different observed states of the system (with the term 'observation' being used here sensu lato to mean any interaction that is capable of differentiating between the states of the system of interest).