It appears from Wikipedia that the oldest theater in continuous use is in Denmark, but since so much of the film industry is dominated by Hollywood, I was wondering what is the oldest movie theater in the United States. 

The large financial institutions of the world have dominated the news cycle for the past few years, and it got me thinking, what were the first large banks in the US? I am interested in hearing about the first big retail banks, as well as financial banks. I know that some of the banks that are still in existence today can probably trace their lineage back to much earlier banks, but I'm curious what were the institutions that were the first to become truly national and be dominant forces in the US economy. 

So I was thinking about what it was like working for the Pony Express and I am wondering was it an extremely dangerous job? I'm thinking that given the success of the Pony Express it must not have been extremely dangerous (otherwise people wouldn't have done it) but I am struggling to find good sources to confirm this suspicion. Edit By "Extremely Dangerous" I would say there was a good chance you wouldn't survive a year or something, say 1/5 died. I mean would you have to have been a crazy person to work for them. This is kind of the evidence I am looking for. High attrition rates from injury/death, etc. 

There are three large reasons why the US became the world super power: last man standing, the bretton woods institutions, and being the home of democratic capitalism. Last Man Standing Most of the rest of the world was devastated by WWII. The US on the other hand suffered nowhere near as many casualties, and its economy was booming by the end of the war. Well, when there are a ton of countries that need rebuilding and only one country that has overcapacity, what do you think happens? The US was only ever invaded during WWII in the Aleutian Islands which did not impact the country all that much. Bretton Woods Institutions The Bretton Woods Institutions are the World Bank and the IMF. These were established in Bretton Woods, NH before the end of WWII and established the monetary system for the post-WWII order. Both institutions are located in the United States and heavily influenced by the US. If you control the money flow of the world then you have a large say in how that world is shaped. Home of Democratic Capitalism As the home of democratic capitalism, which at the conclusion of WWII was chosen as the preferred model of development for the world's countries, the US had a natural head start on dictating world affairs. Most of the ideas propagated by the Bretton Woods system had their roots here in the US. The Soviet Union, and to a lesser degree China, attempted to export their world view, but ultimately they did not succeed. In sum, the US held all the cards at the end of WWII and it would have been rather difficult for the US to NOT become the world super power it eventually did become. 

Your question seems focused on just federal elections, so that is where I will direct my attention. The reality is that the states, and the federal government, have always had an implicit power to dictate the terms of party elections, so the parties never really gave up this power. The mechanics of elections have always been out of the hands of the parties, but the substance of parties has always been within the province of the parties. To better explain you need to look at the following: 1) the pertinent legal concepts, 2) the history of state election laws, and 3) whether the parties can do anything about it. 1) The Pertinent Legal Concepts It is best to start at the beginning, ie, The Constitution. Art. 1, Section 4, states: 

This is important because both the House and Senate can determine whether or not elected officials can sit for their seats. There are of course limitations on this power. Another important Constitutional concept to keep in mind is that you have a "freedom of association" right which limits what the states and the federal government can do with respect to primary elections. See First Amendment to the Constitution. In sum, the states can dictate the "Times, Places, and Manner" of elections, but they do not have unlimited power to regulate (see Tashjian v. Republican Party of Connecticut, 107 S.Ct. 544), yet as a practical matter they do have a compelling state interest in making sure elections aren't shams, even primary elections. See Burdick v. Takushi, 504 U.S. 428. The federal government can regulate in all sorts of ways, but where it comes to affect primary elections for federal office most are in laws that: govern the election of the president; dictate the date of elections for federal office; and the definitions of what is an election, candidate, etc. for federal office with respect to federal election laws. For more on federal election law check out USC Title 2. 2) The History Your question would be better phrased as "how have the states historically asserted their powers over political parties in the election context?" The answer to this goes hand in hand with the development of the party system in the US. It would be extraordinarily difficult to dive into the ways in which each state regulated elections at the beginning of the country, so instead I'll look at how presidential elections have been governed first. The election of 1796 was the first time that presidential candidates were members of a political party. The system in place then had the states dictating electors who would then cast two votes for president, one for a home state person, and one for someone from out of state. As you can imagine, this system didn't last very long for various reasons. For further reading go here. It was not until 1831 that the first political party would have a national convention when the Anti-Masonic Party had a national convention in Maryland. This started to formalize things nationwide. It appears that the first primary election law was passed in California in 1866, and dealt with ensuring the integrity of the primary elections there. New York also passed a similar law in 1866. Subsequently in 1871, Ohio and Pennsylvania passed their own laws. These initial laws were concerned with the question of corruption, and tried to instill voter confidence in the party system. It was the beginning of the 1890s that the states really began to get involved in the party system when they passed laws stating that the primary elections be paid for with public funds. These first sets of primary laws were often not generally applicable statewide, but that started to change between 1901-1904 as Minnesota, Mississippi, Wisconsin, and Orgeon passed laws regulating the conduct of all elections in their state. I highly recommend reading the following source already cited Primary elections; a study of the history and tendencies of primary election legislation writen by Charles E. Merriam in 1908. The history tells us that the states really started to become heavily involved in the political primary process out of a concern with corruption. At that point in time the political parties were firmly entrenched across the country, so they had become de facto components of the election system, and the states had no choice but to regulate them. 3) Can the parties do anything about it? Not really. They would have to show that these regulations with long standing precedents somehow violate their constitutional rights. 

Short Answer: No. Long answer: No, there probably was nothing like African American architectural style in the early twentieth century. As you noted in your question African Americans moved from the South to the North in large numbers at the beginning of the 20th century. This was largely due to the beginning of the Jim Crow era in the South. As newcomers in their communities, as well as members of a severely discriminated minority group, there were many structural impairments they faced to developing their own architectural style. For example, as others noted, the American Institute of Architects didn't license an African American to practice as an architect until 1923. His name was Paul Revere Williams, which is an amazing name in of itself, but his story is far more amazing, and worth the read. Additionally, architecture through it's "parent" industry is a very capital intensive business. As such, it would be increasingly difficult for any community without well established roots, or deep pockets, to get a foothold in the industry. Since most of the African Americans moving north were likely former sharecroppers in the South it is hard to believe they could break into this particular industry. It is very difficult to find information on the architectural movements of the early twentieth century outside of the major ones of: various Revival movements (I'm thinking mostly Classical, Tudor, Beaux Arts), Arts & Crafts, and the International Style. Although the last style sounds a little late for your questions timeline. The migration did result in the Harlem Renaissance which was a huge cultural explosion driven by African American artists of all types. If there was an architectural movement to come from the migration this would be the likely birthplace of the movement. The link provided actually breaks down the various areas of art that the renaissance saw activity. One is called "Visual Art", which would presumably possibly contain architecture, but there is no mention of architectural activity. There were a growing number of African Americans that became sculptors; however, it appears that architecture was one area that the renaissance didn't extend into. I did find an interesting post about a typical African American neighborhood in the South during the time period in question, but the houses fit within existing architectural movements of the period. Specifically, the homes would fall within revival styles. I'm not sure which, because I'm not an architecture historian by any stretch of the imagination. 

So there was concern on both sides of the apportionment issue. On the one hand there were too many representatives, and on the other hand there were not enough because they were now representing far more people than the 30,000 originally envisioned. The 1910 Apportionment Act had set the house at 433. The people that were in favor of fixing the number were in part drawn from rural parts of the country that feared losing out on their proportion of power to the fastly urbanized parts of the country. Those in favor of fixing the number eventually won out so they passed the Apportionment Act of 1929 which fixed the number at 435. If you are interested there is an excellent layout of the various methods that have been employed for reapportionment by Congresses throughout the years: Methods of Apportionment. 

The European Union is the only organization at the moment that exhibits a high level of integration amongst its member nation states, but is it the world's first supranational type organization? Are there examples of nation states in the past banding together in an EU like fashion? 

People born in this country, not to foreign diplomats, etc., are natural born citizens. If you are born abroad the US State Department lists four different scenarios which may qualify a person as a natural born citizen: 

It seems unlikely that Victorian Era readers of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass would have thought of drugs when reading about the special foods and drinks. This conclusion is based upon the fact that the First and Second Opium Wars started in 1839 and 1858. So you could argue that recreational drug use was not really on the radar of the average Victorian citizen until that point in time. Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass were written in 1865 and 1871, so it is possible that people may have put two and two together. The most direct reference to recreational drug use did not come about in Victorian England until the Sherlock Holmes stories and The Portrait of Dorian Grey which were both around the 1890s. So it seems that recreational drug use was not really sufficiently popularized until that point which would mean that people wouldn't likely make the connection your question asks. 

First off, thank you for making me read a law review article on shipwrecks. That was probably one of the few interesting law review articles I've read. Now on to your question. Short Answer: No Long Answer: Still no. The biggest issue is that former colonies trying to assert ownership of a sunken treasure galleon might not have standing in a case, because depending on when the ship sank the former colony was presumably a part of the empire at the time. The New York Times ran a relevant editorial on this issue in 2007. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea established the International Tribunal for the the Law of the Sea which would be the logical court of record for a dispute of the type you are asking about to be adjudicated. To date, the tribunal has decided 22 cases, and none of those cases involved shipwreck disputes between a colonial master and former colony. The closest thing to your fact pattern would be a case between France and Seychelles, but that concerned a fishing vessel flying the Seychelles flag entering French territorial waters. As the law review article alludes to, and the NYT editorial expressly advocates, the best bet that former colonies would have to assert ownership over these found shipwrecks would be under a cultural property approach. The United Nations Education Scientific, and Cultural Organization ("UNESCO") actually has a convention geared towards the protection of underwater cultural property. Both Spain and Mexico have ratified the convention, so they likely would never even get in a dispute over a shipwreck. Interestingly, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands are the only colonial powers from that time period that have not signed/ratified the convention, so in the future if a dispute were to arise it would be probably be between one of those countries and one of their former colonies. As an aside, the US has not ratified, nor even signed, either convention.