Here is the massive physics problem with Charybdis Where does the water go? and how can it move enough water to make a vortex? One thought would be it has a big stomach that its pumping water out of till it opens its mouth sucking in everything above. This has a ton of problems like how does it remain submerged with such a huge bubble, how can it resist the pressure of the ocean around it trying to collapse its bubble. The sheer forces here stretch thin the limits of biologic possibility. Not to mention the energy needed to pump all that water out and create a bubble. My thought which sounds more plausible to me is that its more like a giant worm/snake/tube. Instead of creating a bubble and resisting all those pressures perhaps it works more like an intestine. Using its muscles to constrict force water from one end to another. That way the pressure inside and out are relatively the same. It would need to be long, many times longer than it is wide. Its skin would be thick to house the muscles necessary to constrict and expand. It length would also be dependent on how its able to digest what its sucked in. Also, I don't think it would poop per say. I think its back end would be an open hole constantly excreting water similar in diameter to its mouth. As a fun thought, it could be that it doesn't intentionally pray upon ships and large fish. It could be a large filter feeder primarily trying to eat algae and plankton and just so happens to get other creatures by chance. The jagged rocks described at its mouth could be teeth and it could have teeth like structures lining the first part of its inner body to break up large debris entering it. Its lower body would probably have more mesh like structures to more easily extract nutrients. A Pyrosome is semi relevant in that they are big floating tubes that can suck in water filter it and push it out. 

The greater the physical size of cultural region the greater chance for isolated cultural change/ fracturing within that region. What prevents this fraturing is speedy transmission. If everyone is quickly exposed to the same factors listed above then cultural homogenization continues. This is why TV and the internet have done more to homogenize modern cultures than any force in history. To answer the question: If a monoculture was somehow miraculously created, a mono culture wouldn't collapse as long as everyone's conditions were kept and updated roughly the same. But once you throw events like famines or dramatic temperature differences or losses in communications into the mix. fracturing is sure to occur. 

Heinlein had a novel with similar characteristics Basically, if I wiped all of your knowledge and put you in a box (Schrodinger) all you would know is box. You could equate this much like Heinlein did, and rationalize human perception like that of pre-Columbian society. The Earth is flat because we believe so. In this case your folk will probably believe their entire world to be a tin can with nothing beyond it. Till some explorer type wills it to challenge their perception. In Heinlein's book the protagonist discovers a porthole and sees the stars realizing there is more beyond the ship. 

in relation to those problems, its conductivity is rather a small aspect. With the amount of effort needed to engineer such a thing many have theorized it would be advantageous for it to conduct electricity for various reasons. 

Siege Blockade One typical strategy of siege is simply blockade of a city. Cities have an inherent weakness in that they require a constant flow of resources in in order to support. This is especially true for a floating city, where do they get the water food and resources to support all the defenders necessary to stop a fleet of invaders. In many cases sieges end up being a waiting game waiting for the defenders to dies of disease and starvation. Also, there is no way the city could grow all the food as well. Human diets are incredibly complex requiring different sources of nutrition. (Scurvy Rickets) 

There isnt enough knowledge to know what exactly will happen here. However, memories are memories and a 10 year old would certainly be capable of retaining an adult's memories as they themselves can remember things. A baby however..... not sure. Behaviorally...... There is plenty of science to support the brain's development affects behavior at different stages. As humans, nurture (ie experience) can in many cases win out over nature. What most likely will happen here is the subject will experience intense urges and based on their experience decide what to do which might alter personality to some degree. So the answer to the second question is raw impulses 

This cant work If unallowed to alter brain physiology then this is impossible. What causes people to faint at high G's? -Blood flow becomes trapped in the legs and lower extremities causing the brain to become oxygen deprived. Or inversely, the same effect happens when too much blood goes to the brain and pools which at high enough Gs' can cause aneurysms. To solve this you would need to reinforce the circular system to resist pressure and maintain circulation. As you cannot change the brain physiology what would happen is: you would have blood pooling and eventually bursting in rear of force facing regions of the brain. Personally, you could justify using nano or micro machines to provide the reinforcement of the brain's circulatory structure as minimally invasive and easily reversible alteration to the brain's physiology. Although, at a 100G without some kind of structural improvement it's being squished against the skull comparable to hitting the ground after falling off the empire state building. No idea how the nerves can handle this, usually its blood in the brain that does the worst damage. For giggles: I thought about using a strong enough magnet to control the water molecules. But the fidelity needed to make that work would in itself be insane let alone iron particles would be stripped from the blood causing again oxygen deprivation if not cellular shredding. Aside from the brain problem, Micromachines could be used to reinforce the circulatory system as well as the other bones and organs so they dont explode or collapse beyond safe tolerances. 

As you mentioned opinion over historical interpretation runs heavy in this subject It is in my opinion that it was the very act of session that expedited emancipation proclamation. At the time, the nation was grappling with whether to allow slavery in the new territories and had just elected an anti slavery president. The slave holding states in protest over losing some of these policies decided to secede from the nation. In my opinion the reason they were just focusing on the new territories was to just incrementally phase out slavery as a compromised approach knowing full well the slave holding states would never outlaw it outright. Heres the kicker: By withdrawing their representation from the democratic system in open conflict, they in effect consolidated the anti-slavery perspective in the legislative body of the land. Under those circumstances it is of no surprise that they would just expedite their party's ultimate goal. Furthermore, by initiating war they inherently demand moral justification of that war. For the south their justification was the over reach of the federal government into states rights. The North however needed a morale excuse to invigorate its army, how about the liberation of all men. -its hard to win a war when you cant explain to your people why you are the "good" side In conclusion I don't believe the duration of the war had any effect on the expedition of freeing the slaves as it was going to war in the first place that expedited the subject. 

Time is the real key to making this realistic 20 years for skeletal changes and 8 years for oral reconstruction is not feasible for a werewolf. Fortunately the body measures time in a process called metabolism. Metabolism is the activity of cells and if your virus can speed up this process you can affect changes more rapidly. The advantages in increasing metabolism is you increase demand for food energy (hunger) with meat being a very good source for most of the bodies required nutrients. Other required nutrients can be acquired through other parts of animal carcasses: eyes, liver, bones, etc. Another advantage is you increase regeneration making many wounds quickly repairable (another aspect of lycanthropy). Progression: Invading all the cells in the body would take weeks with metabolic rate slowly increasing. Cells closer to the blood stream would be affected first like muscles and organs. Changes would be slow like increased athleticism and food intake. As more cells become infected food demand would increase meaning more hunger, more demand on nutrient dense sources (meat). Hunger alone triggers primal instincts in the brain like aggression. Eventually more distant cells like nerves and hair follicles will become enhanced, likely rewiring the brain for enhanced aggression and processing of smell, hearing, and vision. After possibly months of that you would begin to see the restructuring of hard parts. How long that would take exactly is unknowable, but it would be months in the least and be very painful. 

I think the first way to go about this is to address 'why it needs to even eat?' Anemones eat for the same reason any animal does, because it cant make its own food. Predatory plants, more famously the Venus Fly Trap, can make their own food through photosynthesis. The reason they eat animals is because their environment doesn't not contain usable nitrogen and phosphorus which they can get from flies. This is important to address first because it determines what traits are needed and what the waste of the creature might be like. An animal can use all the nutrients in bones leaving dust or pellets behind however a plant likely wouldnt need the calcium so like the venus fly trap might leave desiccated bodies laying around which may be discouraging for larger prey. For this reason I'm going with an animal as leaving bones behind would be bad. This also means it needs a rigid calcium based structure somewhere like the trunk. Calcium structures are vulnerable to water so it needs a protective layer like a keratin layer that appears like bark. Keratin is the substance found in finger nails and animal hooves that is strong and water resistant. Good coincidence is that hooves bare similar color appearance and rigidity to bark. Now the big question is "how does it digest?" Anemones aren't capable of a lot of motion, moreover what motion they can perform is often supported by their aquatic environment. Additionally, the point of this topic is to have passive predatory creature.So whatever predatory method is used on land must work with gravity. Therefore this creatures stomach must be at its base / root system. It must also have a way of hiding bodies. So I purpose: the 'root' structures are capable of hollowing out a large pit around the base of the 'tree' and expanding into the pit walls to support anchoring. A secondary more fibrous root contains barbs like the anemone that secrete acidic toxins capable of melting prey. At the base of the pit resides more absorptive roots capable of transporting all that material up the tree. Basically falling into this pit would be easy but the viney stinging roots would ensnare and prevent fauns from escaping. (Note: The roots need not contain paralytics because the paralytic leaves, discussed later, would be present in the pit. This allows for more digestive specialized 'roots') Now what to do with the waste? The tree transports the nutrients up the tree and deposits waste into large leaf like structures that don't perform any photosynthesis. when its foliage reaches a certain density it releases them with some being carried off with others falling onto the root pit making the perfect pitfall cover. The fallen leaves obscure the pits opening from sight of unsuspecting ground animals which can fall in like a pitfall just by passing by. At this point we have a tree like creature that can already catch some animals but we want it to be a little more proactive. How does it hunt? couple ways,