Humanity has discovered the cure. The cure to what, you say? Why, the cure to everything known of course. Death is no longer part of a human life and there is no "life cycle" anymore. The keepers see that humans have advance far too much and they know that they will be an uncontrollable pest upon the universe or worse, wipe themselves and all life on Earth. So they decide to take action. They make a genetically engineered virus (if they can) or do it in a fantastical / magical way and release it into the air. All of humanity becomes sick in a matter of days and they die off. This way, you can also keep people alive that matter to the story by giving them immunity to the virus. You could also say that, since humans are no longer dying, the gatekeepers went mad with nothing to be done around them. Maybe the gatekeepers were dependent on "the last breath of a human" to keep living, so they had to do something to restart humanity but not necessarily wipe them off. Alternatively, any modification you make on these reasons or methods, or a combination of them, is also applicable. 

Let's go about it this way: The increased muscle mass comes from the orcs having increased testosterone. The inherent ability to fight better at close combat comes from having more adrenaline in their system. This means they have much more of the most aggressive hormones present in their bodies compared to humans. All of this aggression leads to a desire for fighting and killing, it could certainly be called bloodlust. This bloodlust can only be satiated when the orcs have had a good fight. When they don't, they start arguing for any simple thing and they start infighting. This is why the leaders can't just raise an army for a while and then go to war, they just have to go to war or watch the army they raised tear each other apart. I think your orcs would best be defined by the orcs in Warhammer universe. I also suggest reading through the WAAAGH! section in WH40K wiki, although that's in space, it's the same basic principle as the Warhammer fantasy universe. 

Easy answer: I don't know. I'm not sure anyone else does, either, after reading a few reports. Check this one out. HOWEVER, after thinking about it a bit, I've an idea. In the beginning, Man had sticks and clay. It's nice to think that you can write on clay with sticks like you can paper with a pencil, but you can't — not and expect the inscription to last for any appreciable time. The marks need to be deep, and you need to write fast 'cause you're the scribe and the king waits for no serf. In other words, in the beginning, people had to press to make the letters. Since most people are right-handed it's very natural to press both in toward the body and left, pushing with the hand. Heck if I know if this is why it occured, but at least it's almost logical. Later, as charcoal came into vogue, the need to press disappeared and the smudging problem everybody thinks about but no authority wants to admit could be an issue comes into play. Think about it... a bazillion years of pressing sticks into clay and suddenly the king expects you to use this new-fangled thing called "the tip of a burnt stick" 'cause he's not in the mood to be less cool than that stink-bomb of a king over there. And left-to-right is born. Dragging the stylus rather than pressing the stylus. And the belief that left-handed people are all witches is born, too. 'Cause the king simply can't believe that anyone not born of the devil could fail to write things his way. I'm just sayin'. 

Artifacts are not just things to be owned by anyone. Artifacts are filled with magic and certain artifacts, the ones that are really powerful, have their own will and they have conditions for ownership. Some might just prefer their owner to be murdered before they allow themselves to be taken, some might not want their owner's murderer to own them and some might just even disappear along with their owner. The merchant has to be willing to part with the artifact. This particular artifact won't interact with anyone who means harm to their owner and will only change ownership if its owner wants to give it up. This might be interpreted as "I could just coerce him to give it up." but that won't work, because the artifact will know that you meant its owner harm and it won't cooperate with you and will even go so far as to destroy itself if you ever try to use it. It might even want revenge and call the second strongest mage in the world, in a manner similar to The One Ring in Lord of the Rings, and that might just mean it becomes the tipping point between you and the second strongest. You wouldn't want those possibilities to become reality, even if they're really improbable, so you decide not to harm him in any way but to either convince him or pay him some way. 

It only causes harm to the human body if the body is part of a closed circuit, otherwise electricity won't even move through the body. The effects on your body depend on whether it's AC or DC traversing through. The former causes the heart to try to adapt to the oscillation and a frequency of 50Hz may already cause ventricular fibrillation or even cardiac arrest with an increasing chance on higher frequencies. Also it can cause paralyzation on your muscles if the electricity is high enough. The latter may cause electrolysis in your body, which results in a sepsis that causes your death few days later. The mentioned effects both depend on the amount of electricity as well as the impact duration with both values rising the chance on increase. 50V AC and 120V DC are said to be perilous to the human body. Both types of electricity cause burns on your skin and your flesh. The shorter the distance the electricity covers through the body the smaller the resistance and thus the smaller the voltage. As your legs are usually the exit point to the ground hits on your legs are less violative than hits on your arms. It gets worse when your heart or brain are within the path. The resistance is composed of the resistance of your body and the transition resistances of the entry and exit point. Dry skin has a higher resistance so seemingly unintuitive being wet and sweaty reduces the voltage and thus the damage to the body. Defending a river might be a much more desirable point of defence. Just shoot in the water when the enemy tries to cross it. Bullets lose acceleration very quickly in water so they become quite harmless. Electricity does have a very high drop-off ratio in water (which is why a lightning hitting a lake doesn't kill all its fish) but on close distance it would be devastating. 

What Columbus may have seen (assuming @nzaman is wrong... he might not be wrong...) are men with very short necks and muscular shoulders. No, this does not paint a picture of a "face in their chest." However, it would be dramatic description that might possibly convince Queen Isabella to fork over funding for the next voyage without actually fabricating bald-faced fiction.... But let's assume you mean something very much like this... 

TL;DR: About 99% of the time it would have taken them to do it on their own. With one possible exception... (see EDIT below) What is "steel?" Can they find the "start" button before the power plant breaks down or, in the case of nuclear, melts down? Have you ever handed a computer mother board to a child and asked them to find the "on" button (it's there)? By the time the primitive society figured out how to turn on a hammer-making factory the factory would be falling apart, as would all the vehicles, utilities, and other infrastructure it depends on. Entropy is your enemy A friend of mine devoted some of his time to teaching adult prisoners to read. It took them months, and they had a working vocabulary and a tutor that knew what all the letters looked like and what their combinations meant. A person who cannot read can't learn physics by picking up a physics book and staring at it for a really long time. By the time they started working out the basics of the language, all the paper would be moth-eaten dust, all the hard drives would be demagnetized, etc. etc. A primitive society (let's say stone age) would benefit from the buildings (a great way to stay out of the rain), basic building materials (they don't know how to weld!) and some tools (what's a "torque wrench?"). They'd get a bit of a jump with some of our more useful tools (like spanners/crescent wrenches and channel-lock pliers), but the "advances," while seeming miraculous to them, would be an insignificant advancement. By the time the more imaginative and creative among them started realizing the world around them was more complex than they could beforehand comprehend, it would would be a proverbial useless pile of dust. Your electricity infrastructure will be gone in mere months at best. And once gone, you can't just "find the start button." Between lack of electricity and rust almost everything would be forever useless. The technology pyramid is enormous, and the number of people that built it even more so Knowlege (aka, technology) is a pyramid. What we enjoy today is the tip of an overwhelmingly large body of knowledge that stretches back thousands of years, touching untold billions of people. And what many people don't realize is that it takes more than scientists to advance technology. It takes more than engineers, and technicians, and even teachers. It literally takes nearly everybody (maybe not the bums1) to provide the food and materials, recreation and education, jobs and duties, organization and structure, to make high technology happen. So, to conclude, it might save the primitive civilization 1% of the time, but I think I'm being generous by saying so. 

Canyons Virtually any canyon out there is accessible from only a few points (within the area you specified, obviously more in total). You could easily stop them by surrounding canyons. It doesn't have to be small either, the Grand Canyon is an example of that. Mountain Ranges Although they're usually bigger than your proposed area, this might not be the best solution, but it would certainly look nice and not suffocating like a canyon could. Japan has many mountains that you could look at, for inspiration. Let's put a picture in there (open in new tab to see it bigger): 

They write on horizontal cuts of tree trunks, so they just follow the tree trunk's circles as opposed to trying to make it into a new material. Some might even write in a spiral so as to make it look more artistic. 

It's the year 2068, humanity has managed to get a space elevator working about twenty years ago. Now, they need more metals and rare materials which are found in asteroids. Ships with specialized equipment bring asteroids towards Earth and set them in a very specific orbit, which passes close by the space elevator but does not collide with any other asteroids. Miners work on these asteroids and they get to work and deliver materials using the space elevator. A gigantic construction is underway to complete a self sustaining refinery so that asteroids can be mined and processed in place instead of having them brought to Earth. 

I would actually not take video games as a reference, especially not ones focusing on action. Historically spears started out as mainly single handed weapons but in a much shorter fashion probably somewhere in Africa. As different cultures evolved them to be longer for the advantage of greater distance especially agains cavalry they also became harder to handle. For the right balance and accurate control infantry started using them with both hands. The single hand usability actually differs from the weapons length and balance. Greek hoplite used a long spear single handedly in combination with a shield as seen in the movie Troy. For a compromise between balance and protection their shields had an indentation to rest the spear on, basically as a weaker second hand to lower the negative effects of the single hand use but it was probably still less easily controllable. I honestly do think the use of a long dual hand spear as a single hand weapon is anything but beneficial. Even the advantage of close distance combat with a dagger or short sword would probably not outweigh the loss of control of your main weapon. With the right shield that lowers the negative effects like explained earlier it can work but other than that, I'd rather take distance from such an approach. 

All we need to explain this is some illogical logic! According to here Santa's average speed is 0.1x109Km/h and the speed of light is 1.1x109 Km/h which means he's bookin' at 10% the speed of light... which is close enough to relativistic speeds for government work1 That means Santa will experience a doppler shift. Being at relativistic speeds, and knowing that e=mc2 then those same government agents can surmise that a part of Santa's mass is moving faster than the rest of Santa's mass. (This is all about Santa's mass, after all.) We therefore conclude that Santa's mass is stretched by the speed he must travel. But his mass, itself, isn't changing, so the volume at any point along the length of the stretched mass is much smaller than his jolly girth would naturally be while standing still (or running alongside Olympic sprinter Usain Bolt, who cannot yet hit relativistic speeds... but he's working on it.). By the application of what inevitablly will be some form of Fourier Transform (left as an exercise for the reader, along the lines of "how much of a student's mass can be kicked during a physics test?") what we'll discover is that the maximum diameter of an elongated Santa's mass including his sleigh is less than 10cm. We'll also discover that this increases Santa's efficiency as he will enter and exit dozens (if not hundreds) of houses simultaneously as an elongated mass entering chimney holes and delivering presents all at the same time. Causality is known to be preserved by the empirical evidence of none of the houses exploding from the pressure change of air being forced through their chimneys at relativistic speeds in mere fractions of a second. But it does suggest that Santa's cookies are not pre-cooked before delivery. 

In higher civilizations low class people had to fulfill physical work often in the outside, thus being in the sun all day tanning their skin. On the contrary high class people often stayed inside their houses doing more management work and a lot of delegating physical work to their subjects, hence the brighter skin due to a lack of exposure to the sun. That's also where the term blue-blooded originates from, the blue veins shimmer through the untanned skin. Personally I thought this philosophy originated in medieval europe but the concept could be easily transferred to earlier civilizations. As far as I know this has been the idea inside europe's civilization as well, which weakens the argument of caucasians conquering and colonizing the world as the main reason. No doubt, though, colonization did play a role in many non-european cultures but as said, later on in history. 

The shortest documented adult ever became only 54.6cm (21.5"). Even though this is quite small, I'd say it is definitely way too large to be able to fly with (butter)fly wings. I could rather imagine bird or bat wings. I also assume you cannot simply gain a human in a form as tiny as one wants to imagine as many of our organs probably have a limited minimum size to function properly. You'd have to change the internal body massively and throw out anything not absolutely necessary. Also they'd probably not as slim but rather have a stocky body and a quite oversized head. Retaining human intelligence with a brain a fraction of the size of ours is hardly possible. They may have a slightly improved efficiency but barely anywhere close to human intelligence. Also a more efficient brain would raise the demand of energy so they'd have to eat and sleep very much. In addition to the high energy demand for their flying ability I'd say that's a very limiting factor. As for your last question, that's a matter of supply and demand. Since human teeth are like ivory to them they create jewelry from, less people believing in fairies mean less teeth and thus higher value per tooth. The much more important question is: why would such a creature develop? Did they develop out of a hominid or an insect, and why would it shrink and develop full wings but not change anything else (or vice versa, why would it change its body into the human form)? The human body has specialized to living on the ground and it's obviously totally ineffective and useless if it was able to fly.