A virtual currency is very like cash. Cash is -largely-untraceable and anonymous, can cross borders, be used in black markets, all that. It is not the new-new it is made out to be, economically. Have a listen to A History Of Debt: The First 5,000 Years $URL$ Or I am sure the book is legally available free online. This really sets the swings between trading debt, and trading materials, in context. 

I see this as reminiscent of a koan structure, and indeed pointing to an area of familiar commentary for them. I certainly see the different referents as not too subtle to be involved. These are clearly book-clever people, give them that much credit. By a rolling around, a contemplation of the differences, an experience can be had, that 'nothing matters' which can be held on to so tightly, is itself an absurd statement, like who were you before you were born? The important thing is not the answer, but the experience. The context seems to be pointing at the pincer movement, preventing access to 'the big questions' either through philosophy, or theology. Wittgenstein, one of the biggest influences on English language philosophy in the last century explicitly dismissed these, "Whereof one cannot speak, thereof must one be silent", which he didn't contradict in his later philosophy. Blaming secularism for the retreat of theology, especially for 'creeping', presumably not on it's merits or by a rational process, I find very objectionable. It fails to acknowledge the reasons, and historical motivations, behind secularism. Theology may be great at 'big questions', but it's terrible at government. I would look to 'legibility' of a previous eras metis: $URL$ 

You can have information, without meaning. The Chinese Room argument considered by Searle and others aims to illustrate and grapple with this. Certainly you can have intelligence without self-awareness. You might look at how chess for humans was considered a source of transferable skills, utilised for military education from India where the game was created, to Vikings (see 12thC Lewis chessman, & the game tafl). Alpha Go can't do that. Algorythms can be repurposed like the mine-searching one used by Rhumba. Alpha Go can be too in principle, though I can't find any examples. It seems more a proof of principle. The bigger picture, is about the problems of model evaluation where machine learning is involved - $URL$ And more widely, about whether supervised learning can ever form distinct intelligence, or only reflect the supervisors'. Human minds seem to seek simplifying insights from complex data, and to pursue simplification and unification of premises. Machine learning can only pursue a kind of 'metis', a heuristic process of data mining. So far. There is something of a schism, between those who hold minds to have some capacity to move at least by degree between unfreedom and more-free (we all have physics and biology, culture language etc limiting freedom in some ways, though also enabling it.. ), and those including most AI researchers who tend to see minds as essentially deterministic, and fundamentally interchangeable and intergoperable (universal Turing Machines and the Turing Comleteness of languages), and so seeing free will as an illusion. Steven Pinker sees the 'magic' difference as coming from quantum processes in the brain. Dennett sees free-will and qualia as resulting from evolutionary usefulness (compatibalism). Bostrom see the whole universe as a mind-process with inherent subjectivity (this is embedded in the simulation argument). There is a kind of middle way, admittedly rather tentative in the rigour with which it's been established, in Hofstadter's Strange Loops model (as discussed on here Has Hofstadter's concept of strange loop been given a more formal treatment (by him or anyone else) than "GEB" and "I am a strange loop"?). Strange Loops are hierarchical recursive structures with any looping around in the hierarchy, back on itself, creating a tangled hierarchy. As a model for how consciousness works this can address a number of difficulties. Consciousness can be viewed as building gradually with complexity of self-reference, as we in fact find. It can be understood as both an internal subjective experience -symbolising oneself in internal discourse with implications for identity and decisions- but also having external aspects as we in fact find, illustrated by the Private Language argument. Strange Loops seem to offer a way to describe degree of free will, through examining the degrees of feedback which inhibit 'unconscious', material or non-Strange Looping causes. Buddhist ideas are about understanding 'unshakeable liberation' from causes and conditions, the maximizing version of 'awakeness', and reordering behaviour through a recursive practice (the eightfold way) which has a, I think paradigm-changing rather than transcendental aim. This is pictured as 'crossing the stream' and then leaving the boat, or ascending a ladder and then letting go of the ladder, and in Japan as using vines to unravel vined(intertwining with the teaching symbolised by long-lived wisteria, found at all temples, and bad habits symbolised by kudzu vines, an invasive weed). Also in Nagurjuna's discourse in which even emptiness is found to be empty of inherent nature $URL$ In this way Buddhism can be seen as a practice to maximise 'freeness', not of an ego self but as a how to occupy the stage our self-history has set, not what but how to be moment by moment, through self-reflective 'recursive' practices like meditation and directed contemplations, eightfold way, and four noble truths (interpreted like Stephen Batchelor as directives for the mind rather than ontology). This suggests free 'will' is possible not only by degree but radically, as a different paradigm. 

Identity is a way of organising our experiences, including of ourselves. That is all. It is not ontic, only organisational. The ship of Theseus attacks our material idea of ourselves, given our cell turnover. Buddhist thought attacks the procedural and informational selves. It is commonly thought all of biology can be explained by physics. But it may be that physics is only explainable in terms of mindsm 

I can see two angles on this. Buddhist thought sees consciousness as arising from the 'sense gates'. And those who believe in a universal grammar, must see language and thought as linked to our bodily being and what arises from it. We expect one day to be able to communicate with dolphins, but it will require some kind of bridging experiences, a physical rosetta stone of shared comprehension. But on the other hand, consider the universality of the universal Turing machine, able to run any program. Or that Godel's incompleteness, essentially new creative 'undecidable' propositions can be made in any minimally complex system of signs. Whether these are appropriate for drawing conclusions about our analogue 'wetware' is not indisputable. I draw from these perspectives, that digital minds, or artificial sentiences, would have a distinct character based on their senses and the emergence of the minds experiences in them, but have a universal capacity as thinking beings to be able to engage with us. I don't really share your highlighting of information keeping, or time. People with pbotographic memories don't think substantially differently. We already augment ourselves with pcs and phones, and will become increasingly cyborg. Digital minds would have to have some informational losses and uncertainties to be creative. Thought-time would have to be tuned to physicality, to manifestation in actions. These might be digital actions on networks, in which case the times of those relays and programs to interact with would set the clock. With a robotic body, it was ould be that's capacities and energy supplies, and things to engage with such as us. Greater analysis in these times than a human mind, would not I think create a true difference in kind. The actual qualia of being a digital mind, is probably for fiction and art to think about. I can't think of any truly good hard science fiction about the emergence of artificial sentience, but it must be out there. 

We ask why earthquakes happen, and it turns out tectonic activity is neccessary to shield the Earth from cosmic rays. DMT, taken on it's own or in ayahuasca, occurs naturally in the body, during birth and death, it may help avoid panic or some other functions. Cannabinoid compounds are found in breast milk. Opiod receptors are involved in highlighting relevant pain. Amphetamine is an adrenalin analogue. Ketamine seems to knock out parts of the brain, causing other parts to 'step in'. Brain areas involved in the sense of self, and in making sense of our visual field go offline, and depersonalised suggestiveness can allow dream-like processing of concerns, perhaps including breaking out of habits. Many mushrooms and cacti have active compounds. LSD is found in a fungi on one of the worlds most common foodstuffs, but with other poisonous compounds preventing any positive use from that source - hard to imagine what a deity was thinking there. Sadly not much is known about what systems these compounds activate or interfere with, because the research got cancelled after being brought into disrepute half a century ago. Possibly something like the DMT system, involved with consciousness formation or reformation in extremis. Alcohol, the only mind/mood altering substance unambiguously mentioned in the bible, is a source of calories, and a general toxin - the only substance that damages every cell in your body (oxidation). We think we inherited tolerance to it from small lemur-like ancestors who consumed fermented flower nectars and fruit. Alcohol has a handy affect in humans, of while judgement is impaired, it also raises testosterone in women increasing libido, and reduces it (on average) in men lowering aggression. That gives a model for how a biological need for calories, with a side effect of intoxication, could develop to have a social role, especially in courtship (honeymoon - from mead dowry gift). We have been developing, socially, culturally, even during biblical times. Distilling spirits, for instance. Mind altering compounds show great promise in treating addictions and mood disorders. Old-style cannabis resins (but not new style 'skunk' types) turn out to have powerful anti-psychotic compounds, as well as euphoric ones. People may have been widely self-medicating since ancient times. Cannabis is an unusually safe medication during childbirth, and is the oldest recognised medicine for that going back to the late stone age (an ice body). As well as allowing a kind of 'recalibration' of reward and impulse, there are also proposed mechanisms of aiding creativity, through stimulating synaesthesia and accompanying metaphorical and abstract thinking, and through interfering with mental routines. It has been widely proposed that the role of shaman found in almost all ancient societies, may have used such states to develop solutions to social problems eg. $URL$ Many cross-cultural religious practices, like fasting, meditation/prayer, living as a hermit, chanting, and creation of sacred art, seem to be aimed at a similar nexus of goals. Stepping outside of normal life and thinking, to seek answers to 'deeper' or non-ordinary problems. We could argue that both priests and philosophers are modern manifestations of the shaman role. 

Soul is a very confused category. Firstly, what is usually meant is immortal soul. In the ancient world all beings were indeed considered to have souls (look it up!), but only humans that latter. In Judaism the immortality of anyones soul is disputed. And in Christianity we can see the theology of the soul is more influenced by Plato than Judaism. Aristotle had a particularly clear way of explaining the multiple soul, with supervening layers - able to be a source of causation downward through the hierarchy. Rational soul, above sensative soul, above vegetative soul. He argued against the seperateness of any of these from the body. And described them as types of pattern or organisation, which can flourish or decay. This is very like emergent layers of organisation, consciousness, nervous & sensory systems, and cellular being. The idea that the soul is some kind of magic timeless ghost can be traced at least to Plato, but owes more in philosophical detail to Descartes, and his disproven untenable dualism. Turing addressed the idea of when we should consider a computer conscious. There are in fact many disputes over the validity and precise implementation of the Turing Test, you might want to look this area up in relation to your scepticism (also 'philosophical zombies', which is exactly the area you are talking about). Turing basically argued if something can behave consciously, it is conscious. And all we can do is evaluate & interrogate behaviour, not speculate about some kind of innaccessible ontic essence. As babies, we develop our consciousness relationally. The ability to decieve and understand that others may have false beliefs is a crucial stage of children's mental development, that occurs around 3 or 4 years of age, without which this scepticism could not begin. Looking back at our own development then, we can see how we have become more complex in relation to a society around us of individuals already displaying greater relational complexity. The scepticism about consciousness in others is further undermined by the Private Language argument, the sophistication of our thoughts depends on language, which was developed and learned relationally. We can't view ourselves as the disembodied rational minds of outdated philosophies. Denying full consciousness or souls in others doesn't have a good record. It was used to justify enslavement of Africans and native Americans respectively (doubt about Americans having souls was justified by them not being mentioned in the bible, unlike Africans). Statements like "all men are created equal" are not just philosophical, grounded in the lack of evidence to the contrary, but also politically sophisticated antidotes to our tendency to try and diminish those we disagree or are in conflict with, or wish to exploit. Such relations with others may seem appealing to some in some ways, but history has amply shown them to be destructive of potential, corrosive or morals, and to lead inevitably to war revolution and violent civilisational collapse. Philosophical backing for this can be seen for instance through Rawl's theory of justice, where a society must be set up in such a way that we would consent to be born into any position in it (for that society to be just). If we are truly equal, then any people in our society now would be justified in acting as you would, in their position. If the social contract with them is voided, then revolt, war, or collapse, will begin unless justice is done, and seen to be done. No justice, no peace.