I'd say that the adjunct "before this time" belongs not in the matrix clause, but in the catenative complement clause, as shown in this tree: 

Transitive clauses, the kind with a transitive verb and a direct object, can sometimes contain a further constituent called an objective predicative complement that refers to the direct object. It is typically an adjective phrase, as in your example, but it can also be a noun phrase. The objective PC occurs after the direct object, not before it. Reversing the order either changes the meaning, or yields an ungrammatical sentence: [1a] We painted the fence blue. [1b] We painted the blue fence. [2a] She made him a good husband. [2b] * She made a good husband him. In these pairs, [1a] tells us that we painted the fence, and we painted it a blue colour. But [1b] has a different meaning; it tells us we painted the blue fence, but it does not tell us what colour we painted it – perhaps we painted it green or white, who knows? In [2a] we understand that her efforts resulted in him being a good husband, but [2b] where the predicative precedes the object is ungrammatical. 

In a project that produced a corpus of (spoken) Nigerian English we used HES for hesitation. I've also come across HES in articles in linguistics journals, but not FILL. 

The Arabic script is an Abjad writing system or consonantal alphabet. Most letters stand for a consonant, and short vowels are usually not indicated (but can exceptionally be indicated with diacritic symbols). Long vowels also have proper letters, which is why the Arabic script can be called an impure Abjad. The Arabic script is said to be well adapted to Arabic grammar (and more generally, Abjads are well adapted to Semitic languages) because roots usually consist of three consonants. Words derived from a common root still look fairly similar in writing because much morphology consists of changes in short vowels. 

Transfer of some phonetic/phonological features from the first language to a second language is common in second language acquisition. For example, aspiration is not phonemic in English. Voiceless plosives (/p,t,k/) in simple onsets are aspirated (as in top /tʰɒp/), but in complex onsets they are unaspirated (as in stop /stɒp/). Although English speakers have the ability to pronounce voiceless plosives with or without aspiration when required by English phonology, they often find it difficult to consciously use this ability when learning languages that have phonemic aspiration, such as Hindi. I have the impression that these segmental pronunciation problems receive lots of attention in second language acquisition research. However, prosody (for example intonation) can also be rather difficult for learners and seems to receive less attention (although there is some research on this topic). Q: Is there any research on whether segmental differences (such as aspiration) or suprasegmental differences (such as in intonation) are more difficult for learners to overcome? (Controlling for the fact that when comparing languages some have more segmental differences and some more differences in intonation). 

I very much dislike the term "adverbial". I think it is very unsatisfactory to have a function term that is morphologically derived from a category term. Adverb is a word category, and adverb phrase (a phrase headed by an adverb) the corresponding phrase category. Adverbial is a function and may be realised by an AdvP (He spoke quickly), a PP (He spoke with enthusiasm), an NP (He’s speaking this evening). AdvPs do not always function as adverbials: they may function as modifier in AdjPs (It was quite amazingly expensive), etc. Adverbial phrase is quite often used for any phrase functioning as adverbial and hence likely to be confused with adverb phrase. This confusion is overcome by the use of the term "adjunct" as an alternative to "adverbial". 

Phrasal Verbs: First, I’d advise you to drop the term 'phrasal verb'. It’s thoroughly misleading. It’s not the whole expression "call for" that is a verb; it’s just the lexeme "call". Your example, This calls for a thorough examination of the facts is analysed as verb - [prep + O]. It’s a verbal idiom headed by the prepositional verb “call”, where the preposition “for” is specified by the verb. Particles are intransitive prepositions (plus a few adjectives and verbs) which can freely come between a transitive verb and its direct object. The distinctive property of particles is that they can precede the object but in general they don’t have to, so there is alternation between, say, Ed took off his coat and Ed took his coat off. Now compare that pair with your example This calls for an examination” ~ * This calls an examination for. Clearly "for" is not a particle on two counts: in that example, "for" is a transitive preposition and "call" is an intransitive verb. Complements vs adjuncts: Complements in NP structure are virtually restricted to PPs (usually headed by "of") and subordinate clauses. In your example, the PP "of the facts" is complement of the noun "examination". In NPs, dependents with the form of PPs qualify as complements when they are licensed by the particular head noun. In your example, the PP "of the facts" is licensed by "examination". The clearest of cases have one or more of these properties: (1) The PP corresponds to object or subject NPs, compare the facts examined ~ the examination of the facts. (2) The choice of preposition is specified by the head noun, as is the case with your example "call for a thorough examination", where "call" specifies "for". (3) the PP is obligatory because the noun makes little sense without it: "the advent of the steam engine", "the feasibility of the proposal", "a dearth of new ideas" and so on. Complements are a kind of dependent that must be licensed by the head of the phrase. By contrast, adjuncts require no such licensing; they function as modifiers in clause structure, or as supplements. Obligatory elements are always complements: they are needed to complete the verb phrase; optional elements may be either complements or adjuncts. Matthews in The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Linguistics defines complement as “A syntactic element seen as completing the construction of another element”: the syntactic concept construction is preferable to the semantic concept meaning. He goes on to say, more specifically, that it applies to elements which are within the valency of a verb or other lexical unit. And his entry for "valency" is: “The range of syntactic elements either required or specifically permitted by a verb or other lexical unit"– which is equivalent to licensing. 

I'm not quite sure what you mean by a "direct n-language creole." Creoles can and do draw their lexicon from many different sources; I would argue looking at aspects of syntax often doesn't let us identify any clear parents at all. (Berbice Dutch, a SVO language, developed from Ijo and Dutch, both SOV). So it seems that creoles from exactly two parents are not the norm, and furthermore considering different aspects of a creole's grammar/lexicon can give different answers as to what language(s) are the parents. Nonetheless, here's an attempt at answering your question from a couple points of view. Whinnom proposed a principle of "tertiary hybridization" which states that three language groups must be in contact for a creole to form. This is perhaps best illustrated by an example: in Papua New Guinea, Motu speakers were responsible for much coastal trade; they spoke pidgin Motu with their trading partners. The Hiri Motu ("Hiri" means trade) language arose when various of the trading partners began using their common pidgin Motu as a communication device among themselves. Motu could not form the basis of a creole (so the theory goes) when actual L1 speakers of Motu were in abundance, because they would perpetuate Motu grammatical norms as opposed to allowing a novel creole grammar to flourish. But I suspect that you are asking about creoles with a significant lexical contribution from many languages. Smith (1987, The genesis of the creole languages of Surinam, a Univ. of Amsterdam dissertation) speaks of a core of lexical material found in English-based Atlantic creoles which comes from various African languages. It was probably first amalgamated in a pidgin English spoken in African ports, then carried to the New World by slaves. There is also Saramaccan, which is among the most "mixed" creoles known, having drawn large portions of its core vocabulary from both English and Portugese. However, it also has other European and African influences. 

Diagram here of Passive Version Of Ditransitive Active Note: The diagram represents the passive version of the active ditransitive clause: My aunt gave Ed a pair of shoes. Note: In the passive, the direct and indirect object of the active clause are internal complements of the verb (i.e. are constituents of the VP), but “a pair of shoes” is not internalised because it is an internal complement within the VP in the corresponding active clause: its status remains the same, where “internalised” implies a change. 

which is semantically and syntactically different. Here "each" is a determinative and "other" a common noun, as opposed to a single compound pronoun. 

For locatives, the basic suffix is –de/da (otelde, okulda) but after an unvoiced consonant (ç, f, h, k, p, s, ş or t) the suffix appears as –te/ta (otobüste, maçta). Now for the vowel harmony. a is followed by a or ı e is followed by e or i ı is followed by ı or a i is followed by i or e o is followed by a or u ö is followed by ü or e u is followed by u or a ü is followed by ü or e It will all become second nature once you practice it repeatedly. 

I think the term oracle here refers to information that is kind of useful in solving a question/task, but also intransparent and in need of interpretation. So your first example 

Language standardisation has variously been described, for example by Einar Haugen, as a process involving the selection, codification, acceptance, and elaboration of a linguistic norm. I'm concerned here with the selection of a norm. Often this consists not of selecting a dialect that is already present in its entirety, but a process called koinéisation takes place - the levelling of differences between dialects. Apart from regional varieties (dialects), social varieties (sociolects) also play a role. I think I have heard/read repeatedly that linguistic structures/words etc. used by educated speakers are more likely to become part of the emerging standard than linguistic structures used by less educated speakers. This is, I think, because educated speakers play a role as gatekeepers due to their social, economic and political power. In consequence, the varieties used by uneducated speakers are often looked down upon. However, in the literature on language standardisation (such as Language Standardization and Language Change I could not find any reference to the importance of educated speakers in language standardisation. Can anybody provide academic references for this? (of course I would also be happy to consider references denying the role of educated speakers in language standardisation) 

Briefly, Huddleston & Pullum in CGEL pp. 257-8, note that there is a structural similarity between the predicative complement in [1] and the locative complement in [2], which suggests that assigning a location to something is comparable to assigning it a property. They argue that one respect in which locative complements resemble predicatives is that they too are oriented towards either the subject in intransitives (The letter is on the table), or the object in transitives, as in [2]. They go on to say that, however, since there are numerous verbs which only take one or the other (PC or locative), they do not assimilate the locatives to the predicatives, but regard them as syntactically distinct kinds of complements that exhibit certain semantic resemblances. 

Leaving aside "interjections", we recognise eight (8) word categories (parts of speech). Six (6) of them can function as the head of corresponding phrases: the other two can’t. The very small coordinator and subordinator classes do not function as head but serve as markers of coordination and subordination: there is no such thing as 'coordinator phrases' or 'subordinator phrases'. [1] Noun (NP) “this clear case of dedication to duty” [2] Verb (VP) “saw something in there” [3] Adjective (AdjP) “very eager for further news” [4] Determinative (DP) “almost every” [5] Adverb (AdvP) “quite separately from this issue” [6] Preposition (PP) “right out of the area” [7] Coordinator (no phrasal category) [8] Subordinator (no phrasal category) Note: pronouns are not treated as a distinct part of speech, but as a subclass of noun. 

*This is of course soemething of a simplification of the literature on non-configurationality. **Full disclosure: a professor of mine. 

My understanding of the issues is as follows. Principles and Parameters is an almost-tautologous restatement of Chomskian UG: there are certain things that are not subject to cross-linguistic variation (principles) and other things that can vary but only in constrained ways (parameters). (The part about parameters is where the "almost" in "almost-tautological" comes in.) There are other things that can vary freely, of course – e.g. vocabulary. All of Chomsky's syntactic theories fall under the P&P approach. In Government & Binding (the immediately previous generation), things like Conditions A, B, and C were principles; parameters were things like the EPP ("Extended Projection Principle;" originally this was the "subject movement to Spec,IP" parameter). Minimalism's principles are things like Merge (the operation) and the conditions on it (Last Resort, no lookahead, ...). One of the themes of Minimalist thought has been moving the locus of cross-linguistic variation to the lexicon. So the old EPP parameter, which in GB was true or false of a language, now can be specified independently for each functional head. In response to the observation/criticism that a small set of global parameters is not empirically adequate to describe the syntax of all natural languages, there has been research into lexical "micro-parameters" to fully describe languages (dialects) with small syntactic differences.