I don't understand how the fail to settle all disputes implies that one couldn't settle many of them. The only possibility I see is using the meaning of "all" as "all disputes of a certain class" as such that this class does not contain all possible disputes. 

Is there a branch of philosophy that deals with the concept of classification? I guess that perhaps it's metaphysics or ontology - they are the nearest things I can think of, but I'm not really sure. 

Suppose you have two theories: T₁,T₂. Each one has a proposition that makes the other become contradictory. Question 1: Is it always possible to find a theory T₃ which conciliates both theory, that is: "removes the contradiction"? Question 2: Supposing the answer to the first question is affirmative, does it imply that we can prove anything to be true? I know the answer with logic, this will depend on the axioms and rules of inference of the logic you are using. But how they face this problem with Derrida's conception of languange? 

The first known "Political Parties" or "factions" as they were first termed that I am aware of were noted during the ratfication of the US Constitution. "Federalist" Party members were pro Constitution and "anti-Federalist" were against...and this was noted with some alarm during the ratification process as "office seeking" was seen as ungentlemanly. In other words one should asked first before one "becomes President" for example. Alexander Hamilton is the first and only proponent of "ambition" as the pre-requisite for Governing...meaning "do not ask but take." He actually wanted George Washington to be elected President for life in his only appearance before the Constitutional Committee meeting...in secret interestingly...in Philadelphia in 1789. This idea was never considered...but certainly Hamilton's "men of ambition" future was born out...and with it poltical parties. 

I guess everyone knows Plato's allegory of the cave. He assumes people are in caves and then, he suggests that there is a possibility of "going out of the caves", gaining several nice properties with this. Do we have evidence that he noticed that we could "get out of a cave" and still be inside another "cave"? And that there could be an arbitrary number of nested caves? 

This is something that attracted my attention several times, but I never heard of anyone who wrote about a philosophy of poorness, I guess Marx would be the nearest I've heard of, are there other ones who wrote about it? 

When I was a kid, I remind that I had a strange type of game - I was mostly concerned of annoying other persons. Whenever they assumed something, I asked why, and then when they aswered, I asked why again, and then I kept asking why until the person was annoyed. There was a point where the person could not provide an answer to the why's, I always wondered if our knowledge behaves this way: This way of having an infinite series of why's and at some point, a nullity of answers. So, is this infinity of questions a problem somehow? Have someone thought about it? 

There seems to be a moral sensibility presented by the author through the use of the term "promise." Since a promise is something that will happen in the future I think the author needs to use a more accurate term. Kant wanted to "rebalance" truth since there is no duty to tell it and indeed an infinite number of reasons not to (to protect your buddies on the battlefield for example.) So how do we achieve our HIGHER calling of "informing on the matter accurately"? Obviously Kant is quite strict on this matter as he sees (correctly) the need for not just the truth but for the truth to " get to the top."(Fog of War for example...or perhaps informational disadvantage in the current context.) So the "residue" does indeed become a contradiction because me and my "posse" are probably going to have to lie to survive in this thing called life...but I still owe my Tribal Chief something too otherwise I might not even have my posse without my Chief. That's my take on the "categorical imperative" as presented here namely "more than a promise." Is it a duty? The author does not elaborate sadly. 

A proper reductio ad absurdum argument relies upon the fact that if a premise is true, an absurd conclusion would unavoidably follow. The word "unavoidably" is key; if any step is not logically forced by the previous step, the entire argument falls apart. In the scenario at hand, the premise (that there is an illegitimate bias against "rich" defendants) could be true without the "absurd" statement (that no factors other than a defendant's wealth are even considered) being true. Consequently, the absurd statement does not follow from the premise, and the premise is in no way invalidated by the absurd statement. Indeed, the argument is so poor as to suggest the person making it might not be debating in good faith. 

I've been thinking a bit about the core argument of social constructionism. Whenever I see the argument being employed, it seems that it means that if something is a social construction, then this thing is not too legitimate. This seems to agree a bit with Hacking here. I've noticed that I could take the argument itself and write: "The idea of social construction is a social construction. Then the idea of social construction is not too legitimate." At least for me, this seems to be a logical problem: An instance of the liar's paradox, with the argument eating itself. Is it actually a problem or the argument is built in an ideological framework unbeknownst to me in which this problem could be eliminated? I know that there are logics that deal with self-reference. But I don't know if the person who created the concept worked with these logics and conscientiously created the concept using it or if he/she didn't see that one could apply the argument to itself. 

"Simultaneity" happens all the time (so to speak.) For example a "fortuitous" encounter is the chance meeting of someone expected to meet in the future that does in fact happen but not according to any plan or "foresight." There is also "spontaneity" where you are "acting" in present time but not really "knowing" where you are going with whatever it is you're thinking or are uncertain as to the outcome. There is also the idea of "serendipity"... a chance meeting that seems to assure one's "future" for all time. These and many other "facts of living" prove that while presentism existsit is only a construct of the mind and not in fact how we as humans nor any other sentient being in fact exists. Birds build nests, whales sing songs...all with a "future purpose" in mind (having shelter, getting food, etc) Humans are unique in explicitly doing away with time in order to discover "truths" however. The technical term I believe is called "instinct" or in sports "being in the zone" where you are not conscious of time when "acting." For example we have yet to discover any other living organism that attempts to build something like a Cathedral...which we know will require generations or "not in our time" to be completed. This is a unique form of "presentism" as it requires a type of plan that can be understood in the here and now AND in the future thus implying some type of "Master Plan" or "destiny." Of course if I take a well worn footpath and turn it into a road and then some type of highway or "interchange" this might seem to imply some greater intelligence on my part but in reality I'm just trodding the same path and merely expanding (or expounding) on the possibilities should I consider more doing the same. This "more of the same" is neither in the present nor having to do with "simultaneity" but simply projecting out "into the future" what is merely observed. Technically speaking such "thinking" is false as if everything is "just a roll of the dice" the "odds" are still the same...namely the number is the number observed not the odds of said number "going to be observed." One could argue and be right however if the dice are rolled and two sixes appear every time that "there is a problem with the dice." As Einstein famously said "God does not play dice with the Planets."