This answer won't be very helpful but many of the sutras are meant to be helpful expedients. If you take them too seriously you will emerge with this problem. (The lotus sutra contains the least expedients of them all, as far as I recall.) Even if I knew where this is referenced, the numbers given would be shaky and subject to interpretation. For example it says that the average lifespan of a human being varies between 10 and 10^140 years according to wikipedia. I wish you good luck but it seems unlikely that a satisfactory answer can be found and even if one was found, there would probably be more than one text claiming more contradictory figures. 

If you are looking for a logical breakdown of the "self" in Buddhism, then look no further than the Five Aggregates. This wikipedia article however doesn't go into enough detail into the Volition aggregate (4th skandha). In Abhidhamma this skandha is broken down into 82 different factors... I'd recommend the book "How to Measure and Deepen Your Spiritual Realization" for a lucid, motivating rundown on it. The author references texts of all traditions including some vedanta. I.e.: the "observer" is composed of multiple factors. I also like Vedanta and you do not have to choose one or the other. However, Buddhism is often more scientific in its analysis. Which is not to say that Vedanta is not the right energy for you and may definitely give you what is needed to Awaken. I certainly have Vedantic texts/commentary on my to-read list... 

Pretty generally speaking, realising the truth is enlightenment. So if the three(or four) marks of existence are true then realising them would be the gates to enlightenment. The different sects of buddhism are forming distinct views and belief systems, which is not wise, this is what results in very confusing and difficult reading. 

Many people have claimed to me that the brain is the mind. I was so perturbed by this that I spent time considering it. My thought process: If the mind were the brain then the parts of the brain would be the parts of the mind, consequently there should be a part of my brain that has the ability to see, since I can. However no object can have characteristics or abilities which are not inherited from their parts, (a kettle can boil water because the element can heat up) therefore there should be a part or parts of this part of the brain which can see. It is obvious that neither neurons nor flesh has the capacity to see, or else the dead would see things. No amount of massing together of neurons could ever acquire an ability for which no part is capable, therefore if we remove all the neurons and flesh from the brain then what is left should have the capacity for sight, however there is nothing left. If the mind were in the brain then you should see inside the brain first before seeing outside, and if the mind were outside the brain then you should see your own face, and then how would you form a common awareness with your brain. If the mind was not connected to the brain, then it couldn't form a common awareness, if it is connected then how could you have thoughts that are completely different from the brain's awareness? 

Great idea. I don't know where the story is on the internet but the late Master Nan says in one of his lectures that some Buddha and his disciples, samadhi powers and all, tried to change India. They failed. People are just too lazy and their karma way too thick to cut through mere skillful means. You help a person, and you enable their laziness and create a karmic debt for them! You jerk. You ignore them and let them suffer, they become motivated and help a million people. Every action has an opposite reaction. Other people can't save you without un-saving you later. Buddha just can't save you, otherwise he'd have done it. There's something big going on!! Buddha just can't kill your bad karma or anyone's bad karma. He can only act as a intermediary and help purify that karma because of positive states of mind: shame, renunciation, faith, wisdom, concentration, meditation on the Buddha's positive qualities, etc. Buddha actually does little but act as a meditation object. The true power of mantras, according to Master Nan, can't even be accessed except by those in a deep state of dhyana/jhana/samadhi. This is the same for confessions in Catholicism. Mother Mary can't do anything! It was just a skillful means as mentioned in the previous paragraph. If the Buddhas could effectively help people through political leadership--it would have already happened. It's because of some sort of karmic binding where people are self-responsible and must change their own fate, that they have not/cannot do it. Politics is dirty, people are greedy, corrupt, and self-rationalizing! Even if Buddhism could become a political party--I doubt it stay for long. It would eventually become hijacked, derail, or decay. The Three Poisons are stacking, moment by moment, millions of times in a day unawares until they cause people to behave in surprisingly evil ways. Countries have their own karma and everyone is contributing to it, it is hard for a small amount of people to purify the whole country's bad karma, especially when they are working against so many suave, manipulative, and cold-blooded murdering politicians. The only salvation is self-awareness whilst not attaching to anything, not taking anything for self. Who cares about others anyway? Everyone will save themselves, give it a few million eons. All the while you enjoy yourself as a Buddha in Perfect Enlightenment, manifesting a million nirmanakaya bodies helping-beings-throughout-the-universe-through-causes-and-conditions. 

As far as I understand there "is" a substantial underlying nature pervading the all. I say "is" with speech marks because technically the normal 'is' has the opposite 'is not' and refers to the arbitrary conception of existence vs non-existence. (For which this nature is the host and therefore cannot be subject to.) Therefore, although the existents do not fundamentally exist because they are without essence, they are composed of the fundamental substance, which is why they are visible. It is only our conception of their existence which is in error, for phenomena are truly composed of an eternal nature. So back to the question, cause and effect refers to one inherently existent object being a prime mover to result in another, which is sheer nonsense. Since it is impossible for an inherently existent object to be created or destroyed or even change. But anyway, the true nature produces a continuum of states, no one state can be considered to be ultimate or self-possessing, however we sentient beings use conceptual constructs to point at particular( and arbitrary) definitions of the intermediate states. It would be pertinent to mention, therefore, that there are really no causes, that is why they are called causes. In as much as the continuum is ever propelled forwards without a hint of any objects. As a result to speak of birth or cessation would be to talk relatively and within an arbitrarily defined set of parameters, a subset of the continuum, whose criteria is the presentation of a set of characteristics that correspond to somebody's idea of what things should be like. A chair is not actually a solid object, it is constantly undergoing changes, but its noticeable characteristics are still close enough to its original form that we aren't aware that it is different. It also still behaves as we would expect a chair to behave. It's birth point is when it behaves enough like a chair to pass examination, it's cessation point is when the continuum in the vicinity of the chair no longer behaves in a way that corresponds to our ideas about chairhood. Finally then you are correct there are no causes, but there is also no causation and no ending of causation. There is only this. However 'this' closely corresponds with the ideas of 'causation' and therefore I can conventionally claim that 'causation' is true. Likewise I can conventionally claim that, since "this" does display the characteristics of "x" then I would also be wrong to say that it was different, therefore "this" is "x" and that therefore causes do exist. But the reality is that the continuum has no position where it becomes that or stops being that, it does what it does. All of science is built upon the presupposition that an object is self-possessed, first there was a list of elements which were atoms(indivisible) then they realised it was not indivisible and posited that protons, neutrons and electrons were indivisible. Then they created the so-called fundamental particles list. And then quantum physics which seems to have no main interpretation. Take away existents and all but quantum physics falls into dust. All fabrications are empty. 

thinking about project realizing idea moving (break apart the moving process step by step as in walking) bring computer from stand by (break this apart) typing password (this is not broken down into piece because it is automatic for most) deciding what to do (vicara) remembering goal (vitarka) opening program (can be broken down to pressing windows, typing name, clicking program) waiting for load feeling: impatience thought: wanting to check 9gag.com thought: don't check, try to be focused body awareness noticing program loaded deciding to continue project action 

That being said, vipassana is surprisingly simple and most people will not try it even if they understand the above facts and even if they understand the tremendous benefits. I myself need to practice much much more even though I understand all the benefits, I do not do pure vipassana often enough (although I integrate vipassana within other activities and meditations). Go ahead and try sharing it to anyone in an unobtrusive, gentle manner. You may need to call "vipassana" self-observation for those of a close-minded religious background such as Islam or Catholics. Give instruction and explanation if they are curious but do not speak (or be very conservative) about your personal experiences though, that will have negative psychic effects on your own practice if revealed to non-Buddhists and may also have a negative impact on them unless you are giving them a guided meditation. 

This idea of indirect and direct sutras is itself misleading. I found a book, "Nāgārjuna and the Philosophy of Openness" which claims that the buddha himself never made exactly such a distinction but that such distinctions seem valid on the basis that the Buddha said that there were some words and phrases which he used without being led astray by them. But as far as I can tell these indirect and direct phrases are present consistently throughout all sutras. The diamond sutra for example, is full of direct meaning like there is really no object that is why it is called "object", but references "I" many times. At the beginning Thus I have heard, taken literally would contradict the later assertion that there is no I. I think some people are reading too seriously, mostly the sutras are intended to be a helpful expedient to enlightenment. Everything that is read whether it is from a sutra or not will be interpreted by the reader which will cast a different shadow on the meaning. It is often that the original intent of the author is lost to the readers especially after a lot of time has passed and the language has changed. So it is no surprise that the texts contain expedients that look like they are literal, which led to a schism where some people interpreted sections literally while others did not. And then people started categorising sections of text into direct and indirect or higher and lower. I highly doubt that there really is a sutra "of indirect meaning" in that all of it is intended to be further analysed nor a sutra "of direct meaning". 

Funny you ask this, I was just at my orthopedic today for a right shoulder issue and was talking with him how my physical therapists guidance on controlling my posture has helped my minor SLAP tear and stuff improve. I still need to carefully workout to retrain the surrounding muscle and tissue but yeah now I am conscious of it and the cause... years of bad extended posture. Buddhist/Eastern advice: 

Being with your mother sounds like it won't be conducive to Right Effort for yourself OR her. Chronically ill-behaved people are frequently better off without you. I would suggest making your preparations to do what brings you peace, freedom, and happiness. What is truly good for yourself is also good for others. It is hard to imagine a situation where someone does what is truly good for themselves and ends up hurting others in a way that would not have happened anyway. When you follow your bliss, those who are meant to join your journey will join you--those who are not meant to, will fall away. Also, compassion has its limits before it becomes masochism, enablement, self-ruin. 

Which you believe will depend on tradition since it is impossible to determine without insight. Some believe he is a different being, others that he is a manifestation of the same entity. It does not really matter does it? The lotus sutra may ease your curiosity, however there were many arrogant disciples who were frightened and could not bear to hear it. If you have a teacher you may want to ask them whether you should read it. 

If the Zen teachers have spiritual insight into the minds of their listeners I reckon they could tailor their teaching in order to stir those minds into spiritual progress. But if they are simply trying to elicit a reaction from the audience to try and force them to participate, that would have mixed results. some people will be turned away and then it would be wrong speech. But it might work anyway with some people. I forget where I read this but - in order to properly assess whether or not a teaching is going to be understood or not and whether it will be beneficial or a hindrance one would need to possess some kind of supernatural power, or have a keen understanding of the mental state of the listener. Despite this many still try to teach dharma without knowing if it will be successful. I have also had some personal experience trying to convince people of rebirth or anatta etc.. and even the recommended approach backfired leading them to become agitated and defensive. So I'd say that their approach is probably as good as any, so that only certain people will benefit from their type of discourse.