The standard expedition stove for extreme conditions would be an MSR XGK. You will likely want to bring a pair of them, along with a repair kit, on the assumption that due to the cold or poor quality fuel you'll break a pump or need to make other repairs. Now, you may be thinking "what are all those people doing with canister stoves on Everest/Aconagua/Olympus Mons?" Well, it's true; many people use canister stoves like an MSR Reactor or WindPro with an isobutane/propane mix at altitude. There are a few not-so-obvious reasons behind why someone might turn to a canister stove, most having to do with the altitude. First, being above 6000 meters means having less oxygen to work with. This means your stove will likely burn rich (yellow flames, less complete combustion). The lower air pressure will help offset the colder temperatures which normally present issues for canister stoves. It also means your brain will have more difficulty with complex tasks, so the simpler the stove, the better. Finally, it means there are a limited number of places you might be: the Himalaya, Andes, or on Denali, and that may affect what fuels are available as well as the likelihood of being forced to cook inside your shelter. Fuel Availability: If, for example, you are in the Himalaya you may only have kerosene available, and not white gas (naptha). Kerosene will have more issues with the lower oxygen levels at high altitudes (particularly around carbon monoxide production), and will also make a bit of a sooty mess (of course, so does white gas). It is also a fairly dirty fuel and may clog your stove, necessitating more frequent repair. Regardless of fuel type, if you bring a liquid fuel stove you should also being a repair kit. Cooking inside and carbon monoxide risk: While every stove will come with clear warnings about how unsafe it is to use it inside an enclosed space, this sometimes becomes a necessity in mountaineering. This warning is mainly out of concern for carbon monoxide (CO) poisoning, but there is also the risk of catching your tent on fire. (Silnylon is particularly vulnerable to fire, and flareups do happen.) Thus, lighting a liquid fuel stove with its usual priming "fireball" becomes problematic. (You really don't want to use a white gas stove inside a tent!) If in-tent cooking is a likely possibility, you should have a good grasp on how to mitigate the risks of CO poisoning through proper ventilation and fuel management. In theory canister fuel should produce less CO than liquid fuel, but this is also affected by stove design and the pot used. Often CO production can be also reduced by raising the pot about an inch above its normal position, to allow for more complete combustion. Know that this is an easy way to end up dead, so you should know what you're doing before trying it, and only try it if conditions are such that cooking outside your tent would also make you dead! I suggest reading this thoroughly as well: $URL$ Cold temperatures: Regarding the temperatures, you still want to use a winter fuel mix for canisters. Usually this is a 30% propane, which vaporizes around -40 degrees at sea level, and includes isobutane (boils around -12C) as well as the traditional butane which boils around 0C. However, higher altitudes mean lower air pressure and thus the fuel in a canister will vaporize (boil) at lower temperatures (just like water does). For example, the -12C vaporization point of isobutane drops to -27C when at 6000m. It's often described that in cold temperatures only the propane will burn off, leaving just the butane. Gas mixtures do not actually behave that way; they instead form a blend: a 70/30 mix of butane and propane will have a boiling point atound -18C. The propane will vaporize at a greater rate, however, and the "boiling point" of the blend slowly rises, eventually becoming that of pure butane (because that's all that's left). Using a stove that allows inverted operation will help avoid this, as you are burning the canister fuel in liquid form. More reading at $URL$ If you do use a stove that allows inverted operation, don't just flip the canister over. Stoves that allow this route the fuel through a pre-heat tube that passes through the flame in order to vaporize the fuel for burning. This means you need to let the stove run with the canister upright for 30 seconds or so until the tube can properly pre-heat. Be careful when turning over the canister; sloshing fuel can easily cause a flareup! Still, you will often need to take steps to warm the fuel. Always remember that too much heat will make the canister explode. You should start with always keeping at least one fuel canister warm against you or in a sleeping bag. An insulated base for the stove also helps with both temperature and stability. To maintain output while cooking, you should have a stove with regulated output (i.e. as the fuel cools it opens the throttle to keep the pressure up). Setting the canister in about an inch of water should also provide a temperature buffer to help keep the canister from going below freezing. Warning: Extreme Danger Here! Some people use more interesting methods to heat the canister, including hammering flat some thin copper tubing and using it to bring heat from the flame back to the canister or using a handwarmer. If you are applying heat to the canister, remember that the canister should never be too hot to touch, and you should always have a (nonfrozen) hand on the canister to make sure of this. ("Too hot to handle" is usually around 42C; expect the canister to have a "core breach" around 50C, and realize that dents and low air pressure at altitude may cause it to rupture before it gets that hot.) High winds: Stoves like the MSR Reactor are particularly good for handling wind, but with other stoves cases you'll likely want a windshield. With canisters you are often cautioned to make sure the shield does not cause the canister to overheat, but in cold weather this can be helpful. Just remember to monitor how warm it gets! Lighting your Stove: You may find that piezo ignitors and other fancy lighters stop working due to the cold or altitude. I suggest having multiple starting methods; a simple mechanical Bic lighter kept warm close to your body is good to start with, and a ferrocerium rod + striker makes a good backup. Waterproof or stormproof matches make a good third choice. 

The concern is valid; your basic plan should be to stay calm and not increase your heart rate. If other options for evacuation are not available, slowly walking yourself out is the best remaining option. The bitten area can swell quite a bit, so remove nearby jewelry or clothing to prevent them from turning into tourniquets. If you have a pen you can use it to mark the extent of the swelling on your skin along with the time; doing this at regular intervals will allow you or doctors to monitor how fast it's swelling. (The easiest way of doing this may be by measuring the limb circumference at the bite, and at a few places further up, and recording those numbers.) For treatment, wash the bite with soap/water, and splint it just below heart level. When bandaging it remember to not wrap around the limb in case of swelling. If you happened to get a good look at the snake, try to remember it as that will help with identification, but don't go searching for it. Finally, don't use tourniquets, ice, incisions, sucking, et cetera. References: My answer is largely derived from Buck Tilton's Wilderness First Responder text. One might also review Medscape's Rattlesnake Envenomation Treatment & Management, but in general the treatment recommendations for pit vipers are consistent across current sources. 

You have a massively-rethreaded figure-8; instead of two side-by-side strands forming the 8, it will have four. This massive knot will have two loops coming out of one end. The other end will have one loop and the tails. When each loop is tensioned (by chest harness, sit harness, and Silent Partner), the structure will be Y-shaped, with the knot at the branch of the Y. 

A Munter hitch can brake regardless of the orientation of the brake strand. It provides the greatest braking force in the "closed" position (the brake strand running alongside the load strand), and a lesser force in the open position. The first site I found with testing found the following brake force values (tested with 11mm rope): 

I'll start this as a community wiki and seed it with a few places. While places like Shasta and the Sierra may be within 3 hours drive, this is usually not the case once traffic and speed limits are factored in. Note that nearly all of these sites will require reservations, and may fill up quickly in busy months. Local definitions: 

Both cordelettes and equalettes are made from loops of durable material; either a very large sewn sling or a loop of accessory cord (6 meters of 7 mm accessory cord is a common length). The issue with cordelettes that led to the idea of the equalette is that a standard cordelette does not equalize loads all that well. Most of the load will be applied to the shortest arm, and a chance in the direction of pull results in significantly different forces being applied to each arm. Good equalization with a cordelette is only achieved when each arm is the same length and the direction of pull remains constant. So, if all your anchor pieces are roughly level with each other, and the direction of pull will remain straight up and down, your cordelette should still work OK. The equalette tries to address the problem of off-axis loading (i.e. the direction of pull not remaining constant) and unequal length arms. Note that both the equalette and the cordelette may be made with any number of arms; it's common to use 3-4 pieces of gear when a pair of solid bolts is not available. In testing, a cordelette with unequal arms resulted in the largest difference in forces between each arm (around 3-4 kN difference). A cordelette with equal arms and a sliding-X with unequal arms performed similarly to each other, with a much better difference in force between arms, about 1 kN. Finally, an equalette with unequal length arms performed similarly to a sliding-X with equal arms, and both of those saw the lowest difference in forces, around 0.5 kN. Reference: Climbing Anchors (How To Climb Series) 

Your first objective will be to address any immediate threats to life, gain patient consent, and conduct a thorough patient assessment. Each injury or sickness will have its own criteria for action, but they can generally be classified into three responses: Stay and play, take a rest day, or evacuate. If you are taking the role of first aider for the group, you should already be familiar with which problems rate a particular response. As a rest day has potential to turn into an evacuation, and as an evacuation can require as many people available as possible, one should be very cautious about splitting up the group unless sending a party to seek additional assistance. (For minor ailments on casual excursions, having a few people walk the casualty out may make sense. I say "a few" to avoid having the assistant being alone if they will be rejoining the group.) So, once you have stabilized the patient and determined which category they are in, the next step is planning. For a rest day or a delayed evacuation you'll want to consider shelter and supplies: unless on a multi-day trip you may find yourself short of both. If you'll be sending people for help or re-supply, make sure you don't have any tasks that need their help before you send them away. Prepare two copies of a SOAP note and send one copy with the team that's going for help, along with information on who else is present, what supplies you have, and where you are. This is also a good time to make sure everyone else in the party is also equipped and ready for the expected stay. In terms of drugs there are very few occasions which require immediate medication. Epinephrine, for those with severe allergies, is one of the few medications that become necessary in a very short time frame, after which an immediate evacuation is necessary. Aspirin (for heart attacks) and diphenhydramine can also fall into this category. However, altitude sickness is best treated by immediate descent and most other ailments will burn themselves out given time and rest. Painkillers are common comfort items but rarely truly necessary. I hesitate to list antibiotics both for legal reasons and practical ones: at least in the US administering them isn't legal, outside of a severe infection they aren't really needed, and short-term or improper use is likely to contribute to the growing problem of resistant bacteria.