This depends on how you define "history". Herodotus is generally referred to as the first historian -- 440 BC. Of course, there are plenty of people that disagree, some with good reasons others not so much and all that strike me of a Japanese saying: The nail that sticks out gets hammered down. Being facetious, the first recorded human event would be the first time someone told someone else what happened before. So, the first time language was used to pass information relating to past events. 

I am leaving this answer here (despite the down votes) as I feel that it is more balance now and offerers both sides of the argument. 

Bruce Catton's history and Shelby Foote's history should have the details. I cannot check as my copies are at home. From what I remember, it was pre-battle medical care and unsanitary conditions that killed the most soldiers. The first use of modern rifles with Napoleon tactics contributed to the hight number of dead on the battle field. 

Let me wikipedia that for you. There are some reference at the end of the article that I would check instead of relying on wikipedia. The Battle of Gaugamela maybe a better reference with lots of references given. Xenophon, in Cyropaedia (VI.2.17) states "[...] that scythes of steel have been fitted to the axles, and that it is the intention to drive these into the ranks of the enemy?" -- emphasis mine and source here with more details and other sources. The Greeks did use chariots (as Homer tells us) but those were mobile platforms to cast spears and move about the battle field. I do not recall Homer describing blades attached to wheels at any point. After that, infantry was much the Greek thing with phalanxes. I know of no evidence that the Romans used war chariots with or without scythes but that does not meant that they could not use them in games. One of the circus game was said to re-create a naval battle in the Colosseum so why not have a few scythes chariots for those extra fun games. Chariot races did not feature armed chariots as far as I know, although I maybe wrong. Constantinople maybe a better source to look at but again, I do not recall any armed chariot races there. Da Vinci had an idea for a scythe chariot as well, see image below. Clearly this was a new design based on a old idea. 

The French Légion étrangère has the closest interaction between officers and soldiers that I know of. For example, they all spend Christmas or any other official holidays together. Officers are as well expected to be able to do what the soldiers do and frequently have to. My experience of Legionary officers and homme du rang is that they share more in common than not. Note that 10% of officers come from the ranks. Note that if we had a légionnaire here, he would be able to expend this answer... 

However, none of it can be verified as being accurate and the artist had never seen Joanne. There are some short descriptions of her during her trial (here and here) and a biography here that do go into some detail of what she might have looked like. Of course, you can get the trial transcript yourself. This boils down to: 

A fuller is the rounded or beveled groove or slot in the flat side of a blade which make the blade lighter -- not as some suggest a blood groove. When did the practice start? I suspect it was a parallel discovery but could be wrong. 

No. The bible does contain historical accurate facts that can be verified. However, it contains too much myths and inaccuracies as to be utterly unreliable as the sole source for a historical event. In fact, the question alludes to this in points (2) and (3). 

The dead sea scrolls is certainly one. Foreign devils on the skilk road by Hopkirk is full for cities buried in the sand, guarded by demons and undead containing long lost treasures and magic. Seriously, it reads like a bad D&D adventure set in Victorian times. But it's all true. 

As far as I am aware, assassin comes from the Arabic حشاشين‎ (Ḥashshāshīn). Clearly, the concept of murdering someone for either political or religious reasons was not invented by the Ḥashshāshīn. So, prior to the first crusade, what were assassins called in Latin/Greek? The Oxford dictionary defines assassin as the action of assassinating someone and to assassinate as [To] murder (an important person) for political or religious reasons. 

"The nail that sticks out gets hammer down" While a Japanese saying, it holds true for all the super powers. Be their outside enemies, inside corruption, or just economic bad luck, the hammers are numerous indeed. Spain in particular, was cripple by mega inflation due to all the gold coming from the Indies. Portugal was assimilated into Spain and then broke free -- thus cause strive. Spain's war in Flanders were costly in both money and lives. Everyone hated Spain and attacked it either directly or indirectly. Then a series of wars (Spanish succession to name but the last one) happened that crippled Spain allowing England and France to take over. The French revolution and Empire caused enough trouble to set the stage for future empires: France, England, Prussia, Austria, and Russia. Colonies started to become more and more expensive to run and the first world war did cripple the economies of Europe. In addition the crash of 1929 put the final nail in the coffin and the depression gave rise to Nazi. One war later, only two super power were left: the USA and the USSR. Enter the cold war... Now, that this is over we have the USA all by itself. Maybe India or China or the EU or something else will happen. Too early to tell. Source: Spain and its World 1500-1700, by J. H. Elliott, The Pursuit of Glory: Europe 1648-1815 by Tim Blanning and Europe: A History by Norman Davies are all good books to pick up if you are interested in more in depth details. 

The events leading to the Meiji restoration is a good example although less dramatic than the Conquista. 

The Polish husaria did carry wings -- as can be seen here or here. Their purpose has been debated with no clear answer. What I want to know is was there an evolution in the wings design or just one type? If the former, does the evolution offers a clue as to what their purpose was? If the latter, what event(s) prompted the adoption? Because everyone likes action shots: 

Just to add a note about cannons: fragmentation is a very common source of injury -- be it wood splinters, bone, rocks, or shrapnel from the shell -- link, graphic images of wounds. This could have impacted the desire to wear armour. However, wikipedia and Body Armor: Cuirass and Helmet seem to indicate that fragmentation/shrapnel was not a factor at all in wearing armour. 

If you heard that the pouring of wine was to kill bacteria, you know it's a fake. You have to wait till Louis Pasteur for bacteria. Also, unless there was a whole lot of wine/alcohol poured, it would have no effect whatsoever on the water in the well. Wine was very expensive in Roman times -- up to several slaves for a barrel in Gaul around 50BC as Caesar tells us -- unless I remember wrongly the source but I am fairly sure it is Caesar. If Roman were indeed doing so, it would have had nothing to do with making it safe for drinking. Any wine pouring must have been symbolic or/and religious. Sadly, I do not know of any sources for this. 

From Dictatorship to Democracy by Gene Sharp. It is available (PDF and audio book) free of charge from the Einstein Institute. A short description of the history of this book, From Dictatorship to Democracy, may be downloaded here. The books was written as a general non-violent manual to topple dictators. The methods describe within the book have been used in "Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia and Slovenia, Madagascar, Mali, Bolivia, and the Philippines. Nonviolent resistance has furthered the movement toward democratization in Nepal, Zambia, South Korea, Chile, Argentina, Haiti, Brazil, Uruguay, Malawi, Thailand, Bulgaria, Hungary, Zaire, Nigeria, and various parts of the former Soviet Union (playing a significant role in the defeat of the August 1991 attempted hard-line coup d'etat)". It was used in many of the Arab Spring uprisings/revolutions as Arabic copies were circulated as described in those articles: Gene Sharp: Author of the nonviolent revolution rulebook and Gene Sharp: How to Start a Revolution are two articles that indicate that his work was used in Egypt during the Arab Spring. There is even a Al Jazeera talks with the quiet but influential scholar of non-violent struggle. 

The war of the League of Cambrai may well suit since most factions within the war were at one time allies and at others enemies. Although there were two "clear" sides to the war. 

Try to go back to primary source and archaeological evidences. Are there mass graves? What about population movement? What do statistics have to say about the population, economy, and whatnot? You can look at the documents and narratives's authors and find out inconsistencies within them or evidence of forgeries/lies -- note that lack of such is not necessarily proof of facts. This may require investigative work on the ground. The hard thing is not to cherry pick yourself: Please be aware of your own agenda and bias. 

The concept of praying to the Roman Gods as well as to whatever local deity did mean that the Republic then Empire could assimilate a lot of cultures. After all, they were always worshuiping the same gods, and now they can have access to all the good things that Rome provides -- see Life of Brian's "What did the Romans ever do for us?" speech. Even when the Empire shifted to being a Christian one and imposed one religion, most of the Barbarian tribes wanted in because they could see advantages to being in the Empire as opposed to out. There was no official assimilation but first roads would be built to allow the Legions to get places faster. This would reduce tribal warfare, increase commerce, and facilitate movements of goods/people. Once this happened, immigration would start, the locals would start to want the same standard of living as Rome and thus Romanisation would happen. Other places, it was a military conquest, with troops on the streets and martial law. Some of those places would fall into peace others would not. Scipio Africanus has a general method of expending the republic (Iberia, Numedia, Carthage) which involved making friends with everyone he met. Even his terms toward Carthage at the end of the war were remarkably generous to the dismay of may in the Senate. Caesar went into Gaul to answer the call of help of tribes there. He was invited -- or so he claims -- because some of the Gaul wanted to join Rome. Source: Scipio Africanus: Greater Than Napoleon B. H. Liddell Hart. Caesar: The Life of a Colossus by Adrian Goldsworthy. 

When and where did the practice of calling either a fencing teacher or a great swordsman "master" originates from? I am interested mainly in European primary sources, the older the better. 

All the mathematical works of Hypatia of Alexandria for example were lost. From the secondary sources we do have, she was an amazing mathematician. Her death could be argued as the end of the classical times and the decent into the Dark Ages... 

There were more people living in the North mostly due to better climate, migrations, and urbanisation -- see the 1860 census or wikipedia. It was much more industrialised than the South. Bruce Catton and Shelby Foote are good sources if you wanted to learn more about the American civil war. 

Carthage might have practised mass infant sacrifice to their gods in particular Baʿal. The practices increased as Rome was defeating Carthage culminating just before the destruction of the city. Theses source do support the assertion: NY Times and The Punic Wars by A. Goldsworthy. However, this is not clear cut: What actual proof is there for Carthaginian child sacrifice? asks for evidence. The accepted answer points to several sources disproving it. As with many things to do with Carthage, the true might never be known. 

Solving a Mystery: What Did Joan of Arc Look Like? by Patricia Nell Warren offers an hypothesis as to what she might have looked like. Another, more silly is a view of different representation of her...