Make sure you leave her a list of everything she might want - passwords, documents, etc. Then, simply don't take calls from her or answer her emails. Have her lawyer talk to your lawyer as needed. 

Attaching both the cover letter and resume as separate documents allows you to completely control the formatting and logo. Alternatively, you could attach a single document which includes both your cover letter and resume together. I've usually just attached the resume, and made the body of the email become my cover letter. But I have never used a logo on a cover letter, so that may not meet your needs. 

"Misled" implies intent. And you are in the only position to judge what they intended to do here. It would be very odd if they intended to trick you into joining the company - I don't see what the point would be in that. If you truly believe they were being deceptive, then that's a very bad sign for your future at the company. And in that case, you may wish to consider backing out immediately. On the other hand, if you believe that they fully intend to put you in the role you desire, but just had some squishiness with getting rid of your predecessor, then it would probably make sense to stick around and see how it plays out. I've personally seen cases where HR intervened to slow down an inevitable process. Perhaps the big boss failed to fully discuss the plans with HR before offering you the terms of the position. It happens. 

I'm not sure I understand what "panicked" means in this context. But that was your clue that your new employee had issues worthy of disclosing. It might have made sense at that time to discuss the clause and the employee's subsequent disclosure with your lawyer. There was a reason your lawyer put that clause into your employment contract - if you didn't understand what it means and what you should do about it, you must clarify that with your lawyer now. Your lawyer might have advised you to only hire this person on a conditional/probational basis until you were more confident that the disclosed issues wouldn't interfere with work. But that's in the past now. 

First, consider what you hope to gain my complaining about a move that has already occurred. If you and enough of your peers expressed concerns before the move, perhaps the plan would have changed. But now that the move happened, it's unclear what you can expect in response to your complaints. If asked, you could indicate that you feel the new location isn't as good for you personally as the old location was for you. And (based on your recent comment) you could indicate that you would like a (presumably small) raise to cover the real cost of the extra driving, and possibly moving to a new desk. But tread lightly here. Pretty much anything you say could come across as whining. Just the fact that you express it as "a first world problem" almost by definition means that anything you say as a complaint will indeed be whining. Certainly what you wrote here about being "frustrated and unhappy just going into work" comes across that way. You indicate that most of the reasons for the move don't impact you directly ("as a programmer"). But you are part of this company, and are impacted by its success or failure. Being in a modern building and having a better image might not have been your choice, but try to look at the positives it brings to the company that pays your salary. Additionally, give it some time. You may not have experienced the positives quite yet, if your move was so recent. Modern buildings in great locations can be terrific places to work. 

The acceptability of interrupting a meeting for spelling or grammar corrections depends on the nature of the meetings, the culture of the company, and the finesse you use. At least in my company, it's far more important to get the meeting done than to remove all typos from the minutes. The meeting itself is what is important. The minutes are far less important. In my company, constant interruptions like this would be completely unacceptable. Folks here would find your actions extremely annoying, and counter-productive. If I were running the meeting and you interrupted this way, I'd stop the meeting, ask you to write down your "corrections" in a note, and send it to me later. If you worked for me, I'd have a private conversation with you, telling you not to do this during meetings. So apparently nobody has told you to stop doing this so far. That's probably a good sign. But still you say "it's difficult to judge how this is coming across". That's a problem. If you aren't able to judge the impact of your actions, you could be headed for repercussions down the road. You might wish to talk with a trusted colleague. Ask how your interruptions/corrections are coming across. Learn from the feedback and decide if you need to adjust your actions - perhaps sending your corrections in a follow-up note after the meeting, directed solely to the minutes-taker. You might also try to ponder why you aren't able to judge people's reactions yourself. Sometimes we need to improve our observational skills. Sometimes we might have conditions that prevent us from "reading" people well. The ability to judge how you are coming across in business situations can be an important skill to develop. 

Usually a "job offer letter" means that they are offering you the job. If the offer has no conditions, then you will have the job once you accept. Read it, and see what it says and you'll have your answer. Sometimes the wording will say "pending a successful drug test" or such. In that case, the offer is conditional and you don't have the job yet. 

Something like "Sorry, but at this time I'm not willing to move." If you like, you can explain the reasoning behind your decision. Of course, depending on the company and the circumstances, this decision may come at the cost of your job. Only you can decide if it's a worthwhile gamble or not. I was told that I was going to be put in charge of a group in another state. It would have involved periodically travelling. I told the company that I was not willing to do that, since it wouldn't work for my family situation, and that they would have to find someone else to manage that team, which they did. But I was willing to walk if necessary. It turned out that it wasn't really necessary. 

Unless the company only recently started hiring software developers, it's extremely unlikely that they don't understand the norms of developers versus the norms of call center and warehouse workers. Apparently, they don't care about the differences and feel that everyone must be treated equally regarding sick time policies. For some employers, absenteeism is a huge problem. And some employers (particularly those with unions) don't distinguish between professional and non-professional workers in most of their policies. You can try anyway, but you shouldn't get your hopes up that you can change their policies without being fairly high in the organization. You indicate that you have already complained about it and were already told that it wouldn't be changed. If it were me, I'd be looking for a new job, even if it meant not being so close to my house. And I'd think about how I could research my next potential employer so as to avoid similar problems next time. 

Many positions require a college education. While you don't have a degree, you do have some education. If you wish to apply for jobs and want to show that your education plus your experience are a substitute for having a degree, then you should continue to include your education in your resume. If Computer Science was truly your major, I'm assuming a CS degree might be a requirement for many of the positions you would seek. If that's the case, I'd leave your education listed. Otherwise, if this education isn't important for the jobs you seek, then you could remove it and not have to talk about why you chose not to finish. 

I've worked in computer software for my entire career. I've seen a good number of "quirky" individuals. I've worked with many, and hired a few. In all cases, they were excellent at their job - good enough that it usually made up for their quirks. A few didn't last long. Their quirks made them high-maintenance, or they just couldn't fit in well enough with the team. They were good at what they did, but not good enough to overcome their negatives. Some folks refer to themselves as eccentric, while others just view them as odd. It's all a matter of viewpoint. Everything else being equal, I've always preferred to hire individuals who wouldn't be considered as obviously eccentric. That said, everything else is seldom equal. 

If you look on the website of the company that you indicated is doing the background check ($URL$ you will see that they include criminal record searches as part of their process. Thus, they have a pretty good chance of detecting this part of your background. So, it makes sense to me to get out in front of this, rather than just hoping they don't find it. Tell the hiring company about this now. In the many years I've been interviewing potential hires, I'm always far more favorable when people are forthright and tell me about potential red flags in their background, rather than waiting for me to discover them on my own and confront them. I don't like to see interviewees try to "sneak one past me". Past problems I can deal with. Present sneakiness (or lying) is far more problematic. You won't always get hired when you tell potential employers about these issues, but in my experience, you'll have a much, much better chance when the news comes directly from you (with your explanation about how you have changed things), than if the news comes from a third party. 

If they require a photo, use a recent photo. It doesn't have to be new, but it shouldn't be more than a year or two old. It should also be a somewhat "professional" photo. Basically, a head-shot while you are dressed in business attire. You don't have to have them professionally done, but don't use a selfie, or a vacation photo of you in swimwear while holding a drink. (For a very few professions like acting or modeling, you must provide specific professional portfolio photos, and the "rules" are very different. I'm assuming yours is not one of those cases.) If they don't request a photo, don't provide one. Note that in many locales, it would be extremely odd to request a photo. In some locales, it would be illegal. I do understand that it still common in some locales. 

You aren't able to force an ex-employer (or anyone for that matter) to provide a reference for you in my part of the world (US). And it's not completely unreasonable to me that an ex-employer would not want to refer someone to a competitor - it would be awkward to talk to them. What you should do is provide an alternate reference in place of your ex-employer. Perhaps a co-worker who was also made redundant, or an earlier employer would suffice. Talk to your potential hiring manager, explain the situation and offer the alternative(s). 

That was certainly very generous. I've done that in the past, but very rarely and only for candidates I knew well and really wanted to have work for me. You must have impressed them. 

This isn't your fight. Have a discussion with your boss (presumably the development manager). Talk about your concerns, and forward any emails with bug lists in them. Then let the development manager worry about the son, perhaps with the help of the QA manager. Most development managers and QA managers have formal issue tracking systems, and could use that to put any purported bugs coming from the son-of-a-CEO through the same process as any others. If the majority of these "bug reports" are rejected, then the development manager can have a chat with the son and explain how bug reporting is supposed to work, how you distinguish between real bugs and features which haven't yet been implemented. The development manager can also offer training materials so that the son can learn how the system is really supposed to work. And while you might consider the software as "your baby", you need to avoid taking things personally. If you manager passes them on to you, just review the son's "bug reports" objectively as you would any other bug report. Don't make a bigger deal out of this than necessary. 

So now you have a better idea now of how much work is involved, and you can revisit the arrangements. Talk about it with your friend, and be open to all the possibilities. Equity might be one outcome, but there are many others (such as hiring others so that you aren't taking on this much work, leaving altogether, etc). 

I usually put this sort of thing with the other bullet points that describe my role, and I see the same on resumes I review. "Developer" means something different to each company. Clearly in your current role, you have additional responsibilities. Include them all, as it helps you stand out as "more than just a coder". 

In general, the only correct connection at the moment is most likely "other". Anything else would be presumptuous at worst, and awkward at best. Better would be to wait until after this person is hired. 

I've been a hiring manager for a long time. While I wouldn't personally see this as a red flag, I know some hiring managers that would. Your fear ("some folks might see it as a bit offensive") is real. Some might indeed find it a bit offensive. Unless the jobs you are pursuing are in the photography field, I'd suggest you remove references to your site from your resume and the resume section of LinkedIn. Why risk it when there is no benefit? 

In my experience, employers are always willing to give the job to the right person. But finding the right person is difficult, and many wrong persons apply for the job. Whenever I write a Job Description that includes something like "Minimum 5 years experience with xyz technology in a commercial role", I'm looking to accomplish several things: 

It won't create a bad image. The new company already accepted the fact that you planned to start on 1 October. 

Try to be more careful this time, and ask the questions you need answers for during the interview process. You don't want to have two short-term jobs in a row - that becomes harder and harder to overcome. Be ready to explain the mistakes you have made with choosing your last job (since it's likely to come up in your interviews), and why you won't make them again. 

This will clearly limit the jobs for which you can interview, but if avoiding an interview where there is a chance of a lower offer is your main priority, then you must accept that limitation. Most folks don't choose this route. Instead, most people will make their salary expectations clear when asked, and accept the fact that some interviews will result in a lower than "reasonable" offer. So it goes. 

You simply report the facts, and let the chips fall where they may. Include all the observations, and the managers' responses as well. While folks can disagree with an interpretation, you can let the facts speak for themselves. This should never hurt your credibility. If anything, it will make you appear more credible if you are willing to report the facts as you see them while knowing that the manager will not be pleased. This sort of disagreement is not at all unusual for process improvement studies. People don't like to be viewed in a less-than-optimal light. People tend not to like change, and this report may be the impetus for some change. So it goes. 

No. You cannot assume that. Even in this era, resumes are very often converted to PDFs and/or printed or go through other steps that could remove a hyperlink. In my experience many recruiters and HR groups don't take the steps necessary to preserve all formatting aspects of submitted documents. Why assume anything and take that chance? Far better to use the full URL $URL$ to ensure that your links are readable in all cases. 

In general, you should talk about the position you are applying for in your cover letter, not your resume. While you might still want to tailor your resume (emphasizing the relevant points) to a particular position, the cover letter is where you really expound on your fitness for the company, and for the particular position within that company. Most companies that accept online resumes have some way to indicate the position of interest anyway. 

This makes you seem rather unsure of your plan to switch careers. And it sounds like your interviewers got some sense of that, too. Changing careers from something like marketing to development can be a big deal. In order to determine if you are ready for this, spend some time and think it through.