I think the confusion comes from using prepausal forms as the starting point. Both /s/ and /r/ become visarga pre-pausally, so Macdonnell treats /r/ as an 'etymological' exception. You get /punar api/ → [punar api/ but /devas api/ → [devo 'pi]. If the preceding vowel is /a, ā/ and the following segment is voiced, then /r/ remains [r] (except before /r/ where it is deleted). But /as/ is treated the same as /o/ (you could say that is becomes o, then is further changed to [a] with hiatus before a vowel, except before /a/). And /ās/ becomes [ā] before any voiced segment so /aśvās vahanti/ → aśvā vahanti (but /ār/ is unchanged, viz. ahār dāmnā). Whitney's treatment in his grammar is clearer, IMO. [EDIT] To clarify, "visarga" is not an underlying segment of Sanskrit, is is phonetically voiceless [h] transcribed , and derives from /r,s/. Theoretically, there could be two distinct underlying forms, /grāmayos rāmas/ or /grāmayor rāmas/. In either case, the surface outcome would be [grāmayo rāmaḥ]. The standard reference grammar of Sanskrit is Sanskrit Grammar, by William Dwight Whitney. 

We have no quantitative metric of irregularity so the best you can hope for are ballpark figures. Also, your conception of regularity (which includes complexity) doesn't exactly match the concept of regularity used in linguistics – Classical Arabic verb conjugation is very complex, but not very irregular in the technical sense. In constructing a word in any language, the typical linguistic analysis is to discern a "base form" for the involved morphemes, which allows you to write rules generating all of the related word forms. That base form is not always some actual word of the language, thus the base form for the verb "be" in Classical Arabic is /kwn/, and kwn is not a possible word of Arabic. There are many regular but complex rules involved in getting a particular word form in Arabic. Given the linguist's viewpoint on regularity, having many rules does not create irregularity: rather, you have irregularity when formatives have to be arbitrarily (lexically) flagged as triggering or not triggering some process. Again assuming the standard linguistic understanding of regularity / lexicality and the derivation of morphologically complex forms, it would be right to say that gender (be it animacy, sex, or noun-class type) constitutes a kind of irregularity. However, from the popular perspective "learn a word, and heuristically generate related forms based on that", gender is a headache in Germanic but not Spanish, since in learning the citation form of the noun, you can discern the gender most of the time (the real irregularities aren't enough to cause a headache). In some Bantu languages, the difference on this front between linguist's irregularity and popular irregularity is even more striking, since there are over a half-dozen pattern-classes that you just have to learn – but, when you learn the singular (e.g. in Kikuyu) the gender of the noun becomes obvious, since like with Spanish, the basic form of the word that you learn includes the arbitrary gender morpheme that you just have to memorize. That said, Vietnamese would come in on the most-regular end of the scale, since there are apparently no irregularities or changes in form, whereas there are some idiosyncratic consonant insertions / deletions in Turkish inflection. Dinka comes in on the least-regular end of the scale. Formation of noun plurals is extremely chaotic and arbitrary, and you effectively have to learn singular and plurals. Apparently, outside of a certain core of vocabulary, speakers don't widely agree on singular and plural forms. 

"W" developed as a standard, distinct letter by about the 17th century, taking its sweet time getting there. It is the result of standardizing a ligature of "vv", ramming the letters together. Bear in mind that the Latin alphabet did not distinguish "u" and "v" as one can see from inspecting Latin inscriptions (modern publications do, however, generously reconstruct the vowel vs. consonant values for you). The practice of using "uu/vv" to represent w in older Germanic languages such as Old English developed because of differences in the values of consonants in Latin vs. Germanic – Latin at the relevant stage (8th c or so) did not have [w], instead it had [β], so some convention was needed to represent this novel sound. This page gives samples of written w, and you can compare that to v,u here – there is a striking range of variation in the appearance of "w" (also see this page). A design feature of Gothic script (Blackletter), which was the dominant typeface of the relevant period, emphasizes angular strokes over curves, which rules against "uu" in favor of "vv" (given that "u" and "v" are basically the same letter, historically speaking). The differentiation of the Latin labial voicoid into "v" and "u" was basically stylistic: "v" initially, "u" otherwise, and they were not used distinctly until 1386. 

It represents something similar to “made up of”, though more accurately, it means “logically depends on, when analyzing”. It is the logical onion of classical taxonomic analysis – you would be analyzing a particular utterance – and the procedural requirement was that you had to first capture the utterance in terms of “phones”, then group phones together into “phonemes” based on distribution, then organize sequences of phonemes into morphemes, which create words whose distribution is covered by syntax. The taxonomic (behaviorist) approach had nothing to say about semantics, probably because they could not see any operational means of analyzing meaning. We’ve gotten over that limitation. Pragmatics didn’t exist in linguistics until the late 60’s (and was subsumed under semantics for a long time), so of course the taxonomists had nothing to say about it. The diagram is basically a way of controlling the flow of information in analysis: you have to start with a narrow phonetic transcription, free of preconceptions about communicative function, word order, morphophonemic and phonemic analysis. Then looking just at the product of phonetic analysis (a transcription), you can discover the phonemic analysis – this is done without referring to a morphological analysis or an analysis in terms of quantifier scope, at each stage defining elements of level N in terms of things of level N-1. And so on, until you get to the outermost shell. Insofar as this onion has no current practical application, especially at the introductory / internet level, it is pretty useless, except as a stimulus for asking "what the heck does that (even) mean?". It does not represent any basic claim of a surviving linguistic theory (the implied modules, though, are widely accepted, to some extent if not totally). I would not ever use such such a dominance diagram. It does not represent actual contemporary analytic practice (i.e. that is not how a field worker operates in studying a language), and from what I can tell it only represented a theoretical ideal even in the remote past, and does not represent actual rigorous practice. We study pragmatic function early in the game, in order to discover what the difference is between some two verb tenses, which are realized in part by a change in tone. I don’t deny, though, that most phonological field-workers schedule their pragmatic investigates for a few years after their transcription-and-paradigm work, and field-pragmatists leave for future investigation what the exact vowels or morphemes in the language are. It is not at all strange for “literal meaning” to be an object of study itself. You literally cannot “distinguish between ‘literal meaning’”, because “distinguishing” requires two things, not just one. You certainly can distinguish between “literal meaning” and “meaning in context”. Linguists (use of bare plurals is at your own risk: “Linguists” means, literally, “more than one linguist”) do believe in literal meaning, and they do even believe in literal meaning. In social context, the question “do linguists even believe in literal meaning” asserts that the belief is not even a little bit credible, and this is a way of insulting the belief (which gave rise to the generalized insult “can’t even” without a following VP). That isn’t what the even-construction literally means. As for developing tests for literal vs. implied meaning, I like the Chierchia & McConnell-Ginet textbook. I would say that a grasp of the difference between linguistic entailment and social-contextual inference is the core of the study of language and law, and is the area where theoretical linguists can in principle make substantive applied contributions (if that is an area of interest). I do accept that the term “literal” is used arcanely, in a way that doesn't capture the lexicality of poly-morphemic constructions with non-compositional meaning. 

Yes or no, depending on what exactly you are looking for. In most Bantu languages, tense etc. inflection for verbs involves adding certain tones. Verb inflection in Bantu covers all sorts of things, including mood, and there are indeed tonal markings that indicate subjunctive and imperative. This is frequently realized as a particular tone pattern on the last vowel of the verb (at the rightmost word boundary). I'm not sure that that constitutes a "change", since all of the tonal distinctiveness is on the root-initial syllable, and the tones added for inflection really constitute more of a choice than a change. Also, it's not really phonetic, it is phonological (these are not low-level adjustments in H and L tones, these are categorial distinctions). In Shona, there is an actual change which you could say marks a mood: interrogatives can be marked by changing the last H tone of a word to L. This is indeed a change, from whatever tone the final vowel would have (by whatever set of rules) to L, and this is the last rule of the grammar. However, this applies to any word, and I would say is not a "marker" in the usual sense, it is a phonological rule that applies in a specific pragmatic context that happens to correspond to a mood as found in some inflectional systems. Also, this applies at utterance boundaries, not word boundaries. In Gurage languages, there are palatalizations and labializations that indicate various categories, and which affect root consonants. The labialization effect can apply to multiple consonants (non-coronal sonsonants can be labialized). Because Gurage has no C-clusters longer than 2, all consonants are at a syllable boundary. However, I don't believe that the labialization prosody happens to mark mood. 

First, it is important to be clear on what "most basic form" as described above covers. One notion is "structurally simplest", that is, "having the fewest added things". The other is "phonologically best for predicting other variants". Mixtec seems to qualify as an example of the future being "most basic" because (a) the future has no prefixes or suffixes, (b) certain lexically specified change initial /k/ to [ʃ], and other change tone, in the present tense. In Logoori, there are 4 future tenses and 5 past tenses; there is no "simple present", there is a present progressive, and a habitual which is a construction build from a hard to gloss particle plus the progressive. The present progressive has a progressive aspectual suffix -a- (a-gʊ́r-áa "he is buying"), and the form does not actually mark the present (it marks the progressive, like English "talk-ing"), since that is how you form the future and past progressives as well. All verb forms except the imperative have a subject prefix, many have a tense prefix, and all, including the imperative, have a final suffix, either /ɪ/, /i/, /aa/ or, in lieu one of the preceding, /a/. We can exclude the tenses with the special suffixes in the search for the most basic form, since /ɪ/, /i/, /aa/ are non-basic. The candidates are: 

The tags include "phonetics" but not "phonology", but people often ask questions about phonetics and tag them "phonology", so I assume that you're asking about a phonological issue. If you really mean specifically and only "as a question of phonetics, to be answered in strictly phonetic terms", I refer you to myriad statements by the phonetician John Ohala which can be summed up by asking "Where do you see syllables in the phonetic facts?". Syllabification is not a phonetic matter that can be transcribed in the same way that aspiration (VOT), length (duration) etc can be. It is purely phonological (if we assume the syllable, and such-and-such structure, we can efficiently account for the observable facts of speech – we should also inquire about the analysis that omits the syllable, since it could be redundant). There are two questions here, one about "arguments against", and one about "why not universally accepted". The answer to the latter is pretty straightforward. Universal acceptance is an unattainable goal: even wide acceptance is close to non-existent. The reasons for non-acceptance are going to be myriad, and will especially be sensitive to one's philosophical "primaries" in linguistic research. Some linguists take descriptive adequacy to be the most important consideration and abjure theoretical speculation; others take theoretical enlighteningness to be primary, and are willing to dispense with a few inconvenient-looking empirical challenges (known as "problems for future research"). If Wells' account fails to cover certain facts, that would be a particular problem for people of the first type: if it fails to be stated elegantly in a well-supported linguistic theory, that would be a problem for people of the second type. (Alternatively, fail to state the analysis in such a way that it could be easily translate into such a theory). It's very hard to satisfy people who want the best of those two worlds. It is not clear to me that I can empirically test the paper, because it depends on non-obvious factual claims. His analysis relies on a 5-point continuous stress scale, which gives meaning to "more strongly" in his basic rule of syllabification. I take "main stressed", "secondarily stressed" and "unstressed" to be fairly uncontroversial observational primaries, and question the two additional degrees. I see no way to dispose of at least three distinctions, since in a word with two stresses (ˈtarpən, ˈtæmˌpɔn, ˌlæmˈpun), you can't predict which syllable has the primary stress. However, I do not actually know if that would be his analysis of these words – we need a guide that enables us to know where stress marks are to be introduced, vs. omitted. His distinction between 4 and 5 stress hinges on the full versus reduced vowel distinction, exemplified with substitution-product /ˌsʌb.stɪ.ˈtjuːʃ.ən.₀prɒd.ʌkt/ and magnitude /ˈmæg.nɪ.tjuːd/. The former is claimed to have the stress profile 2, 5, 1, 5, 3, 4 with [ən] having 5 strength, and the latter is X, 5, 4 (he doesn't say – I assume it is 1). The 4/5 distinction has to do with having a reduced vowel or not – how do we determine that a vowel is reduced? I assume that [ə] is always a reduced vowel in English, and if you have a schwa-like vowel that isn't reduced, you transcribe it as [ʌ]. In "magnitude", following his transcriptions, the 5-strength vowel is [ɪ], not [ə]: but not every [ɪ] is a reduced vowel (at least I don't think that is the case). I can make all sorts of conjectures about what his analysis would be for various words, but the fact is, since I do not know when he will say that a given vowel is reduced vs. unreduced, I can't empirically test his theory against a wider corpus. I simply do not know if he gets the facts right. I am inclined to assume that the system is descriptively adequate, but faith-based theory-testing is not proper science. (This could be a framework-related communication problem: he knows what he means, and so do others working in his framework, but I don't). I presume that your underlying question is about empirically adequacy and you're not concerned with abstract theory comparison, but in case that is of interest, I will simply say that I resist the idea that theoretical entities can be created and exploited ad libitum: this is the problem with his stress-strength scale. In a similar vein, I find the condition "Phonotactic constraints on syllable structure (as established with reference to monosyllables) are not violated" to be theoretically incomprehensible, and even descriptively pretty imprecise. It is not clear to me how he gets the distinction between "militaristic" and "capitalistic", with an aspiration contrast between itʰarist and italist. We would have to assume syllabification differences i.tarist and it.alist: but how does that come about? For instance is "it" in "capitalistic" more strongly stressed, compared to "militaristic"? Or does he have some kind of "surface analogy" rule where the pronunciation of these words is determined by referring to the pronunciation of "military, capital"? No doubt he has answers to these questions, but if I don't know the answer, I can't evaluate his theory. Overall, something like his theory looks like it is correct, since it restates the Selkirk-Ito-Mester (and others) perspective on English allophony and syllabification, indeed continues a line of analysis that Kahn could have more rigorously pursued in his analysis (the main point of difference being the treatment of "city": [sɪ.ti] for Kahn).