While getting U.S.G.S maps are very good... If you are going to a specific park, check their website and search for trail books with organization that support the park such as the "Friends of [park name]". These organizations often have special books with limited printing with maps of specific areas in the park. Examples: Algonquin Provincial Park has its own set of maps and guidebooks for both hiking and canoeing. If you go to this park, you must check out those resources. They are quite extensive. I think other larger Provincial Parks in Canada also have "Friends" organizations. Allegheny National Forest has at least two hiking guide books with maps. The one I used for years was put out with help from the Sierra Club. The guide books have the U.S.G.S. maps in them with the trails marked. The maps themselves often don't have the trails marked. Acadia National Park in Maine has many guidebooks with maps for special areas: the carriage trails, the hiking trails, etc. So, if you are going to a specific area or park, research like crazy online for sources of maps. Individuals may have websites with custom maps. Think outside the box: Birding groups may have their own maps that may show feature not on other maps. Waterfall groups have their specialty maps. Geocaching.com has their own maps. It is better to do some work before you go somewhere so you are prepared so you can be safe and so you don't miss anything special. 

One good way to figure out what a bird is is by going step by step with its characteristics. The Cornell Lab of Ornithology has good web pages for this for each species. Note: It is not just the look of a bird that matters. Read the behavior section, as well. $URL$ $URL$ Another thing I want to caution you about with bird ID is that, it is sometimes easy to want to see a more exotic or rarer species. It is probably human nature. I think this is no doubt a Cooper's Hawk. They are exciting birds. They are very smart. They used to be hawks that lived in the woods. But, they have adapted very well to suburban life where people put out feeders that attract smaller birds...which, in turn, feeds predators like these hawks. If you really want to see a Peregrine Falcon, post something here: $URL$ Or, look online for a local chapter of the Audubon Society to find out how to contact some birders. Most birders are happy to share information like where to find these falcons. I would bet they are nesting on the tall buildings in the downtown area. You can also check Facebook for some local birding groups. As far as this specific photo goes, look at the photos on the two Cornell websites. Compare the tail of your bird and the other ones. That long striped tail points to a Coop. And, compare the head of the bird in your photo with the other ones. Your hawk has a "cap" of gray feathers. The falcons don't have that. The adult Coops do. Enjoy this hawk if you see it again. They are really cool birds. 

Let's look at the absolute here. The hepatitis B virus is 0.042 microns in length; this is about as small as viruses get ($URL$ This is the standard for "small". The smallest virus known to cause disease in humans is Parvovirus B19, which is 20 nm in diameter. The best water filters you can get are rated at around 0.001 microns (NF membranes). According to the CDC, they have very high effectiveness against viruses ($URL$ Some will get though because of a bad pore or mechanical weakness. But a perfect NF system will block all viruses (that aren't floating strands of DNA/RNA); imagine trying to push yourself through a hole 400x smaller than you. It's not going to happen. 

Is it made by a reputable company? A company with a brand to protect is less likely to churn out bad shoes. Price. With shoes, you get what you pay for. Materials. Boots made with crappy plastics are invariably bad. 

Traction - No one wants to slip in mud/sand or down a slope. You want something with big lugs and a heel with a high-friction plate. Having these qualities also means having a heavier shoe, so decide accordingly. 

Actually, there is an international standard for waterproof-ness of textiles, but it's only used in factories for QA. ISO 15496:2004 involves measuring the "water vapour permeability of textiles". IIRC, there's no number for classification that you can use to compare and contrast products, but some factories might release data sheets showing various measurements of diffusion "through the textile per square metre, per hour and per unit difference of water vapour pressure across the textile". There aren't really any widely recognized standards for drying time or breathability or comfort etc, and there probably won't/shouldn't be. These are far more qualitative than you think. For example, "breathability" is far more than letting air and water vapor in and out. You'd have to standardize what "breathability" means first. Same deal with "drying time". What does it mean for a clothing item to be "dry"? You'd have to standardize what "dry clothing" means first. etc etc 

As far as anyone knows, no one has done a triple hike of each of the Triple Crown of Hiking. That said ... None of the three trail conservatories keep very rigorous records; instead they make estimates of trail usage based on trail registers and permit applications. Someone can do the full PCT and the PCTA would never know that they reached the end. The Triple Crown is more of a popularly conceived achievement than a recognized sporting feat; it was popularized in the early 90s. Only ALDHA-WEST keeps records as to who has completed it, and that pretty much its claim to fame. As far I know, they don't have any records of triples, just doubles. But again, there are Triple Crowners who don't know about or bother with ALDHA. So it's entirely possible an out-of-the-loop hiker has down three Triple Crowns. But there's no good evidence of that. Anyways... The evidence for anyone completing 3 Triple Crowns is scant. If someone has done 3 Triple Crowns, and people know about him or her, that hiker would be famous like Andrew Skurka or Scott Williamson. The fact that this question is being asked just shows that the answer is probably "0". 

I'm getting ready to make a pretty big move west and I'll basically be driving across the whole US. One state I'll pass through is New Mexico, and I'm looking at heading through the mountains there. What are some hikes I could potentially do while driving through the state? Here are some criteria: 

Quite simply, find someone else who is doing this and has been doing it for a quite a while and is willing to teach you. This sport is quite technical, and you can't do it (safely) alone anyway. One possible way is to find a company that guides canyoneering trips and get a seasonal job with them where they train you. At the very least you could make a connection with someone that works there that will help you. And if you get such a job then you also get to make some money while learning, which is always a good thing. In the meantime you can look for books on the subject to help increase your knowledge base once you find a canyoneering partner/teacher. There are many online resources as well to learn basic concepts. Many of them seem to be geared toward canyoneering in the US, but the same principles apply anywhere. This site is one such example. 

I would try these options below in order, if you haven't already done so. Repair Contact the manufacturer or a retailer that sells that brand. There is a good chance they might fix them under warranty. I've had many good experiences with getting older equipment that you think might not be covered taken care of, but each brand varies on how far they'll go. It sometimes helps to go through a retailer to get warranty service. The wide-mouth capped bladder may be compatible with a standard Nalgene-style lid, so if that's the one that only has a bad cap then try looking into that. If it is the bladder with the narrow-mouth cap, then you can again try directly contacting the manufacturer or search for compatible caps by trial and error. I don't currently have enough detail to see style it is. For the ripped bladder your options for self-repair are slim. Any glue or adhesive used would need to be safe for use with potable water and also remain flexible once cured. The cost of such adhesive would money better spent by putting it towards buying a new bladder. If the rip is due to age, then the bladder will most likely rip again in another spot soon after repairing, so it really isn't worth trying to fix it at all. Reuse If all repair options are exhausted, you could use the outer insulating sleeve. Remove the old inner bladder if possible along with any extraneous parts such as caps or hose nibs, and simply slide in a new bladder with its own cap and hose coming out through a hole in the sleeve. You may have to cut open the old bladder to accomplish this and customize the old bladder sleeve to fit the new one. If the outer sleeve has backpack straps, you could modify it be a very small daypack or cycling pack. Again this would involve some cutting and probably some sewing to achieve the end result. Recycle In any case, I would think about what is the most practical option. If you can come to no other conclusions, you can recycle them and so at least the raw material can be used again.