Ok, so I know one of aims of Metaphysics is to encode these fundamental truths, by way of example, primarily via Aristotle. So, you have things like The Law Of Identity, in that anything is equal to itself, and The Law Of Non-Contradiction, something either exist or does not (nor partially, as stated by The Law of Excluded Middle). However, with such truths being paradigmatically Metaphysical, what of other truths, like Newtons laws? So would the law that states that 'every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction', be considered Metaphysical? What of Descartes Cognito Ergo Sum? i.e 'I think, therefore I am'. Is that Metaphysical? In comparing what definitely is a metaphysical truth (Aristotle's Laws), I suppose it would also help to declare truths that are obviously are not, for instance, 'My name is Illuni Cocomoso', or, 'Ducks exist'. The primary difference here is that it doesn't seem necessarily true, e.g all ducks may not exist in all possible worlds (a depressing thought indeed). A second distinction is that of universality, so Aristotle's laws are universally applicable to everything in existence, but not everyone is called Illuni Cocomoso. So is it that necessity and universality is thee criteria for a Metaphysical truth? Or is there some other criteria which is also necessary, where when combined with the criteria of necessity and universality, is sufficient enough to be deemed a Metaphysical truth? 

Subjective principle in the Groundwork Let me quote the footnote that actually defines what subjective principle actually means for Kant: 

In a letter to Herder two weeks earlier, he also says that "it is said that Kant works on" the Antikritik (see above link). Interestingly, though, Hamann reports only about six weeks later to Herder, that his "counter-critique to Garve's Cicero" (own translation) would have transformed into a "prodrom of morals" [Prodromum der Moral] (German original letter), i.e. into a groundwork. Regarding a comprehensible story and more sources I think the most readable summary of how things were and the philosophical drive produced by the reviews is in Eckart Förster's The Twenty-Five Years of Philosophy (2012), pp.48-53. It is a good compromise between length, readability and academic quality. There, it is made clear that Feder essentially mutilated Garve's review and added a comparison to Berkeley, which Kant so bitterly adressed in the Prolegomena. He received Garve's original review by mail (on Aug 21st 1783, see below), and found valid criticism of his arguments about freedom and morality, as Förster argues: 

Regarding a ranking The vita activa as analysed by Arendt contains more than the three modes of activity she writes about: Labour, work, and action. What is made clear in the introductory quote, though, is that "productive" and "unproductive" are used prejudicial, i.e. unjustifiably preferring one over the other. The main point of her book is to point out that all three modes of activity are part of the human condition, i.e. none is more important than the other. The most specifically human of them, though, if anything, is action: 

To ask whether a question is good implies that questions can be bad (or, at the least, neutral), in order to provide a scale on which to measure the level of goodness, or identify that a particular question is somehow more good than another. The meanings of "good" and "bad" in themselves are perhaps something for another debate, but suffice to say that they are both entirely subject to relativity. In plain terms, the meaning of "good" (and its various antonyms) varies depending on its application and to whom it is interesting. For example, a man (let's call him John) who wishes to buy a second-hand car from a dealer (let's call him Gary) might think that a good question is: "May I see a record of this car's service history?" Gary, on the other hand, might think this question is bad, because he doesn't have a record of the car's service history (and was hoping John wouldn't ask). In a sense, to answer your question "What makes a good question?", you first need to answer the question "What makes a question good?". You seem to be qualifying your meaning of "good" to be: Useful (specifically to people). Many of your examples stem from questions that have, in some way, advanced human progression (either scientifically or metaphysically). Assuming that this measure is used to qualify the goodness of a question, I would suggest that a good question is one that people are interested in answering. The more interesting a question, the more likely you are to find a useful answer, not least because more people will attempt to answer it. In that sense, perhaps it doesn't even matter how a good question is asked... Although attractive presentation will likely help; as you and George Pólya rightly suggest, people will ask it in their own way (if it's interesting enough). Good question, by the way ;-) 

One example for a canonical formulation of the Law of Causality (as different from the countless empirical laws of causality) can be found in Kant's Critique of Pure Reason: 

The comment of @MauroAllegranza provides good further readings on that topic. Disclaimer: This answer does not say anything different from the other ones, just the same content in another form ;) 

Schopenhauer was inspired by Indian philosophy. He auto-didactively learned Sanscrit to read original texts (Vedas). One idea of it is that the circle of life has to be broken to get to Nirvana. The Will to Live therefore is something bad as it prevents us from getting there. The solution is NOT suicide in the sense we know. It is rejecting the Will to Live. It is not drinking, not eating, but these should be just forms of not willing anymore (usually by meditation), because in the moment we are willing anything at all, we would automatically serve the Will to Live as living creatures. Real suicide would not be overcoming the Will to Live, it would be fighting it (therefore acknowledging its evidence) and it is a fight one cannot win (rebirth). Living is willing (following desires, bodily needs etc.), willing is living Therefore instead of saying we must "break" the circle of life (which is probably as impossible as fighting, ending, etc. it) it could be better to say we must transcend it. It cannot be overcome from within, you have to get over it (in this very sense of the picture of transcendence). In this sense, living is suffering from the Will to Live. We cannot influence this, it is an external fact and therefore we are "just suffering". As long as we are living, we ipso facto cannot evade this. We have to stop living, becoming sheer (and immortal) being, not end it, since a circle has no end. The idea of living as suffering is a picture he liked about Kant's epistomology. It is described in "Die Welt als Wille und Vorstellung" (The World as Will and Representation). As a sidenote: Although this is in fact his ethical conception, he obviously never lived after that and did not take it too serious. He actually fled from the cholera in Berlin in 1831 showing his own strong will to live whilst Hegel stayed there and died from it. Most of this can be verified on Wikipedia. 

I think, in very simple and plain terms that although you're not stealing a physical object, you are stealing the potential worth of the file to the "rightful owner". For example, if a music file is usually sold for 75p and you take it for free, the rightful owner of the file (which is probably the artist, his agent, the publisher and a bunch of resellers, etc.) will not get 75p. Effectively, you've stolen 75p's worth of stuff from them, even though there's no physical object. EDIT: @awfullyjohn suggests that the worth attributed to an individual file (i.e. 75p, in my example above) may not reflect its true value. However, if you take an example of a music artist who only sells his (or her) music via an online download; regardless of the price that's set for a particular music track, we can assume that each track must have some worth and to take the track without leaving any compensation for doing so would be stealing. In essence, this is even more clear than the question of whether stealing someone's idea (Intellectual Property) is really stealing, because there's an actual price given to the music file, whereas it's often impossible to determine the true worth of an idea. However, the US patent office issues hundreds of thousands of patents per year, which business (such as Apple) rely on, heavily. To put it in slightly different terms, you might have a bank account with £50,000 in it. However, you never actually see £50,000 because it's actually just numbers in a computer somewhere. If someone stole £25,000 from your account, they wouldn't actually be stealing a physical object, but I expect you'd be pretty upset. The context is slightly different, but the concept is the same. Stealing doesn't have to apply to a physical object. Finally, I'm not a contract lawyer, but I believe the concept of stealing in law might involve the absence of a contract - please correct me if I'm wrong. Surely the lack of authorisation would void any contract you might have (e.g. with the supplier of the illegal downloads). Regardless of the above points, I'm afraid unauthorised downloading of music is regarded as stealing. The only exception I can think of is if you were to interpret the use of the word "unauthorised" in your question in a different way. For example, if you had not been authorised to use your computer at work for downloading music, but you had paid for the music itself, this wouldn't be stealing, it would just be against company policy. 

As I studied economics as well as philosophy and had advanced courses in physics in school, I feel prepared to answer this question. First, what does the second law of thermodynamics state? It has various formulations, but the essential core may be formulated like this: 

This means that in addition to political legitimacy, for political authority there has to be some kind of reason for the people the rules are made for to comply. This may be e.g. that the institution, government or state is simply perceived as having the right to impose rules. This is not necessarily identical with having moral justification or even realising that it is in fact politically legitimate. Therefore, it is more than that. It is one of Buchanan's essential arguments that we should distinguish here. Summary This means basically that political authority (PA) entails political legitimacy (PL) plus the (either perceived, factual, or principal) right to be obeyed. At the same time, political legitimacy entails political power (PP) plus moral justification. Or, even shorter: PP ⊂ PL ⊂ PA 

I think what troubles you is the difference between moments loaded with normative aspects and time itself. Our concept of a table is in itself purely descriptive, even if we can load a thought of a specific table normatively. A normative aspect of time would be saying how time itself should be like. And I actually cannot imagine how to think this. To clarify my point: Kant for example said that for conceiving objects we must conceive them in the form of time and space. Time therefore must, to him, be thought as part of the substance of what it means to be "something in the world" (Beware: this only holds for our very conceptions of these objects, not the objects themselves). But all concepts (in sense of "Begriffe") of what there is are descriptive, because they say what is needed to be "a table" or what we mean by "time". Normativity can only be attributed to concrete phenomena, let it be of an object, an event in time, or a concept (in sense of "Anschauung", perception of an object). In the light of this, again: It is weird to say how "time" should be like, it is like it is. There can be wrong conceptions about what time is, but a philosophical concept will (or should) always be "thin" if it is not an ethical term (one could say that this is because ethics have no "real being" like objects and are purely phenomenal).