You don’t need to prevent rainbows. You just want to prevent surface-dwelling humans from noticing rainbows. So let’s add a new factor. I suggest a small, unpleasant, flying insect with an unusual life cycle. They only mate when there is moist air and a light source present. When both of these conditions occur, they immediately take to the sky. And there’s zillions of these things. They are literally everywhere. And they bite, or sting, or smell bad, or tend to fly up your nose, or all of the above. They have been around for longer than the humans. So every human knows to cover their head/get inside a house or cave whenever there is a break in the rain. Because the sky is about to become absolutely clogged with those obnoxious pests. This gives you three reasons why nobody has ever seen a rainbow: 1. humans actively avoid the sky when conditions are right. 2. So many bugs are in the sky, you can’t see the rainbows anyway. 3. even if some rays of light make it through the bugs, the humans are probably so preoccupied with shooing away biting insects that they aren’t going to notice the refracted light. 

I’m not a meteorologist, but here is my interpretation. You need cold water, warm land, an onshore breeze, and a ring of mountains shaped like a basin to hold it all in. Most of this was already covered by other posters, but hopefully this elaboration will be of some value to you. For example: Pacifica, California. It sits on the California coast a few miles south of San Francisco. Ocean currents bring cold water straight down from the Arctic Circle. Surfers don’t surf in Pacifica unless they’ve got a heavy-duty suit. It’s COLD in that water. Pacifica doesn’t have much flat land. Modest hills run right out to the beach. The town is made up of nooks and crannies, buildings basically tucked into the small valleys. On the other side of the hills, we get the Bay. Then some flat areas, then some more hills. Then the Central Valley. The Central Valley is long, flat, and hot. As we all know, heat rises. As air heats up, it rises. This creates a suction action that draws in colder air. So what does this mean for Pacifica? Air hits the Central Valley and heats up. This draws in colder air from over the very cold ocean. This cold, wet air rushes over the town and hits the hills. The low fog gets trapped by the hills and simply pools around. With hills to the north, east, and south, there’s nowhere for it to go. The constant wind pushes the fog east, preventing it from flowing back over the ocean, but the hills are just a little too high to let the fog follow the breeze. So it stays in Pacifica. End result: “coastal crud”. Forget trying to dry your laundry on a rack. Keep your fence painted or watch it rot. Cars in Pacifica start to acquire a patina. Metal disintegrates under the relentless combination of salty air and moist, damp conditions. Put a bookcase too close to a wall and watch the mildew thrive. Nevermind the books themselves, they’re goners. For your fantasy setting, I imagine every pier, every rope, every stationary organic surface, will be coated in green gunk unless it is painted, lacquered, or being tended with extreme care. Lack of regular sunlight may cause a higher than average depression rate in your population. The surrounding areas are probably populated with ex-Mistlanders who couldn’t take it anymore and left. I know you were specifically asking about mist, not fog, but I figure it’s close enough for your purposes. And I can talk about fog. I have quite a lot to say about fog... 

I believe you would want atmospheric conditions similar to earth's during the Cretaceous period, with a cooler global climate. I will first explain why I think this correct. Then I will describe the relevant differences between the optimal atmosphere and today's atmosphere. Then I will cite my sources. Why: The Pterosaur Quetzalcoatlus northropi weighed around 400 to 500 pounds. According to the National Geographic article referenced below, they could have flown nonstop for 10,000 miles. In the process, they would have burned off 160 pounds of body fat. Therefore, they most have been able to get off the ground with 160 surplus pounds of weight. If you put a Quetzalcoatlus on a diet, had it lose 160 pounds before it went anywhere, and then replaced the lost body fat with 160 pounds of rider and tack, it should be able to get off the ground and fly for a little while. At this point you're riding a starving dinosaur, which comes with its own set of problems. But these can be mitigated to some extent. These dinosaurs had the size and strength to fly while carrying a slim human. They were active during the Cretaceous period. There were some beneficial atmospheric differences that may have helped them fly. Relevant differences in atmosphere (from Wikipedia): The period in question was known for being warm and full of huge plants. Oxygen was 150% of modern levels. This means your griffons will breathe in more oxygen with every breath, making them more efficient. It will also make the air more dense. Here is a quote from businessaircraftcenter.com: "engines run more efficiently in cold air because colder air allows the engine to use a greater mass of air/fuel mixture in the same intake volume. That translates into more power." Also: "In propeller-driven planes, the prop is biting into denser air, and thrusting a greater mass of air backwards, which means more thrust and power." Griffons of course aren't propeller-driven planes, but they need oxygen to energize the blood and they generate lift by flapping. I think griffons would benefit from the same conditions. Therefore, I believe a griffon would have an easier time getting airborn with a rider in "dense air" conditions. Increasing the oxygen by 50% and lowering the ambient temperature to a around freezing are two ways to achieve this. Your griffon will spend a lot more energy getting off the ground, as every wing flap is pushing through a denser atmosphere. But the tradeoff is more buoyancy, which is a worthy tradeoff. Bibliography: National Geographic: $URL$ Wikipedia: $URL$ Businessaircraftcenter.com: $URL$ 

Let me bring up Ireland and Japan. Disclaimer: I am not Japanese, I am not a practitioner of Shinto or Buddhism, and am no authority on these subjects. (I'm no authority or practitioner of ancient Irish beliefs either, but have a little more knowledge on that subject.) It is not my intent to offend, and I welcome any comments that point out any errors I have made. Many people in Japan consider themselves to be both practitioners of Shinto and of Buddhism. This is not considered a contradiction. Buddhism is reserved for major events - birth, death, maybe other significant events? Shinto is how you live your daily life. Shinto deities are aspects of the world - a specific river, a specific forest. I don't know if there are Shinto deities covering all rivers as a concept, but there would be specific deities embodying the spirit of a location. I think there might also be a Shinto deities for your home? In ancient Ireland, local fae would be honored in a specific glade. You would leave milk out for the fae that kept your home free from malicious spirits. Anyway, translating this to your question. Perhaps I am a trader in your world. I pay homage to the spirit of my house and my shop. I pay homage to the spirit of my wagon, or possibly the spirits of the roads I travel upon. When I enter a friend's home or shop, I would take care to acknowledge the spirits that watch over my friend's space. Nobody would interpret these actions as me claiming to live at my friend's house. I am simply being polite to the spiritual owner of the domain. Walking into another's home without greeting the spirit would be unthinkable. Akin to entering your friend's home without knocking or waiting to be invited inside. Let's expand to larger concepts. As a trader, I would worship whatever deity protected commerce, travelers, or possibly the Deity of Not Being Tricked. This is where I spend the most time. Now, say I get really sick. It could be appropriate to spend a little time at the temple devoted to good health. I would not pretend that I had always been a member of that temple. I would be greeting the deity of healing, acknowledge I had entered into his/her realm, and am announcing myself as an honorable person who intends to follow whatever behavior is expected for guests. It's good manners. I'm knocking on the door, announcing my presence, and hoping for the deity to welcome me in for a visit. Why not worship the highest deity directly? Well, the phrase "ivory-tower intellectual" comes to mind. Such worshippers might be looked down on as acting like they are "too good" for the local deities. You are worshipping the mind at the expense of the body. You are doing the spiritual equivalent of wandering across a busy street with your face stuck in your phone, playing Pokemon Go, and you aren't paying attention to the physical world at all. You're going to get hit by a bus (spiritually speaking) acting like that. And the people around you are now forced to be slightly more vigilant on your behalf, while you go blundering around and thoughtlessly pissing off the local deities with your neglectful behavior. One angry river deity is not going to flood one specific home, it's going to flood the whole town. Respect is a must. So why would there be a conflict or a split? It makes no sense for me to demand that my friend worship my home's spirit at the expense of their own. It makes no sense for me to demand that the farming village in the next valley give respect to the river that passes through my valley. I'm not there. They aren't here. 

I agree with the other posters that horse cavalry would be useless in a traditional dwarven stronghold. Ram, bear, etc cavalry have problems as well. When you’re in a tunnel, there is no practical way to get a bunch of dwarves and mounts up to speed. They would get in each other’s way. What about centipedes? Start with a normal, cave-dwelling centipede. Through evolution or magic, make it 3 feet tall and 100 feet long. Now you have a giant, poisonous, heavily armored (chitinous), dwarven battle train that can swiftly travel through narrow tunnels, cross moderate crevasses, and cope with extreme elevation changes. Take one battle-centipede, put 40 dwarves on it, and you’re off. The battlepede sprints through the tunnels with ease. If enemies are encountered, the heavy infantry dwarves hop off. Crossbow-dwarves and clerics remain mounted if there’s enough height in the tunnel to make an elevated platform useful. Heavy infantry moves foward, and the battlepede itself provides backup. Alternately, use the battlepede as a a battering ram. If the enemy doesn’t have a pike formation in front, then full speed ahead. The battlepede mounts a one-creature cavalry charge, smashes through the enemy formation, and as it travels through the enemy formation the still-mounted dwarves swing axes at any enemy they can reach, preventing the enemy from approaching the battlepede from the sides. Bibliography: I must offer thanks to Planet Earth II: Jungles. I watched it last night. Insects were featured prominently in this episode, and the railroad worm got me thinking along these lines. 

This would easily work once or twice. Once cavalry commanders start to catch on, they would likely develop a counter strategy. Possible strategies include: Desensitize the horses to the sudden sounds of earth shifting. Including mages of their own in any cavalry charge, to keep the ground flat. Massing a bunch of horses together to look like a cavalry charge, then while the mages are messing with that ground your real force attacks elsewhere. Use elemental powers to alter the nature of the horses. If the horses become slightly water-based, or make horselike elementals out of non-Newtonian fluids, they could flow right over any minor chasms and still be effective. 

Short Answer: Apples. Long Answer: I will tell you the tale of how the Great Tradeway came to be. Many aspects of culture will be explained in the process - the Water Festival, the Bargain, the tribute paid every winter solstice at the bronze statue of the Mad Wizard, and the enduring symbol of the Great City - Copperopolis of Gondwana. Legend has it the Mad Wizard was originally from the city across the sand. He crossed the great desert to our city of Copperopolis to study magic. Everyone knows Copperopolis is the center where fabulous things are built and wondrous crafted items are easy to come by. (Incidentally, do you know how hard it is to get a shadow demon to carry a box of precision-crafted glass beakers GENTLY across the desert? After receiving one’s fourth or fifth crate of broken glass, serious students of wizardry give up and relocate to Copperopolis. Sure, it’s in the middle of nowhere, but there’s something about that sand that makes the best glass.) Time went by and the Mad Wizard’s power grew, but he was unhappy. He missed his homeland. He had grown up in the lush vales on the other side of the desert and was used to eating fresh apples at all times of the year. In Copperopolis, there were no apples to be had. He frequently sent his shadow demons across the desert to the apple orchards, and they brought him crates of the treasured fruit. But his dissatisfaction grew with each trip. Surely this sort of menial work was beneath him! With all his power and knowledge, surely he could come up with a better solution than to waste his precious magic on breakfast! Other wizards, less canny wizards, have used their magic to rule as tyrants over the villagers. Such cruel wizards solve their problems through force and fear. The Mad Wizard was not a kind man, but he was wise. He didn’t want to waste his time ruling a kingdom any more than he wanted to waste his magic using shadow demons as fruit vendors. He chose to cooperate with the non-wizard inhabitants of the city. He called together the greatest merchants, the best craftsmen, the most reknowned cartographers, and together they formed a plan. The route was planned, the Bargain struck. That fall, once the harvests were in, teams of builders set out across the sand. They built a waystation a mere four hours’ walk into the desert. They dug great pits deep in the sand, down where the sun could not reach. Water carriers brought them sustenance from the town, crossing to the work site at night and returning to their homes before the sun rose. Meanwhile, the local potters were busy crafting vast pottery cisterns. Once the pits were dug, a wooden framework was built around each cistern with carrying poles. It took twelve people working together to lift each cistern. Teams of workers hauled each cistern out to the work site and placed them in the pits. The builders then crafted a simple stone shelter over the pit, protecting the cisterns from dust and sun. That night was the very first Water Festival. Everyone in Copperopolis gathered together. Each able-bodied person brought some dried provisions and the biggest flask of water they could carry. They walked out to the waystation, gave the provisions to the laborers, poured their flasks into the cisterns, and returned to the city before dawn. Meanwhile, those unable to make the journey remained in the city and cooked a great feast for the water carriers. Upon their return at dawn, the whole city held a marvelous celebration. From the first waystation, the builders moved another four hours’ walk into the desert and dug a second pit. Each night, water carriers moved between the new work site and the newly-complete waystation, bringing food and water to the workers. Each night, water carriers would bring water from the city to the first waystation to replenish the cisterns. The pits were completed and new cisterns were brought to the second waystation. These were slowly filled via flasks carried from the first waystation. The builders advanced another four hours’ walk and began their work again. In this fashion, the first oasis was reached. Then the second, the third, and so on. The path became well marked with stone markers at regular intervals, and stamped flat by thousands of feet. Soft sections of sand were reinforced with timber and gravel. Work on the Great Tradeway halted during the planting and harvesting season, then began again every Fall Equinox. It took years to complete. Finally, when the last chasm was bridged and the last waystation complete, the Great Tradeway was ready for use. Merchants at both cities gathered together every wheeled conveyance at their disposal, loaded them high with goods, and pulled them across the desert. They carried little water with them, as the cisterns were kept well stocked by the water carriers stationed at each city and each oasis. The first carts arrived at Copperopolis, stuffed to the brim with apples. The Mad Wizard selected the juciest crate for himself and gave the rest to the city. Every inhabitant received at least a few. Now, this may not seem like much of a reward nowadays, but back then only the wealthiest merchants ever saw fresh fruit from the vale across the sand. Every fall, after the harvest, is the Water Festival. It has grown considerably since the first one. Now, teams of runners sprint across the sand in a great race to stock the cisterns with cartloads of water. Long-distance runners compete to be first to stock the most distant waystations. There is great honor in winning the race. The Dawn Feast has grown in size and reputation, eventually becoming a week-long festival. The Mad Wizard has long since passed on, but they still honor his memory with a tribute of apples at the base of his statue at the start of each trading season. Every inhabitant of Copperopolis still receives a share of the first cart of apples across the desert. And this is why the symbol of endurance in the face of great challenge - the symbol of Copperopolis overcoming any obstacle - is an apple. Footnotes: Eventually this road could be replaced by a series elevated canals built out of cement. They pump water through it by use of a series of water towers and Archimedes’ Screws. They float barges through the flat parts, build a road through the mountain parts. Once the Great Tradeway became well established, the engineers and merchants would try to improve the system, and this might be a natural evolution of the route. Bibliography: Bedouin using underground concrete cisterns to store water in the desert, sometime between 6500 BC and 700 BC: International Association of Certified Home Inspectors: The History of Concrete by Nick Gromicko and Kenton Shepard $URL$ A real-world example of a civilization using the power of teamwork to build 25,000 miles’ worth of highway through the Andes Mountains (the Capac Ñan) without iron tools or draft animals: Smithsonian Journeys Quarterly: The Inca Road, How the Inca Empire Engineered a Road Across Some of the World’s Most Extreme Terrain by Hannah Bloch $URL$ The United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization World Heritage Center’s entry for the Capac Ñan (Qhapaq Ñan): $URL$ Wikipedia article for Archimedes’ Screw, which was actually in use 350 years before Archimedes lived. This screw was originally cast in bronze and was used to pump water uphill, theoretically used to water the Hanging Gardens of Babylon: $URL$