You could try informal lunch-and-learn sessions, where each person takes a turn each week/month, and spends an hour or so demonstrating the personal project. Because it's over the lunch hour, it could be considered outside of working hours, which alleviates the "work stuff at work" issue. If you're in a position to provide lunch for free to your team, that could be a big motivator right there. If people are reluctant to share, you could lead the first one yourself, or ask other people you know to come in and demo their projects -- that might encourage your team to give it a try. 

Using a range in salary negotiation can work, but it can also be limiting. In a best case scenario, a company will propose an amount in between those numbers, to signal that they want to work with you and provide a reasonable offer. In a more realistic scenario, you've just given away the lowest number the employer has to pay -- you've essentially shown your hand. If you intend to provide a range, make sure that you provide what you really want as your bottom number, and add a reasonable amount (anywhere from 10-30%) to make your top number. If you were asking for $50K for example, your top number could be 55K or 65K. The top of the range is whatever you're comfortable asking for, and what you think truly represents the top range of your worth as an employee. There's no real hard and fast rule. Sometimes the better strategy is simply to come up with your top number, and ask for that, instead of providing a range. 

To say you were laid off is worse than saying you resigned. To have been terminated indicates that you were possibly at fault or somehow incompetent. You don't need to go in to detail about why you resigned. Simply say that you did not feel challenged in your last job, and are looking for a new position with opportunities (as Kilisi notes) to advance. In the future, if you have any choice in the matter, it's always better to look for employment while you already have a job. There's an unfortunate stigma against unemployed people, which only gets worse the longer you're unemployed. 

This really depends on how much you want the job, and how much time you want to invest in the process, should they bring you in for an interview. Since the decision to apply or not is based largely on your current financial situation, your physical location, and your knowledge of the company, only you can determine if it makes sense. If you believe that there is room to negotiate salary, and you choose to invest your time, you should put off salary discussions as long as you can. Your goal in an interview is to sell yourself and your skills, and give the employer as many reasons to hire you as possible. If you have experience working with the exact same topic as the position calls for, that's a competitive advantage for you. If you interview well, that's another advantage. You want to present your strongest case to the employer before you talk salary. If you mention salary too early, you potentially give your employer a reason not to hire you. If you've succeeded in selling yourself well, delaying salary discussions until the end, and stating your desired salary range, you have a much better negotiating position. From there it depends, again, on how much you want the position, which will determine what your bottom line salary number is, or what is the minimum salary you will accept. It's important to know and believe your minimum salary number -- much better to walk away then accept a number you know won't support your family. It's entirely possible they may call you back if they don't find anyone else who is a better fit than you for the position. 

It depends on where you are, and how many hours you had worked that day, or that week. As a general rule, however, yes, your employer can do this. Employers have a right to set your schedule so that it equals a certain number of hours in a week. Employers often manage schedules to maximize part-time workers, minimize full-time workers, and as a result pay less toward employee health care and other benefits. 

I would focus on your responsibilities and what you actually did -- your description of those will highlight your management experience. The title is actually less important. If you had an actual title at that job, consider using the title. In addition to the title you could add an alternate or additional title that describes work not captured by your actual title, such as: "Actual Title \ Managerial Associate" or "Actual Title (Assistant Supervisor)," then explain your dual role. I don't think there's anything wrong with omitting less supervisory descriptions in favor of supervisory-related tasks. No one lists everything on a resume, so it's a matter of deciding what you want to highlight for that job, to fit the position you seek. A resume should be closer to sales brochure than historical document. 

No matter where you are, there are always opportunities to learn, gain experience, and exercise leadership. 

No, not in most cases. They either already know, assume a standard two week notice period, or are working with an open opportunity where timing is not crucial. 

My assumption is that you attended a recruiting event and have had no contact with the company since that time. There's no harm in expressing your interest in the company, and making a general inquiry as to what the process might be to apply there, and what type of positions they are looking to fill. Typically companies do not have a 2-year hiring window, so you likely wouldn't impact their decision at this point. Part of being ready for a job when you graduate is to make connections and contacts in the interim, and updating those contacts as the time grows closer. 

A position should always go to the best applicant, but there are many different factors (as you've probably found in your research) that affect evaluation. There's always the risk that an overqualified worker will not stay with a company very long, but sometimes the quality of work makes up for the turnover cost -- only you can determine that. 

Compromise is a fine art, and essentially required when more than one person is breathing air in the same proximity. Do you need to change your work area to match your colleague's? No. Do you need to change your work area at all? Probably. Personally I don't have a lot of stuff in my work area, but at any given moment it could probably stand to be cleaner or tidier than it is. Papers could be stacked more neatly, items returned to a drawer. Now that you know your area is bothering your colleague, organize it to your standard of cleanliness, or what you consider a reasonable person's standard. Then consider the matter closed. Whenever your area -- in your opinion -- drifts away from that standard, take a moment to return it to its original state. As long as you are making an good-faith effort, I don't know what else one could ask for. 

With the increasing popularity of cloud computing, tasks that once required a physical presence are now done remotely, even by employees on site. You might consider learning Amazon Web Services or Microsoft Azure initially through their free offerings. You may find opportunities to freelance for organizations who want to move to cloud but don't have the in-house expertise. It is hard to find remote work without experience, so you'll need some kind of portfolio, even if it's just projects you've worked on yourself (e.g., moved an application from a local server to a cloud environment, or maintaining a hybrid on-premises/cloud solution). You will need to be dedicated to learning and hard work, in order to convince others you're worth the investment. 

That really depends on your company culture and mission. If your company is active in open source, or publishes open-source code, then it may make sense. If your only goal in having a company GitHub account is to attract candidates, then your account contributions will likely stagnate, which will have the opposite effect of discouraging candidates. GitHub is a tool like anything else, and should be used for its primary purpose of sharing knowledge. 

The reason your friends can't get offers may have nothing to do with their current salary. Take the salary you're offered, and start to learn about how to market yourself for future opportunities, including salary negotiation skills. If your ultimate goal is long-term salary appreciation, asking for a lower salary will only make that more difficult to achieve -- it's like trying to save for retirement with a credit card. Enjoy and celebrate what you've earned! 

We can't really tell you what to do, but since you completed the task, it seems you don't have much to lose by handing it over. You say that you lose 20 hours of your time (which are already lost) for nothing, but that's not really true, since you learned something from the exercise. It's not unusual for companies to give tests or small projects as a way of verifying candidates. Only you can judge whether the recruiter seems legit. How do you know the recruiter is tricking you? Even if you get nothing from it, consider it a lesson learned, and use it to help you judge recruiters in the future. EDIT: Regarding the actual use/ownership of the code, I wouldn't worry about it. Significant contribution toward a valuable product would require much, much more than 20 hours. 

Celebrities who are typically pleasant people can turn into raging jerks when confronted by strangers. One wants to be nice, and recognize recruiters are simply doing their jobs, but for the most part recruiters are engaged in cold-calling, which has a very low conversion/response rate. I've been on LinkedIn since it was in beta, and have received probably thousands of offers or requests to connect, the vast majority of which are a waste of my time. But I've also met people and found opportunities though LinkedIn that I wouldn't have otherwise. I'm not sure moving away from LinkedIn is the answer either, since most recruiters are mining the places where developers frequent, like SO, GitHub, user groups, and conferences. Ultimately, you deal with these emails more quickly by ignoring them. Recruiters expect to be ignored by everyone except those who need them. You don't need them right now. If any recruiter -- maybe 1 out of 100 or more -- looks interesting or offers interesting work, then maybe email back and say thanks. This can be classified as a "good problem to have" but is still admittedly a problem. There may come a time when you need a recruiter, and at that time you may want to reach back to one of the good ones and have a conversation. The good recruiters are the ones who: 

You can bring in any evidence of this that might support it. You can say, for instance, that you would consider yourself underpaid in your current position, so your current salary is not a reliable indicator of your market value. There's always the risk they'll say an offer is contingent on telling the interviewer your salary history. In that case, you'll have to decide how badly you want the job, and either tell them, or simply call their bluff. 

This could be a case where they are trying to "keep you warm," in the sense that they like you, don't have a specific spot for you yet, but want to maintain your interest and availability as long as possible. 

Recognize that the cost of replacing an employee is higher than you think. When an employee leaves, a great deal of personal or tribal knowledge disappears. Then the process of hiring a new employee is difficult as well -- there's the investment of time in interviewing candidates, and the lengthy process of bringing new employees just to the level of productivity of the old employees. There's also the risk of a bad hire, the person who looks great on paper and gives a good interview, but ultimately can't do the work. Then you have to go back through the hiring process again... So there are many good reasons why an employer has a vested interest in keeping people who are doing their jobs. Something else that might help ease your mind is to periodically check in with your managers and supervisors, to get their opinion on how you are doing and ways you might improve. 

There are no hard and fast rules in this area, except to perhaps vaguely say acquisitions often create redundancies or duplicate positions, but not always. Unless you are directly involved in negotiations, you have no way of knowing what exactly the most valuable parts of the acquired company are, be it a product or service, certain tangible or intangible assets, the employees, or some combination. As you say, there is a risk of staying in this type of situation. If you have a gut feeling that you are being excluded from longer-range planning, or if you have a history of being passed over for promotion in favor of newcomers, that's a good sign that it might be time to move on. Having said that, as a company grows, it's common for individual contributors to do less general hands-on work (buy servers and write policies). If you are included in the planning for integration of the acquired company, and the potential overlap of responsibilities, that's a sign that your insight is valuable to the parent company. Having exposure to the workings of different companies and cultures during an acquisition can be a valuable experience. 

One tactic not already mentioned is to define expectations for the post-project work up front, either in the contract itself, or in a separate document. Terms I've used in the past include a post-contract warranty period, where for X number of days or weeks I will fix for free anything that I consider my own defect. After the post-contract warranty period, all changes require my standard rate, even if it's a defect. This provides incentive to your employer to look for defects during the warranty period. Obviously you can still provide fixes for free if you want, but this provides protection against an employer coming back 6 months later and insisting on free work. The important point here is to come to agreement on these expectations prior to the start of work, so there are no surprises on either side. 

While this is generally true, it depends on how large the conference is, and how many people you are speaking to. Companies often don't "get" tech conference culture, and some don't really consider this a benefit unless they are reaching hundreds of people. 

Yes, bringing up the issue yourself at the start of the interview will likely put you and the interviewers more at ease. It's entirely possible that the speech problems are more noticeable to you than others, but there's no harm in mentioning it. I would only mention it once, however -- if you repeatedly apologize or draw attention to your speech, that could be more distracting. 

In addition to self-training and side projects (which are essential to learning new skills that allow your career to progress), you might consider joining a consulting company. You can be hired at a consulting company based on a particular set of skills, and then as you learn new skills, you can be placed on different client projects. Since projects change every so often, you are exposed to a greater variety of industries and technologies than you would at a single employer.